what is the association between acanthosis nigricans and body weight?
acanthosis nigricans is a thickening and darkening of the skin of the neck and other body creases in response to high circulating insulin concentrations. with greater body weight people are more likely to become insulin resistant and need high insulin levels to keep the blood sugars in a normal range. they are therefore more likely to develop acanthosis.
is acanthosis nigricans able to be cured to where the dark skin will become normal?
if it is associated with insulin resistance ie elevated fasting insulin levels then medication and weight loss may help.
is acanthosis nigricans able to be cured to where the dark skin will become normal?
if you truly have acanthosis nigricans it's often very difficult to treat. make sure it doesn't just wipe off with an alcohol wipe though! if it does you may not actually have an--see your dermatologist. some lasers and prescription creams may help. most importantly the underlying cause needs to be identified and treated as this might clear the skin completely!
i'm overweight. how does this affect my skin condition?
you may have strech marks skin tags and a condition called acanthosis nigricans over neck and axillae.
is there a way to comepletly get rid of acanthosis nigracans?
acanthosis nigricans is usually a sign of insulin resistance which in turn leads to diabetes type 2. get tested for diabetes. if you are already diabetic work on improving this condition. good luck!
i am overweight and have dark marks in my stomach rolls in between my legs and armpits. what can i do to reduce this? after & while losing weight? tia
the dark skin areas may be something called acanthosis nigricans; this can be associated with poorly controlled diabetes but may have several other sources. being overweight is a risk factor for blood sugar problems like diabetes. when the blood sugar is normalized it may go away. see your physician as there are many other causes of this condition and it should be checked.
i am overweight and have dark marks in my stomach rolls in between my legs and armpits. what can i do to reduce this? after & while losing weight? tia
these skin markings are the result of high insulin levels which contribute to making the top layer of skin dark thick and brown. skin tags are also often seen. acanthosis nigricans usually lightens up with weight loss as insulin sensitivity improves. no medication really helps much. the creams prescribed often just irritate the skin. the skin tags would have to be removed surgically.
is acanthosis nigricans is curable?
it is.
is it possible to have acanthosis nigricans without diabetes?
other causes include lymphoma gastrointestinal or genitourinary cancers and drugs such as human growth hormone and some oral contraceptives. reference: national library of medicine.
is it possible to have acanthosis nigricans without diabetes?
acanthosis nigracans is darkening skin commonly found on cheeks necks and underarms. this is from insulin resistance. obesity metabolic syndrome and polycystic ovarian syndrome can cause this as well. losing weight eating less exercising and possibly using insulin sensitizers such as metformin can help.
i have acanthosis nigricans. what can i do to get rid of it?
acid water a ph of 2. 5.
is acanthosis nigricans curable?
if you truly have acanthosis nigricans it's often very difficult to treat. make sure it doesn't just wipe off with an alcohol wipe though! if it does you may not actually have an--see your dermatologist. some lasers and prescription creams may help. most importantly the underlying cause needs to be identified and treated as this can sometimes "cure" the skin changes as well!
is it true that i can get acanthosis nigricans from eating sugary bad foods?
acanthosis nigricans is a common skin finding associated with insulin resistance or the syndrome that leads to type ii diabetes.
i have acanthosis nigricans and wondering if there is there any lotion in the market i can buy to help get rid darkened skin?
if you truly have acanthosis nigricans it;s often very difficult to treat the texture & discoloration. make sure it doesn't just wipe off with an alcohol wipe though! if it does you may not actually have an--see your dermatologist. some lasers and prescription creams may help. it also may get better when the underlying cause is addressed (e. g. diabetes is treated).
is acanthosois nigricans cureable?
treatment of acanthosis nigricans involves managment of the underlying systemic illness or disorder. obesity endocrine and metabolic syndromes should be treated. the long-term efficacy of topical therapies such as retinoids or vitamin d analogs is unknown.
is cosmetic surgery available for acanthosis nigricans?
yes. acanthosis nigricans can be caused by being overweight hormonal imbalances irritation and others. first we try to control the causes as much as possible but the skin can be lightened non-surgically or even excised if necessary. see a skilled plastic surgeon or dermatologist. be well dr. fred - linwood nj.
is cosmetic surgery available for acanthosis nigricans?
acanthosis nigircans can be effectively treated with laser therapy. the dermatology dept at the university of pittsburgh treats this routinely and would be a good resource.
i'm obese and i have excessive pigmentation on my underarms and groin. how do i get my skin back to normal? i have it since i was a teenager. thanks!
acanthosis nigricans is a brown to black poorly defined velvety hyperpigmentation of the skin. common affected areas include the neck underarms and groin. this is usually seen in people under age 40 with obesity as well as conditions such as hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism acromegaly polycystic ovary disease insulin-resistant diabetes or cushing's disease. see your doctor for evaluation.
i've lost 30 kg but still overweight and have acanthosis nigricans. my neck has become light but can i completely get rid of it if i loose more weight?
i don't think weight loss alone will get rid of this condition --.
i have acanthosis nigricans on elbows. my elbows hurt just if they touch anything. any meds or creams to help this? i'm 5'10/ 200 lbs bs always ok
two issues: the disorder is caused by skin thickening not pigment so prescription creams that thin the thickened stratum corneum are generally helpful. secondly an md should evaluate you for potential causes. in some cases it runs in families but in some cases related to underlying health issues. see a good dermatologist and you'll get relief and explanations about why in your case.
what is acanthosis nigrans?
acanthosis nigricans is a common skin finding associated with insulin resistance or the syndrome that leads to type ii diabetes. it is a velvety browth plaque usually on the back of the neck and in the armpits and it usually has some skin tags within it.
what can be done for acanthosis nigricans? should i be worried?
if you truly have acanthosis nigricans it's often very difficult to treat. make sure it doesn't just wipe off with an alcohol wipe though! if it does you may not actually have an--see your dermatologist. some lasers and prescription creams may help. most importantly the underlying cause needs to be identified and addressed (e. g. treat the diabetes etc).
whats acanthosis nigricans?
it is a disorder where the skin gets thicker and darker as you gain weight usually however there are some patients who have normal body weight still have the problem. it usually is on the cheeks neck underarms groin elbows knees ankles knuckle area hands and feet.
i have dark brown spots underneath my armpit area through out the sides of my ribs aswell. i am over weight and im 28. what can it be?
hard to say without seeing it but i would suspect acanthosis nigricans which is a darkening and thickening of the skin (which ends up looking "velvety") in the flexural creases like the underarms the neck the popliteal fossa (inner elbow) and the groin. this is a sign of insulin resistance which is the mechanism by which overweight people eventually may develop diabetes.
i had a dark layer of solidified dirt on my neck when i was morbidity obese but even after loosing weight there are still traces of it over my neck?
i suspect you have what's known acanthosis nigricans. i suspect over time it will gradually lighten. it is a sign of carbohydrate intolerance insulin resistance. it is very common in obese people. your physician should be able to help you with some ideas or referrals for evaluation. congratulations on your weight loss.
i have been prescibed tretin and glyco creams but no insulin resistance test yet by my doctor who says i have acanthosis nigricans. is it incurable?
acanthosis nigricans is a sign as you know of insulin resistance. check fasting glucose hga1c. weight loss and blood sugar control can help this is it also found without diabetes tho so talk to your doctor.
what is cure for acanthosis nigricans caused due to pcos. my entire body and facial skin has darkened like a tan sort of. i'm depressed. please help.?
you likely have pcos with metabolic syndrome. most likely your sugar levels and insulin levels are elevated or you could have mild diabetes. you rally require a full evaluation and treatment by a reproductive endocrinology to treat you appropriately .
what is cure for acanthosis nigricans caused due to pcos. my entire body and facial skin has darkened like a tan sort of. i'm depressed. please help.?
also evaluation by mental health professional to determine if depression warrants intervention.
what is the definition or description of: acanthosis nigricans?
mostly seen around the neck but also under the arm or other places. it may be a sign of insulin resistance and is most common among dark-skinned obese children. it usually improves with weight loss. rarely it is a sign of cancer.
what is the definition or description of: acanthosis nigricans?
acanthosis nigricans is a sign insulin resistance which leads to increased circulating insulin levels. insulin spillover into the skin results in its abnormal increase in growth (hyperplasia of the skin). obesity can lead to acanthosis nigricans as can some endocrine disorders. it is often found in people with obesity-related insulin resistance. some medicines particularly hormones such as h.
what is the definition or description of: acanthosis nigricans?
darker areas of skin localized around the neck. that are sometimes related to insulin resistance and/or diabetes type 2.
is there any link between acanthosis nigricans & hypogonadism?
acanthosis nigricans is a skin condition most commonly associated with obesity and insulin resistance. in men obesity can contribute to low testosterone and hypogonadism. in women it is associated with polycystic ovaries and infertility. so the link to hypogonadism is through insulin resistance not directly from the skin condition.
i have acanthosis nigricans and do not have diaibites or anything etc. i'm not overweight. so how can i get rid of it? why do i have it?
you should see a pediatric endocrinologist. you will need a workup for pcos.
will my dark velvety diabetes type 2 spots go away if i lose weight? if not what can i do?
acanthosis nigricans the dark spots you're explaining in most instances is a sign of insulin resistance and high blood sugar in obese and diabetic individuals and with weight loss and control of blood sugar goes away. if it's due to another condition like growth hormone intake birth control pill or genetics then unless the condition is treated it won't go away i. e. in genetic cases it won't.
what's the best treatment for acanthosis nigricans?
if you have insulin resistance your doctor may prescribe metformin. . which will help. also if you have pcos metformin is also used. see you md for a follow up.
witt are my inner thighs neck and underarms dark.?
they may range from acanthosis nigricans to addison's - see your doctor.
will losing weight help my acanthosis nigricans go away?
acanthosis nigricans are a sign of insulin resistance and if you have not already been checked by a doctor for diabetes you should do that. being overweight/obese contributes significantly to insulin resistance and diabetes which in turn are the most common cause of acanthosis nigricans. while you may not like how they look the bigger threats are the invisible ones resulting from extra weight.
what is acanthosis nigricans and how is it treated?
acanthosis nigricans is a velvety darkening of the skin typically around the base of the neck and in the arm pits. typically it is associated with a problem called insulin resistance. it is typically associated with obesity diabetes polycystic ovarian syndrome. treatment usually involves weight loss and treating insulin resistance.
is it ok to eat fruit if i have acanthosis?
do you mean acanthosis nigricans? of course you should eat fruits. the point is to lose weight with exercise portion control and menues of high fiber/ low total calorie meals.
what are the symptoms of diabetes type 2?
acanthosis nigricans fatigue urinary tract infections blurry vision increased thirst nocturia paresthesia polyphagia increased urination skin infection unintentional weight loss yeast infection.
what can i do if i have acanthosis nigricans?
but should follow a low carbohydrate diet because diabetes is frequent. use metformin when fertility is an issue.
what can i do if i have acanthosis nigricans?
see a gynacologist endocrinologist. you may have pcos. once under treatment for your gynacological condition your skin condition will slowly get better.
i have dark lines around my neck. i've been told it isn't acanthosis nigricans or diabetes by a doctor. but i'm uncomfortable with it. any cures?
have your doctor refer you to a skin specialist - dermatologist
what to do if i have acanthosis nigricans and stretch marks?
try to go on a low carb eating plan. eat fresh fruits and vegetables protein and healthy fats such as olive oil. try to stay within your calorie range and avoid processed carbs like white flour and sugar containing drinks they will increase your blood sugar and worsen your sugar management. a high fiber diet with plenty of vegetables is a great way to start your new eating program
i have acanthosis nigricans on my face and neck. can you tell me how to treat it.
how do you know this is what you have? there is no specific treatment for this skin condition. but it is highly associated with obesity and diabetes and rarely cancer so if you have these conditions talk to your doctor to help you manage these diseases as that can improve the skin condition. if you do not have these diseases you are at risk so talk to your doctor
my symptoms: no period for 6 months dark under arms skin tags inability to lose weight low energy. could this be pcos?
the loss of period the dark skin and skin tags under arms (acanthosis nigricans) and the low energy could all point to pcos. however you will need evaluation by an endocrinologist or gynecologist to be sure and to get proper treatment. rarely certain cancers can mimic this as well so these must be excluded.
i suffer from acanthosis nigricans. i have developed a rash under my arm pits which has become extremely painful. will desitin (zinc oxide diaper cream) help?
it might help but first you must see your gynecologist. it would not surprise if you are referred to a skin specialist. please keep me informed.
my neck back and stomach are darker than the rest of my body. i don't suffer from diabetes or polycrystalline ovarian syndrome. but i am overweight. ?
it sounds like you have acanthosis nigricans which is a dark black rash usually on the back of the neck in folds of skin this is due to being obese it is a precursor to diabetes please get yourself checked for that.
what are the symptoms of metabolic syndrome?
abdominal obesity abdominal pain acanthosis nigricans acne angina enlarged liver excess hair high blood pressure increased bmi sleep disturbance.
lbs and am now in a healthy bmi range. do i/could i have acanthosis nigricans or diabetes?
but your chances increase as you get older and as you get heavier. also increased if you have a positive family history of type 2 diabetes. acanthosis is not a disease but a physical finding. your doctor can tell you if you have it. why worry -- start a weight reduction diet and exercise program now. don't wait until your doctor determines you have diabetes - delay or prevent it now.
nape of my neck is very dark. i think it is acanthosis nigricans as i have pcos too. i am taking metformin but is there any topical medicine for it?
acanthosis nigricans is caused by skin thickening in response to elevated levels of insulin. as the skin is lost and the insulin levels go down the skin may return to normal.
so i grow an large about of hair on my face and i'm currently overweight for my age and height. i want to know if i could possibly have pcos. ?
you fail to describe your menstrual experience. pcos usually involves irregular or absent menstrual bleeding as well as facial hair loss of scalp hair acne obesity acanthosis nigricans etc. an endocrinologist especially a gyn endocrinologist is a good way to go. you should diet + exercise to slim down. you may be a candidate for metformin and/or spironolactone. do not smoke.
what's this strange spot in my cleavage that comes & goes? when it's dark it looks like acanthosis nigricans but when it reddens it looks like psorias
it is not feasible to provide a meaningful opinion without taking additional history physical examination and may be some tests. it would be prudent to see your doctor. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex if you have sex.
you get acanthosis nigricans from loosing weight?
acanthosis nigricans is a darker pigmentation that is often seen along the sides of the neck. the skin may also have a roughened texture. acanthosis nigricans can be an important clue that a person is at higher risk than normal for diabetes. if you have this ask your doctor to help you reduce your risk for diabetes. good luck. lgromkomd
how can i get rid of the skin on my bikini that look just like acanthosis? i am very very pale white (first shade makeup foundation)
first you should see a dermatologist to confirm it really is acanthosis nigricans. then you want to figure out what may be contributing as it appears often treating a contributing condition can help lighten it's appearance - whether it be weight diabetes thyroid related. otherwise topical retinoids dermabrasion and laser therapies are also possible treatment options. hope this helps.
can a person have acanthosis nigricans in their face?
it is a disorder where the skin gets thicker and darker as you gain weight usually however there are some patients who have normal body weight still have the problem. it usually is on the cheeks neck underarms groin elbows knees ankles knuckle area hands and feet.
how do you get rid of acanthosis nigricans?
log on to: www drernie. co. cc.
how do i know if i have acanthosis nigricans? can i check for type 2 diabetes r something else? got dark areas than my skin tone since 13 now im older
acanthosis nigricans is a skin condition where someone has darkened velvety areas most commonly found in the skin folds of the armpits groin and back of the neck. it is found more commonly in diabetes but having the rash doesn't mean that you have diabetes. there are many causes for it. if you're concerned about diabetes review with your doctor possible blood tests to assess for this.
how do i know if i have acanthosis nigricans? can i check for type 2 diabetes r something else? got dark areas than my skin tone since 13 now im older
acanthosis nigricans is a skin change of darkening and thickening of skin at the back of the neck in armpits and other skind fold areas. it is due to high circulating levels of insulin. this is in turn due to insulin resistance which is a major risk factor for type two diabetes. it usually is worse with weight gain. one should get checked for type 2 diabetes: fasting/post meal sugar hba1c.
how long does it take to get rid of acanthosis nigricans?
acanthosis nigricans is a skin condition usually due to insulin resistance. many conditions have been associated with it including genetics obesity diabetes thyroid problems polycystic ovary syndrome certain medications and rarely cancer. it sometimes fades and can even disappear if the underlying cause can be corrected but it's usually permanent.
how to get rid of acanthosis nigricans?
weight loss is one way if you are overweight. if your weight is normal you have to use medication. see your dermatologist.
can you die from acanthosis nigricans?
the skin condition is not deadly but it can be a clue to underlying metabolic problems (like insulin resistance diabetes lipid problems) that increase risk of complications and death. it is a sign to get a full check up and start healthier behaviors.
how can the dark lines on my neck and armpits from insulin resistance go away?
the hyperpigmented skin lesions in the armpits you have described are called acanthosis nigricans. they are associated with diabetes as well as some other serious internal diseases. they are not known to resolve on their own. no specific therapy is known for this condition.
can acanthosis nigricans be caused from eating sugary bad foods?
acanthosis nigricans is a common skin finding associated with insulin resistance or the syndrome that leads to type ii diabetes.
can eating carrot and tomatoes also reduce acanthosis nigricans?
acanthosis nigricans is usually a sign of insulin resistance or in more severe cases diabetes type 2. the best treatment for this is to significantly reduce sugars from the diet.
could acanthosis nigricans be a symptom of diabetes?
of adult type diabetes.
could acanthosis nigricans be a symptom of diabetes?
acanthosis nigricans could be a sign of obesity related insulin resistance which is also seen in people with type 2 diabetes. some medications like growth hormones or birth control pills can also cause acanthosis nigricans. with weight loss and control of diabetes and blood sugar a lot of times the condition resolves.
how to git rid of acanthosis and get normal skin again?
try losing weight if the acanthosis nigricans is caused by obesity dropping the excess pounds can help regulate insulin levels and thereby cause the dark skin around the neck to fade. cutting back on your carbs intake while increasing physical exercise can often help you lose weight. if the acanthosis nigricans is caused by diabetes reducing your carbs no sugar no soda. control bloodsugar.
how can i effectively treat acanthosis nigricans in between my thighs?
through diet and exercise. it's the only way to lose weight and will also decrease your insulin resistance and you chances of developing diabetes in the future.
help with acanthosis nigricans with stomach pain?
generally have anything to do with stomach pain. rather it's commonly a sign of weight gain and insulin resistance with predisposition to diabetes in the future.
does acanthosis nigricans go away if you lose weight?
when you eat a healthy diet (without processed sugars and starches and full of healhty antiinflammatory fruits & veggies) increase activity and lose weight your skin usually resolves.
does acanthosis nigricans fade away if you lose weight?
if you truly have acanthosis nigricans it's often very difficult to treat. make sure it doesn't just wipe off with an alcohol wipe though! if it does you may not actually have an--see your dermatologist. most important the underlying cause (such as obesity) needs to be identified and treated as this can sometimes "cure" the skin. otherwise some lasers and prescription creams can help.
how can i get rid of acanthosis nigricans?
acanthosis nigricans is a sign of insulin resistance which is a risk factor for developing diabetes. one may potentially help acanthosis nigricans by losing weight and improving the insulin resistant state.
acanthosis nigricans--weird term. what is it?
acanthosis nigricans is a common skin finding associated with insulin resistance or the syndrome that leads to type ii diabetes. it is a velvety browth plaque usually on the back of the neck and in the armpits and it usually has some skin tags within it.
does acanthosis nigricans wipe off?
nacanthosis nigricans is a condition characterized by abnormal thickening and darkening of the skin especially in body creases. it is most commonly associated with obesity or polycystic ovarian disease in women though acanthosis nigricans can occasionally be found in people who have more serious underlying health problems or who are taking certain medications. treatment of cause will help.
any non-retinol based creams that might work for underarm acanthosis nigricans? (related to weight fluctuations and pcos)
treating the underlying cause of acanthosis nigricans (an) often helps decrease the discoloration and thickening of the skin like weight loss control of diabetes adrenal problems etc. alpha hydroxy acid based creams are helpful for treating an on the neck and hands. they may be too irritating for underarms and lead to more discoloration. also making an in underarms mushy may increase odor.
any non-retinol based creams that might work for underarm acanthosis nigricans? (related to weight fluctuations and pcos)
lactic acid containing moisturizers may help to smooth the skin and reduce the appearance of the darkened areas.
acanthosis nigricans can appear on your face?
a velvety dark patch of skin can form on most areas on the body including the: armpits. back of the neck. groin area (especially in skin folds and creases). elbows. knees. knuckles. belly button. woman’s breasts (beneath). face. female genitalia. less often a patch can form on the lips mouth eyelids palms of the hands bottoms of the feet and nipples.
acanthosis nigricans are dangerous?
is a skin condition characterized by areas of dark velvety discoloration in body folds and creases. it typically is a sign of another disorder such as diabetes obesity with insulin resistance hypothyroidism or adrenal insufficiency. however it can also be a sign of stomach or liver cancer.
best way to treat acanthosis nigricans?
usually it means you have metabolic syndrome meaning you're overweight and insulin resistant - with a high probability of developing diabetes in the future particularly if you have a positive family history. diet exercise weight loss education and possibly medication (? metformin) would be things to discuss with your doctor.
can skin affected by acanthosis nigricans return to normal? if yes how so?
usually acanthosis nigricans occurs in overweight and obese individuals and is thought to be due to insulin resistance which in some cases can progress to diabetes. i have seen it go away or become lighter in people who have lost a lot of weight (at least 20 lbs) and kept it off. if you have or develop prediabetes and need medication metformin which decreases insulin production may help.
how can i get rid of my dark thighs and underarms caused by overweight?
this is probably something called acanthosis nigricans and the major concern is that is a sign of you being insulin resistant and getting diabetes. first step is loss the weight get help from your doctor if necessary. it can go away with weight loss but you may need to see a dermatologist who can help with removing the discoloration. treating the underlying problem needs to come first.
can glutatione remove the discolorations of acanthosis nigricans from the groin and genital areas?
no but weight loss can
