i had breathlessness palpitation. in icu pulmonary edema found fixed by lasix (furosemide). lvef 38-45% hr 75-90 hdl 61 ldl 155 bp 130/80. do i need ct angiography or catheter angiography cardiac eps?
at this moment not enough info. pulm edema is a serious problem. most commonly from heart failure. but can happen from a severe chronic lung disease exacerbated. from volume overload in renal failure liver failure/cirrhosis severe acute lung injury from trauma pneumonia cancer etc. are you out of the hospital?
my husband cleaned with a very strong cleaner in a small space. i inhaled it being in same room. went to sleep woke up 2 hrs later my chest hurts bad?
if it's hurting bad then you need a chest x-ray to r/o acute lung injury but acute bronchitis is more likely- you never know what was in that vaccum bag. . in some cases it could be so severe that a burst of steroids might be needed. frequently though it may resolve on its own but i would recommend further investigation.
what is the survival of someone with pancreatitis who develops ards?
most people with acute pancreatitis have mild-to-moderate disease with little long term consequences. severe pancreatitis is characterized by pancreatic necrosis leading to temporary organ dysfunction such as respiratory failure kidney failure etc. the mortality rate associated with acute lung injury is significantly affected by the baseline health of the affected person.
why is one of the blood transfusion reaction symptoms back and chest pain?
there can be a myriad of reactions to blood transfusions from a simple fever to a condition called acute lung injury which can be fatal. there can also be allergic reactions or if the blood is mismatched a devastating rejection reaction. chest and back pain may be symptoms of those more severe reactions like acute lung injury. if this happens during a blood transfusion let the docs know.
what is acute respiratory distress syndrome ards?
it is acute diffuse inflammatory lung injury leading to increased pulmonary vascular leakage increased lung weight and loss of aeration. the clinical hallmarks are hypoxemia( low oxygen) and bilateral radiographic opacities and decreased lung compliance. it is acute lung injury due to direct or indirect insult. commonly require mechanical ventilation.
why does a heroin overdose cause acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards)?
vomiting and aspiration can cause ards and is the most frequent cause in heroin od. sometimes direct toxicity from adulterants in heroin can cause an acute lung injury.
