what is acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards)?
a lung injury caused by many different conditions where the membrane separating the air space from the blood space becomes porous allowing fluid to fill up the air spaces and prevent o2 transport. the lung becomes stiff and difficult to inflate increasing the work of breathing. most people will require a ventilator and icu care.
what is acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards)?
is a problem where the small blood vessels in the lungs become leaky (capillary leak) causing the lungs to get very congested. this makes the lungs stiff and decreases the ability for oxygen to diffuse into the blood. ards can be caused by a variety of inflammatory process (such as infection injury burns pancreatitis etc. ). ards can also be caused by blood transfusion or medications.
what are the symptoms of ards?
ards or acute respiratory distress syndrome is a lung condition which causes scarring and inflammation of the lungs due to another cause: infection pneumonia inflammation of the pancreas or other unknown causes. typically patients with ards require a respirator and can need one for days to weeks. the typical symptoms are difficulty breathing low oxygen levels. it almost always needs a hosp.
what is acute respiratory distress syndrome ards?
ards is severe shortness of breath caused by an insult and inflamatory response to the lungs. its not cardiogenic and can be infectious toxic or autoimmmune. some pts need to placed on a ventilator while recovering. breathing treatments antiobiotics steroids as needed. the source should be sought out to target therapy.
what is acute respiratory distress syndrome ards?
it is acute diffuse inflammatory lung injury leading to increased pulmonary vascular leakage increased lung weight and loss of aeration. the clinical hallmarks are hypoxemia( low oxygen) and bilateral radiographic opacities and decreased lung compliance. it is acute lung injury due to direct or indirect insult. commonly require mechanical ventilation.
why does a heroin overdose cause acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards)?
vomiting and aspiration can cause ards and is the most frequent cause in heroin od. sometimes direct toxicity from adulterants in heroin can cause an acute lung injury.
