if someone has a problem using meth amphetamines could it cause them to get cellulitis. what would cause it? needles? is cellulitis contagious
methamphetamine may cause side effects including skin problems like dermatitis and cellulitis. see your pcp for evaluation and proper addiction treatment referral.
i have severe pain from mva that occurred 9 yrs ago. i have had every nsaid&other options exhausted. what opiod pain med is least addictive no ultram?
pain can cause addiction to many things even those not normally known to be addictive. all opioids have the dander. have you exhausted alternatives like acupuncture biofeedback laser therapy and pain clinic consultation? if not i would definitely consider exploring as many options as possible to avoid opioids long term. good luck!
in mva 10dys ago. had bulging discs in neck. severe neck and low back pain. lortabs don't help. er won't help. what should i be taking 4 pain?
narcotics do not work very well for this type of pain and have a very high addiction rate. stick with motrin and tylenol (acetaminophen) together but an alternative therapies like stretching massage and heat. the more you move around the better you will get.
i am 32 weeks pregnant and am having horrible sciataca and back pain from a car accident a few years ago. i took a 30mg oxycontin that i still had from an old prescription. i'm wondering if this will effect my baby or any drug test that may be administere
pregnancy causes many changes in the body and can both be a source of new back pain and aggravate existing back pain. opiate pain medication will pass directly into your baby's blood and regular use in pregnancy can actually cause addiction and a withdrawal syndrome in the child so opiates are not a preferred pain med in pregnancy. your obstetrician or primary doc has other ways to help.
why would a new dr suggest klonopin over xanax (alprazolam) when xanax (alprazolam) works& i went for cellulitus got no treatment for it which resulted in er trip? ridiculous
one major risk of all benzos is their addiction potential. the faster a benzo works and the shorter it's effect lasts the greater it's risk of addiction. thus xanax (alprazolam) is potentially more addictive than klonopin. this is why it's not an unreasonable suggestion. however an even more reasonable suggestion would be to not continue any benzo indefinitely. hope this helps. good luck!
what is the difference between compulsive overeating and a food addiction?
anything including food is a mood-altering compulsive behavior that occurs in response to triggers (internal or external) that are largely out of awareness. the behavior continues beyond the point of dealing with dysphoria and usually then causes harm but the addict still won't quit. from this description there is little difference between compulsive overeating and food addictions.
i suffer from carbs addiction and binge eating i'm obese and i'm experiencing a weird pain in my abdomen i'm worried it's my pancreas or heart?
the best thing to do regarding weight loss is to have your doctor involved in making sure you are eating right doing the right exercise and being safe so you are not overdoing it. discuss the pain you are having so s/he can do a physical exam & give you a better diagnosis. it may be neither heart or pancreas. that will be determined by your medical social surgical and full history & physical.
what are effective methods for fighting food cravings?
it is well worth it to find a provider specializing in addiction and food to help you explore your eating issues. while you're searching for a provider keep a food diary -- what happened before you started eating how did you feel before and after you ate on the emotional level. the diary might help you to see patterns in your eating which will be helpful in resolution of the problem.
what causes people to be addicted to smoking?
is caused by nicotine. ninety percent of nicotine users become dependent. the addiction process is the same as for other addicting drugs.
what does it mean to be addicted to the internet?
addiction is the state of being enslaved to a habit or practice or to something that is psychologically or physically habit-forming to such an extent that its cessation causes severe trauma. thus addiction to the internet would mean that you are enslaved to it and could not give it up without serious psychological or physical anguish.
what is the best prescription weight loss medicine and why? using it only as a starting point coupled with diet and exercise. sometimes the first step is the hardest.
unfortunately there are no great options. many meds have been taken off the market for safety concerns. the few that are left have their own side effect profile (cardiovascular risk potential for addiction) and most studies show that the weight is regained after the medicine is stopped. the fda approved a new med recently - lorcaserin - but they are requiring more safety data.
is it possible to be addicted to masturbation?
every man you know masturbates or has masturbated. even those in relationship. there are no negative health consequences to this common sexual activity. now in a doctors office the bigger question would be "why do you think this is an addiction? "
is it possible to be addicted to masturbation?
most men need to take the pressure off just to be able to get to sleep focus on studies and stay relaxed. this is not addiction. being obsessed with erotica to the point of missing out on the rest of life does need to be treated but as a health rather than a moral problem.
is it possible to be addicted to masturbation?
any behavior can be addictive. if you are concerned that you are going down this road it can present significant problems with relationships in the future. best to discuss with an addiction specialist or a counselor to be sure. good luck.
is it possible i could be addicted to vicodin and xanax (alprazolam)?
you could be but only a proper evaluation can tell. these 2 meds are amongst the fastest growing addictions in today's society. see your md or an addiction psychiatrist asap. this is a very treatable condition.
is it possible to be addicted to food and eating?
sometimes unhealthy eating is driven by abnormal brain responses to certain foods that result in pleasure and create cravings to experience that again. (the same process that creates addiction to alcohol heroin gambling etc. ) strictly avoiding sweets or other calorie dense foods for even a few days can lessen these cravings to a manageable level. exercise can do the same.
is it possible to be addicted to things other than drugs and alcohol?
chocolate fat video games - anything that gives instant pleasure is likely to have a corresponding addiction. yes that too.
is obesity an eating disorder?
whether obesity is an eating disorder depends on whose definition one uses and on what odd behaviors occur. a binge eater who eats huge amounts in an hour has an eating disorder. a chocolate addict who got obese on 3 lbs of chocolate a day has an eating disorder and an addiction problem. a person who got obese by eating a normal dessert 3 times a day for 20 years doesn't have an eating disorder.
is phentermine addictive?
phentermine is a stimulant medications to help with appetite it can alter mood and for some people that could be addicting. signs that it is being abused would be taking more than prescribed using it for unintented purposes causing impairment with relationships work etc. some people may be on phentermine for a relitively long period of time for obesity that alone may not be addiction.
is phentermine addictive?
addiction to diet pills such as phentermine is often the result of its common ingredients including caffeine ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) and phenylpropranolamine. these very addictive ingredients make phentermine an easy target for tolerance addiction and then abuse. as such medications continue to be easy to access and deemed harmless they become an even greater risk.
is phentermine a kind of methamphetamine?
hi wavy. phentermine has been used by weight loss specialists and in university weight loss programs for more than 50 years. it does not cause addiction specifically patients don't become tolerant to it and there is no withdrawal when stopped. it works with diet and exercise and should be prescribed by a physician. methamaphetamine is highly addictive and has many damaging side effects.
i'm obese. is this an eating disorder?
whether obesity is an eating disorder depends on whose definition one uses and on what odd behaviors occur. a binge eater who eats huge amounts in an hour has an eating disorder. a chocolate addict who got obese on 3 lbs of chocolate a day has an eating disorder and an addiction problem. a person who got obese by eating a normal dessert 3 times a day for 20 years doesn't have an eating disorder.
i use afrin (oxymetazoline) regularly. is it possible to be addicted to afrin (oxymetazoline)?
that's what rhinitis medicamentosa means. lots of opinions here; i like dr. klein's the best. this addiction involves 2 problems - tachyphylaxis - the effects of the spray wear off quickly & rebound - when it wears off you are more stuffed then before you started. "cold turkey" works in 3 days. topical nasal steroids and saline spray make "rehab" a lot easier. good luck!
i use afrin (oxymetazoline) regularly. is it possible to be addicted to afrin (oxymetazoline)?
i love fancy silly sounding doctor terms so try this one: rhinitis medicamentosa the name for afrin (oxymetazoline) overuse. its not really addiction. your nose begins to add more power to overcome the afrin (oxymetazoline) after 3 days. it takes more afrin (oxymetazoline) to stop the extra stuffiness which makes it worse and so on. ultimately you have to stop the afrin (oxymetazoline)" cold turkey" and suffer a few weeks of a stuffy nose to get off it.
i use afrin (oxymetazoline) regularly. is it possible to be addicted to afrin (oxymetazoline)?
no addiction but can have problem if using long term.
i can't curve my appetite. im a food addict. i eat just to eat. i don't have a shut off switch in my brain. i can't take it anymore. what can i do! ?
you may want to consider an addiction program that specializes in food addiction while you are working with the bariatric specialist. you may not need surgery if you can find the emotional and or physical causes for the addiction and get these treated. if you behavior is addictive this may be the answer you are looking for.
is there a therapy center/retreat that focuses on food addiction? how can someone get funding to afford treatment?
weightwatchers is fantastic. insurance company should be contacted if they'll pay for it -or a similar program.
is there a therapy center/retreat that focuses on food addiction? how can someone get funding to afford treatment?
i do not believe that patients are addicted to food. i believe that chemicals in our body cause us to feel hunger. certain types of foods like refined carbs will cause our satiety-feelings of fullness- to decrease; we could eat more and gain weight. since food is necessary for human survival and typically addiction can be solved by stopping the addiction-difficult but possible; not addiction.
is there a therapy center/retreat that focuses on food addiction? how can someone get funding to afford treatment?
over eaters anonymous has meetings in most cities and i think is either free or an as able donation. formal programs will cost money and are easily located with web searches for your area. insurance coverage is as variable as the ocean is wide. you could also contact the closest hospitals nutritionist and ask what services are available in your community.
i can't stop eating fast foods. could this behavior be indicative of a dependence an addiction?
of factors involved too many for a clear answer. time stress management and others. if you could clear up some of these it would help. better yet make an appointment with an addiction psychiatrist who can help you figure this out.
i can't stop eating fast foods. could this behavior be indicative of a dependence an addiction?
it can be a real problem one that i would address with psychotherapy if you can't set up your own system for stopping. dependence or addiction? depends on definitions. pharmacologically dependence / addiction include tolerance & withdrawal (physical dependence). fast food doesn't qualify. if you define dependence as you've tried repeatedly to stop and can't then it could be dependence.
i think i may be addicted to laxatives. how do i stop?
you might want to attend a meeting of overeaters anonymous (oa). laxative addiction may be a form of bulimia and you may find support in oa from others who are recovering from this disorder. you may also want to be evaluated by your primary care physician or internist since you laxative addiction may have dangerous metabolic consequences.
i took diet pills in the 60s. preludin i think. any risk like heart from those?
preludin is an amphetamine removed from the us market because of its potential for abuse and addiction. during use it can cause acute cardiac side effects but it doesn't cause the late heart disease (valve problems) like other diet pills. if you survived the 60s (obviously) and don't use now you're ok.
i've recently stopped smoking botanical potpourri and was wondering if my subsequent weight loss could be a result? as well as dark circles/veins eyes
you were smoking a substance that causes euphoria by depriving the brain of oxygen and you are worried about weight loss and dark circles under your eyes? you are worrying about the wrong things. are you getting help for your addiction? you should see a doctor and maybe your local mental health agency has a drug program. you could also look for na or aa meetings as a start.
i thought diet pills were not addictive so why is meth?
some diet pills can be quite addictive and methamphetamine certainly has that potential. the essence of addiction is needing more and more of a substance to achieve the desired outcome such as weight loss. any time you find yourself needing something more frequently or in greater amounts or to avoid some sort of side effect from "coming down " think addiction.
i'm a 35 year old male. i've a sweet tooth. how can i control my sweet cravings? are there any preventive foods or measures?
this is a tough problem for many people. first get a complete physical and blood work to make sure there is no physiologic issue causing your cravings. if you are in perfect health then you may need to use tactics that people with addictions use to stop the undesirable behavior. you can also try hypnosis acupuncture or just plain will power. start by limiting yourself to one treat a day.
is it possible to be addicted to chewing gum?
the only addiction that you could get from chewing gum would be a psychological one. the satisfaction you get from chewing gum serves some kind of need inside of you. however it is not chemical. if you chew nicorette (nicotine gum) or another nicotine substitute you could certainly get a chemical addiction.
is it possible to be addicted to cannabis?
a person can become "addicted" to many different things. gambling sex food drugs and alcohol are some of the main ones. if a person engages in a behavior which they know could potentially lead to dire consequences and the person continues to engage in the behavior some experts call such a thing an addiction.
is it possible to be addicted to cannabis?
marijuana like many drugs can potentially be habituating where an individual may crave the product when off for a few days but there is no true withdrawal when stopping and the substance cannot be categorized as an opioid preparation which can be associated with addiction.
is it possible to be addicted to cannabis?
dr. passer is wrong. the word "addiction" has a defined and specific medical meaning. cannabis is according to the definition not addictive. dr. passer uses the colloquial meaning and as a doctor he should not. even time magazine uses the word incorrectly so the misperception is pervasive and resistant to correction.
is it possible to be addicted to antidepressants?
there is no true addiction to antidepressants. however some are hard to stop due to "discontinuation syndromes". side effects that happen when the drug is stopped. there are ways to make this less of a problem. also some people are psychologically attached to their antidepressant; they're afraid to ever stop it even if feeling well for years. this is emotional not physical addiction.
i suffer from dermatillomania and other ocd related symptoms for many years including alcoholism cigarettes and overeating. therapy meds don't work?
when you're ready to truly change your behaviors work with a professional to get your overall treatment plan in place one that addresses all of your disorders in a systematic way. your problems with impulse control and "will power" are significantly related to your addiction (dependence) on substances (especially alcohol) which undermines your ability to stick to your long-term goals.
is it possible to be addicted to food?
you can be addicted to anything. if you find that this concerns you please contact an addiction specialist or a counselor to discuss your feelings and concerns. good luck.
is it possible to be addicted to diet coke?
addiction is the state of being enslaved to a habit or practice or to something that is psychologically or physically habit-forming as narcotics to such an extent that its cessation causes severe trauma.
is it possible to be addicted to diet coke?
one can have psychological addiction to it. if someone is taking in large amounts of caffeinated sodas or other sources of caffeine and suddenly stop - this can make them ill.
is it safe to take ionamin (phentermine) to reduce weight?
this is an appetite suppressant similar to amphetamine in structure used short-term to control weight. precautions include cardiovascular effects seizures agitation & severe anxiety & insomnia. also psychological addiction is common as well as tolerance & rebound weight gain.
is it ok to take a dilauded if oxycodone is not working?
if oxycodone is not effective for your pain it is reasonable to ask your doctor change oxycodone to dilaudid. both oxycodone and dilaudid are narcotics and have addiction potential.
is it possible to be addicted to chocolate?
if we accept the definition of addiction as use of a substance despite adverse spiritual social relationship or personal consequences then it is possible.
if someone is addicted to opiates can they also be addicted to benzodiazepines?
as dr. ali says the same person can be addicted to both substances if using both. addiction is a pattern of using substances despite clear damage to relationships work life etc -- and escalating this use also. the body becomes physiologically dependent on the substances & suffers withdrawal symptoms unless receiving them both. mentally the person desires the effects of the substances.
if someone is addicted to opiates can they also be addicted to benzodiazepines?
cross addiction to sedatives is very possible due to reinforcing effects.
if someone is addicted to opiates can they also be addicted to benzodiazepines?
opiates are different class of drugs. addiction to opiates does not automatically make one addicted to benzodiazepines.
is the weight loss drug phentermine (fastin) effective?
even though it is prescribed and taken by some it is not that effective. it is supposed to suppress appetite and initially it does and one may loose 1to2 lbs in first month and the effect wears of and long term results are not very convincing and side effects and potential for addiction and tolerance in my view does not support its long term use serious weight loss is by proper diet and exercise.
is having a gastric bypass safe and what are the disadvantages if any.?
gastric bypass roux-en-y most common see on youtube is major surgery with associated major risks (including death) scars etc. to reduce addictive behavior. people often better short term but long term malnutrition problems & other addictions; no cure. better learn more about addiction & change food choices see nusi. org. consider victoza (liraglutide) +/- symlin & many other far safer self-change options.
i can't stop eating chocolate candy or junk-food. how do i give up these unhealthy foods?
wean yourself slowly off the amount of your sugar addiction try replacing the junk items with fresh fruits which also have natural sugars. you body over time will adjust and the cravings will diminish. it has been shown that too much sugar in the diet may lead to insulin resistance in the brain and early dementia.
what is compulsive overeating?
true hunger comes from our hypothalamus after measuring our energy needs and food stores. but it tells other areas of our brain (the nucleus accumbens caudate and putamen) to generate the hunger signal. this signal can be generated abnormally in diseases of food addiction and set off by stress depression and various food triggers. we then eat more then we intend to.
i have an addiction to diet coke. it's literally all i drink and when i run out of it i panic. when i try to give it up i get headaches and irritable
this week keep track of how many cans or coke bottles you drink every 24 hours. beginning monday begin to reduce that amount by 10 percent per week. if you drink 10 cans a day reduce by 1 can and substitute a can of coke zero. each week reduce cans or bottles by 1 while substituting coke zero until you get to 2 cans per day. then you should be fine. you have caffeine withdrawal headaches.
i have an addiction to diet coke. it's literally all i drink and when i run out of it i panic. when i try to give it up i get headaches and irritable
i know many others who feel as you do. diet coke contains caffeine -- a substance producing a withdrawal syndrome. in each 12 oz serving there are 47 mg caffeine compared to 330 mg in a starbucks grande brewed coffee. diet coke also contains aspartame an artificial sweetener which some feel may be an excitotoxin in the brain. decide what you want in your body. water is healthier.
i have an addiction to diet coke. it's literally all i drink and when i run out of it i panic. when i try to give it up i get headaches and irritable
tea with raw honey is a thousand times better for you. your headaches are probably from caffeine withdrawal. raw honey is sugar that is good for you. it stabilizes cholesterol blood sugar and is anti-inflammatory. or try slowly reducing your diet cokes one day at a time to prevent withdrawal.
what happen if you mix xanax (alprazolam) oxycodone seriquil and cocaine at same time?
no doctor with any good sense will prescribe that combo. you are trying to feed your addiction? please do not do so! all those are addictive drugs and combined addiction will unvoidably destroy life.
what should a bariatric patient do to lose weight again and regain control of the weight situation? i received a lap band on october 26 of 2007 and have gained 23 pounds. i like to run up and down the three flights in the house work in the yard when poss
the best answer is to reconnect with your bariatric program and surgeon. you may benefit from an adjustment. start keeping a very honest food diary for 1 month and give it to your nutritionist. you are wise enough to narrow your problem down to sweet addiction. now just utilize all the excellent resources that are likely available to you as long as you use them. don't worry about upsetting your surgeon with the weight regain. you are not alone! good luck.
if someone was trying to quit an addiction to methamphetamine would prescribing phentermine help them. sorta like oxey cottons help hurroin addicts?
methamphetamine addiction should not be treated by substitution with phentermine or other cns stimulants. in certain circumstances and refractory cases the addiction specialist may have to employ the harm reduction model and do what he or she feels is best for all. this approach should not be the norm rare and only considered on a case by case basis.
if someone was trying to quit an addiction to methamphetamine would prescribing phentermine help them. sorta like oxey cottons help hurroin addicts?
way but that's trading or substituting one substance for another. please treat the addiction by getting the proper help from an addictionologist and really consider going into a formal rehab program.
what is the best food that i should eat to be healthy?
you need to eat 3 times a day. it all depends on your motivation to beat the addiction to eat. you only know the answer. talk to dietician but you have to apply the discipline.
will i be addicted to dexedrine (dextroamphetamine) if i take it 5 times a week for 3 year?
dexedrine (dextroamphetamine) addiction is extremely serious today but there is a slight upside to this type of addiction as well. while many other drugs that are highly addictive can have very serious consequences for the health and even the life of the addicted the consequences of this drug tend to be more mental than physical.
what does oxycodone do to your brain?
it can cause confusion. after taking it for a long time it can cause biological dependence where your body will show signs of withdrawal if you stop. it can cause psychological dependence / addiction. the areas of your brain that signals production of testosterone could be negatively effected (decrease testosterone). list is much longer so try alternatives to it and other opioids if u can.
why would nicotine addiction make me fat?
it is undoubtedly not the nicotine or the addiction that is to blame. more likely the same emotional problems that are causing you to smoke and possibly to keep you addicted are the same things which are causing you to overeat and to gain weight. if you eat like a bird and still gain weight then perhaps the two problems are unrelated.
is it bad to be addicted to smelling chemicals?
addiction implies a loss of control so probably not healthy for you to be addicted to most things. that would certainly include chemicals that can be toxic in all sorts of ways.
is there a way any doctor can help me lose weight the healthy way? like making me a diet plan please help
a good nutritionist or registered dietitian in your area can help. you may also need a psychologist if you overeat because of some psychosocial reason such as stress too little sleep addiction to sugar etc. a good personal trainer can help as well. if you can't afford any of these professionals consider the book eat to live by dr. joel fuhrman.
why does hydrocodone cause more euphoria than oxycodone?
all opioids can cause euphoria or altered mental status. this is usually more a result of how rapid the medication is absorbed into your system. if you are taking pain medications and experience a euphoria you should discuss this with your doc. this could lead to abuse and addiction and a medication change would be recommended. if you are not willing to change then you already have a problem.
i can't stop binging on carbs please help?
when broken down carbohydrates become sugar. your body is addicted to sugar. like other addictions which give temporary satisfaction you need to detox from sugar by reading labels of everything you eat and avoid white carbs/sugar for 2 weeks. after that most people no longer crave it. be aware of using sugar substitutes because they increase cravings. complex carbs (ie whole grains) are ok.
it's medically possible to be addicted to another human being?
in a nutshell yes. the american society of addiction medicine has released a new definition of addiction highlighting that it is a chronic brain disorder and not simply a behavioral problem involving too much alcohol drugs gambling or sex. please see below link: <link>
it's medically possible to be addicted to another human being?
speaking - an obsession or infatuation - can be viewed as an addiction. but i will defer to any one of the expert psychiatrists that are regularly on healthtap.
what can be done to stop overeating?
overeaters anonymous is a self help group which may be helpful. if you are eating for emotional reasons your mind will never be satisfied. it is important to distinguish bad habits (i. e. eating in front of the tv boredom sugar addiction) from emotional causes. get support in your quest to acquire healthy habits relating to food.
i'm over weight and have an eating problem. i need help and ddon't know where to go. dr says loose but i can't cause the food addiction. who can help me?
a therapist who specializes in eating disorders. it issue is only part of the problem. a therapist can help upu make healthy life changes (exercise and diet). keeping track of everything you eat with an app on your phone can help ( it's a simple behavioral modificaton technique). the book making peace with food can also help good luck and let us know how you do.
i'm over weight and have an eating problem. i need help and ddon't know where to go. dr says loose but i can't cause the food addiction. who can help me?
you need to find the right help for you. are you using food to try to calm yourself down? are you stuffing your feelings? be encouraged that you are asking the right questions. if you can figure out what's going on underneath the addiction you should feel some relief. you might benefit from therapy and/or overeaters anonymous. good luck and keep us updated.
i'm over weight and have an eating problem. i need help and ddon't know where to go. dr says loose but i can't cause the food addiction. who can help me?
have you tried weight watchers? overeaters anonymous. tops? a support group can be very helpful. you have a lot of company. there are 100 million overweight americans. good luck!
i can't stop eating i eat constantly all day every day and i've been putting on serious amounts of weight as much i try to stop i jst cant can u help?
have physical causes ruled out then see a psychiatrist who specializes in eating disorders. a trial on topamax (topiramate) can be a start to let you feel a sense of satiety again and to lose an average of 23 pounds at first but you need to work on triggers emotional eating and understanding how food has become an addiction for you. over eaters anonymous and a dietician can help build in the accountability you need. and then you can start on the exercise program to help you maintain your desirable wait with the help of a trainer orand exercise partner. best wishes.
i keep thinking about food and it leads to me binge eating until i feel sick. any suggestions?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
i have been binge eating tons and i really need advice on what to do if you binge a lot?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
i have hyperthyroidism and binge eating what to do?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
i keep binge eating and don't know how to stop?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
i need to stop binge eating please help! what do i do?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
i need advice with how to stop binge eating?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
i need to stop binge eating. do you have any advice?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
i have a sweet tooth how can i break my addiction before i become extremely overweight and diabetic?
no one can do if for you. it requires will power and healthier substitutes. don't abstain altogether. give yourself a treat once in awhile for following your diet regimen.
i have an addiction to fast food. any diet plans?
at 17 years old this is the time to develop healthy habits including eating. a consultation with a nutritionist would be a great start. he or she can go over you lifestyle and recommend gradual changes that you can manage. obesity is a true epidemic and it only gets more difficult to manage as you age. watch the processed carbohydrates don't drink your calories and eat smaller portions.
i have an addiction to fast food. any diet plans?
one thing you may want not to look in to is the glycemic index diet. many fast food have a high glycemic index making you get hungry faster. in addition it is highly processed. you should eat your food as close to nature as possible. just say no to junk food. there is a reason they call it that. you do not want to build your body without proper nutrients.
i have always had a sweet tooth but this is bad. how can i break my addiction before i become extremely overweight and diabetic?
can be 'addictive' because our brains are wired for sugar. to keep your smile healthy brush 5min once/day and floss. to be the sugar habit many people today are going sugar free;no refined sugar and eating healthy. the first week or so can be difficult however you can do this many have and are. do an online search and get sugar out of your diet. you'll feel great.
will i lose too much weight if i cut down on my sugar intake? i'm doing this to get healthy and to end my addiction to sugar.
many people feel addicted to sugar. it's very unlikely you'll lose "too much" weight if you end this addiction. diets containing large amounts of sugar (including high-fructose corn syrup) raise triglyceride levels and make it more likely to store fat than to metabolize it. fiber-rich carbs like veggies and beans don't do this. weight loss is more than just "calories in calories out. ".
will i lose too much weight if i cut down on my sugar intake? i'm doing this to get healthy and to end my addiction to sugar.
weight management is a simple function of calories that you take in vs calories that you expend. you may lose some weight if you decrease your sugar intake but it is unlikely to be "too much".
what are the risks of taking adipex?
insomnia elevated blood pressure headaches irritability and others. the medication has an addiction risk.
weight gain plus possible toxins from narcotics has caused bad odor ( musty smell) and at night worse. feminine area too. why and how help it?
i would encourage adequate water intake to detox. approximately half your body weight in ounces for ideal body weight. a lemon master cleanse may not be a bad idea but this requires significant will power and discipline. try to wean yourself off narcotics. long term narcotics use can sensitize you to the pain and actually make the pain seem worse along with the risk of addiction.
is there a way to not give in to food cravings?
with a therapist. breaking bad habits of any kind takes work. cognitive behavioral therapy dieting apps on your phone hypnosis are just a few possible therapeutic options or a combination oc techniques can help. because you must keep eating ending an eating addiction is complex. you need to learn to make peace with food and choose healthier ones. ask additional questions if you need to here.
when will i start to see a difference in my body if im doing davina dvd workouts 3 or 4 times a week and using 2kg weights on the arms section?
you will begin to fel better have more energy nd sleep better with each passing week. as you burn far more calories than you take in via the "added" workouts you will inevitably begin to shed weight. shedding weight slowly seems to give best chance to keep the weight off. once you feel and see the results you will become "addicted" to working out regularly and safely. this is a good addiction.
is it low or high dopamine that causes addiction /sex junk food etc. /?
your numerous questions are all nearly unanswerable here. dopamine levels are not causing addiction. behavior and genetics cause addiction. what use will the answer to this question you keep asking us bring you? what would you do if you know you have low or high dopamine? how would that help you?
what can be done to stop overeating?
just as with other addictions there is no "cure " but there is recovery. acknowledging being out of control can be more effective than trying to control it more. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. anyone with a desire to stop compulsive eating is welcome. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
what to do if i think i may be addicted to percocet how do i stop?
recognizing the addiction is the first step to recover. there are different inpatient and outpatient programs to help you getting off narcotics. please seek help from an addiction specialist. good luck.
i suffer from binge eating compulsive hunger and anxiety. i became obese in 15 months. how to lose weight if my hunger is like an addiction?
make a food diary of everything you eat for 2 weeks along with your anxiety level 1-5 and hunger. drop 300-500 calories per day for one pound a week weight loss. begin an exercise program 30 minutes of aerobic exercise 5-7 days a week with weight trainging 2-3 times per week. it isn't easy to eat while exercising. also reward yourself with a new outfit an outing with friends movie if doing well
is it okay to smoke weed after a gastric sleeve surgery? (how long after)
from carb addiction to cannabis addiction than what?
why am i obsessed with having the drugs i used to be addicted to? like ecstasy liquor xanax (alprazolam) etc. am i still addicted even if i never do it?
addiction is a chronic diseases that can never really be cured in the medical sense. however like other chronic diseases (e. g. asthma diabetes) it can be kept under control by maintaining good health and avoiding "triggers". triggers for addictive behavior include things that weaken judgment such as boredom lack of sleep alcohol or hanging out with others who continue to abuse drugs.
is it possible for your body to grow a resistance to phentermine and it no longer being effective with weight loss? '
phentermine is an amphetamine-like prescription medication used to suppress appetite. it works in the brain; the remarkable powers of your brain often work to gradually minimize the effects of foreign substances. because of addiction potential it is only approved for 12 weeks of use. as a kick start to a multifaceted weight loss program of healthy calorie restriction and more physical activity.
would it be healthy to be addicted to chewing mint gum?
it can be a habit not addiction.
what to do if i hate binges and can never stop myself mid way then i starve next 3 days. how to stop cycle?
please talk to your family physician & be very candid. this type of yo yo'ing is really hard on your body. s/he may recommend consultation with an addiction medicine specialist. what ever you have done so far has not stopped this pattern - so it is time to put your trust in another. take care.
what can you do to stop binge eating/cravings completely?
just as with other addictions there is no complete "cure " but there is recovery. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. oa is not just for binge eaters many with anorexia or bulimia find help there as well. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
in arkansas is there a limit of refills on adipex? because my pharmisist would not put my refills on my bottle?
adipex is a controlled medicine so restricted more than some other medicines judged to have less risk of addiction or abuse. you will need to see your doctor to get more. the rules for these medicines are different state by state but restricted in all states.
is it ok to smoke marijuana 7 months after having the rue-n-y weight loss surgery?
smoking of any sort decreases the blood flow to the anastomoses (the places where the stomach and intestine are sewed into the new position) and drastically increases your ulcer risk. in addition marijuana causes weight gain by appetitie stimulation. last patients with a history of severe obesity are often genetically predispositioned to addictions and should avoid habit-forming substances.
what medication can cut appetite? i'm on seroquel (quetiapine) i've tried other medication this is the only one that can make me sleep i tried adipex cut in half
i unfortunately have more questions than answers. any physician who would give you phentermine for appetite does not have your health interests at heart. this dangerous medication should be avoided. at 22 you should be looking for natural ways to get to sleep and not looking for a pill. you are way too young to be using medications that may very well bring you addiction and obsession.
i been on a diet for months. i lost 100 pounds. i am now maintaining and counting calories. thanksgiving is coming up can i cheat one meal?
were you a compulsive eater? do you think you can maintain a balanced diet in the future? one of my patients who lost 100 lbs said he is always cautious about sweets. he doesn't think he can have just one. everyone is different and you need to figure out what works for you. many people have issues with food addiction while some can eat in a balanced way.
i want to lose some weight i'm trying to eat healthy but i suppose to eat salt it's so gross i'm probably the only person who don't like salt any idea?
hi. inclusion or exclusion of salt has no bearing on weight loss (unless food addiction involves salty foods! ). there is no weight loss program i'm aware of that tells you to eat salt. please give us more information because so far it's not making much sense to me. good luck!
what should i do after binging on food?
forgive yourself. don't purge or restrict thereafter. your metabolism is like a fire. fuel it regularly to maximize it: eat palm sized portion of protein and complex carb every 2-3 hr. sprinkle 4 fruits & 4-5 veggie portions across the day. eating disorders lead to depression loss of freedom in life isolation & shame. it is an addiction. try oa groups (find online) seek help! you can get well.
ive had depression for years please recommend me a anti-depression medicine also the main way i release stress is i go to food and overeat?
see a psychiatrist to figure out right med/meds if indicated & also possible therapy--might think about trying to use some form of exercise instead of food as a coping device & substitute a healthy addiction for an unhealthy one
what to do to stop binge eating and cravings?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
what to do to stop binge eating?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
what to do to stop to binge eating?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
i need help loosing weight?
more. counting calories. . but mainly seeing where you are messing up. might be helpful <link> it is like an addiction and we tend to eat on the basis of triggers like boredom anger habit.
what do you recommend if i have a binge eating disorder how do i stop this please help?
just as with other addictions there is no "cure " but there is recovery. acknowledging being out of control can be more effective than trying to control it more. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. anyone with a desire to stop compulsive eating is welcome. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
what is the healthiest way to lose weight?
more. counting calories. . but mainly seeing where you are messing up. might be helpful <link> it is like an addiction and we tend to eat on the basis of triggers like boredom anger habit.
i'm curious as to what drives people to emotional eating? it's so common! what is the psychological/neurological connection that reinforces it?
a coping mechanism that a) has cultural roots - (ie you feel bad so let's get ice cream) and b) is linked to our reliance on high carb high fat foods in general- make you feel good short term. emotional eating is also negatively reinforcing - you eat to reduce stress and works through reward structures in the brain- like other addictions or coping behaviors this makes it a hard habit to break.
i find it difficult to stop eating and never seem to feel full. i eat healthy and hike/walk daily but am still overweight due to overeating. advice?
i think food addiction is a real thing for some people particularly refined carbohydrates can stimulate dopamine spikes which is a hallmark of addictive substances. finding specialists in eating disorders can be tough even in large cities. continue to ask for help as you did here and perhaps your family doc might know of a specialist nearby?
what to do if i'm almost certain i have a problem with binge eating but don't know what to do?
try attending a meeting of overeaters anonymous many patients find the support here helpful and life-changing. you can also seek help from a therapist with experience in eating disorders or addictions. best.
what to do if over eating eating even when i'm full and binge eating (?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive & can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
my daughter is 5years old and 75lbs i know she is over weight but ahe always have been big she was born 7 lbs what should i do?
starting with ancel keys 1953 saturated fat in food was dishonestly promoted as unhealthy. this lead to low fat high sugar processed foods with? obesity diabetes cv ds etc. cv ds typically starts age 7. study: <link> nusi. org robert lusting’s “sugar: the bitter truth” & “the skinny on obesity” (ep. 1-7) & expect resistance to changing her addictions.
what do you advise if i'm so addictaded to junk food i need help?
see a psychologist to help with your addiction and a dietitian to help with meal planning.
why is it that i get sudden food cravings?
none are perfect. these stem around complicated hormonal patterns. other things that may be at play are classical conditioning like you may have heard related to pavlov's dogs stress particular nutritional deficiencies and even physiologic addiction.
i have an addiction to sugar. is there anything recommended to eliminate the sugar cravings? any supplements that i can take?
lower carb diet and higher in good fats such as coconut oil olive oil and fish oil. the fats will help w/feelings of satiety. carbs turn into sugar so avoid them w/in a week your craving will weaken and eventually go away. see doc to make sure you are healthy enough to do this. peace and good health. you can use stevia for sweetening if you like.
what do you advise if i was trying to do some research on the side effects for diet pills. and what would happen if a person younger than 18say 17 took them?
since the chemicals in them are very similar to ritalin (methylphenidate) and other adhd medications. . not generally all that bad. but needs to be controlled and regulated to watch for 1) inappropriate weight 2) addiction 3) growth stunting those happen. cardiovascular and blood pressure effects which the drugs do don't happen in young people except really really rarely.
what are the two traditional approaches to weight management and overall health?
counting calories. . but mainly seeing where you are messing up. might be helpful <link> it is like an addiction and we tend to eat on the basis of triggers like boredom anger habit.
should a 14 year old take oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution for pain?
opiates like this are safe for youngsters but the key of course is to take as little as you can for as short a time as you can. this way there's no risk of addiction. for chronic pain specialist referral is required.
what to do if i have high protein diet to burn stored body fat?
and. find why that doesn't work. mostly it's because of triggers to not follow the advice (like an addiction). <link> and. you need to do resistive (lifting weight) exercises to prevent predominantly loss of muscle.
where do i begin? i want 2 overcome my obesity depression& substance addiction. i don't know where 2 start can i be helped am i worth saving?
be helped and are worth saving but it is a team effort. you do your part and professionals do theirs. start by changing the name of your address here in ht. "abandoned" just reinforces a negative. 12 step program for addiction a trainer at a gym and baby steps. please stop excuses that rise up in your head. peace and good health. a mental health professional can help you stay focused.
where do i begin? i want 2 overcome my obesity depression& substance addiction. i don't know where 2 start can i be helped am i worth saving?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
where do i begin? i want 2 overcome my obesity depression& substance addiction. i don't know where 2 start can i be helped am i worth saving?
all people are worth saving! start by finding a good holistic/integrative practitioner. a healthy diet will help all your issues. a great one: <link> try a high quality multivit like ultranutrient by pure encaps. that has the l-5-mthf form of folate (folic acid). treat depression with meds 5-htp or same. seek counseling from someone who speciailizes in addiction. meditate exercise try eft.
should i stop eating bread if i want to lose weight?
if one wants to lose weight one must be willing to give up at least one comfort food or food one most enjoys. this because such a food is likely a food addiction and/or food igg allergy. if a food igg allergy is present the reaction is often delayed and unnoticed by the individual. however such an inflammatory reaction may interfere with metabolism. get a food test for igg antibodies.
please help! i have a dieting then binging eating pattern what can i do?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
please help. how do people overcome binge eating disorder?
perseverance. over eater's anonymous is a great place to get support education ; to learn coping skills. it is free ; confidential. working with a psychiatrist <negative_smiley>or an addiction medicine specialist can also be very helpful. take care.
options to overcome phentermine addiction?
you should see a board certified addictionologist for help. i have treated many with amphetamine dependency. there are some medications which can help with the lethargy and depression until that goes away. i also recommend narcotics anonymous. your success with treatment will be directly related to how much effort you put into it. it's hard but you can do it. there's still hope if you're trying.
options to overcome phentermine addiction?
use a lower dose (1/2 tablet) if effective. also limit use to three months. more importantly view your transition to a healthy eating pattern with smaller portions fruits and veggies etc.
overweight. bmi above 40 suggest deit?
more. counting calories. . but mainly seeing where you are messing up. might be helpful <link> it is like an addiction and we tend to eat on the basis of triggers like boredom anger habit.
off heavy caffeine addiction. cravings i've never experienced. i'm struggling emo& phys to loose or maintain weight. need safe appetite suppressant. <positive_smiley>?
auricular acupuncture is excellent for appetite suppression. this is done using small asp needles which remain in the ears for up to a week. good luck.
off heavy caffeine addiction. cravings i've never experienced. i'm struggling emo& phys to loose or maintain weight. need safe appetite suppressant. <positive_smiley>?
there is no such thing. why do you assume that there is? appetite suppression is found best when one finally cuts out sugars and excess carbohydrates in the diet and switches to a high protein low cal and grazing type of eating life style. it is all about sugar. please do not waste your money or your health on 'diet pills'.
i'm on methadone 110mg. can i take hydroxycut or garcinia while on it? is it safe?
double check with whoever prescribed the methadone but so far as i know it is not contraindicated. this stuff actually doesn't do much for you and you'd be doing much better to add half an hour a day of cardio. but especially i am very glad you are hitting the gym while you are in recovery. i know how hard it has been with addiction and you are giving yourself a wonderful gift.
just gave birth 4 weeks ago. birth went well. nothing wrong. not breast feeding. when can i start to use duromine? is there a certain time?
it's my opinion that appetite suppressants should generally be avoided. there is the potential for addiction and they often have side effects. either of these issues might be worth it if they actually worked but the amount of weight loss they usually lead to is fairly trivial and wears off after a few months. try to get back to pre-preg weight by making good diet and exercise choices instead.
lost 5 lbs in last two weeks. bmi is 40 male 6'3" labs normal ct & u/sound normal. i am having withdrawls from xanax (alprazolam). not eating like i was insomnia. should i worry? gut ache when i eat bread.
withdrawal from drugs like xanax (alprazolam) can cause seizures delirium even death. please contract an emergency room/department or addiction treatment center immediately to make sure you are weaning the medication in a safe way and so someone can supervise you in case of any complications
lap band in '08. had all saline removed as transfer addiction with alcohol began. sober. now stomach pain nausea acid reflux. what could this be?
nobody can tell you what you have from just the history although it is highly suggestive of acid peptic disease either gastritis duodenitis esophagitis as well as reflux. could also be peptic ulcer or pancreatic inflammation from the previous drinking. see your doctor for a more complete history physical examination and necessary lab tests including gi referral for possible endoscopy.
quick weight loss?
more. counting calories. . but mainly seeing where you are messing up. might be helpful. wt. x 10 is number of calories burned per day. 100-500 calories per hour additional with exercise and 4000 calories in/out is one pound. <link> it is like an addiction and we tend to eat on the basis of triggers like boredom anger habit. cannot say in your particular case.
quick efficient weight loss?
more. counting calories. . but mainly seeing where you are messing up. might be helpful. wt. x 10 is number of calories burned per day. 100-500 calories per hour additional with exercise and 4000 calories in/out is one pound. <link> it is like an addiction and we tend to eat on the basis of triggers like boredom anger habit. cannot say in your particular case.
relapsed w/ purging anorexia 6/21&22. see psychiatrist in 3 weeks & should tell him; but i don't want to stop. what will happen if i tell him? bmi = 24.
i think you would feel better if you saw a mental health professional weekly for psychoterapy in addition to psychiatrist. it is common to not want to stop but think of this compulsion as an addiction that will compromise your life drastically if you continue. a clinical psychologist experienced in treating eating disorders could help you greatly. best wishes.
can adult man be addicted to video games?
the same thing that causes video game addiction in adolescents and young adults can cause addiction in adult individuals.
can you be addicted to sex?
the american psychiatric association has been debating whether to include "sexual addiction" (as opposed to hypersexuality sometimes from real brain disease) as an entity that physicians can diagnose. right now it's not. the politics of criminal defense making excuses and medicalizing all behavioral problems guarantees there will be no consensus.
can you be addicted to sex?
there's no withdrawal syndrome and exposure seldom results in compulsive seeking as with heroin cocaine or tobacco. 12step programs for sexual addiction" are still prescientific. if you find yourself unable to think about anything else or running from one meaningless contact to another you'll end up miserable. a ssri can help or (best) finding more meaningful ways to love others.
can you be addicted to sex?
there is some debate about "natural" human behaviors being addictive or addictions but therapists look at the degree of disorder in ones life brought about by the behavior. sex addicts spend more time seeking pursuing acting on and thinking about sex than the average person. it often interferes with their life and relationships.
can you be addicted to sex?
yes people have been diagnosed with sex addiction need support group and therapy.
how do i lose weight without spending all my time at the gym? i have two small children and had them both by c-section. i was wondering if there are any techniques i could use to help lose some weight. my mid-section is what is bothering me the most and m
eating high sugar and high carb food will make you gain weight. . if you have alcohol addiction in your family you have a chance to be addicted to carbs which will make you gain. read gary taubes book why we get fat. i think that is the title!
how bad is junk food anyway?
junk food generally refers to foods that are high in salt saturated fats simple sugars and huge amounts of 'empty calories' which means they have little or no nutritional value but make you fat. based on the epidemic of obesity diabetes hypertension heart disease and strokes cancer. it is the most devastating of addictions including heroin and cocaine. and yes i do mean 'addiction'.
how can a person be addicted to something that isn't an actual substance?
the addiction or obssesion itself causes release of the brains own feel good chemicals such as dopamine and/or endorphins. ever heard of a "runners high". some gamblers have a reduced urge to gamble with the same drug used for alcohol cravings naltrexone. even with substances once addiction is in place the brain releases these same chemicals just with the thought of drugs no drug needed.
how can a person be addicted to something that isn't an actual substance?
i read in a book once "presumed value is everything" can't think of the person who said it - but it is what creates addiction and this is what marketing department targets to sell to public.
how could i be addicted to fioricet but have been taking xanax (alprazolam) for panic and have never abused it/felt the urge?
fioricet has caffeine which is addictive vs xanax (alprazolam) which is benzo. xanax (alprazolam) addiction is subtle and withdrawal effects are prolonged.
how do you curb a sugar addiction?
1- by avoiding high glycemic foods which trigger cravings 2- maintain good mental health ( which includes excercise)which minimizes our desire to use food to self medicate 3-use of various drugs in combo to minimize cravings including phentermine naltrexone topamax victoza (liraglutide) zonisamide wellbutrin.
how do you curb a sugar addiction?
glutamine resets receptors in brain for cravings - turn on satiation center - use 1gm before snaking and 1gm at night daily.
heard morbid obesity is currently not well understood so why do bariatrics docs think they know all?
with diseases like obesity and addiction for that matter medicine is revealing so much more we have better technology better understanding but really these are new frontiers. the thing with medicine is the more we know the more we realize what we don't know. doctors are always students as well and good doctors will usually let you know what they don't know.
how do i control overeating?
just as with other addictions there is no "cure " but there is recovery. acknowledging being out of control can be more effective than trying to control it more. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. anyone with a desire to stop compulsive eating is welcome. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
how to avoid extreme weight gain after anorexia cure?
i do agree with dr. kuhn but i believe it is very important to know that anorexia is not really "cured". i believe there is a genetic predisposition to eating disorders just like alcohol and drug addiction but with eating disorders it can be even more difficult because one "could completely stop alcohol and drugs" but a patient must learn to live with "eating" and see expert drs. and therapists.
how can i treat my compulsive overeating without going to see a therapist?
compulsion is part of a spectrum of disorders like ocd (obsessive compulsive disorder) and in the setting of food really is related to food addiction. i would seek professional counseling or get plugged in with an experienced bariatric physician. another resource to get you started is faa food addicts anonymous. <link>
how addictive is oxycodone acetaminophen?
all opiates have addiction potential. the more potent/powerful drug the higher addiction potential. in general people are more addicted to short acting opiate than long acting opiate.
can i drink alcohol after bariatric surgery?
small amounts of alcohol would be ok. however the risk of intoxication is faster after bypass and sleeve. recent data also seems to show a higher risk of alcohol addiction. good to be aware.
can you get addicted to the drug phentermine?
phentermine is a stimulant & fully capable of being the source of addiction. there is a difference between physiological tolerance &/or withdrawal -vs- addiction. to be addicted you need one of the biological features (tolerance or withdrawal) loss of control (despite negative consequences) & salience (it becomes an important part of your life).
how do you help someone who's addicted to diet pills?
amphetamine addiction is a serious problem. encourage them to seek professional psychiatric assistance and follow up with na.
how can i get rid of food obsession? from pro anorexia to bulimia. i have try phsychotherapy but didn't help me
just as with other addictions there is no "cure " but there is recovery. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. oa is not just for binge eaters many with anorexia or bulimia find help there as well. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
can people be addicted to sugar? i feel like i am. if we run out of sweets i almost panic(not that bad really). how can istop this before it stops me?
people can develop what is very much like an addiction to certain foods and carbs are notorious. you get through it like any other addict. you decide it's time to quit. you get rid of it all. you tough out the withdrawal symptoms even though it stinks. and once you're "sober" you don't go back.
can people be addicted to sugar? i feel like i am. if we run out of sweets i almost panic(not that bad really). how can istop this before it stops me?
berger et at. 2012 showed that frequent consumption of ice cream independent of body fat is related to affecting the brain areas of reward paralleling the tolerance observed in drug addiction. the pleasure chemical of brain is called dopamine. these finding suggest that excess sugar eating can affect this brain chemical. self pleasure has to find a balnance so yes moderation is important.
how can i get rid of my addiction to sweets without using artificial sweeteners?
i would suggest substituting healthy foods during cravings such as raw veggies protein and complex carbs. make sure you are tested for diabetes.
how addictive is hydromorphone compared to oxycodone?
all narcotics have addiction potential. both hydromorphone and oxycodone are highly addicted.
how effective is the medi slim weight loss program?
initially you will lose but if you don't get over food addictions and get on a long term stable healthy eating and exercise program the weight loss won't be sustainable
can somebody be addicted to suboxone and xanax (alprazolam)?
suboxone and xanax (alprazolam) are drugs in the opiate and benzodiazepine class of medications respectively both of which can cause physical dependence and also cause addiction to individuals who are susceptible to the development of addiction. the person in question should have a good assessment by a physician certified by the american society of addiction medicine (<link>
how long does it take withdrawals from stopping oxycodone to go away when you quit cold turkey 5 days now?
the physical symptoms rarely last longer than a week but the cravings may last much longer. consider attending a meeting of narcotics anonymous. if you are at risk for relapse you might consult an addiction specialist about using buprenorphine (suboxone).
how long does it take withdrawals from stopping oxycodone to go away when you quit cold turkey 5 days now?
this varies widely from person to person depending on many factors: drug dose duration of use coexisting medical problems body size and bmi other drugs being taken nutritional state. please consider speaking with an addiction medical person a psychiatrist or your pcp.
could a child be addicted to junk foods?
a child may certainly have a strong preference for junk food . an the child will eat what is bought for him/her and will eat what they see other people are eating. it does not raise to the level of an addiction. care takers need to be in charge of the food that is provided.
could a child be addicted to junk foods?
not a true addiction but children get used to sweets and seek them. if available they will all they can. best way to reduce consumption is not to have them in the house and give nutritious snacks and meals.
could i be addicted to general anesthesia?
general anesthesia may include barbiturates opioids and benzos but the addiction is unlikely.
could a person who smokes cigars only on special occassions not be addicted to nicotine?
in order to be addicted (that is dependent) on nicotine people need to show a problematic pattern of substance use which leads to impairment or distress. very infrequent use of cigars while risky could be done without developing tolerance or withdrawal symptoms hallmarks of addictions. unfortunately cigar smokers often begin celebrating more often and become addicted risking their health.
can you control overeating?
just as with other addictions there is no "cure " but there is recovery. acknowledging being out of control can be more effective than trying to control it more. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. anyone with a desire to stop compulsive eating is welcome. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
how can you lose weight the fastest to put the pseudotumor cerebri in remission?
i tell all my pseudotumor patients that this is a wake up call. you need to change your lifestyle. change your mentality. reset your thermostat! you need to cut down on how much you each what quality food you eat how much your spend (exercise) and how you change your mentality to avoid your addictions (fat chocolate. ). it's tough but what you are currently doing ain't workin!
can you be addicted to marijuana heroin and crack?
if you think you or someone else is addicted to one or more of these you sjould see an addiction counselor and probably see a whole addcition team for help with this.
can you take oxycodone with olanzapine?
these are two different classes of medication. oxycodone is an opiate based pain reliever and olanzepine (zyprexa) is an atypical anti-psychotic. they are both potentially sedating and one must be cautious of this. opiate pain relievers should be taken with caution and over a short period of time to avoid tolerance and/or addiction.
can oxycodone withdrawal cause seizures?
yes withdrawal from any narcotic drug can cause seizure. many factors are at play. consult addiction psychiatrist. they know how to do it safely or go to emergency room.
can taking diet pills cause you permanent damage?
diet pills approved by fda and given by prescriptions by your doctor do not cause any permanent damage but in my opinion they do not make you loose weight consistantly and may have side effects and addiction possibilities.
how can you be addicted to a pill if it doesn't make you feel any different or much different than before? no altered states of mind or anything.
addiction does not require a change in state of mind.
how can you be addicted to a pill if it doesn't make you feel any different or much different than before? no altered states of mind or anything.
i guess the first thought i have is why would you take a pill that is not making you feel any different? if the pill has no effect then continuing to take it may very well be evidence of an addiction.
hi my bp was 285 over 202. i am an iv meth user overweight and i smoke. im 34 female with no history of heart disease that i know of. i think my bp?
this situation is deadly. an addiction specialist is in your future if you live long enough. can you detox yourself off of the meth? (i have never met someone in your position who could). do you have access to an addiction medicine doctor?
can someone be addicted to unhealthy food?
addiction has specific definition and being attracted to unhealthy food does not meet the strict definition. people may use the term as an excuse for not living a healthful life.
will early cigarette smoking affect breast growth?
however it will make the breast sag sooner as you age. do yourself a favor get a proud young woman's revenge on the tobacco company ceo's responsible for you addiction and quit now by whatever means.
can someone be addicted to vitamins?
i am not aware of any case or study showing this. you might develop a mental or psychological dependency where you feel you must take the vitamins to function but i don't think there is such thing as a physiological addiction.
can i be addicted to paracetamol or is it just my head making me think i need it? how do you know if your addicted?
of tylenol (acetaminophen) addiction!
how can i stop these crazy sugar cravings!?
your willpower. it has been said that taking a supplement of chromium picolinate helps but i have not had much success with patients. addiction is denied by the medical profession but it is addictive and you have to maintain self control because it is so important to your future health.
how can i stop binge eating everyday?
just as with other addictions there is no "cure " but one day at a time there is recovery. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. oa is not just for binge eaters many with anorexia or bulimia find help there as well. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
how to stop binge eating after you have recovered from anorexia?
just as with other addictions there is no "cure " but there is recovery. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. oa is not just for those with extreme overweight many with anorexia or bulimia find help there as well. anyone who wants to stop compulsive behavior re: food is welcome. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
could you be addicted to music like actually addiction like video game addiction?
as in "high" off of music? enjoy! it only becomes an addiction when it interferes with normal living such as sleep relationships and work. if that's the case seek counseling.
could you be addicted to music like actually addiction like video game addiction?
if the definition of addiction is doing something to the exclusion of more important things in you life such as hygiene interpersonal relationships things necessary for survival one can be addicted to any behavior or chemical or food.
could i literally be addicted to coca-cola? i drink at most a half of a 16. 9 floz every day?
half of a 16. 9 oz coke has 5 1/2 tsp of sugar in the especially unhealthy form of high fructose corn syrup. sugar is very addicting & nearly 2 tbsp. is quite a bit. it also has caffeine which is addicting. see <link> for good articles on sugar addiction & <link> aspartame is also addicting & unhealthy!
could i literally be addicted to coca-cola? i drink at most a half of a 16. 9 floz every day?
sugar addiction!
could i literally be addicted to coca-cola? i drink at most a half of a 16. 9 floz every day?
physical and psychological addiction can result from excessive caffeine intake in soda.
can someone be addicted to music?
the idea of true "addiction" involves using more of a substance or doing more of a behavior intended despite clear negative effects on health or aspects of life like relationships work school etc. do you abdicate important responsibilities like being a parent or spouse in favor of music? music can be a very nice part of life. can be used to "tune out" others too if headphones always on.
can someone be addicted to music?
music can elevate dopamine levels and you may receive great pleasure but true addictions involve things like developing tolerance and the need for more physical and psychological dependence to continue to function and dysfunctional seeking behaviors. if you find it difficult to function without music it may be more of an ocd condition. most people however just find it a great escape.
can someone be addicted to music?
musician and full-time doctor i enjoy music too. but i'm not aware of a strong love for music meeting the technical definitions of "addiction". maybe our psychiatrist friends on this site can chime in!
can someone be addicted to music?
many love music and listen to it so frequently that it might seem light an addiction. but the withdrawal from music is a longing rather than a sequence of physical reactions of the body.
can someone be addicted to someone else?
while there are 12-step programs such as love and sex addicts anonymous many find that what is perceived as an "addiction" to a person may be a sign of co-dependency or a personality disorder such as dependent personality disorder based on the impact it has on one's life. helen fisher from rutger's has done great neuro research on lust love and romance which you may find interesting.
can someone be addicted to someone else?
some people mistake addiction for love.
can someone be addicted to nicotine if you grew up around it but never smoked?
i am not sure it depends on how much you are exposed to smoke. if you are breathing in smoke (2nd hand smoke) frequently and come from a family that has had trouble with addictions it seems like it could be possible. if we can get lung cancer from 2nd hand smoke perhaps we can become addicted too. do you try to be around smokers all the time even though you do not smoke?
could you be addicted to a person?
to a person remains unhealthy like any addiction.
could you be addicted to a person?
addiction to a person = codependence.
how can i keep focused while dieting and not get off track?
then notice what happend to get you there. parts of the brain involved with emotion immediate reaction get sensory input first and react to it (basis of all addiction). you can avoid the triggers substitute other stuff or use humor and social pressure to transform your relationship to food. basically you'll only find that info here: <link>
how do i stop binging? should i just stop eating a lot or become bulimic?
agree w dr. katz. this is not a simple matter of eating less or becoming "bulimic" (which i assume means purging? ). your eating disorder is a symptom of other deeper issues. i also encourage you to work with an behavioral health provider who specializes in eating disorders. in the mean time you also need a complete medical evaluation - an addiction medicine specialist is a good choice. bulimia.
can there be a scientific reason for food cravings?
i agree with dr. lavi about some of the brain regions affected in food cravings. studies have also shown that the nucleus accumbens -- the same area of brain "reward system" so well known in other addictions -- is also involved in sugar cravings. <link> blood sugar and insulin response --and hunger & food cravings afterwards -- increased with high sugar-containing foods.
how can i get rid of sugar cravings?
few people treat chocolate sugar or caffeine addictions although they are very common and hard to overcome. the side effects are less problematic than alcohol or other drugs which is why they have been neglected. however they can have health consequences like stress and diabetes. contact someone who specializes in addictions and work out a program to help you stiop.
how do you know if its from overeating or a virus? vomiting often
bulimia potential effects include significant damage to physical emotional mental and life. risks: protein insufficiency electrolyte imbalance fatigue heart attack stomach ulcers tears in the esophagus from stomach acid acid damaged teeth severe constipation slowed thinking depression loss of freedom in life isolation and shame. it is an addiction. seek help! you can get well!
can someone be addicted to inhaling naphthalene balls?
ball addiction. it is primarily vapor inhalation but in some situations may include licking or ingesting moth balls. it is very dangerous. mothballs are usually all active ingredient ; are composed of either paradichlorobenzene or napthlene. they dissolve from a solid to a vapor which is toxic. inhaling mothball vapor = breathing insecticide. there are problems w acute ; toxic exposure. see http.
cocaine binges what do they do?
addiction to cocaine is characterized by binges (usually of 4 to 24 hours one to seven times per week) movement to intravenous use or smoking extreme euphoria and disregard for anything other than cocaine including food sleep sex family and survival. the behavior is limited only by the high cost of the drug and its limited availability. abstinence after a cocaine binge leads to crashing.
help please! i have binge eating disorder?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
how do people overcome binge eating disorder?
over eater's anonymous is a great place to get support education ; to learn coping skills. it is free ; confidential. working with a psychiatrist <negative_smiley>or an addiction medicine specialist can also be very helpful. take care.
could you tell me what to do about a binge eating disorder?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can you tell me how i can stop binge eating?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can stop myself from binge eating?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can recover from binge eating disorder?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can treat binge eating disorder?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can control binge eating?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can stop binge eating?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can stop myself from binge eating after school?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
hypoglycemia being the most intelligent answer to my issues i see how ritalin (methylphenidate) acting as an appetite suppressant can be more dangerous for me correct?
going on here. using ritalin (methylphenidate) as an appetite suppressant can get you into big trouble with addiction rebound fatigue ; hypoglycemia. it also causes insomnia. get mthfr 677 ; 1298 genotype testing. treatment can help you with your weight loss goals make your anti-depressant work better decrease anxiety and help sleep. also gives energy during the day that is natural instead of not real.
how to diet when addicted to food?
contact your doctor or health plan for a recommendation of social worker nutritionist psychologist that specialize in treating eating disorders. . there are over eaters anonymous organizations too. addiction is complicated especially when it is paired with a basic necessity of life.
how can i get rid of sugar cravings? it's like my body needs the sugar and it's an addiction. i even eat a spoon of sugar if nothing is available!
anti-craving meds. but sugar use will lead to more sugar cravings and diabetes meds also help.
does it take a long time to become addicted to oxycodone?
addiciton is not automatic with the use of opioids therefore there is no answer to this question. there is a risk for addiction and dependency with all opioids. some people have a great predisposition to addiction which is a psychiatric condition.
daily meth use for about 6-7 months. best way to gain back weight muscle and fat?
you don't say whether you plan to continue using meth or not. but without stopping the meth and getting into a recovery program your body will continue to deteriorate. you can start by seeing your family physician and get a good physical evaluation. you may need an inpatient drug program and an ongoing addiction medicine doctor also. crystal meth anon can help: <link>
how does meth affect diabetes type 2?
hi. it's just a hunch of mine but i don't think there's much meth is good for. if you're concerned about your physical and mental health i'll go out on a limb and suggest you quit meth. we all know addiction is very tough but help is available. good luck!
how do i decrease eating sweets desire?
a bariatrician with counseling experince or psychologist wil teach you how to manage sugar addiction.
how to break junk food addiction?
some addictions may be addressed by either treatment with therapy or an attempt to stop the unwanted behavior on your own. junk food addiction would fall into this group. to eat less junk food you may try substituting the behavior with another rewarding but more useful behavior such as exercise reading doing a mind stimulating game. consultation with nutritionist on healthier eating could help.
hooked on herbal water pills. trying to lose water weight and an addiction to salt. how to get off water pills and normalize kidney function. help!
you are actually harming yourself i you take water pills instead of staying on a healthy diet low in salt. talk to your doctor and let him know about your problem. it is dangerous to tamper with otc drugs without notifying your doctor especially if you are taking other medications.
does having a anger problem for a male ever cause heath problems? does being obese make it worse?
research has shown individuals who are easily angered possibly type a personalities and those who have a hard time letting go of anger have higher rates of cardiac disease addictions and stress related disorders. obesity does not make anger worse but overtime it may indirectly by causing cerebrovascular disease that can further impair self-control and inhibition.
can i take phentermine with synthoid?
no. phentermine is a very dangerous and ineffective medication that not only will not lead to any real or lasting weight loss but puts your brain at risk of addiction and obsession but your heart at risk as well. any physician who is willing to prescribe it for you does not have your best interests at heart.
can you tell me what to expect with someone who has used diet pills before?
the individual you describe will likely struggle with weight control over a lifetime. the success or failure will depend on many factors including support of loved ones. there is no indication addiction or abuse based on your question. best wishes!
do you have any tips on curbing bulimia and drinking binges?
program. encourage you to work with an addiction medicine specialist. additionally - 12 step programs are an excellent corner stone for recovery. alcoholics anonymous and over eater's anonymous along with a 12 step sponsor would be a good place to start. you need a complete physical to determine how much damage has been done by these behaviors. take care.
any dr. 's in my area that use methadone in tx of chronic pain. my options for prescription limited by gastric bypass & min. help by oct/ other narcotic rx?
fentanyl patches are an option. they diffused an opioid directly through your skin. not affected by gastric bypass. in general i frown on methadone for chronic pain. it is approved to get people off of opioids and not as a drug for "chronic pain" but i realize it is used "off label" for this. the labeling is for "restricted to authorized opioid addiction detox/maintenance tx facilities.
hi i want to lose weight because i'm overweight. what kind of things should i do?
and. find why that doesn't work. mostly it's because of triggers to not follow the advice (like an addiction). <link> has some helpful insights.
how addictive is phentermine and is it safe for me to take metformin while taking it?
patients on phetermine do not develop addiction even after prolonged used as shown in studies. my experince most patients who combine phetermine with life style modification actual see a decrease in their blood pressure. common concern will be dehydration constipation initial jitteriness that wears away after a few days insomnia. hence take early in the morning increase fiber increase water
how addictive is phentermine and is it safe for me to take metformin while taking it?
i would not recommended due to increase effects on cardiovascular system more anxiety & mood changes severe headaches & blood pressure changes impotence & changes in libido. addiction is very likely with continued use.
can you tell me what it's like to bee on the atkins diet?
highest drop out rate of most common diets. under 50% last a week. not clear that it has even slight benefit compared to any other. but. all the addiction literature would say this is like choosing a particular brand of cocaine. misses the issue. count calories exercise 500-1000 net out per day. find what the issues are. <link>
bmi 40+ lack of addiction so far to phentermine is it safe to take it longer than a year? my dr. is mentioning surgery instead.
phentermine ihas never been shown to be addictive. it can have some stimulating side effects more so in some patients that others that is why a patient is monitored monthly for wt loss bp pulse. i have many patients safely on phentermine maintenance for years the stimulatory side efects generally disappear in 4-6 mo. there are 2 ways phentermine works. decr. hunger for 4-6 mo milder decr calories.
bmi 40+ lack of addiction so far to phentermine is it safe to take it longer than a year? my dr. is mentioning surgery instead.
much of the preparation for surgery will help you toward a more healthy lifestyle.
bmi 40+ lack of addiction so far to phentermine is it safe to take it longer than a year? my dr. is mentioning surgery instead.
the danger of using stimulants and suppressing appetite is essential muscle loss - will end up with gut gangrene with loss of intestines or getting heart attack - need a healthy weight loss program.
best way to stop binge eating over eating or stop snacking when u don't need to or not hungry. cant control eating since lap band removed.
what you describe almost sounds like an addiction. i would recommend finding another safer healthier outlet for these cravings. exercise would be perfect. also don't buy the food and put it where you can easily get it. if its not available you can't eat it. if you are tempted to leave the house to go get something make a rule that you must run on the treadmill for 20 minutes first.
brother abusing stimulants (adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) and ephedrine). how high does his heart rate need to get before we have to bring him to the hospital (where it is life threatening)?
i am sorry to hear about this. unfortunately there is no one right answer to this. more than the heart rate rise (which in young people is generally well tolerated) i would be concerned about the blood pressure. if the systolic blood pressure is above 180-200 mmhg that's concerning enough to bring your brother to the hospital. of course addiction therapy is far more important.
can i buy anything over the counter for binge eating or food addiction?
not everything can be fixed with a pill or drug. please look into over eater's anonymous in your area. or work with a psychotherapist. be well
have researchers found that you can get breast cancer from drinking?
think so! from smoking yes! consider moderation as alcohol in excess is really detrimental to your health besides the addiction that can ruin your life and your family too!
hi doctor i've been visiting a massage massage girl give me a breast job. she masturbated my penis with her breast and nipples. is this risk for hiv?
it is a risk for addiction and squandering your hard earned money. .
yes i am a recovering meth addict and i have a stent in my heart and i am on plavix and lipitor and metoprolol how dangerous is it to mix meth?
you will go back to your addiction. not to be flippant but you might as well be asking how dangerous is it to point a loaded gun at myself and pull the trigger!
i am a recovering alcoholic. can my addiction contribute to cardiomyopathy?
there are a cardiomyopathies with direct association with various types of alcohol ingestion some of which may not be directly related to the alcohol but some of the other ingredients of the drink.
i am a recovering alcoholic. can my addiction contribute to cardiomyopathy?
yes however etoh cardiomyopathies can be reversible when cause is eliminated in conjunction with medicines that help the heart heal. other causes must also be excluded. see a cardiologist if not doing so already.
i am a recovering alcoholic. can my addiction contribute to cardiomyopathy?
alcohol is a known toxin to the heart and can lead to a weaker heart muscle and irregularities of the heart rhythm.
is rapid heartbeat a withdrawal symptom?
one of the first to come more often than not. may i suggest substance addiction treatment if this is happening to you?
in order to avoid being "addicted" to one medication can i take diovan (valsartan) this month then benicar next month and so on? thank you.
taking a certain medication for high blood pressure is not an addiction. any good blood pressure medication such as diovan (valsartan) if is doing the job should be taken regularly.
i'm on methadone i have prolonged qt interval so have to come off. i've heard the tapering off is so difficult true?
you certainly don't want to remain on methadone if you have prolonged qt. risk of sudden cardiac death is real especially at higher doses. if tapering becomes intolerable work with an addiction specialist to help you through the process and possibly transition you to another safer agonist based replacement therapy.
i'm taking celexa&metoprolol and yes today i slipped&used crystal meth and oxycodone. been trying2stay sober&concerned about the combo of drugs&meds?
the safest answer is to seek medical attention right away. now is the time to get back into a program of abuse and addiction. the fact that you are posting on here is a cry for help. reach out to family and friends and let them help you find the resources to treat your disease.
i'm taking celexa&metoprolol and yes today i slipped&used crystal meth and oxycodone. been trying2stay sober&concerned about the combo of drugs&meds?
addiction specialist to help you address cause of why you are taking medications that can cost you your life. also a psychiatrist can help manage your conditions and medications better. a anti-depressant taken with a blood pressure lowering agent along with crystal meth and oxycodone is a lethal combination. being in a support group with an accountability buddy is best to keep you on track.
if i take caffeinated energy drinks much coffee or "energy now" tablets and take them mon-fri alone (none su/sa) is addiction likely?
you didn't tell us your usage. consider clarifying and re-asking your question.
i take metoprolol 25mg every night for bp and palps for a week now. was prescribed xanax (alprazolam) 25mg but only take half as needed for anxiety. is this safe?
i think you meant xanax (alprazolam) 0. 25mg as the dose. you said it was prescribed. yes it is safe for you to take. talk with your doctor about your treatment options. be sure to follow your doctor's advice about the use of xanax (alprazolam). it does have a risk for addiction. do not combine it with alcohol or sedating medicine. be careful about driving while on the medication. best wishes!
i have dealt with anxiety for almost one year. the doctor wants me to up my dose of clonazepam from. 5mg daily which i've been on for 1 month to 1mg daily. i'm also on 50mg of atenolol for tachycardia related anxiety. what should i expect?
chronic use of an benzo like clonazepam is the wrong therapy and will make you worse requiring more medication to get buy this is addiction please ask your doctor to stop that drug and treat the underlying cause of your anxiety ask to see an addiction specialist and a psychologist as well and stop the benzo medications! please get help soon!
heart racing after sniffing hand sanitizer?
addiction to toxic fumes and substances found in ordinary over the counter household chemicals can be potentially lethal. recently i am finding many people coming to my practice asking for "prescriptions" for for example "rubbing alcohol" and it is distressing to find out they do not know the potential dangers.
smoked marijuana (not first time) uncontrolled shaking rapid heart beat panic lasted longer than 24 hours. was it laced with something else?
cannabis is usually but not always calming with a decreased heart rate. there has been a massive increase in marijuana that is laced with other drugs to keep customers hooked. pcp is one of the most common and this is a very dangerous drug it can be lethal. cocaine heroin methamphetamine are other common contaminants. get help for your addiction na has been life saving for many people.
when i get hangovers i feel sick all day until 7pm feel very anxious sweaty palpitations. have to stay in bed is this normal?
your life is precious! you deserve energy and satisfaction in life. hangover symptoms lasting until 7 pm next day indicate alcohol dependence. let the wise man within you ask: • reasons to use alcohol • depression anxiety blackouts dui • effect on relationships finances • need to see psychiatrist for alcohol use tolerance addiction • alcohol rehab program aa meetings • therapy for stresses
have wpw syndrome (not currently being treated for) and detoxing from heavy methadone additiction (3+ years) should i be concerned?
do increase the chance of heart rhythm problems in people with wpw but we're not certain about methadone. as to methadone withdrawal it's mandatory that you detox under close supervision of an experienced addiction specialist and a cardiologist. you may need an anti-arhythmic drug and a very slow methadone taper. suboxone can help reduce withdrawal symptoms and detox stress. dr. anne.
trying to prove to my mother that her addiction to monster energy drinks and vodka is dangerous. please help! ritually for years now?
please show this response to your mother so that she will know that a physician shares your concern.
trying to prove to my mother that her addiction to monster energy drinks and vodka is dangerous. please help! ritually for years now?
it is very difficult when you can see a family member's problem and they are unable to see or admit it. your best resource is www. al-anon. alateen. org
what exercise should be avoided by people with rvh? i usually do weight training cardio yoga swimming & muaythai. is it safe? im addicted to sports
ok with rvh you will be out if breath with any strenuous exercise yoga is safe swimming could be tolerated some time cardio i will not advise unless it have been approved by your cardiologist who knows the statue of your ventricle more than i do i am proud of your addiction you are trying to make the best of bad situation good luck and have a happy life
what to do if i had my atrial septal defect repaired over a week ago through my groin. when can i start to smoking again?
you are an adult. smoking is your choice. if you understand the risks and still choose to smoke good luck. just don't claim addiction bad genes or that the boogey man made you do it.
what do you advise if i'm suffering pentazocine addiction after prolong use of this drug from last 5years. can any one help me?
opiate. there is lots of help available to people with opiate addiction whether it is talwin (pentazocine) heroin or oxycodone. pentazocine produces a high level of psychological dependency but much less physical dependency so withdrawal isn't usually an issue. your pcp can refer you or you can google chemical dependency programs in your area. narcotics anonymous is free and available.
what are the short- long-term effects of taking klonopin doxepin wellbutrion seroquel (quetiapine) armour thyroid pravastatin xanex alcohol marijuana?
taking multiple meds of any kind especially psycho acting ones may cause confusion in the short term. specifically benzo's like klonopin or xanax (alprazolam) may cause sedation or addiction. antipsychotics like seroquel may cause sedation or movement problems. doxepin and alcohol can be sedating. and marijuana depending on where you live is an illicit subst and can cause paranoia or psychosis.
what're some negative effects of habitually drinking caffeine?
some are anxiety addiction increased blood pressure reduced control of fine motor movements & stimulation of urination (also refer to diagram).
why do so many smokers die early? effect on heart or cancer?
along with consequences of their other addictions.
what evidence exists on short- and long-term negative effects of ghb (street name g) on the central nervous system heart liver or other major organ?
short term sedation including respiratory depression may require intubation long term effects are unknown since prospective data are needed. but it can be addicting since it will cause a surge of dopamine the chief chemical involved in addiction.
what are causes of a heart flutter?
hypertension heart attacks cardiomyopathy with chf mitral valve disease hypertrophic cardiac disease hyperthyroidism pulmonary embolus severe copd/emphysema with pulmonary hypertension cocaine and amphetamine addiction alcoholism anorexia congenital heart disease like wpw.
woman just found out she is 7 1/2 months pregnant and has been taking trazadone lorazapam methadone sodium bi carbonate lac pregnant she has also been takin lactolose lithium cumadin warafarin alcohol what is gonna be wrong with the baby
the most important thing in this complicated situation is that the patient closely establish with a gynecologist so that she can have a complete evaluation including an ultrasound. although all medications carry risks during pregnancy in the majority of cases the baby is fine. of course with methadone there are risks of addiction at birth so the baby will need to be monitored closely and coumadin (warfarin) is a blood thinner that can't be taken during pregnancy but there alternatives such as variants of heparin.
what are the long term effects of caffeine use?
long term usage could lead to addiction and depence. hence people could face common withdrawl symptoms like hedache and fatigue.
what are the side effects of taking only 60 bills of dianabol blue heart in 20 days 2 bills per day before sleeping?
addiction caused by overuse and a developing tolerance that could lead to overdose.
was taking clonazepam once or twice a week for months running out and cardiologist won't renew. just stopping ok? was given 2 help sleep cuz of heart
once or twice a week is unlikely to lead to addiction or tolerance. most likely limited if any withdrawal symptoms. klonopin is long enough acting to taper itself when stopped as well. if you still have trouble sleeping a sedating antihistamine over-the-counter like benadryl (diphenhydramine) which is in most sleep meds anyway or melatonin may help. no television or electronic devices around bedtime.
can drug addiction contribute to a heart attack?
many drugs of abuse can contribute to a heart attack. stimulants or "uppers" are especially likely to do this. for example cocaine has been known to precipitate heart attacks by causing spasm and constriction of the arteries and increasing heart rate. amphetamines are thought to contribute to heart attacks through a similar mechanism.
can drug addiction contribute to a heart attack?
especially cocaine.
can drug addiction contribute to a heart attack?
particularly addiction to stimulants! sooooo bad for the heart. if i had a dollar for every young person i'd treated who screwed up there heart with cocaine meth crack etc. i'd retire right now. well no i wouldn't because i love what i do but drugs will f-up your heart for sure! yo! yo! yo! it's the truth. iv drugs are super bad too. be well.
why do heroin addicts often end up needing heart surgery?
intravenous drug use is can introduce bacteria into the blood stream either from the needle or the skin. these bacteria can infect the heart valves. this is called endocarditis. this can sometimes be treated with antibiotics (and treatment for drug addiction) but sometimes also requires surgery.
