what could cause severe pulsating pain on the left side of my neck and head? i have pressure and ringing/muffling in my ear. also blurring of eyes.
although your agoraphobia could be responsible for some of these symptoms i would recommend that you discuss these with a physician to exclude the possibility of other causes which may require more urgent intervention.
using sertraline for panic attacks and agoraphobia. gained 30lbs. is there another medication for panic disorder that doesn't cause weight gain?
some medications cause weight gain as you've discovered. there are many related medications that might work in reducing panic and not cause weight gain and other side effects. also combining medication with behavioral treatment can make it possible to eventually go off medication.
using sertraline for panic attacks and agoraphobia. gained 30lbs. is there another medication for panic disorder that doesn't cause weight gain?
lexapro (escitalopram) is often more weight neutral. talk with your prescribing physician about the best option for you.
does buspar (buspirone) cause weight gain? i hear most antidepressants are weight neutral but i've gained with most! thanks - agoraphobia/anxiety here
if buspar (buspirone) has help with your depression you could still take it. for your agoraphobia/anxiety you would be best to see a psychiatrist and/or a psychologist. agoraphobia and anxiety can be very troubling.
i have severe panic attacks agoraphobia & anxiety for 2 years. can the constant stress give me an irregular heartbeat? (i'm not on caffeine or meds)
yes chronic anxiety can cause rhythm disturbances.
i have severe panic attacks agoraphobia & anxiety for 2 years. can the constant stress give me an irregular heartbeat? (i'm not on caffeine or meds)
have you been evaluated for hyperthyroidism? high levels of stress hormones can trigger a rapid heart beat and high blood pressure. they do not necessarily cause an irregular heart beat. see you physician.
i lose my confidence to face more people specially in meetings or workshops. start shivering heart beat becomes faster blurry vision. need guidance?
these r the physical manifestations (symptoms) of agoraphobia which is the fear (phobia) of an uncontrolled environment (but u cd have glossophobia - fear of public speaking). phobias r natural responses of ur body to perceived stressors around u. guidance on overcoming this condition (often w/o meds) is best done by a psychologist psychiatrist or behavioral specialist. ttyd abt a referral & gl
in general do you prefer zoloft or lexapro (escitalopram) for gad panic agoraphobia? i of course worry about side effects - prolonged qt interval - read too much!
please do what your doc asks but consider adding a behavioral approach to address the root of the situation such as clinical hypnosis biofeedback psychotherapy. see www. asch. net for licensed providers who do clinical hypnosis and www. relaxationresponse. org for some self-help. peace and good health.
