what should i do for an open cut wound in a bike accident?
if it needs stitches -- get them. otherwise disinfect keep clean keep moistened with anantibacterial -- neosporin works well-- and keep covered if possible. do not expose to excess sun while healing. use bandaids or gauze with non-stick properties. we all have faced this. good luck.
i had gallbladder surgery last friday how long before i can remove my bandages?
since we don't know the method of closure under the band-aids it's hard to give meaningful advice. put a call into your doctor's office check their website or look more closely at your hospital discharge papers--i bet you will get an answer pretty quickly.
is there a way to relieve pain from venous ulcers?
the use of hyperbaric oxygen is not indicated in treating venous ulcers and is an expensive and inconvenient way to even consider. treating the underlying cause using multilayer compression wraps and adequate pain control with non-nsaids (no motrin or advil) are the best treatment that are cost effective and diagnoses appropriate.
i burnt myself on the deep fryer at my job on the underside of my wrist. what should i do to advoid scaring?
keep it clean apply polysporin (bacitracin and polymyxin) (avoid neosporin; it's highly allergenic) and watch for infection. it's probably best to also keep it covered with telfa a non-stick dressing especially when at work. a thin layer of polysporin (bacitracin and polymyxin) aids in healing thus helping to minimize scarring. unfortunately nothing will prevent scarring completely; this depends on your body's natural healing abilities.
i nicked my thumb while putting a metal cover on a apple cider bottle. i got a tetanus shot in an hour but want 2 know if aids/hiv could be contracte?
pobabaly not. hiv/aids needs some sort of blood/body fluid exposure.
i nicked my thumb while putting a metal cover on a apple cider bottle. i got a tetanus shot in an hour but want 2 know if aids/hiv could be contracte?
hiv transmission possible with unprotected sex with infected partner hiv positive mother can transmit to baby if did not take mediacal treatment infected sharing of needle for drug abuser very rare transmission through blood and blood products ( not in usa) you did good job to have tetanus vaccine.
if a human gets a hand cut off who can sew it back?
thumb base or the wrist are common conditions. prior trauma from a ligament injury or fracture can contribute in some cases even an injury many years ago and forgotten. other problems may be gout infection and tendonitis can present with swelling on the wrist as well. ice splinting nsaids that can be tolerated and an evaluation can help.
i have painful wounds on both calves cellulitis and lymphedema. how can i relieve the pain?
it is important that you get prompt treatment for cellulitis with antibiotics which is a common complication of lymphedema. also compression helps control lymphedema as it gives some relief. if there are no heart liver or kidney problems nsaids like ibuprofen or naprosyn (naproxen) give some relief. thorough medical evaluation that includes an ultrasound and management plan for lymphedema is a must.
is it possible to get aids from an open cut in a person's mouth?
hiv is transmitted by blood. aids is the later condition caused by hiv.
is it possible to get aids from an open cut in a person's mouth?
aids is often transmitted through blood!
i got a scratch on my leg and it is seeping water. whatshould i do?
when there is injury to our skin inflammation occurs which means the area becomes red warm tender and with swelling. the swelling occurs under the skin layers and then can leak out of an open wound. the fluid contains water protein electrolytes and cells that give it color. this is a natural process and aids in healing. as it heals the drainage will decrease. keep it covered.
what should you do if you have a pretty small second degree burn?
the treatment of second degree burns typified by blisters is controversial in regards to opening or leaving the blisters alone. once the blisters are opened the dead skin should be removed. nearly all agree on topical antibiotics: bacitracin pint for face and silvadene (silver sulfadiazine) for body if not allergic to prevent conversion to 3rd degree. nsaids are controversial hygiene nutrition elevation are advised.
what's the best way to treat second degree burns?
the treatment of second degree burns typified by blisters is controversial in regards to opening or leaving the blisters alone. once the blisters are opened the dead skin should be removed. nearly all agree on topical antibiotics: bacitracin pint for face and silvadene (silver sulfadiazine) for body if not allergic to prevent conversion to 3rd degree. nsaids are controversial hygiene nutrition elevation are advised.
i got a tetanus shot one week ago and my arm is still very sore. is this normal and what can i do to help the soreness?
local reaction to vaccination. warm compress will help to resolve. nsaids (aspirin aleve (naproxen) advil ibuprofen) may help.
what are the chances of getting aids from fingering with a cut on hand? is the cut on the hand super dangerous?
it would be the same for any cut on any part of the body. the risk increases with the amount of blood and how deep the blood is exposed into the wound. on average the risk of hiv being transmitted to a person from exposure of blood from an hiv positive person to an open wound or cut is estimated at 0. 03%.
how to keep a finger tip that was cauterized chemically clean and healing properly?
couple choices: there are special bandaids made for fingertips. better is a non-stick dressing held in place with tubegauze which the treating doctor may have in office; it provides protection from bumps as well as keeps wound clean & dry. check with doc for this type of dressing. if u have any paramedic friends they may have this type of dressing too.
i keep buying super heavy duty water proof band aids because i'm so scared of germs but are regular band aids good enough to protect cuts?
regular band aids are fine. the band aide serves to protect the injured area that is all but it is also good for air to get to the injury for healing so don't trap the air from entering with your super band aide
i keep buying super heavy duty water proof band aids because i'm so scared of germs but are regular band aids good enough to protect cuts?
my guess is that regular is better as more air may get to cut. being scared of germs is a worry as you cannot avoid them and many are good germs. the most extreme case i have seen was a phd who put all of his mail under a sterilizing uv lamp for at least a day before opening. mans never used a door handl. only fruit he would ear was a banana he would peel himself.
what does it mean if you deep kiss someone with no aids but have open sores?
open mouth sores can have a number of causes although remember that other infectious diseases can also be transferred more easily with open lesions. not a bad idea to find out what caused the sores as conditions like herpes can be transferred with active or open lesions.
what does it mean if you deep kiss someone with no aids but have open sores?
if both of you are clean then not a problem.
what to do with a raw skin burn blister?
superficial (1st degree) burns with redness require minimal treatment with an ointment & possible nsaids (if not sensitive). partial thickness injury(2nd & 3rd degree) with blisters must be treated with topical antibiotics (bacitracin for face - silvadene (silver sulfadiazine) for body) if not allergic in order to minimize the risk of infection which may increase the amount of tissue damage. sulfamylon for ear eschars.
i got a tetanus shot on friday and it now has a large red circle that is raised. it is burning/itchy/red. also have latex allergy - bandaid maybe?
some will have a localized reaction to the vaccine that usually resolves within 48 -72 hrs. some bandaids also have latex although i always sought to keep latex free on hand for my patients. the latex rash would more likely be the shape of the bandaid. if the nurse/doc used latex gloves while preparing/giving the shot you may it may have triggered a reaction.
hi i cut my thumb really deep and it has not stop bleeding(a lot) for the last twenty minutes. should i go to the er or is there a home remedy?
but how and when is the issue cuts respond to pressure cold application and gentle elevation confounding factors are the depth and direction and quality of the cut. for example a thick gouge vs a paper thin cut. medications. ex nsaids or blood thinners changes how blood clots. if pressure. cold and gentle elevation don't work then one has to get seen by a medical provider.
small cut on finger is still bleeding after two days. what could be wrong?
if a laceration crosses a joint it can be very hard to heal and may bleed. alternatively if you have a clotting problem (either genetic or due to medications such as nsaids) you may have some trouble clotting. most small lacerations will heal with gentle pressure and time -- if you are still bleeding you should go to the er.
hello experts i want to know can hiv survive on band aids or wet tissues. i know it's not blood on them but can other general secretions be present on them. i do not like to use wet items. can hiv live on them even if wet? or does air kill hiv
at room temperature outside the body for hours if dry (if initial concentrations are high) and for weeks if wet (in used syringes/needles). however the lower concentration of hiv in bodily fluids would only survive outside the body a few minutes if dry; the items you suggest would dry quickly. transmission of disease does not occur if no contact with open skin/cuts/mucous membranes. hope this helps
hello experts i want to know can hiv survive on band aids or wet tissues. i know it's not blood on them but can other general secretions be present on them. i do not like to use wet items. can hiv live on them even if wet? or does air kill hiv
for purposes of transmission i do not know of any transmission through environmental surfaces. though checking through the center of disease control website might give you the latest information. blood secretions vaginal secretions donor organs. are culprits. i would suggest that you be evaluated by a physician and obtain laboratory tests ruling out hiv and other possible infectious agents.
my wife had tetanus shot 8 days ago but pain and stiffness in the muscle remains unchanged. what is going to happen and what shall we do? (f 33)
typical reaction to vaccines involve a local reaction. manifests as redness and painful swelling around the site of the injection that in some cases may last for a few days. uncomplicated local reactions may be treated with cold compresses and nsaids for pain. could also be a local muscle contusion that takes time to heal. see primary doctor if pain persists despite above treatment.
my hearing is ringing after an explosion went off near me. will i be okay?
would go to your doctor and be checked to see if there was perforation of the ear drum from the explosion. they can also check your hearing. most resolve but avoid asa nsaids as that may exacerbate the situation now. sometimes steroids can help <link>
painful skin rash ears neck face back chest &arms. open wound rash constant draining. itch burns test rule out staph doctors don't know what it is help?
a skin biopsy where a physician removes a small sample of skin for testing is a rapid and convenient office procedure that aids in the diagnosis of a patient's skin condition or lesion. although usually done by a dermatologist any physician who is skilled and knowledgeable with the technique and its indications can safely perform a skin biopsy.
please tell me what can i put on an open wound on my knee?
there are advanced healing bandaids you can apply on wound and remove only once a week. if you want daily treatment you can use wound honey to wound bed or neosporin to wound bed with band aids.
staphylococos aureus fungal in groin celulitis is that infection signs of aids please give me out of this concerns?
question please write back with actual question
second degree burn on the palm of hand?
start by cooling it with gauze soaked in saline and avoid direct application of ice. clean with mild soap and water. if you have blisters avoid popping them and preserve them for your doctor to look at and possibly debride in the office. acetaminophen and nsaids like ibuprofen or naproxen help with pain. if the burn is superficial and with intact epidermis you can try bacitracin to prevent infection
what is method to reduce pain and itching? my hot tub folliculitis has turned to cellulitis and i am on oral and i. v antibiotics. thanks
would be reluctant to apply any pain relieving cream or anti-itch lotion on an area of cellulitis. tylenol (acetaminophen) or otc nsaids for pain. if ineffective possibly tylenol (acetaminophen) with codeine or hydrocodone. both narcotics. otc antihistamines for itch. benadryl but may be sedating. (ok at bedtime). zyrtec(cetirizine) is the strongest less sedating antihistamine.
a small cut less than an inch on the inside of hand reopened a few times in a couple of days. it is a little red and swollen. would covering and antibotic cream heal it?
superficial skin cuts should heal with local wound care which includes cleansing site using topical antibiotic and bandaids but a one inch cut should be cleansed and sutured. as the injury is more than a few hours old you will probably be placed on antibiotics if the wound is sutured. if there is any deeper tissue injury then you will need to see a hand surgeon.
can 2nd degree burns on the knee cause swelling in the ankles?
any traumatic injury to the lower limb whether blunt trauma or burn can elicit an increase in fluid retention at the levels of the ankle. could it be coincidental that your having fluid buildup in your ankles at the same time most definitely. your lymphatic system which aids in keeping fluid levels balanced in your legs and ankles can always be affected by a sudden injury.
can you please tell me about healing stages of a second degree burn?
superficial (1st degree) burns with redness require minimal treatment with an ointment & possible nsaids (if not sensitive). partial thickness burns (2nd & 3rd degree) with blisters must be treated with topical antibiotics (bacitracin for face - silvadene (silver sulfadiazine) for body) if not allergic in order to minimize the risk of infection which may increase the amount of tissue damage. sulfamylon for ear eschars.
cut side of finger on top knckle 1wk ago. itchy & raised like liquid is under it. can't bend finger fully. tiny amnt clear dischrge no pain. normal?
over a joint can be serious. liquid can be from bacteria or a raction ot a foreign body or can be joint fluid or may just be normal "ooze" from a wound that is open. so its not normal as it is cut and oozing. sounds like it would help to get it looked at to make sure its not something that needs further attention. clean bandaids clean skin and a splint can help but get seen too.
cut thumb & got stitches while back. stitches out. site is pink/bed. now & then clear liquid leaks out if i break it open accidentally. no puss?
when there is injury to our skin inflammation occurs which means the area becomes red warm tender and with swelling. the swelling occurs under the skin layers and then can leak out of an open wound. the fluid contains water protein electrolytes and cells that give it color. this is a natural process and aids in healing. as it heals the drainage will decrease. keep it covered.
can you tell me if i got bloodinfected with hiv in my open wound on my hand how fast would i have to cut off my hand to avoid getting aids?
consider cutting off your hand. that would not be an effective or safe way to address possible hiv infection. if you believe you have been exposed to blood infected with hiv see a physician within 72 hours for interventions that can prevent infection.
can you tell me if i got aids blood in my open wound on my hand how fast would i have to cut off my hand to avoid getting aids?
hand would never be the solution. it sounds like that scenario is a scary one for you. i encourage you to google aid's and hiv transmission. take your time and learn more about this. take care.
can you tell me if i got aids blood in my open wound on my hand how fast would i have to cut off my hand to avoid getting aids?
after any high risk exposure including the one you describe doctors can put you on treatment that can prevent infection. treatment must be started urgently but is effective if started within 72 hours of exposure.
does a second degree burn be washed daily?
the treatment of second degree burns typified by blisters is controversial in regards to opening or leaving the blisters alone. once the blisters are opened the dead skin should be removed. nearly all agree on topical antibiotics: bacitracin oint for face and silvadene (silver sulfadiazine) for body if not allergic to prevent conversion to 3rd degree. nsaids are controversial hygiene nutrition elevation are advised.
a friend touched his feet blisters&put band aids on them. after that he helped carrying my suitcase. can i get diseases/infect. if i touched the handle?
assuming these are blisters caused by friction they do not carry any disease and there is nothing you can catch.
are there concerns when shaking hands with someone who has scabs or bandaids on their hands? i was introduced to someone who had cuts/bandaids on hand
we all have daily contact with other persons' hands -- shaking hands exchanging money etc. many of them have sores scabs etc on the hands and mostly you don't know about it. even without sores such contact can spread germs like cold viruses and bacteria like staph or strep probably no greater risk from this person than anyone else. this is why frequent hand washing is a good health habit.
as a teacher i deal with band aids blood and boogers. kids aren't afraid of touching gross things-then me. is there a chance of disease/concerns?
and have the children wash theirs. wear gloves when appropriate i. e. when dealing with body fluids. keep hand sanitizer available and instruct children in its use to avoid spread of viruses. as a teacher you will probably get a lot of colds the first year then be immune thereafter. be sure to get your flu shot.
does staphylococus bacteria jock itch(fungus) celulitis are signs of hiv or aids please answer my curiousity.
immunodeficiency can lead to unusual infections and possible fungus infections but skin infections described are not specific to hiv. aids is a "syndrome". which is defined by severe opportunistic infections beyond what you've described.
feeling muscle weakness and mild pain throughout body two days after tetanus shot. is it a side effect?
sometimes the tetanus vaccine can cause mild side effects which may include soreness redness or swelling at the site of the injection fever headache or body aches and fatigue. these can be managed using nsaids and should resolve in a day or two. hope you feel better soon.
what is the difference between type 1 and type 2 diabetes?
type 1 diabetes is a disorder in which the body does not produce insulin (a hormone that aids in moving sugar from the blood to the cells). this type of diabetes can be due to a virus or autoimmune disorder in which the body does not recognize an organ as its own and attacks it. type 2 diabetes occurs when insulin that the body produces is less efficient at moving sugar out of the bloodstream.
i am obese had baristruc surgery. just found out i have a slightly large heart and ^ liver enzymes. i hurt my knee can i take an aleve (naproxen) w/said issues?
what type of bariatric surgery did you have? gastric bypass? lap band? sleeve gastrectomy? the biggest concern is taking nsaids after a gastric bypass because it can cause you to form ulcers in your gastric pouch. if you do take nsaids you should take a proton pump inhibitor like prevacid (lansoprazole) prilosec etc.
i am obese had baristruc surgery. just found out i have a slightly large heart and ^ liver enzymes. i hurt my knee can i take an aleve (naproxen) w/said issues?
this is a question you should ask of your bariatric surgeon but i am pretty sure you are not supposed to take any nsaids following weight loss surgery. it depends on what sort of surgery you had though so check in with your doctor. in the meantime rest and use ice on your knee. consider getting some acupuncture for it.
what’s the major cause of death in africa. starvation or aids?
closely followed by death. both are trending downwards though.
what pain medicines can a person who had bariatric surgery take for a tooth ache?
acetaminophen. if pain is more severe a narcotic such as oxycodone or a combination such as percocet or vicodin but these are prescriptions. nsaids such as ibuprofen can be used but there is a higher risk of stomach upset and should be taken with some food.
what pain medicines can a person who had bariatric surgery take for a tooth ache?
tylenol (acetaminophen) should be fine. it is metabolized by the liver. nsaids like aspirin and ibuprofen are metabolized by the kidneys but may irritate the stomach.
i've had a hole in my ear drum since i was a baby its now healed but i still can't hear i was ment to have a skin graft many years ago but never got around to it my only option is hearing aids but i'd like a second opinion any ideas?
a second and or third opinion is always helpfull if for nothing else to give you peace of mind on your treatment decisions. there are always new techniques or treatments sometimes implants surgery or both. you should seek the expertise of an ear nose and throat doctor(ent) or an otolaryngologist/surgeon. these doctors will likely know better than most the treatment options available. good luck.
i've had a hole in my ear drum since i was a baby its now healed but i still can't hear i was ment to have a skin graft many years ago but never got around to it my only option is hearing aids but i'd like a second opinion any ideas?
see and ent doctor who will do a hearing test and figure out if surgery will fix your problem of if you need a hearing aid or nothing.
i take sleeping pills because i can't go to sleep due to stress from work. am i going to be addicted to it?
sleep aids are at times necessary to overcome short term insomnia. however you may run into a psychological dependency once sleep aids are chronically taken. i recommend to address stress management. cognitive behavior therapy with relaxation stimulus control and other is a healthier way to overcome the insomnia.
is xanax (alprazolam) effective at treating sleep apnea?
trratment for sleep apnea are contraindicated because they all including xanax (alprazolam) tend to depress our respiratory centers and can be even more depressing and even dangerous in sleep apnea. there are other medications that a physician can use to help sleep problems safely. over the counter sleep aids when one is on prescription meds should be discussed with the prescribing physician or practitioner.
i heard that if you chew a lot you can lose weight and be healthy. is this true?
chew atleast 32 times and this helps your jaw muscles ease stress which indirectly aids in weight loss by reducing stress. chewing also increases digestive enzymes so it helps absorb nutrients better and helps stay healthy.
i'm a diabetic type 2 and i have arthritis in my lower back what meds should i be taking for my lower back i also have cad?
tylenol (acetaminophen) is by far the cheapest and least harmful option. nsaids (ibuprofen/naproxen) may be an option but are not preferred in people after acute myocardial infarction already having cad like you stomach ulcers kidney problems high blood pressure and leg swelling. muscle relaxors may be ok. even narcotics are preferred to nsaids in some cases. physical therapy/topical rubs are an option.
i'm a diabetic type 2 and i have arthritis in my lower back what meds should i be taking for my lower back i also have cad?
in order of preference - tylenol (acetaminophen) up to one gram 2-4 times a day(let your md know); then consider ultram or mild narcotic; use ibuprofen rarely on bad days - makes your bp high increases ulcer risk increases risk of mi makes aspirin less effective can injure your kidneys - routine use of nsaids can be dangerous.
i've recently developed pain in my ear and jaw joint or hinge and its a very bad shooting pain causing my head and neck to hurt what could this be?
it is a very common problem. the jaw joint (tmj joint) can become inflammed causing clicking (poping) jaw pain and even ear pain. i tell patients to start out with a warm compress soft diet and nsaids. if you grind your teeth at night that maybe the reason. if the problem continues consider an evaluation by a dentist that treats tmj (not all of them do - or like to).
is the product sensa is safe. main ingredients are maltodextrin tricalcium phosphate silica. sprinkled on food works w/senses aiding weight loss.?
the ingredients seem safe though it will not likely help with weight loss. over-the-counter weight loss aids (and prescription weight loss aids) do not lead to sustained weight loss have significant potential side-effects and have little to no clinical utility. otc suppliments are not regulated for content and not tested for safety.
is it safe to take celebrex (celecoxib) if you have gerd and hiatal hernia?
the usual rx's we use for pain are like aspirin "prostaglandin inhibitors" they block the release of prostaglandin which is also the way the stomach protects itself from the acid it produces. i know;it is a mess. all we do in medicine is a trade-off. but in the question of cox2 inhibitor like celebrex (celecoxib) vs other nsaids(non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs)probably a bit more "safe". can still > gerd.
if i am h pylori negative & i don't drink alcohol i don't smoke i don't take nsaids & i eat a balanced diet what causes are left for gastritis?
production stress poor sleep caffeine bile reflux eating too fast emotions being a worrier. . there are plenty other risk factorsd and triggers as you can see.
i take paxil (paroxetine). paxil (paroxetine) caused 30 lb weight gain. i'm deaf & it aids tinnitus. any alternative i can use? please help.
there are many ssris a class of antidepressant. depending on the reason you are taking it (used for anxiety ocd as well as depression) a good substitute with less associated weight gain can be selected. your md can review the options with you .
i take paxil (paroxetine). paxil (paroxetine) caused 30 lb weight gain. i'm deaf & it aids tinnitus. any alternative i can use? please help.
tinnitus can be very tough to treat and i have found that some medications such as paxil (paroxetine) nortriptyline and alprazolam have been proven in some to help. paxil (one in a group called ssris) can cause weight gain as side effect. talk with your provider about alternatives as above to help with your tinnitus. or if possibly another ssri (prozac zoloft (sertraline) etc) could help.
is cherry extract safe for someone who has had gastric bypass? i was told to never take anti-inflammatories.
you are right that you should avoid nsaids like advil motrin and ibuprofen. but cherry extract in moderation is probably ok.
i think i have a hiatus hernia. i hs e bad headache and need painkillers is it ok to take an nsaid?
the fact that you have a hiatal hernia shouldn't prevent you from taking nsaids. if you have ulcers caused by the hiatal hernia you shouldn't. may need an endoscopy to find out. ask your doctor.
i have knee tendon pain caused by flat feet. if i lose some weight do you think it might go away?
i am assuming you are having patella tendon based pain. weight loss will help in the long run. however in the short run frequent quadriceps and hamstring stretching will help. in addition if you can safely take a short course of nsaids for 10 to 14 days i would. also get some 3/4 length arch supports from your local pharmacy or sporting goods store. finally avoid provocative activity.
i have had an earache in my ear for a while now. it is not painful just a constant dull warm feeling. i also havestiffness in my neck and shoulder. what could it be?
neck stiffness can be associated with ear infection. why don't you check it out? otherwise take analgesic or nsaids.
i had the gastric bypass 2007 and i have a anastomotic ulcer. i'm taking raniidine 150 and sucralfate 1 mg 3x/day. suggestions?
if you smoke or take a lot of medication such as ibuprofen (nsaids) then stop those things too. make sure to stay in touch with your surgeon as well.
if you're on a diet and trying to significantly limit food could using mouth wash a few times a day work?
mastication or the chewing of food acts as an abrasive to remove plaque. antimicrobial mouth wash like listerine can help but nothing replaces the use of interdental aids like floss tooth picks interdental brushes and a good soft toothbrush to keep teeth plaque free.
i've started snoring when sleeping lately. what should i do to stop this?
you can optimize your nose with allergies and attempt over the counter aids such as snore sprays breathright strips or oral appliances. after that see your ent for other options.
i'm wondering why are complex carbs okay to eat when dieting?
fiber aids in elimination and detoxification. enzymes help with digestion and absorption of protein. vitamins and minerals support vital metabolic functions and the manufacture of hormones and neurotransmitters. antioxidants reduce inflammation. and most importantly complex carbs reduce after-meal spikes in blood sugar and triglycerides-the true dietary meaning of life.
is it bad for my healthto smoke weed 7 months after having a gastric bypass surgery?
cannabis sativa indica or ruberalis? sativa extract increases hunger and is used pharmacologically to treat the wasting syndrome associated with hiv/aids. the others induce euphoria but do not stimulate hunger at least according to wikipedia. the underlying reason you needed gastric bypass is likely due to insulin resistance better to treat that first. exercise regularly and avoid simple carbs.
when can i spot weight loss in aids? is it in the initial stage or after many years?
acute hiv disease is an acute inflammatory process in which cytokines (chemicals released from one cell which influence other cells) may alter perception of hunger resulting in decreases intake and weight loss. the most common would be aids wasting syndrome which occurs in late stages of the disease when the immune system has been damaged and may be increased by some anti-hiv medications.
i have obesity from nsaids what can be done to shed my weight?
nsaids are know to possibly cause fluid retention. this may be a cause of some weight gain. if there is significant weight gain you should discontinue and see a doctor.
i'm 18 with chronic anxiety bad sleep apnea and always struggled getting sleep my grandma got dementia at 55. am i going to get dementia?
insomnia alone is not causal of dementia but long term use of hypnotics is. ask a doctor to find non-hypnotic sleep aids for you. also rbd (rapid eye movement behavior disorder) in men is very associated with lewy body dementia. it's not insomnia rather powerful dreaming and not likely what your grandma suffered. so get help with the anxiety & apnea avoid hypnotics and try to rest easy!
what causes renal failure at 60 in obese person?
there are many causes of renal disease in people. high blood pressure and diabetes are the most common causes although obesity can be linked to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. medications can also cause renal failure (nsaids like ibuprofen/advil and several other meds). it is best evaluated by a nephrologist.
i have a hiatal hernia that flared real bad burning pain between shoulders and feels like my esophagus is on fire vomiting yesterday is this normal?
you could have a perforation or an ulcer especially with severe pain in the back and the fact that you're on nsaids for back pain. see a gastroenterologist for work up and treatment. you may need upper endoscopy if this persists.
im 17 1/2 weeks pregnant my bmi is 35 can i use 'slimfast' products for food replacements during my pregnancy?
recommend slimfast for anyone and don't like any pregnant patient to be taking any additives supplements diet aids etc. unless they have been cleared with their physician. why take any chances when you're pregnant?
what can i do about an ulcer i develped after having gastric bypass?
start by eliminating any irritants such as tobacco nsaids or alcohol. typically ulcers at the anastomosis can be treated with medication such as a proton pump inhibitor(ie prilosec or protonix) and carafate (sucralfate). 6-8 weeks of treatment should allow the ulcer to resolve. if not may need to revise the anastomosis to improve blood flow or reduce tension or provide healthier tissue.
why is lactalose used in chronic liver disease?
generally used to treat condition known as hepatic encephalopathy. there is ammonia build-up in the system due to malfunctioning liver. the encephalopathy is associated with mental confusion tremor disorientation drowsiness which can progress to coma. lactulose aids in lowering the ammonia level and thus prevent progressive encephalopathy.
whats the signs of withdrawl of norcotics period like how can u tell someone is going threw it? wat can b done? adult wise. n is weight loss involed?
some signs of withdrawal are: - body aches - shaking - nausea/vomiting - insomnia - diarrhea getting over withdrawal there is a decrease in the intensity of their signs and symptoms. to get over the symptoms nsaids like ibuprofen/motrin can help with body aches benadryl (diphenhydramine) can help with insomnea and nausea. immodium helps diarrhea. your dr. also help. hospitalization sometimes is needed.
what are your opinions on green coffee bean extract and raspberry ketones for weight loss?
weight loss aids are few and far between. a healthy diet (calories in) and exercise (calories out) are the best means of weight control. our history is littered with thousands of "remedies" that have no scientific basis or factual success. best of luck!
is phentermine good for weightloss? why am i never hungry and what are the side effects?
still the best way to lose weight is diet on your own and exercise. sometimes we give aids like phentermine which is an "upper". it suppresses your appetite but it can make you anxious jittery and sometimes can interfere with sleep. after some time it can lose its effect so a holiday is needed.
i'm type 2 diabetes have heart disease and obesity. 2 weeks ago i slipped on a wet timber floor without wearing shoes. the toe next to my big toe has has been swollen painful burning since. xray ok?
a foot doctor. i would make sure you are wearing a surgical shoe. mae sure no opening in the skin. nsaids if allowed medically and serial xrays to examine for stress fracture. must be on guard for infection due to diabetic history.
i'm type 2 diabetes have heart disease and obesity. 2 weeks ago i slipped on a wet timber floor without wearing shoes. the toe next to my big toe has has been swollen painful burning since. xray ok?
or sprained. soaking ur foot in warm water with epsom salt and taking nsaids/ibuprofen may alleviate the swelling. follow up with ur dr if it gets worse. take care! <link>
is it safe if i take plan b and still take weight loss pills at the same time will plan b still work?
but weight loss pills may be a waste of money particularly if they're otc. can also have adverse effects. finally plan b does not protect against std and aids infections. try protected sex instead.
i had a endoscopy revealed chronic antral gastritis can you explain this diagnosis what is a good diet plan. as i have constant dull pain.
antral gastritis is a non-specific diagnosis; it may be caused by h. pylori nsaids acid sensitivity bile reflux; further there is no certainty that your symptoms are caused by the gastritis; gastritis is often asymptomatic; you could have non-ulcer dyspepsia;
want to start thermo cla but period didon't start today i don't want to take it if im pregnant if i test nd it says negative can i trust it?
this class of meds known as nsaids(motrin advil aleve ibuprofen) have ling documented side effects on the stomach including: " heartburn" or gastric reflux nausea diarrhea and even poetic bleeding ulcers. some people are very sensitive to one many or all of these meds. try tylenol (acetaminophen)!
im having weight loss surgery they say i cannot take ibuprofen by mouth i have arthritis hurt lot do they have shot of ibuprofen i can do for pain?
ibuprofen is one if several very good nsaids that work in similar ways to control inflammation and pain. non oral forms of ketorolac by injection or nasal spray are available and topical gels or patches of diclofenac are also available. i am not aware of injectable ibuprofen but iv acetaminophen is very helpful in hospital settings although it is not a nsaid
im having weight loss surgery they say i cannot take ibuprofen by mouth i have arthritis hurt lot do they have shot of ibuprofen i can do for pain?
there is a prescription nsaid topical gel called voltaren (diclofenac) gel that you can try - it's very effective. some pharmacies compound creams as well to include muscle relaxers nsaids lidocaine etc. ask your doctor for one of these.
which excercise aids faster weight lose?
cardio ; weight training.
which excercise aids faster weight lose?
the moat convient high caloric burn exercise is probally jumping rope. running cross county skiing an swimming are also good. if you real want to lose weight diet is more imoprtant.
i fell down on my side my weight is 125 kg now i cant move my right arm and my chest hurt my i arm is blue and orange drs say no breaks what to do pls
with a limited history and no pe - sounds like muskuloskeletal pain - if treated with nsaids would afford some relief. as long as you do not have any c/i for nsaids.
i've had a roux-en-y gastric bypass and i've been told to avoid ibuprofen products can i take naprosyn (naproxen)?
like compound known as nsaids (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug). it's also known as aleve (naproxen) too otc. this class produces gastritis or stomach lining irritation and worse without food. so this is why when you are getting gastric bypass surgery and have little space hold food in the nsaids can wreak havoc on your stomach's lining and cause you pain and distress.
i've had a roux-en-y gastric bypass and i've been told to avoid ibuprofen products can i take naprosyn (naproxen)?
naprosyn is in the same class of medicines as ibuprofen called nsaids. you should avoid other over the counter(otc)products which are also of the same class: aleve (naproxen) advil motrin. you should also avoid aspirin and many otc products that contain aspirin: ecotrin excedrin. check labels. you can use tylenol(acetaminophen) when in doubt check with your physician.
i have obstructive sleep apnea and now i have flu is this dangerous and should i see my doctor.
is very common viral infection. usually the condition resolves on its own with home care. drink water and get a good rest. nsaids (e. g. aleve advil) or tylenol (acetaminophen) are also recommended every 6 hours. an untreated obstructive sleep apnea (osa) can have a significant impact on your personal health. if concerned see your pcp for examination.
i've been trying to lose weight for about a year now and nothing seems to work no matter how much i diet and excersise is hydroxycut safe now?
while hydroxycut may be safe now most of the over the counter diet aids are a waste of your money. if you are putting in consistent effort and not getting results two options might be more helpful than diet pills. first is to have some visits with a nutritionist to figure out more exactly what and how much you should be eating and maybe a trainer. also check with your doc about thyroid.
what to do if i lifted too much weight and now my arms are in a lot of pain. what can i do to help?
if nsaids are not helpful you've exhausted most otc meds. tylenol (acetaminophen) is an option but if that does not help please see your doctor for other options. also physical therapy can be helpful otherwise a spine specialist evaluations may be needed.
my jaw is crackling for a year but recently sometimes it won't open fully like it's jammed and causes some pain in my ear what can i do?
sounds like tmj. with the locking of the jaw it should be evaluated. several specialties work on the joint but i would seek help from someone that advertised for it like a neuromuscular dentistry office. meantime use nsaids soft diet heat no gum avoid clenching and grinding. if you do grind try a bite guard at night.
my mother has diabetes type 2 for 5 years. she is 61 years old. her measured avarage diabetes values are 160. why does she have foot pain by night?
cause of pain may include tight shoes sprain bursitis fracture contusion neuritis but of course there are a multitude of other possibilities. thing that may help minimize your pain include: wearing shoes with a wider toe box padding or stapping oral nsaids. get the feet inspected by a professional to determine the cause of the problem as treatment varies depending on the diagnosis.
male 32 age bmi 21. 9 waist-to-height ratio is 0. 49 as pant size 33inches height 68 inches walk 2 miles daily runner knee for 1 year cure for it?
there are a few causes of runner's knee. the most common involves the front of the knee and is caused by damage to the cartilage lining the patella (patellofemoral pain syndrome). another occurs on the lateral side from irritation of the iliotibial band. treatment for both involve rest nsaids activity modification and physical therapy. if left untreated both can become chronic problems.
so my last encounter was 3 months ago. since then i've experienced the following symptoms: weight loss chronic diarrhea oral thrush fatigue. advice?
hiv acquisition to aids is not 3 months but 5-10 years. despite this get checked.
what is the best option for headache mgmnt when you can't take nsaids and tramadol nor fioricet (acetaminophen butalbital and caffeine) work? i'm a gastric sleeve patient.
get specific diagnosis of what type of ha you have and medical alternatives. . these may be migraines or cluster ha and need a totally different class of meds
what are some of the risk factors for getting metabolic syndrome?
alcohol consumption antipsychotics ethnic groups lipodystrophy obesity polycystic ovary syndrome steroids smoking metabolic syndrome hiv/aids.
joint aches all over esp left elbow left shoulder knees ankles neck and back. is it a lack of exercise or something else? is it serious? pls help!
your complaints are unfortunately vague and could represent many possibilities such as a rheumatologic condition or a viral syndrome. if you just started having these symptoms then it would be reasonable to watch it for a few days take nsaids drink plenty of fluids and be as active as tolerated.
nausea upper abd pain x4months. eat well not overweight no nsaids. priloec didn't help. egd showed inflammation. waiting biopsies. have lupus. biopsy why?
a biopsy is done to make certain there is no tumor or other side effect. lupus would be unusual because of your symptoms and findings. we need to know more about your medications and your general medical health.
recurrent intertrigo or fungi indicates u have aids or vih? or are they different things
fungal infections do well under certain conditions- for one they love moisture! just think of mushrooms growing on a wet log! a big part of fighting fungus is changing the environment for them so they can't grow. sure other diseases can help fungal infections such as diabetes and immunosuppressed conditions but many normal folks have it to. try foot powder/environmental changes to wipe out fungi.
can drinking 2-3 cups of hot decaf flavor tea everyday b harmful is it true it slows down metabolism? digestion? can it help in weight loss?
flavored tea can contain sugar or artificial colors & sweeteners that can be harmful. green tea (brewed not instant) contains powerful antioxidants including epigallocatechin gallate (egcg) which increases fat burning. antioxidants also support the immune system. ginger tea an herbal tea aids digestion. many of the herbal teas have other beneficial effects such as being calming & soothing.
how common are side effects (weight gain/loss trouble digesting etc) after gallbladder removal?
many people complain of weight changes after (or even before) gallbladder surgery. the gallbladder has no metabolically active role in the body. it merely aids in digestion. typical reasons for weight gain after gallbladder surgery deal with increased caloric intake. if patients feel better they can eat more hence may gain weight. simply calories in versus calories burned.
how does the vaser liposuction work?
vaser liposuction works by generating heat and ultrasonic energy to melt fat and destroy fibers. it also allows for some heating of the skin which aids in contracture.
how many years after someone gets aids do they usually start to lose weight?
before effective treatment children would go several months to a few years before the weight loss began while adults typically would have 6-10 years after infection before weight loss appeared. it's variable and today with reliable treatment most people with hiv can be kept from this.
how to reduce insomnia while taking sibutramine?
is a diet pill that can interfere with sleep due to its stimulant effect & also effect on blood pressure. if remedies such as sleep hygiene or sleep aids are not effective consult your doctor for other options.
how can i reduce ringing in my ear?
dear sir / madam you have tinnitus. this starts in the ears but continues because of the brain. you need a hearing test. stress reduction including prayer can be helpful. avoid loud noise. you may need hearing aids. use white noise or music to mask the tinnitus.
can you be addicted to coffee?
yes you can become addicted to the caffeine in coffee. one of the hallmark symptoms of caffeine withdrawal is a migraine-like headache that responds well to nsaids and/or caffeine. however a modest amount of coffee is considered safe for most people and is a part of culture in the usa.
hi trying to lose weight. but with office and other freelancing projects i hardly have any time for working out. so is there an appetit suppressant?
you have to take the time to see your doctor for a prescription or to try one of many otc supplements/diet aids/appetite suppressants out there. most of the otc ones contain various stimulants that can increase blood pressure or risk of heart palpitations (if you are prone to develop them) so i'd start with a general physical exam and advice from your physician. good luck but exercise some!
which medications are safe to take before mastectomy surgery?
this is best covered at your anesthesia preop interview. usually pain meds are ok except for nsaids like ibuprofen. antacids are good though do not eat tums (calcium carbonate) while fasting as this counts as food. bp meds generally ok especially beta blockers like metoprolol. long-acting insulin held or reduced short-acting held. it really should be spelled out for you exactly before your surgery.
why do i have man boobs even though i'm not fat?
there are many causes for this. some of these are serious conditions that need to be evaluated and treated accordingly. these causes include: malnutrition alcoholism liver problems drugs (legal and illegal) side effects (spironolactone aids meds marijuana amphetamines ) prolactin overproduction low testosterone kidney failure thyroid problems.
can eating too much omega 3 foods cause thinning blood?
unless you eats pounds of fatty fish seal blubber a day it is unlikely. walnuts purslaine flax etc. are non marine sources of omega 3 fatty acids but not well activated in the body. omega 3s can interact with other meds like aspirin couimadin plavix nsaids like ibuprofen high dose vitamin e etc. to increase bruising and bleeding.
can having weight loss surgery make my migraines get any worse?
generally i am not aware of migraines being related to the obesity or that they improve or worsen after bariatric surgery. you need to know that after the gastric bypass you need to stay away from nsaids such as motrin ibuprofen alleve naprosyn (naproxen). discuss the medications you use for migraine headaches with your pmd neurologist andvd bariatric surgeon to make sure all are on the same page.
how much weight will i lose on senna (not as a diet pill for constipation)?
it only helps if you take the sign that you feel full and eat less calories. if you take three large milkshakes each day because you are stressed you will still gain weight. like all diet aids it is only an "aid" you need to make an effort to eat less and walk exercise more. in this way it can help by making you feel full so that you will hopefully be able to eat less more healthy food.
can i still take hydroxycut eventhough i was prescrived to take antiviotics for a vaginal infection?
in general it is best to suspend herbal supplements and weight loss aids until completion of any antibiotic regimen.
can weight loss supplements affect a womens menstrual cycle?
there are many potentially hazardous weight loss supplements that can disturb hormones. i personally advise avoiding all supplements - as they are a crutch. i know how hard it is to lose weight (100lbs to date). focus on habits you can do the rest of your life - rather than temporary band aids. medication is not always the answer but exercise is 100% proven and safe without side effects.
will a thigh high compression garment help with lymphedema?
unfortunately nothing cures lymphedema. the best we can do is help to keep the swelling under better control. one of the best ways we have of doing that is with thigh high compression garments. lymphedema drainage/massage is beneficial as is weight control exercise and using non-elastic compression garments like circaids. a good source of information is <link> good luck!
can u take zyrtec (cetirizine) and quick trim extreme burn? looking for a good diet pill but i take zyrtec (cetirizine) for allergies
most diet aids do not interefere with antihistamines. i would caution against using zyrtec (cetirizine) -d or any decongestant and a diet supplement.
what can be done for sore breast and breast lumps?
assuming no other symptoms what you describe could be fibrocyctic breasts. a common issue amoung women. they are not malignant. adequate breast support and wearing a bra at night may provide relief of symptoms. antiinflammatory medications including acetaminophen and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory medications (nsaids) also help. vit c e b and primrose oil may help although not well studied.
does fiber help to lose weight?
fiber helps with feeling full so aids but is not effective by itself.
does eating processed food lead to weight gain?
processed foods cause a peak insulin level which aids in storing the food as glycogen and fat. eating more vegetables which are high in bulk and low in calories are less likely to lead to weight gain and more likely to make you feel full and satisfied. - especially because of the nutrients you may be getting that are not in the processed foods.
what is fibrocystic breast disease and what does it do?
fibrocystic changes are a spectrum of pathologic findings seen on biopsy. this has morphed into a clinical term for "lumpy-bumpy" breast tissue and/or dense tissue seen on mammography. this is not a disease just a variant of normal. this requires no treatment just reassurance. if it is associated w/pain caffeine avoidance vitamin e primrose oil and nsaids have been used w/marginal success.
what is fibrocystic breast disease and how is it treated?
most women's breasts are "lumpy-bumpy" and often hurt just before/during one's menstrual cycle. when this "flies above the radar" we give it fancy names like "mastalgia" and "fibrocystic changes". some women respond to caffeine avoidance vitamin e oil of primrose or even occasional nsaids. please discuss your concerns with your gynecologist--they should be able to reassure you not to worry.
can you please explain why caffeine intake is of concern with weight-loss diets?
its not that caffeine is bad for wt loss. caffeine will curb your appetite a bit it is in many otc wt loss aids and it can incr energy. but as a stimulant it can also incr blood press and heart rate. can cause irregul rythms and nausea when taken in excess. these symp will arise after around 400 mg or 2 strong cups of java but that is variable. too much of anything can be a bad thing.
what is the symptoms for breast cancer as my wife complain from pain in breast and feel that they are heavy?
breast pain can be caused by different things like infection inflammation hormonal food fibrocystic disease malignancy etc. although breast pain is not a common presentation for breast cancer but it can happen. go to see her gyne or pmd and have her breast examined. mammogram and sono would be helpful to eval the breast. cut down coffee/caffeinated drink. nsaids and cold compress can help.
can a benzo cause sleep apnea and should a benzo be stopped if you develope sleep apnea?
hello. benzo's are sleep aids that may not only become addictive but also can suppress respiratory function. review their usage with your sleep specialist. other options exist for possible insomnia.
does oxaprozin contain oxycodone?
oxaprozin is an anti-inflammatory agent kinda like nsaids. it is not a narcotic like oxycodone
are acai berry supplements effective for appetite suppression and weight loss?
acai berry diet pill works in the sense that the antioxidants and minerals found in the acai berry diet pills add fuel to muscle with fatty acids and aids in weight loss with its high content of fiber. just like fiber supplements the acai berry also makes you feel fuller and help in expelling waste and toxins. when toxins are released the body can function properly or in a sense run more effici.
which incision site is less painful when getting a breast augmentation?
my patients seldom complain of the skin incision for breast augmentation as a source of pain or concern. the pain from breast augmentation is commonly due to the fact that a sub muscular pocket is created or the increase in tissue pressure due to a larger volume from the implant. this can be controlled by pain medication nsaids & muscle relaxants usually or pain pumps in some.
dietician recommended krill oil as a substitute for nsaids. is this sound?
i assume from your handle that you are taking the nsaids for arthritis. i found two small studies in the journal of the american college of nutrition to support the claim that krill oil reduces arthritic symptoms. not solid evidence but worth a try if you can't tolerate nsaids. the majority of the benefit was in 7-14 days so you should know quickly whether it is working and want to continue.
dietician recommended krill oil as a substitute for nsaids. is this sound?
krill oil from a species of krill. two of the most important nutrients in krill oil are omega-3 fatty acids similar to fish oil and phospholipid-derived fatty acids (plfa) mainly phosphatidylcholine. also antioxidant experimental egg products with krill oil likely contain astaxanthin a natural antioxidant. nobody knows what the clinical benefits are but it will be expensive.
had roux en y(sp? ) in 2001 i later found out w/ gastric bypass ibuprofen shouldn't be taken. why? & any other things 2 be avoided? im on a lot of meds
ibuprofen and other nsaids cause ulcers ( marginal ulcers) at your gastric pouch connection site and it can bleed cause pain or even rupture in that area so avoid them or use in low dose mixed with food and only with with ppi( nexium (esomeprazole) etc) however you must get permission from your surgeon before doing so another dangerous thing to avoid is smoking it will do the same harm.
does the lapband make you feel full faster? i read that it does and is the safest of the 3 i'm trying to see based on my health which is better for me
restricting the size of your stomach one goal. decreasing the length of your bowel is another. both are aids in weight loss and have a risk/benefit analysis that will impact how you decide with your health care team what is right for you. some people with obesity can lose weight with diet and exercise alone which will continue with each aid that you add to diet and exercise. good luck be well.
are nsaids ever safe after gastric bypass?
weight loss surgery is discouraged. acetaminophen is ok the rest carry the risk of causing ulcers in the stomach. topic compounded medications may be a solution to acute localized pain.
are nsaids ever safe after gastric bypass?
yes and no. taking nsaids once in a while is usually okay. taking the maximum dose every day for a week or two straight is not okay and puts you at risk of developing an ulcer and even perforation (which i have seen a few times). also if you do take an nsaid for a few days you should also take an antacid like prilosec/prevacid/protonix/nexium/dexilant to protect your pouch.
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
if not already done it is worthwhile to check with your doctor and medicaid formulary for the popula drug imitrex (sumatriptan) as an alternative in the meantime while trying otc pain relief. you should also learn to recognize and avoid the triggers for your migraine headaches.
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
primrose oil otc for fibrocystic breasts and supportive bras ice packs. tylenol extra strength 650mg for headache rest ice pack massage. deep breathing relaxation biofeedback techniques. loperimide (immodium) for diarrhea. miralax (polyethylene glycol) for constipation. benadryl for sleep
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
you could take tylenol (acetaminophen) which is one of the ingredients in midrin. this usually helps a little but not always. most of the otc medications effective for migraine contain caffeine so you need to read labels very carefully.
bi-polar aspergers. huge weight gain last 6 months. taken of sleeping aids. therapist/nuitritionist suggest k2 & calm for sleep.
before running down the sleep supplement route when on medication is it always wise to talk to the prescribing psychiatrist - some supplements can be problematic depending on your meds - and too many cooks spoil the broth. some psychiatric meds can cause weight gain - this should all be reviewed medically.
bi-polar aspergers. huge weight gain last 6 months. taken of sleeping aids. therapist/nuitritionist suggest k2 & calm for sleep.
hugh weight gain from certain psychometric drugs too many calories too little activity. a tough problem to treat that may go behond otc products.
hiv negative via elisa and rna 20 years after any possible exposure but having symptoms of late stage hiv. weight loss and fatigue and low testostero?
the tests for hiv are among the most accurate diagnostic tests ever developed for any medical condition. therefore test results always overrule symptoms exposure history or anything else. and of course weight loss fatigue etc are common to innumerable medical conditions besides hiv/aids (and hiv doesn't cause low testoserone). your test results prove hiv is not the cause of these problems.
sleep aids and stage iv breast cancer can they affect each other?
usually not. if you have stage iv breast cancer and can't sleep then it ok to take sleep aid to help you sleep and rest. just touch base with your cancer doc. he or she can help you rest better. good luck to you.
am 295lbs. considering gastric sleeve so i can still take nsaids. i have gerd and hiatal hernia. anything i should consider re: this procedure?
gerd can worsen after a sleeve hiatal hernia must be repaired to decrease those chances bypass is a considered better operation in patients with gerd issues however one can not routinely use nsaids after that and definitely no smoking. obviously this decision needs lot of thinking and consideration of long term complications as well. plz talk to your surgeon for further details.
causes of weight loss despite eating like pig (fast food mini muffins sugared bevs)? normal cbc. low-end salivary cortisol. other sx are fatigue sleep issues and excessive urination. more likely adrenal failure or cancer and what kind?
29 male losing wt despite eating like a pig & peeling a lot. notes more likely adrenal failure or ca and what kind? neither would be my first guess because u like to do self diagnosis 1st recommendation is to taste your urine to see if it is sweet. if so u have have diabetes. u may prefer to check blood glucose. consider: diarrhea malabsorb thyrotoxic hivaids tbc addison's very rare.
does alli work well for weight loss? can i also use other weight loss products like green coffee/tea extract with alli? thank you!
yes alli helps with weight loss as long as you have about 25 grams of fat. too much fat and you get diarrhea. yes you can do other aids such as green coffee bean as these work differently. remember to increase exercise and manage diet with portion control as that is the best way to get it off and keep it off.
being overweight and experiencing right knee pain after walking too much for 5days and numbness while resting(same joint) should we see a doctor?
yes. numbness usually reflects nerve injury may be meniscal injury or stress fracture ( though that should hurt more w/walking) or sciatica which can refer to the knee. have they tried aleve/ibuprofen if they can take nsaids? that and ice on the low back 10 minutes on 50 minute off 3-4 x a day may help. go to er if bowel or bladder issue/numbness) f/u w/ doc or orthopedist this week
being overweight and experiencing right knee pain after walking too much for 5days and numbness while resting(same joint) should we see a doctor?
there is a good probability that the knee symptoms will improve with rest applications of cold alternating with warm compresses and if the patient can take them nsaids like ibuprofen help relieve inflammation. however if the knee is swollen very tender discolored or if the symptoms don't show gradual improvement then an orthopedic surgeon should evaluate the patient.
gastritis dx 1 month ago - due to ingestion of extreme hot sauce. strict 1200 calorie diet but binged friday (4k calories+! ) - belching returned + left side pain/cramping. should i be worried?
your stomach is reacting to your indiscretion. if you don't continue to abuse it you will not suffer. stick to a bland diet with small meals and your stomach will not be hurting. a plant-based whole food diet will result in the least health problems in the future. right now you may get relief with some tums (calcium carbonate) or rolaids; which are over the counter antacids.
is there a cure for lymphedema?
although not curable it is controllable as drs. rosen and korona said. the mainstay is decongestive therapy. this includes elastic compression stockings non-elastic circ-aids garments sequential compression devices lymphatic drainage/massage diet and exercise. going to a lymphedema clinic is helpful if you have one close. a great source of info is www. lymphnet. org.
is there anything recommended for life long lymphedema in the legs?
as you said lymphedema is life long. although not curable it is controllable. as drs. berg and bolhack said the mainstay is decongestive therapy. this includes elastic compression stockings non-elastic circ-aids garments sequential compression devices lymphatic drainage/massage diet and exercise. a great source of info is www. lymphnet. org.
in your experience are silicone nipple pads or bandaids thick enough to prevent "headlights"?
i do not have personal experience. many bras have extra padding in the nipple area to prevent the nipples from showing through clothing. i recommend you go to a specialty bra store and get fitted for the proper fitting bra. you should be fitted for a bra every 1-2 years. a good fitting bra with help from a certified fitter will solve your problems.
in your experience are silicone nipple pads or bandaids thick enough to prevent "headlights"?
most bra stores have nipple pads / stickies that can reduce the appearance of "headlights".
i have fibrocystic disease and at times my breasts really hurt during mammogram. does stopping caffeine help?
caffeinated beverages ( coffeee soda etc) have been shown to have significant correlation with breast tenderness in the case of fibrocyctic disease of the breast. stopping your caffeine intake may help reduce/relive the breast pain in general. in addition you may want to take nsaids for pain relief and also can try cold compress.
how can i stop breast tenderness if i don't breastfeed?
pumping may relieve some of the pressure. additionally use of nsaids like motrin may help with the discomfort. of course there is always the concern that the more you pump the more you make. consult with your ob/gyn about long term treatment options.
how is lymphedema treated in women?
whether male or female treatment is the same. the mainstay is decongestive therapy as dr. brown said. this includes elastic compression stockings non-elastic circ-aids garments sequential compression devices lymphatic drainage/massage diet and exercise. a great source of info is lymphnet. org as dr. wagner said.
i have been having deep pain around my breasts & under my arms. i can't get into my obgyn until end of october. what do i do?
both sides and both breasts and arms without mention of skin findings makes infection and things like cancer unlikely. i wonder if there is some muscular skeletal cause or even stress. you might try some nsaids like ibuprofen. if you have new or worsening symptoms or simply are very worried you can go to the er.
how long after breast surgery with implants will i be in pain for?
post augmentation pain with implants is worst for the first 2-3 days but can be managed by use of local anesthetics muscle relaxants nsaids and narcotic medication. most patients are back to work in a few days though upper body exercises are restricted for 3-4 weeks. some patients may have soreness for a variable period of time.
i have had an external hemorrhoid that flares up occasionally for eight years. it started during chemo for breast cancer. should i seek treatment?
external hemorrhoids are mainly symptomatic (painful) when they develop a small blood clot(thrombosis). this is usually treated with sitz baths nsaids and occasionally a minor office procedure to remove clot. you can read more excellent patient advice here just enter the following into the search bar: bit. ly/1vnegsm
can you tell me how can i make a visual project of breast cancer that also includes functions?
help you in this website since it's for medical questions but my advise would be that you focus on one aspect of breast cancer rather than tackling everything. know your audience and make the presentation to their level. use visual aids but avoid cheap empty gimmicks.
my left breast hearts im 32 should i get a mammogram?
go to see your doctor and have your breast examined. if there is suspicious finding then an imaging study like ultrasound can be done to see if there is any cyst or solid mass. if the breast pain is cyclical / associated with period- wait until the priod is over and see if the pain is still there. you can try heating pad/ice packs nsaids like ibuprofen etc and avoid coffee chocolate tea.
breast pain 2 - 3 weeks sonar done says reactive adenopathy in axillae. the pain is just increasing don't know what to do.?
you should see your doctor or a breast specialist. you need a good breast examination-to r/o infection or inflammation on your breast or other things-like mass/lump etc. you def need a mammogram and i think ultimately an mri of breast. meanwhile take nsaids and cold compress on your breast. depending on how suspicious it is perhaps a biopsy of the lymph node is needed. discuss with your md.
breast pain tablets?
sometimes nsaids such as ibuprofen may help. limiting caffeine helps for some women. if the pain is severe and dramatically increases before menses prescription medication may sometimes be helpful such as bromocriptine.
day of breast augmentation surgery what should i prepare?
yo should be preparing months in advance. this includes a healthy diet with possible medical clearance if you have coexisting medical disease. stop smoking at least one month prior. some surgeons advise cessation of oral contraceptives 1-2 months prior to surgery for prolonged operations. aspirin and nsaids are often ceased two week prior. npo evening before. some prescribe antibiotics prior.
my left breast has sharp pain when i move it and when its touched. pain came shortly after breast was pushed against something. contusion? treatments?
it certainly may be a contusion/bruise of the breast tissue. mastitis is the inflammation of breast tissue and may be caused by an infection. nsaids warm compresses may help a contusion whereas antibiotics may also be needed for mastitis. if it continues get the breast evaluated.
multiple hypoechoic nodules with benign features in both breasts. sometimes hurting. should i have anything to be worried about and have it removed?
talk to a general surgeon. most likely you have fibrocystic breast disease which is commonly confused with breast cancer (even by trained professionals) - but in your case correctly determined to be "benign". a surgeon may be able to remove some of the cysts but they may return. talk to a surgeon about options for removal a doctor about other treatments (heating pads nsaids like naproxen &c)
no appetite feel lazy sore breast back pain on and off. had 2 days brown/pinkish spotting then stopped. expected period bet dec 11-14. wats the prob?
likely it is associated with your menstrual cycle- premenstrual symptoms. take nsaids- like tylenol/ advil (ibuprofen) as needed if the pain is significant. cold compress to the breast may help.
went to er lastnight thought i was having heart attack but tests came back good so they said i have costalchondritis what is this?
in the front of your chest is a big bone the sternum. attached to it from both sides are the anterior (or front part) of your first through sixth rib. usually rib numbers 2 3 4 and maybe 5 can get sore at the sternal to rib joint. kinda like arthritis. fancy word. costochondritis. usually resolves well with 3-7 days of nsaids (like motrin advil ibuprofen naproxen or aleve)
went to er lastnight thought i was having heart attack but tests came back good so they said i have costalchondritis what is this?
costochondritis is a painful inflammation of the cartilage in your ribcage. rest and regular use of nsaids such as advil (ibuprofen) or motrin for a few days is generally first line treatment plan.
what is the risk of a heart attack from taking voltaren (diclofenac)?
studies have shown a 10-15% increased risk of heart attacks with nsaids (voltaren motrin aleve type medications). one cannot determine an exact risk for an individual patient. best is to take tylenol (acetaminophen) for pain as there are no increased risks of heart attacks with it.
is it harmful to take sleep aids if you have bradycardia?
most otc sleep aids have antihistamines which can prolong qtc interval on the ekg causing torsades which can cause suddent heart attack or rhythm problems so you would be increasing risk of heart attack and cognitive issues.
is it harmful to take sleep aids if you have bradycardia?
may have several causes. and which sleep aids do you mean? except for melatonin i would not advise you take anything else as it may slow your heart rate more. i would read about good sleep hygiene and try to follow. good luck.
if i took indoethacin in my last weeks of pregnancy should the fetal heart rate be monitored on a daily basis?
physician. nsaids are generally contraindicated during pregnancy.
i have atrial fibrillation. i take nsaids for knee and foot pain relief. please recommend safe painkillers other than nsaids.
are antiinflammatories. curcumin is a natural antiinflammatory.
i have atrial fibrillation. i take nsaids for knee and foot pain relief. please recommend safe painkillers other than nsaids.
in average doses. . but if you are on blood thinners this must be discussed with your physician.
i have grade 2 scariolitis (as) and i take no medication. i have low hemoglobin 118 low mch 27. 2 and high rdw which came on suddenly. my blood count was normal six weeks ago except the low potassium level of 3. 3. could i have aoi anemia or inflammation?
it can be from chronic infalmmatory disease or medications if you are on nsaids you may be bleeding form gi tract. you nee dot have work up for anemia see you priamry or ask to be referred to hematology.
what drug can induce a myocardial infarction?
in general when medications are prescribed appropriately the risk of mi or other adverse effect is low compared with the expected benefit. however sometimes they do happen. recently there has been a lot of attention on 2 common classes of medication and their risk for negative cardiac effects: decongestants (many "sinus" meds) & nsaids (such as ibuprofen naproxen and their name brand versions).
i take dabigatran for atrial fibrillation. is it dangerous if i take cataflam 50 or voltaren (diclofenac) daily for joint pain?
dabigatran and nsaid type medications (voltaren (diclofenac) ; cataflam) can increase bleeding risk and nsaids can affect your kidneys with your other medications. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits.
i take dabigatran for atrial fibrillation. is it dangerous if i take cataflam 50 or voltaren (diclofenac) daily for joint pain?
to keep my patients off nsaids particularly while taking blood thinners.
is it safe to take ibuprofen with metoprolol lisinopril hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) and klor-con 10?
in moderation ibuprofen is safe with those medications. ibuprofen like all nsaids does go through the kidneys as does lisinopril and hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) so very prolonged use of the ibuprofen is not recommended at is may cause kidney damage. best wishes.
i have coronary artery disease and taking naproxen 2000mg daily for chronic oa joint pain is it bad 4 my heart or stomach? heart attack or gi bleed?
naproxen definitely increases the risk of peptic ulcer and g. i. bleeding. it is usual to add a proton pump inhibitor such as omeprazole to lessen the risk. most nsaids increase cardiovascular risk in patients such as you. it is claimed naproxen is less so than others but 2000mg a day is not a minor dose. discuss with your doctor.
what is small antero septal ischemia vs. attenutaion? does it mean a heart attack? what is a left ventricle hypertrophy?
sounds like you had a nuclear stress with a small anterior perfusion defect )not uncommon especially in people with more breast tissue). cardiologist should clarify whenever possible & many newer nuke cameras are capable of attenuation correction which aids in caricaturing. image interpretation is highly subjective. lvh is hypertrophy of the left ventricle. seek further evaluation antreatment.
what is the definition or description of: troponin levels?
troponin is a protein found in heart muscle. if the heart is damaged due to heart attack or a handful of other conditions troponin is released from the damaged muscle fibers into the blood stream. measurement of the troponin level aids the physician in the evaluation of chest pain. if the troponin level is elevated a cardiac problem is suspected.
is it true that smoking cig alone can cause a heart attack even if you are only 41. or do you have to have other uncontrolled condition?
how much you've smoked and for how long. smoking by itself causes conditions that lead to blocked arteries. add nsaids high blood pressure a family history maybe some alcohol and other bad habits yes you could see heart disease. 2-3 packs a day for 20 years is a 40-60 pack year smoking history. it's not about chronological age it's about biological age. nothing ages us faster than smoking.
what causes chest pain on left side behind breast and going thru to the back. ekg was normal. bad edema pain worsens whe breathing in?
it could be part of your left lung that is sticky and rubbing against your chest wall causing pain. taking nsaids may help reduce the symptoms. however you always need to rule out cardiac causes! the best option is to have a multifunction cardiography test. <link> ekg is notoriously inaccurate for women with disease!
is taking occasional advil (ibuprofen) 400mg a risk for heart attack and stroke? that is the only crud i use for pain.
this low dose of nsaids have no longterm cardiac mortality or morbidity.
in the past 3 years experienced dizzyness tachycardia short term memort loss headaches apathy i stare alot muscle twitches. all tests negative?
39 fem w. chronic "apathy dizziness headaches tachycardia anxiety memory loss muscle twitches" has multiple births unrevealing studies uses nsaids. symptoms suggest fibromyalgia. women w. hypermobile joints & multiple childbirths loosen pelvic ligaments; leading to body tilt muscle spasm restless sleep; begetting depression & fibro-fog. chronic neck tilt w. muscle spasm causes headaches.
what types of medications can cause low potassium?
the followings are known to deplete potassium: antacids nsaids steroid aminoglycosides diuretics (notably loop diuretics like lasix (furosemide) and thiazide) and anti-gout drugs (uricosuric agents). so ask watch and work with doctor.
hello professionals! thank you in advance. my father 75 yearly male with c. o. p chf is now having kidnney failure with creatine levels high potassium ok. what else besides dialysis is rec?
the approach here is to look for a treatable cause that would avoid dialysis. it may not be present. the usual categories are obstruction (ruled out with post void residual ultrasound and kidney us) and avoidance of nephrotoxic drugs esp nsaids ace-is and over-diuresis with diuretics. since he has chf it may not be possible to avoid using potent diuretics to let him breathe comfortably.
woke up to five sec. squeezing pain center of chest directly above breast line. no other symptoms. ecg/holter in oct. ok. severe cardiac anxiety.
the cause could be a kind of tendonitis at the juncture of the ribs with the chest bone. pressure a this juncture should produce an increase in sharp pain. it could also be acid reflux. the former could be treated with ice and nsaids. the latter with agents to reduce acid in the stomach such as prilosec.
when i stood up i felt my heart like pounding like it was almost beating out my chest and skipping beats and i got really dizzy it last maybe 10 sec?
you are taking quite a lot of nsaids( ibuprofen ) from which you can develop a stomach bleed(? any black stools) and anemia. this may be why your heart is struggling due to gastrointestinal blood loss. or you might be dehydrated. you should go see a doctor who will evaluate you. if you are not anemic your doctor will do additional tests to find out why you are having these symptoms. take care!
i have gastritis and pvc's. my dr gave me mobic (meloxicam) for side pain and i'm not sure if he remembered these conditions. mobic (meloxicam) 15mg safe to take?
mobic (meloxicam) (and other nsaids) can cause gastritis or even gastric ulcers and bleeding. they must be avoided or used with caution in a patient with known gastritis. if the nsaid is truly needed take it with food and also a drug like prilosec (omeprazole) to reduce acid production in the stomach.
i have severe insomnia with no sleep at all. diphenhydramine+melatonin and ambien (zolpidem) both work for me but both are giving me chest pain. what to do?
i have found that many of my patients find good results with the following combination which can sometimes be found together in some otc herbal sleep aids: passionflower extract melatonin (low dose. . 2mg or less) valerian root the passionflower extract works quickly the valerian lasts 6-8 hours and the melatonin fills the gap between the two. leave off the melatonin if it still causes pain.
how can you get yeast infection in your blood?
yeast infection in the blood or fungemia is most commonly cause by candida. it is the 4th most common bloodstream infection among hospitalized patients in the united states. people at high risk for developing candidemia include: icu patients surgical patients use of central venous catheters (esp. tpn) immune systems are weakened ( e. g. hiv/aids) and very low birth weight infants.
what is the treatment for rheumatic fever? how long does treatment last?
first treat the offending organism responsible group a streptococcus infection then. nsaids bed rest and if cardiac involvement treatments by a cardiologist to manage active carditis and a if chorea sedation and antiseizure drugs.
is colchicine bad for the stomach lining like ibuprofen? i got a ulcer from taking ibuprofen. i want to continue colchicine for my pericarditis.
taking colchicine. it works totally different than ibuprofen or any other nsaids.
mother diagnosed severe osteoarthritis in neck area. can't find any relief. can't take nsaids because of takotsubo cardiomyopathy. any suggestions?
consider acupuncture to reduce pain and to improve range of motion. it can be used as an adjunct to her standard treatments.
how soon after ceasing use of nsaids does the risk for heart attack or stroke (from nsaid use) end?
the fda has issued a caution indicating that nsaid users are prone to more heart attacks than non users. nsaid use can increase mi or stroke in risk in patients regardless of whether they already have heart disease or risk factors for heart disease. however the likelihood of mi or stroke is greatest among those with pre-existing risk factors due to a higher baseline risk. diabetes smoking hyp
husband hit his head on the scalp and bled also fainted. 2days later he refuses to go to the hospital! should i be worried?
does your husband take aspirin or nsaids(eg motrin)? need concerned about concusion or subdural hematoma from bang leading to fainting. this diagnosis made if he begins to walk funny in a few days. would seek medical attention when you can. probably a neurologist. he may be macho not complaining of dizziness or visual changes. subdurals can be managed relatively easily with simple surgery.
i want to stop taking celebrex 200mg for my arthritis pain because of the long term side effects heart attack & stroke. i've been on it over 5 years?
as rheumatologists we now educate patient said nsaids such as celebrex should be taken as needed. i routinely recommend topical nsaid treatments as well as other pain medicines which are not opioids. i recommend being seen by a rheumatologist for more detail and specific therapy in your case.
i had a cold for 4 weeks. now get sharp chest pains when i cough or sneeze. i've always had back pain-is it referred pain? chest xray was clear.
you should see your primary doctor to confirm this. it may be a viral pericarditis aka inflammation of the fibrous sac around the heart causing sharp chest pain; pain may also be felt in the shoulders neck or back pain worse with lying down and breathing deep. diagnosis is ekg ultrasound of the heart to look for pericardium effusion. treatment typically with nsaids like ibuprofen or naproxen.
possible naproxen allergy? increased bp heart rate intense red itch tops of feet arms torso. went to dr ekg&bp normal by arrival. didn't link aleve use until today used in frequently in past.
the reaction you describe certainly sounds like an allergic reaction to something you ingested possibly the aleve (naproxen). nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) are fairly allergenic and you develop an allergy to something at any point. so if the timeline to your symptoms fits with aleve (naproxen) ingestion i would be highly suspicious. try benadryl (diphenhydramine) for acute relief of current symptoms.
possible naproxen allergy? increased bp heart rate intense red itch tops of feet arms torso. went to dr ekg&bp normal by arrival. didn't link aleve use until today used in frequently in past.
you may be developing an allergy to nsaids. depending on your symptoms now you may need to seek medical attention immediately as such reactions can progress especially if you are having difficulty breathing. take benadryl (diphenhydramine) and head to the er and avoid all nsaids.
pain in breast high right side blood pressure good ekg perfect aches when i move what could it be?
this a musculoskeletal injury that will improve with rest & some nsaids such as ibuprofen might relieve pain.
since nsaids can cause or elevate cardiac risk could heavy use of ibuprofen or naproxen cause tachycardia or palpitations?
a recent study suggested patients taking naproxen for an extended period of time might also have a greater incidence of a cardiovascular event. because naproxen is a traditional nsaid this might present a potential problem for all nsaids include ibuprofen.
my blood pressure has always been a little low never high and i'm only 26yo. so what could cause diastolic dysfunction?
studies show up to 40% of people with chf have preserved systolic function. hypertension is a common cause of diastolic dysfunction there are several other causes of dd that affect cardiac compliance including cardiac ischemia obesity nsaids pericardial disease myocardial disease endomyocardial diseases aortic stenosis etc. good to find this early find cause w/cardiology please & good luck
taking 600mg ibuprofen 3x day and colchicine for pericarditis & beta blocker for tachicardia. how dangerous are nsaids as far as liver/kidney damage?
all medications are potentially dangerous. you only take them considering risks and benefits. nsaid's are known to cause kidney and liver problems and their effect should be monitored. if your medical problem requires the therapy with no other good options you take the medication.
taking 600mg ibuprofen 3x day and colchicine for pericarditis & beta blocker for tachicardia. how dangerous are nsaids as far as liver/kidney damage?
when used temporarily the biggest risk is of gastritis (acid-related) from nsaid's. long-term risks of renal dysfunction are associated with routine nsaid use over several years. see your doctor for appropriate management.
taking 600mg ibuprofen 3x day and colchicine for pericarditis & beta blocker for tachicardia. how dangerous are nsaids as far as liver/kidney damage?
as with many drugs prolonged use especially in high doses can harm kidneys or liver. it is important to monitor liver and kidney function while taking these drugs. however they are often quite helpful in treating the pericarditis so i would certainly stay on them as long asneeded to control symptoms and stop thereafter.
i am experiencing high blood pressure (hypertension) rapid heart rate shaking hands or tremor and headache (better by: rest nsaids (ibuprofen .
if someone has high blood pressure it can be caused by many thing - stress medications caffeine thyroid issues are some of the causes. headaches can cause pain which can cause bp to rise or bp can cause headaches. if some is having these symptoms it would be best to go to the doctor to get evaluated.
left side chest pain w no other symptoms 4 months. feels almost like tearing when i exhale. blood work ekg and chest xray r fine. what could it b?
but would recommend considering getting a chest ct scan. . can try nsaids ibuprofen) in the meantime. causes: inflammation infection pulmonary embolus occult tumor musculoskeletal.
palpitations heartburn and indigestion why is this?
heartburn and indigestion are due to stomach acid injuring your esophagus or even the lining of your stomach (often due bacterial infection: h. pylori or nsaids - pain meds). palpitations are not caused by those issues and are a separate problem that requires a separate investigation.
resting ekg showed minor t wave abnormalities. poss inferior ischemia but exsersise ekg (stress test) was normal. been having chest pain. heart ultrasound done 1 mth ago was normal. what else to do?
if the dr (/? cardiologist? ) who did your stress test & echo feels comfortable he/she may advise you that the source of your symptoms is not coming from your heart. in that case for your age if no other ongoing medical conditions most likely is musculo-skeletal and should improve w/nsaids and time.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (quality: sensation of tearing pain) (better by: nsaids (ibuprofen naproxen etc. )) (side: left) (seve.
highly unlikely that a 32 year old woman would be having a cardiac issue from the description of your symptoms it cannot be fully evaluated over the internet. it would be prudent to go to a health care facility for a thorough evaluation.
just came back from er. feel pain on the left chest heart position when inhaled and movement. ecg just now and observation fine. please help me!
you probably have inflammation in the lining of the lung (pleurisy) or the cartilage between the ribs and sternum (costochondritis). either can be caused by viral infections. best treatment is nsaids and rest.
lastnight i felt a throbbing feeling r palpitations in the right side of my head "temple" i've been a bit stress lately hardly eat it's back this mrn?
temporal arteries on either side of the forehead can dilate at times and this throbbing is blood being pumped by your heart to the head. most often pressure or ice pack can help. also nsaids can help. rarely an inflammation inside the vessel temporal arteritis requires steroids. if the problem you describe comes often see your doc to determine the cause as this can trigger migraines as well.
left upper stomach pain. i've been told this can be my heart even without chest pain. exertion can make it worse. had it for a month off and on.
likely gastritis/ gerdh pylori infection could try ranitidine / previcid. do to concern about heart consider ekg /stress echocardiogram. may be pericarditiis as well or just costochodritis- inflammation treat w/ nsaids ( rarely pe or lung clot -but a month is a long time). but the issue of cardiac should be addressed in person with a doctor f/u /today especially since pvcs/ tahycardia
nsaids cause increased risk of heart attack and stroke even with short-term use according to many sources. does prednisone and prednisolone also?
nsaid's do have many risks but incidence of heart attacks and strokes are quite low indeed the side effects can usually be mitigated or prevented. steroids possess numerous side effects far too many to list here but the profile is different from nsaid's in many respects. all meds even tylenol (acetaminophen) have risks. follow your doctor's recommendations.
on a beta blocker & allergic to morphine nsaids. considering all this are there any otc meds i can safely use for a bad cough and/or congestion?
try the various cough formulas like robitussin (guaifenesin). guaifenesin is safe. occasional oral decongestant use should be safe. dextromethorphan in robitussin (guaifenesin)-dm is technically related to narcotic family but shouldn't react to morphine allergy. i would suggest starting with robitussin (guaifenesin)-pe.
occasional use of ibuprofen. i am on bp meds and zoloft. can i take ibuprofen for a sore throat?
avoid mixing ibuprofen with aspirin tylenol aleve or other nsaids.
recent study showed that daily use of nsaids can increase your risk of heart attack. so whats something safer my mom can take daily for her knee pain?
have her try tylenol (acetaminophen). knee injections may also help.
sometimes i have headaches at forehead left/right nerves (lil bit above eye brows) and they seem to pulsate with heartbeats? how to stop them?
these sound like migraine variants. first get evaluated to rule out inflammatory vasculitis then you can start preventative treatment with medications( topiramate) and ablation meds (triptans nsaids)
xphoiyd process sore and hurts to touch makes whole chest hurt like tight feeling ekg/blood good gi good with scope will mri show what's going on?
mri might show what is going on. it sounds like you might have some kind of inflammation going on there. have you tried nsaids such as aleve or ibuprofen?
should i use flector patch (diclofenac) if i have had previous heart problems?
from the manufacturer's site: "flector patch like other nsaids may cause an increased risk of serious cv thrombotic events myocardial infarction and stroke which can be fatal. this risk may increase with duration of use. patients with cv disease or risk factors for cv disease may be at greater risk" however there is minimal systemic absorption so the risk is theoretically lower than pills.
what's the reason behind human body developing cancers tumors cysts atherosclerosis? why does human body malfunction today?
these are all diseases of the modern life styles. they tend to develop over many years and manifest as we grow older in years. the solution is not easy yet these conditions can be slowed down or prevented with healthy eating (low fat plant based diets) avoiding excess of sugars and consume fruits and vegetables liberally. staying physically active and regaular daily exercise are additional aids
what causes a popping sensation on the left side of my chest and sternum? no pain. almost feels like when you crack your neck. pcp says heart ok.
the most common cause of the popping sensation you describe is separation of the cartilage on the ends of the ribs from the sternum. there are many reasons this can happen but the important fact is that it has no medical significance. occasionally this condition can be accompanied by pain which is best treated with nsaids like ibuprofen. in the absence of pain there is no need to worry.
what is the difference in potential renal side gi and cardiac side effects of meloxicam versus naprosyn (naproxen)?
both medications aqre nsaids and can cause both errosive gastriris and gi bleeding including stomach ulcers. both medications can cause kidney and occasionally liver issues.
whats the safest nsaid to take if i have high cholesterol? if none what else can i do to get rid of inflammation in my body?
you'll be told about 'inflammation all over your body' being the cause of atherosclerosis. we pathologists don't use the term 'inflammation' in the same way and the nsaids aren't going to deal with this -- they don't suppress atherogenesis. you can ask your perosonal physician whether you want to be on daily aspirin and perhaps your physician can clarify the cause of your joint troubles too.
whats the safest nsaid to take if i have high cholesterol? if none what else can i do to get rid of inflammation in my body?
all of them. there is no restriction on nsaids if one has high cholesterol.
will taking a lot of ibuprofen elevate my blood pressure?
nsaids (ibuprofen is a member of the group) can interfere with intrarenal prostaglandin synthesis and in susceptible individuals lead to htn.
when taking diclofenac 50 mg is it normal to have shortness of breathe like havin asthma?
asthma patients can develop shortness of breath with nsaids such as diclofenac. we recommend to stop using them.
what's drug of choice in pat. with acute migraine and ischemic heart disease?
this is a tough situation. you cannot use either triptans or ergots. so may have to use nasaids fioricet (acetaminophen butalbital and caffeine) or so.
what are the symptoms of intercostal rib pain in the back?
the spine. the pain will b between the ribs not over the rib itself. hurta 2 breath in cough bend sideways away from the painful side. nsaids ice activity modification. if of sudden onset 4 no reason c ur pcp 2 r/o pe.
woke up with sharp chest/heart pain shortness of breath and hands getting cold. what causes this? and is this normal? got better later on in the day.
are you using drugs alcohol or other recreational aids? lf you're otherwise healthy my first thought would be anxiety. if it's more complicated you should see your doc for a full evaluation.
what do i take for arthritis if i am on plaxix?
avoid all nsaids including advil and aleve. try acetaminophen (tylenol (acetaminophen)) first. other analgesics are available if tylenol (acetaminophen) is not helpful. speak with your doctor.
what causes numbness started at finger tips and traveling up hand? slowly getting worse. is there a natural way to deal with high bp. no $ for dr.
pain and numbness in a limb sounds like a pinched nerve. it can be pinched in the neck or wrist as well as possibly other places in the arm. carpal tunnel can cause these symptoms as well and often cause numbess in thumb and index finger. you can try over the counter nsaids and a wrist splint but if sx aren't going away and especially if you have weakness you should see your doc.
why do nsaids pose such a high risk for heart disease? i was prescribed blood thinners to prevent stroke and heart attacks
they are not a high risk for cardiac events but are higher than other drugs for similar indications.
what are the most common anticoagulants?
1. warfarin or coumadin (warfarin) 2 lovenox heparin 4 argatrobran 5 lepuridin 6 angiomax 7 arixtra 8 some anti platelet drugs like aspirin nsaids plavix integrillin xarelto pradaxa are also considered blood thinners. these are common there are some others also.
why are omega-3 fats healthy for you?
the problem in industrialized nations is too much omega 6 fat from soy corn cottonseed and safflower oils. omega 6 fats can cause all the problems that people take aspirin (and other nsaids) for. omega 3 fats work like aspirin to block the effects of the omega 6's. deep sea oily fish is the best source of omega 3 fat but canola oil also supplies some.
what are the symptoms of restless leg syndrome?
usually involuntary movement ocaasional "jerky " witt in bed. h/or accompained by unpleasant feeling and cramps in the legs particularly while recumbent at night. magnesium calcium and potassium are non-medicinal aids. iron deficiency must be excluded as well. see someone in neurology or rheumatology if your pcp faily to help.
what is an alternative to prednisone for erythema induratum (nodular vasculitis)?
nodular vasculitis can be difficult to treat and there are alternatives to prednisone like nsaids and cellcept (mycophenolate mofetil). one of the important things to realize is that this condition is sometimes associated with tuberculosis. if you are using prednisone (an immunosupressant) you want to make sure you don't have an infection causing your problem. see your dermatologist for a thorough evaluation.
what happens if i take aspirin while pregnant?
i agree aspirin to be taken only if ordered by a physician during pregnancy. i do not agree that "nothing" can happen. the fda states aspirin & other nsaids to be category d though it's true that aspirin's not been formally assigned that designation. we know aspirin can cause cardiovascular complications after 30-32 wks. also increased bleeding time can occur which isn't optimal when birthing.
what water pills thats over-the-counter that is go i have chf. i don't have a doctor i don't have the money.
unfortunately there are no water pills (also known as diuretics) that are available over the counter. there are some over-the-counter (otc) pills that are sold as menstrual side effect aids and claim to reduce bloating that list caffeine or pyrilamine as diurectics. these may make one urinate but not in the way that diurectics for heart failure do. do not take these products in any dose ever if you have chf. while chf is not truly cureable it can be very successfully treated and sometimes permanently improved with medications that are mostly generic and inexpensive. if you do not have money you more than likely qualify for medicaid. i encourage you to try to access this program. there are two office for medicaid services in your area depending on the zip code in which you live: south street office st. joseph county dfr 100 w. south street 2nd floor south bend in 46601-2434 telephone/fax: 1-800-403-0864 zip codes 46536 46563 46595 46601 46613 46614 46615 46617 michigan st. office st. joseph county dfr 300 n. michigan street suite 250 south bend in 46601-1251 telephone/fax: 1-800-403-0864 zip codes 46552 46554 46574 46616 46619 46628 it may be a hassle to access medical services through medicaid but with a disease like chf which can be so crippling but also can often be treated very effectively the hassle of applying for government benefits and using them to access the care you need and deserve should be well worth the effort.
why is whole wheat bread healthier than regular white bread?
whole wheat bread can be labled "whole wheat " even if the fiber is micropulversied the wheat germ bleached and then reconsituted. certainly the higher fiber content slows digestion of carbohydrates which raise insulin levels (not good) and aids with colon health.
which pain medicine does not thin your blood?
nsaids (ibuprofen and aleve) and aspirin both inhibit platelets i. e. thin the blood and can contribute to minor bleeding when having surgery. some people should never stop taking aspirin if they have heart or vascular issues. tylenol (acetaminophen) and all narcotics do not affect the blood at all and are safe alternatives when taken as directed.
what is the treatment for pericarditis?
are cornerstone treatment (nsaids) sometimes prednisone and cholchicine.
what is the treatment for pericarditis?
anti-inflammatory medications are the best treatment. some believe indomethacin is better than other nsaids. colchicine and even steroids have been used.
which viruses cause pericarditis?
pericarditis is often a complication of a viral infection – usually a gastrointestinal virus or rarely the flu virus or aids. it may also be caused by a bacterial infection fungal infection or parasitic infection. certain autoimmune diseases such as lupus rheumatoid and scleroderma also can cause pericarditis.
what pain medication can i take if i'm allergic to aspirin and ibuprofen?
allergy to nsaids like aspirin and inbuprofen does limit some options. it does not limit the use of opioids (narcotics) like oxycodone hydrocodone codeine and morphine.
what is the difference between aspirin tylenol (acetaminophen) and ibuprofen?
aspirin prevents platelets from their natural ability to stick together and form blood clots. this can prevent a stroke. in patients at risk for bleeding acetaminophen can be an excellent alternative to aspirin since acetaminophen does not have an effect on platelets blood clots or bleeding. like aspirin other nsaids affect platelets but the duration of the effect is less than with aspirin.
will smoking weed affect raynaud's disease?
there is a reason for thc to be illegal. thc causes chronic amotivational syndrome depression psychosis paranoia anxiety weight gain hypertension and decreased testis size. it takes any motivation out of you. worse it is the gateway drug that will push you into morphine heroin etc. thc clinics are good for terminal aids and cancer cases. is raynaud's one of them? of course not.
what can i take instead of aspirin to avoid heart attacks? (i'm allergic)
people who are truly allergic to aspirin can undergo a procedure called aspirin desensitization to allow for aspirin consumption. if you're interested you should discuss this procedure with an experienced allergist. otherwise there are few options to choose from. while tylenol (acetaminophen) is often safe for folks with aspirin allergy it doesn't share the benefit of aspirin or other nsaids.
what is a partial pericardium?
congenital absence or partial pericardium is found throughout the world. in most cases it has no clinical significance but can show up incidentally as shifted heart on ct scans and xrays. in some folks there could be clinical significance if they need to undergo surgery. there are also some theories that the pericardium aids in the contraction or elastic recoil of the heart.
what are cures for hypertension?
in addition to overweight and salt hypertension can be caused by moderate alcohol intake. also some medications can increase bp and stopping these can cure high blood pressure. particular culprits include the birth control pill; stimulants like aderall concerta phentermine; antidepressants like wellbutrin (bupropion) effexor; decongestants; nsaids and steroids. worth reviewing with your md.
what can i do to relieve swollen legs it's due to my heart condition and is a little uncomfortable at times?
as dr. jost said there are many possible causes for swelling that aren't related to the heart. one of the other possibilities is lymphedema. if this is the cause of your swelling compression with circ-aids should be strongly considered.
what could cause hand to bleed for no reason my dad recently started noticing drops of blood just appearing on top of his hand without him hitting it or hurting it in any way. he has history of heart disease high blood pressure stroke and kidney disease.
oner cause of seemingly spontaneous bleeding may be a pyogenic granuloma a small soft reddish soft tissue bump that can form a t a site of cut. the tissue bleeds very easily. a varicosity or loop of dilared vein if cut may seem to bleed excessively. dry skin that cracks at the joint sufces or pal can bleed. finally minor trauma can lead to an abrasion of cut unbeknownst to the injured. agree that blood needs to be check for clotting bleeding time etc and certain medications aspirin nsaids and of course blood thinners such as coumadin (warfarin) if being taken need to be checked. as well as a variety of blood disorders.
what are the sympotms of kidney damage?
it would depend on the degree of "kidney damage. " but my guess is you may have been told you had chronic kidney disease possibly stage 2 or 3. then you probably do not have any symptoms from the kidney damage but what's important is control what you can such as your blood pressure blood sugar cholesterol salt consumption and avoiding medications that could worsen the damage such as nsaids.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for emphysema?
options for treatment of emphysema are limited. the essential first step is stopping smoking. several aids are available to help with quitting. if oxygen level is low oxygen supplementation is benefitial. there are several inhalers both rescue and long term available for emphysema but they are of limited benefit. nutritional supplementation is essential.
what is the things that will leads to poor memory and how can i improve it? is fish oil really helps?
vitamin d or b12 deficiency hormonal imbalance (low testosterone or thyroid abnormalities) electrolyte imbalance sleep deprivation stroke/meningitis lyme disease central syphilis aids autoimmune disease medications alcohol or substance abuse prolonged stress diabetes hypertension. treat underlying cause. active exercise optimal sleep avoiding alcohol/substance cognitive challenge.
who knows about pericarditis?
the sac-like covering around the heart (pericardium) becomes inflamed in pericarditis. pericarditis can be associated with diseases such as: autoimmune disorders cancer (including leukemia) hiv infection and aids hypothyroidism kidney failure rheumatic fever tuberculosis.
what could cause one sided chest pain that is worse with inhalation?
without having much to go on one possibilty is costocondritis. as the word implies this is an inflammation of the rib cartilages. with breathing and therefore movement of the chest wall this can elicit pain. this condition is usually self-limiting and the pain symptoms are treated with nsaids (motrin for example).
whast is the reason or reasons for being unable to control pressure with drugs?
the usual culprits are: renal disease bp drugs being counteracted by other drugs (nsaids for arthritis or use of steroids are common examples) inadequate doses not enough diuretic. rarer causes are aldosterone secreting adenomas or adrenal hyperplasia pheochromocytoma cushing's disease renal artery stenosis. it's not unusual for resistant hypertension to require 5 drugs for control.
we just got a trampoline and the first day my 12 yr old son was fine. jumped for about an hour. then on the second day (the next day) his chest hurt.?
mild diaphragmatic irritation is common after a first bout of aerobic exercise. both the liver and spleen can rub the diaphragm and have a temporary inflammatory response. this will dissipate with time. it should respond to nsaids. if the problem persists and does not improve see your doctor!
what nsaids can i take if i have the lupus anticoagulant?
cox-1 active such as naprosyn (naproxen) diclofenac but avoid ibuprofen as it reverses the benefit of aspirin.
what nsaids can i take if i have the lupus anticoagulant?
if you are not on other medicines like blood thinners nsaids should not be a problem. if you are on blood thinners you would be at increased risk of bleeding from the stomach or elsewhere.
what can be done to ease chest wall pain after surgery?
early: intravenous pain meds oral pain meds narcotics early and nsaids later we use some local injections or pain infusers in some folks after specific operations.
what pain medication can i take while taking mobic (meloxicam) 15mg?
you can take acetaminophen muscle relaxants or opiate analgesics(narcotics) while on nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs(nsaids) such as meloxicam. one should avoid other nsaids such as ibuprofen and naprosyn (naproxen) while on meloxicam.
what to take for headache if i am already on mobic meloxicam?
if you are on mobic(generic=meloxicam) or another nsaid(nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug) you should avoid other nsaids due to the potential adverse affects. however acetaminophen (brand-name= tylenol) can be safely taken up to 4grams total daily. due to acetaminophen being in multiple over-the-counter products be very careful not to exceed 4 grams of acetaminophen total.
what is bronchial cardiomiosis?
i'm not sure if you mean bronchial nocardiosis which is an infection caused by a bacterium called nocardia. it can lead to severe pneumonia-like infections that can be fatal and are difficult to treat. often this is found in patients with weakened immune systems such as in aids steroid use and organ transplant recipients.
what is the best thing to do to help yourself if you have emphysema?
by far the most important thing is to quit smoking. beyond that there are several medications that can help with quality of life as well as going through pulmonary rehab. in any case all patients with emphysema should see a doctor who can see where they are and prescribe approp treatments (even aids to quit smoking! ).
why're non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as meloxicam considered contraindicated in renal disease?
nsaids interfere with the internal regulation of blood flow in the kidney. using them reduces renal blood flow and decreases kidney function.
what is the method of action of aspirin and ibuprofen?
aspirin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaids) but differs from most other nsaids in the mechanism of action. though it and others in its group called the salicylates have similar effects (antipyretic anti-inflammatory analgesic) to the other nsaids and inhibit the same enzyme cyclooxygenase aspirin (but not the other salicylates) does so in an irreversible manner.
what is it when you have pain in the middle off your breast and under the bone?
this could be inflammation of the joints between the ribs and sternum this is called costichondritis. usuall nsaids help with the pain.
what are some ways to relieve pain from pulmonary fibrosis?
pulmonary fibrosis by itself usually does not hurt. there are no pain receptors in the lungs. what may hurt is your pleura or ribcage which are well supplied with pain receptors. non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) such as ibuprofen may help as well as narcotics which usually also dull the sensation of shortness of breath which may accompany pulmonary fibrosis. hope this helps!
what are the physiologic needs for a patient with deep vein thrombosis?
after diagnosis anticoagulstion for a variable time frame is the cornerstone of treatment. . if there is a heredirtary factor to the clotting episode then lifelong anticoagulation is indicated. other non-heriditary cause are treted with3 to 6 months of anticoagulation. compression hose normal activity and nsaids are other supportive measures are also hlpful.
what causes my feet to swell my feet has een swelling for the last few days and i would like to know what could be causing it?
many things from simple dietary indiscretions such as an excess of salt to medical conditions including congestive heart failure blood clot kidney insufficiency or liver insufficiency can cause the feet to swell. could also be related to arthritis gout plantar fasciitis or even medications (calcium channel blockers or nsaids like naproxen). work-up is necessary.
what are some medications that can cause hypertension? what if any are some medications or drugs that have the ability to cause hypertension? .
to name a few of them. . nsaids psuedoephedrine otc meds like ginko green tea etc. any med that helps with weight loss getting more energy or help with concentration will almost always have a stimulant. chk with your doc before you take any new meds or supplements.
wondering how many took bextra & developed chf?
bextra was removed from the market at the same time as vioxx because of the increased risk for heart attacks in individuals taking these meds over the long term. chf was rarely seen. interestingly many nsaids still on the market also have increased cardia risk.
what pain medicine is safe to take with plavix (clopidogrel)?
nonsteroidal-antiinflammatory drugs (nsaids-such as motrin/aleve) and aspirin-based analgesic can interact with plavix (clopidogrel) and increases risk of bleeding/stomach and intestinal ulcers/performation etc. . otherwise narcotic pain killers (some mixed with tylenol) are ok to take while being on plavix (clopidogrel). like all medicine use the smallest effective dose for shortest duration possible. consult doc. good luck.
what pain medicine is safe to take with plavix (clopidogrel)?
acetaminophen/tylenol is safe to take with plavix (clopidogrel). nsaids like ibuprofen is risky as it can increase risk of bleeding particularly if taken repeatedly over days.
what daily vitamins should a vegetarian take to stay healthy? i'm a vegetarian & already take b12 vegetarian omega 3 multivitamin and vitamin d-3.
sounds like you are doing well with the vitamins you have chosen. a healthy vegetarian diet can provide nearly all the nutrients you need except for dha an omega 3 which you can get from algae extracts. carnitine is not a vitamin but is a beneficial nutrient found mostly in red meat that aids in burning fat for energy & is good for our hearts & muscles so consider taking l-carnitine too.
went to er with cold in chest did x-ray was fine. was put on meds. hurting under breast on left side what could it be.?
this is a common condition where the insertion of the ribs into the breastbone or spine become inflamed and painful. it is frequently seen after an upper respiratory infection. it should improve with time. nsaids like motrin work well for this kind of pain.
what is a over-counter pill that u can take for chest pain?
it depends on the etiology of the chest pain. musculoskeletal etiologies may respond to nsaids such as naprosyn ibuprophen or an analgesic such as tylenol (acetaminophen). some topicals such as icey-hot may help and good old ice or heat may help too. for chest pain from organ dz the answer should be evaluated by a physician for more guidance (eg pleurisy cad pericarditis) unless you can be more specific.
what are the possible reasons of chest pain just above heart at the age of 18? is there anything to worry about?
also another possibility in your age group could be tetize syndrome or chostochondritis a viral infection affecting your substernal chest wall. treatment would be nsaids but be careful about your stomach take w food. dr d.
what should i eat while diagnosed with hypertension?
the following things help reduce blood pressure: 1. weight loss if overweight. 2. low salt intake 3. reduce alcohol intake many other things can contribute like lack of exercise and some medications. the latter include stimulants nsaids (like ibuprofen) decongestants steroids and some antidepressants.
what can be done to reduce my blood pressure?
weight loss (if overweight) and cardio exercise can help. as will reducing excessive alcohol. nsaids and stimulant drugs can increase bp and should be stopped. there are many drugs for hypertension depending on patient characteristics like presence or absence of age heart disease diabetes kidney damage asthma/copd osteoporosis and others. your physician can advise on the best options.
what food for high blood pressure?
: low salt low saturated fat low cholesterol 8 servings of colored fruit and vegetables daily pomegranates tomato kiwi spinach kale low animal protein (4 - 5 oz per day of meat fish poultry only). don't smoke. drink 3 liters fluid per day. minimize caffeine. look up dash diet. eliminate nsaids. they cause salt retention.
what is the mechanism by which nsaids create a cardiovascular risk?
they are associated with an increased risk of heart attack.
what arthritis medicine is safe for someone on heart meds for cardiomyopathy etodolac almost caused a trip to the hospital?
most ndaids like motrin edodolac naproxen hold onto fluids which can tip the balance with cardiomyopathy. you can take include tylenol (acetaminophen) aspirin if it's okay with you dr. no acetylated salicylates like: choline salicylate or limbrel. "any therapy needs to be clear with your physician.
what lowers blood pressure better ibuprofen or aspirin?
in addition to anti hypertensives low salt diet and life style modification lowers bp. nsaids do not lower bp.
why we can not use nsaids in patients with hypertension?
in some people nsaids like ibuprofen can cause an increase in blood pressure. it does not affect everyone so many people can take nsaids without worrying about their blood pressure.
why we can not use nsaids in patients with hypertension?
nsaid's can further elevate blood pressure ( which can lead to heart attacks or strokes) cause fluid retention ( which can lead to lung congestion) aggravate kidney function ( which can lead to renal failure). as a result nsaid's should be used with caution and only when the benefit outweigh the risks. the safest nsaid is naproxen and should be used before other agents are tried.
why we can not use nsaids in patients with hypertension?
who told you that you cannot use nsaids in patients with hypertension? who ever told you this is wrong. the only concern with nsaids would be in patients with kidney disease or on blood thinners.
what can i do to get rid of acid reflux chest pain?
elevated the head of your bed. don't eat for 4 hours before going to bed. liquid antacids like mylanta help. chewable tablets like tums (calcium carbonate) and rolaids are convenient. histamine 2 blockers like ranitidine or famotidine are available over the counter. proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole are also available otc. if these don't work you'll need to see your doctor.
which is the function of lymph nodes and the lymphatic system in the body?
the lymphatic system is basically a channel that carries a clear or whitish fluid called the lymph. this lymph aids in clearing the tissues of infective organisms toxins etc.
why am i retaining water so much if i don't have kidney or heart issues that i know of? i do take celebrex silvastatin benadryl (diphenhydramine) claritin which is causi
although less likely than other nsaids in causing sodium retention celebrex (celecoxib) is capable of it. are you consuming a lot of sodium in your diet? if so reducing the intake may help. some people just tend to retain water for no apparent reason. i hope you are not eating a lot of licorice.
what do you advise if i have chest pain that gets worse when deep breath?
possible pleuritic chest pain non specific and a nuisance more than dangerous. try a short course (5-7 days) of nsaids with meals (ibuprofen/naproxen/etc). it may help. if it does not check with your pcp.
what causes fluid retention with longer term nsaids? (and what do they mean by "long term"? )
long term term means greater than one month. they affect the tiny arteries of the kidneys and cause the kidneys to be less efficient and slow clearing of fluid.
what cough syrup can i take with having high blood pressure?
avoid using cough and cold medicine that contains nsaids (ibuprofen naproxen) or decongestants especially pseudoephedrine. these can raise your blood pressure and heart rate.
what to do if i have a renal angiogram?
a renal angiogram is where they inject some contrast (dye) into your blood vessels to show what the vessels in your kidneys look like. its important to drink plenty of fluid before hand and avoid anything damaging to the kidneys such as nsaids (ibuprofen motrin advil aleve) as well as metformin or diuretics for the day of the test.
what causes the feet to swell?
many things from simple dietary indiscretions such as an excess of salt to medical conditions including congestive heart failure kidney insufficiency or liver insufficiency can cause the feet to swell. could also be related to arthritis gout plantar fasciitis or even medications (calcium channel blockers or nsaids like naproxen). work-up is necessary.
what causes pain in the collarbone area and goes up towards neck? back of neck sore. no other symptoms. pcp says heart ok. fear cardiac.
be a sternocleidomastoid muscle pain i would use some nsaids and heat and massage if no better follow up with your doc again for a recheck
wht can i take for heart burn 13 weeks pregnant. it makes me throw up sometimes?
tums rolaids and maalox are good for heartburn when you have it. nexium (esomeprazole) zantac prilosec and prevacid are good for preventative daily use
what's the best treatment for rheumatic fever and for how long does the treatment last?
rheumatic fever is an autoimmune reaction to infection with group a streptococcus. antibiotics are given to eradicate the strep and then lower doses taken to prevent reinfecttion. generally nsaids and other antiinflammatories drugs are sufficient unless the heart is involved. if the heart is not involved most cases clear up with antiinflammatory treatment. heart needs follow-up study.
what are ways to lower high blood pressure?
i'm glad you asked. non medical ways are your first line and include diet and exercise: lower salt in your diet lower fat consumption moderate exercise (walking for 30 minutes 5 times a week). if you are in the habit of taking nsaids such as ibuprofen motrin aleve- those can also increase your bp. reduce stress. best of luck!
why are some clots difficult for the body to break down? blood thinners are used to thin blood which aids in the natural anticoagulation correct?
heart-attacks are frequently caused by the rupture of a plaque in an artery in the heart. a clot forms over the injury but this also occludes the vessel that supplies part of the heart. the clotting system is responding properly to vessel damage and doesn't know that the clot is iinjurying the heart. blood thinners can break up clots like this allowing blood to flow back to the heart.
why are some clots difficult for the body to break down? blood thinners are used to thin blood which aids in the natural anticoagulation correct?
anticoagulants do not thin blood it is just a term used for the benefit of lay persons. it is a complicated issue to address in this forum. try this site for information. <link>
what causes pain in the chest at the center just above breast line? it seems to be worse if i press on it. intermittent for 3 hours.
hi. it sounds like arthritis where the rib attaches to the breast bone called costochondritis. it usually responds to nsaids like ibuprofen or naproxen. good luck!
what are some things i can do to alleviate my chest pain? it's non-cardiac but i've been having it on and off since june 2014. pain meds don't help.
i guess a doctor already told you it is not cardiac. if that is the case knowing what exactly is causing the pain is important. if it is musculoskeletal simple thing as nsaids could do the job maybe particular exercises. more information is needed in order to give you an effective efficient recommendation
which of the drugs/otc suplmnts have blood-thinning effects? l-arginin pentoxifylline coq10 vitamin-e? read vit- e pentox arginine all do?
just the nsaids motrin asa
can ibuprofen cause heart palpitations?
this is not a listed adverse reaction but if you have no history of palpitations which started after taking ibuprofen which stopped after stopping the drug. then yes. we are still learning about more and more potential problems from nasaids.
swollen lymph node on my neck for a year thought it was due to hair braids but it feels rubbery and attached my brother had hodgkin's before thanks.?
may go away with antibiotics but may need further eval with blood test or fine needle biopsy.
swollen lymph node on my neck for a year thought it was due to hair braids but it feels rubbery and attached my brother had hodgkin's before thanks.?
family history is not the major issue- location and type require a physical exam by you doctor. it could be easily a benign process such as an infection typically.
when sitting in certain positions sometimes chest hurts when moving it. occasionally cracks like knuckles. been going on for months. what could it be?
if chest pain is associated with positions or movement that points to musculo-skeletal pain particularly in a 21 yo male. try a short course of nsaids (ibuprofen or naproxen)
can you catch hiv/aids from giving mouth to mouth to a stranger how has a heart attack?
hiv is not transmitted by kissing or rescue breathing. unless of course both persons happen to have open wounds actively bleeding in their mouths at the same time. several other diseases are transmitted more easily than hiv like the flu and mono but often treatable or vaccine-preventable. if concerned you can buy and carry pocket-sized barriers for rescue breathing.
can you catch hiv/aids from giving mouth to mouth to a stranger how has a heart attack?
hiv is primarily transmitted from blood or sexual contact. it is not present in saliva. however in the rare instance when the recipient and provider of cpr have open mouth or lip sores there is a possibility of transmission. the american heart association now recommends chest compression cpr for bystanders. take a cpr class for the latest techniques.
