what is the clinical difference between hypovolemic shock and amniotic fluid embolism during c section?
hypovolemic shock is blood and fluid loss usually from bleeding causing severe low bp and cardiac arrest from loss of perfusion. amniotic fluid embolism leads to low bp from allergic vasodilation and then bleeding from dic (disseminated intravascular coagulation) which results in hypovolemic shock and cardiac arrest. the mechanisms are similar but different.
what is amniotic fluid embolism?
as a complication of pregnancy and delivery amniotic fluid may gain entry into the maternal circulation. it induces intravascular thrombus formation followed by bleeding disorder and respiratory problems and shock in the mother.
what is the treatment for amniotic fluid embolism?
supportive care consisting of stabilizing maternal oxygenation and hemodynamic function. anemia and any coagulation defects can be corrected with appropriate transfusable blog products. any seizure activity can be inhibited with medications. these treatments along with prayer still only yield a 50% survival rate.
what are the tests for amniotic fluid embolism?
amniotic fluid embolism depending on the amount of fluid getting into maternal circulation can be catastrophic. the diagnosis depends on clinical suspicion and testing for disseminated intra-vascular coagulation namely low platelet count elevated pt ptt abnormal shape of red cells low fibrinogen and fibrin split products chest x-ray etc.
what are the symptoms of an amniotic fluid embolism?
afe is an extremely rare but typically lethal complication of late pregnancy. usually it is unheralded and manifests with complete cardiovascular collapse requiring immediate advanced cardiac life support to avoid rapid death from bleeding and asystole. if the woman is still pregnant stat delivery may help preserve the fetal life/brain.
what are the symptoms of an amniotic fluid embolism?
this disease can present anytime during pregnancy and up to a few days after delivery. initial presentation is cardiovascular collapse and severe shortness of breath and/or seizures are common.
what cause amniotic fluid embolism to happen during a c-section what can go wrong?
this a rare but very serious problem. it can occur when amniotic fluid gets into the blood stream and sets up a reaction that can b e life threatening. .
why does c sections increase the risk of amniotic fluid embolism?
the theoretical reason is that the operative delivery disrupts the tissues and allows amniotic fluid to more easily pass into the woman's blood vessels. but it's not entirely clear if this is a true risk or just an association. women with suspected amniotic fluid embolism are rushed to c-section. so it's possible it's the other way around amniotic fluid embolism increases risk of c-section.
what causes amniotic fluid embolism?
it is when amniotic fluid enters the bloodstream through the venous system. it can be very dangerous potentially causing a embolus in the lung.
should i be worried about amniotic fluid embolism with my pregnancy my first pregnancy i lost my baby to placental abruption at 39wks?
i don't think anybody can predict this rare complication. sorry for your loss. the only suggestion i can give with your next pregnancy: try to get your future delivery done at the tertiary care facility. and keep on positive thinking otherwise your future pregnancy would be a nightmare filled with anxiety.
