what could cause fatigue weight loss anaemia pelvic pain & dizzyness?
weight loss and anemia can contribute to both fatigue and dizzyness. the question is is the anemia related to the pelvic pain. hypothetically the answer is yes. tumors of the sigmoid colon rectum bladder uterus ovaries or prostate can cause anemia and the related symptoms although high on the list are colorectal cancers. see your md for possible colonoscopy and/or ct scan of the pelvis.
what is the likelihood of me being able to conceive when i have absent and inconsistent periods - i am 25 slightly overweight i suffer from anaemia?
the likelihood of conception depends in part on the cause of the irregular periods and anemia. regardless of the cause correcting the anemia and loosing weight will help. pcos can be reversed with weight loss at times. thyroid disease can be corrected with medication if that is the problem. see your doctor to find out the cause since even if you conceive the underlying problem can cause trouble.
my bmi is 41. i feel dispnea during light exercise (walking). is it due to my obesity? thyroid ok no anaemia. ves47 ggt47 pcr3(0-0 5)
this requires a medical evaluation. there are many possibilities.
swollen painful right foot on top into ankle age 56 1 kidney since 5 yrs old & renal failure back 2004 type 2 diabetes. anaemia vit b12 deficiency.
some causes of swelling of the feet can include systemic problems such as hypertension and problems with the kidneys and localized issues such as arthritis infection lymphatic obstruction blood clots varicose veins trauma (fracture sprain tendonitis) and side effects to medication. have it evaluated by a professional and get the appropriate treatment.
swollen painful right foot on top into ankle age 56 1 kidney since 5 yrs old & renal failure back 2004 type 2 diabetes. anaemia vit b12 deficiency.
there are many things that can cause this pain and swelling.
swollen painful right foot on top into ankle age 56 1 kidney since 5 yrs old & renal failure back 2004 type 2 diabetes. anaemia vit b12 deficiency.
there could be many different reasons due to your condition and age. for a patient with renal failure and diabetes i'd recommend seeing your podiatrist asap you may have a fracture infection charcot foot or other.
can i take over-the-counter iron like slow fe after gastric bypass surgery?
yes you can if you have iron deficiency and/or anaemia.
am not on any medication blood test is all ok. i tend to sleep a lot and feel tired all the time. i exercise and eat healthy. please help.
i agree with dr cattano that your history of low mood and anxiety are very likely relevant to the problem you're describing. however there are several other physical issues that should be considered as well however like thyroid insufficiency anaemia sleep apnea. it would be worth seeing your gp to review whether these have been checked for already.
i've been sick for 14 yrs. is it lupus? fatigue weightloss anaemia rash on face atrial fibrilation decayed teeth hair loss fever rundown.
sjogren's would be at the top of my list as well as lupus to rule out. see a rheumatologist.
i've been sick for 14 yrs. is it lupus? fatigue weightloss anaemia rash on face atrial fibrilation decayed teeth hair loss fever rundown.
lupus is certainly possible although tooth decay is not a feature. see a rheumatologist get the problem evaluated and then you will know if lupus is present.
i've been sick for 14 yrs. is it lupus? fatigue weightloss anaemia rash on face atrial fibrilation decayed teeth hair loss fever rundown.
after 14 years its time to see a rheumatologist who can run appropriate blood tests if you have lupus. its past time to find out what your problem is.
my mum has both anaemia and an irregular heartbeat (neither critical). are the two conditions linked?
while both anemia & heart dysrhythmias are common in the elderly they aren't usually related. under rare circumstances an anemic patient can receive so many transfusions that their iron levels build to dangerous levels inside the heart tissue causing rhythm problems. also rare amyloidosis can cause both anemia and rhythm problems. the md would need to check an spep and free light chain assay.
why does the rate of my heartbeats always low? how do i know that i'm having an anaemia?
a low heart rate is usually normal especially if you are athletic. if you are anemic your heart rate woiuld be higher than usual.
why does the rate of my heartbeats always low? how do i know that i'm having an anaemia?
dear joyce 107 the commonest cause of a low heart rate below 50 in young people is found in athletes. are you an athlete? i'm guessing that if you are healthy without symptoms your heart rate is probably normal. if you have fainting spells you should see your doctor. you might ask him to measure your hemoglobin at the same time as that is the only way to diagnose anemia.
i have pernicious anaemia had two injections of vitamin b12 last year which caused me to collapse and cardiac arrest so now they won't give me anythng?
i do not know what caused the collapse/ cardiac arrest(faint or go to er? ) - which is serious so before taking another form would discuss with doctor and would take the first dose in the doctor's office where you can be monitored. high dose oral supplementation is effective as well as is sublingual and foods with b12 (liver beef eggs) f/u/w/ doc <link>
i had heart palpations. ekg says abnormal results but doctor said everything was fine and it was normal. which do i believe? i do have anxiety.
anxiety is a common cause of palpitations but not the only one. if you do not believe your doctor made the right diagnosis get another opinion. worrying about it would only make matters worse. together with an ecg you need blood tests to rule out other causes of palpitations such as anaemia or hyperthyroidism. see a cardiologist if you are concerned that the ecg findings are worrying.
sympts heart palps w/exertion short of breath exhaustion. lab wrk shows ferritin 33 iron saturation 13% hemogl 11. 2. anemia? supplements? iron iv?
mild anemia iron deficiency. iv iron not needed. may take oral iron. avoid strenuous exercise until anaemia improves.
what would it possibly mean when an 18 year old's pulse rate is at around 120?
a resting heart rate of 120 is not normal. the person is either extremely unfit or suffering from cardiac rhythm disturbances or hormonal imbalances such as thyroid dysfunction. they could also have anaemia which causes the heart rate to elevate in comparison. you need to see a doctor to undertake blood tests and electrocardiograms to rule out any worrying pathology
what are the causes of heart failure?
coronary artery disease (angina) diseases of the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy). high blood pressure (hypertension). diseases of the heart valves. abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias). medicines alcohol excess cocaine and some types of chemotherapy. severe anaemia thyroid disease (hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism) and paget's disease of bone.
why would anaemia cause shortness of breath?
anemia causes less hemoglobin to be delivered to the tissues so the heart and lungs are working overtime to oxygenate and distribute enough oxygenated blood to the tissues the increased breathing work is shortness of breath.
why would a dr order a bone profile blood test when investigating the cause of anaemia and chest pain / dizziness?
it is the bone marrow where new blood cells are produced.
