byfriend started with a fever friday then saturday has swelling white pussy bumps inside his mouth cheeks and spreading! he cant even swallow help!
such symptoms usually are a viral infection. several viruses can do this sort of thing including primary herpes; herpangina (due to coxsackie a virus) and verious enteroviruses. he should see a doctor asap for diagnosis and treatment: if it is herpes effective treatment is available. good luck to him.
indigestion? i''m 58 yrs old never had it before & in the last couple days i've had it. i don't eat or drink alcohol after 7pm not overweight non-smoker. just not sure why this is happening. not sure what to eat or drink. i also don't eat fried or
i agree that you don't have the typical risk-factors for indigestion. my biggest concern is that sometimes patients have symptoms of indigestion but it is actually angina. i would advise that you go in and have an ekg and see your doctor to see if you need to have a stress test. that is very important. if your symptoms persist and your ekg is normal then your doctor can advise a treatment plan for you. if you develop chest pain nausea or vomiting pain in your jaw/arms or back palpitations or light-headedness then you must be seen as an emergency.
i have triple coronary disease diabetes rhuematoid arthritis psoriasis and sleep apnea now ed can i take otc meds for my ed?
if you have no angina the approved viagra levitra (vardenafil) cialis meds by prescription can help. check with your cardiologist.
i'm overweight 21 stone and feel sharp pain on right chest under my arm when i'm breathing or coughing. should i be worried?
not typical angina type pain. but infections inflamation muscle strains etc can be cause. get a work up from ur dr.
what could cause rapid weight gain if i recently increased my physical activity? i am also having issues with heartburn and mild fatigue. related?
there may be a relationship. the increased activity may be straining your heart---heart burn can be mistaken for heart pain called angina. the weight gain may be fluid retention because of strain on your heart which also causes fatigue. or it could be several unrelated conditions. you need to call your doctor for a check up ---and do it soon.
i have throat ulcers right at the bottom of my throat and a 5cm hiatus hernia. it is incredibally painful to swallow what food would be ok to eat?
if this is new pain in the back of your throat a diagnosis of herpangina should be considered and an oral anesthetic offered. if this is not the case and the pain is in the throat you need subspecialist consultation (candida herpes other serious illness. ) i would be surprised if the 5 cm hiatus hernia was the cause and am concerned about overall health issues. good luck.
what's the difference between a hiatus hernia and an unstable angina?
hiatal hernia is a weakness in the diaphragm muscle that may allow a portion of the stomach to go into the chest causing heartburn or esophageal reflux. unstable angina is a very serious and potentially life threatening condition of impeding heart attack or heart damage from low blood flow to the heart.
what's the difference between a hiatus hernia and an unstable angina?
unstable angina is basically an impending heart attack. a hiatus hernia is when the normal opening in the diaphragm that allows the esophagus to pass through stretches out and the stomach gets "sucked" up in to the chest. it can cause chest pain similar to angina.
i feel my angina is getting worse (seem to get pain more quickly on exertion). i also have a hiatus hernia. so one symptom could be masking the other.
unstable angina is very treatable. contact cardiologist stat.
i feel my angina is getting worse (seem to get pain more quickly on exertion). i also have a hiatus hernia. so one symptom could be masking the other.
your hiatal hernia is probably only likely to mask your symptoms of angina if it is very large also known as a paraesophageal hernia. this is best diagnosed with an upper g. i. contrast study.
what is the chance of a 17-18 year old male having cad after ecg stress ecg echo 24hour ecg normal cholesterol not obese but angina symptom sometime?
but some congenital coronary anomalies do exist and may require angio to prove.
what is the chance of a 17-18 year old male having cad after ecg stress ecg echo 24hour ecg normal cholesterol not obese but angina symptom sometime?
i'm betting that junior's "chest pain" is in the chest wall. by any chance does it feel like a knife when you're breathing in and go away soon especially if you fill your lungs as full as you can? that's not heart. if you passed your stress ekg get back on the track / triathlon team and stop worrying about your heart; life's too short to sideline yourself.
i have some discomfort on my left side of my chest close to the elbow. is it a sign or a symptom of heart attack? i am maybe 30 lbs overweight.
pain from angina (reversible ischemia) or a heart attack (irreversible ischemia) can present in different ways in different people. it is usually felt in the midline of the chest or back but can also be felt in the left jaw both jaws or the left arm but not typically on the left lateral chest. pain or pressure in the chest that is brought on by activity should be checked out.
i am 26 years old and obese and i laid down tonight and my chest felt heavy. is that weight related? how should i proceed cause i'm panicking now.
this is most likely not angina or heart related. however if it continues i would chew an aspirin and go to the hospital for evaluation
who should treat me for less severe ph caused by sleep apnea? i'm adrift without care since ph specialist said they don't treat my kind of ph
cva coronary events angina at night dying in one's sleep can all be related to sleep apnea. you should see an ent or sleep specialist. cpap dental devices and surgery can all be effective.
my dad and his mum both have angina. could i get heart problems too? i'm overweight and have had slightly high blood pressure in the past.
if there is heart disease in the family you can be at risk.
what are the symptoms of metabolic syndrome?
abdominal obesity abdominal pain acanthosis nigricans acne angina enlarged liver excess hair high blood pressure increased bmi sleep disturbance.
keep getting sharp severe chest and left shoulder pains been about 4 month. is it my large hiatus hernia? i'm only 22 could it be angina?
it is very unusual for a 22 year old to have a large hiatal hernia but if in fact you do it is certainly the probable cause of your symptoms. angina is almost unheard of in a 22 year old but you should see your doctor.
keep getting sharp severe chest and left shoulder pains been about 4 month. is it my large hiatus hernia? i'm only 22 could it be angina?
need consult ion with an orthopedic md and other causes needs to be ruled out. rarely it can be due to heart disease or hiatal hernia.
my husband is having severe pain only when he starts to run or jog. hes been drinking protein shakes twice a day and isnt new to working out. docto?
he might have angina. throw away the protein shakes. there is absolutely no benefit. most americans already consume far more protein than their body can use. most. most of them contain contaminants not listed on the labels.
overweight with high blood pressure. could right side back pain that is recurrent (couple months) be a sign of impending heart attack? or just muscle?
exact location severity timing tenderness on palpation or motion and lots of other things. cannot determine for certain here so you should see a doctor to make sure that this is not angina or any other serious condition.
how can obesity interfere with your sex life?
sex life in humans is complex & may be affected by obesity in many ways. psychological issues include one's self image & his attraction to the other person. technical issues involve successful & unsuccessful body positions for sexual activities. medical issues include decreased sensation due to diabetic nerve damage angina chest pain due to heart disease aromas due to yeast in skin folds etc.
how long should a person take adipex before it can become harmful? are there cases of it hurting your liver?
appetite suppressant speed'like drug. works best for short-term use (< 3-6 wks) after that less effective but more likely to cause dependency risks for cardiovasc problems including high bp valve disease angina pulmonary disease etc. can't suddenly stop it if used for a long time. any drug metabolized by liver can cause liver problems-this can too.
how many really follow a diet and exercise program since heart bypass surgery?
not entirely known but who are you fooling if you don't. better your chances of not getting more surgery not getting a stroke angina heart attack bypass in your limbs carotids (go to your brain) feeling better living better and longer if you get with the program. oh yeah don't smoke either.
can i take diet pills when i'm on amlodipine and toprol (metoprolol)?
except for fat absorption blockers (orlistat) diet pills are likely to exacerbate the conditions for which amlodipine and toprol (metoprolol) are typically prescribed (hypertension angina etc. ).
could tooth extraction be harmful for me if i have type 2 diabetes? what are the dangers of teeth extraction with type ii diabetes?
unless you are a cardiac patient or have chest pressure with exertion=angina you have no undue risk could have been caused by poor diabetic control.
can you take a. c. e. diet pill and propornanolol at the same time i am taking propornanol can i take a. c. e. diet pills with this?
i haven't heard of propornanol. if you are referring to propranolol (inderal) which is used to treat angina high blood pressure & other heart conditions i recommend you check with your dr. before you use any otc diet product. many of these products have high levels of caffeine which can raise blood pressure & heart rate. bravo for wanting to manage your weight though!
chest tightness not angina could it be hiatal hernia?
if you have gerd with a sliding type hh esophageal spasm can cause chest pain very similar to cardiac pain. a para esophageal hernia can also cause retrosternal pain. you should see your physician for an appropriate work up. gb colic can also cause pain thought to be cardiac in origin.
can you develop heart disease or diabetes type ii from a week or so of lack of sleep and interrupted anxious sleep? <negative_smiley>
not a direct cause of heart disease or diabetes. could worse the disease when establish. you mention you have chest pain and difficulty breathing and insomnia all symptoms of anxiety and/or depression. another possibility is asthma angina (doubt) gerd. see your physician for a better assessment through a physical and history.
help please! could carafate (sucralfate) help a hiatal hernia?
a sliding type hiatal hernia is associated with reflux of gastric contents into the esophagus. the acid causes burning sensation described as "heartburn" sometimes an intense pressure sensation like angina. carafate (sucralfate) coats the stomach lining to help shield the mucosa from acid. itwould not effectively protect the esophagus. you need a proton pump inhibitor or h2 blocker to reduce acid.
could you take phentermine for your diet after you had stents put in your heart?
phentermine is a stimulant medication in the same pharmacologic class as amphetamines and methamphetamine ("meth"). in my opinion this medication is dangerous for all patients and for heart patients it is particularly dangerous because stimulants can cause worsening of angina or lead to life-threatening rhythm problems.
could hydroxycut affect the cardiac status. can it be used after angina?
some hydroxycut preparations contain caffeine and caffeine definitely can have an effect on the heart: palpitations! i do not know of any literature confirming antianginal effects using hydroxycut.
age 35 female 50 pds overweight non-smoker rarely drink all cholesterol normal except ldl 131. pain in center of chest when stressed. angina?
pain in your chest is a serious medical condition. it is always a red flag and appointment with your pcp is warranted. it might be only a seasonal flu but better safe than sorry. take care.
can a 36 male with no family history non smoker normal chol 22. 3 bmi and good results stress/echo a year ago get angina or heart attack? scared!
most angina occurs on the basis of hardening of the arteries which would be unlikely with a normal stress test and no cardiac risk factors there are however some types of angina is that do not occur from "hardening of the arteries such as spasm of the arteries this can be diagnosed by ekg by giving certain drugs or by heart catheterization
how accurate is a ekg blood and a stress test to rule out heart issues or angina? i'm 26 overweight healthy but worry my gerd chest pains is my heart. my troponin i levels were < 0. 02. my bp is sometimes elevated and heartrate goes down to 53bpm.
the combination of those 3 being negative in your age category are reassuring and make the chance of a fatal cardiac condition being under 10% and likely less than that. a lower heartrate is not a bad thing. i would recommend weight loss and increased diet and exercise.
how accurate is a ekg blood and a stress test to rule out heart issues or angina? i'm 26 overweight healthy but worry my gerd chest pains is my heart. my troponin i levels were < 0. 02. my bp is sometimes elevated and heartrate goes down to 53bpm.
one trick may be elevating the head of your bed on cinder blocks. general physical conditioning can help also. this is not heart pain. if you are offered meds for gerd please use them faithfully.
about once a month i have a very sharp pain in my left shoulder that lasts about 30 sec. it starts &ends sudenly & its like puls. what's the problem?
in left shoulder or arm could be angina so you should have it checked out by your doctor.
very sharp left side breast pain(lasts a few seconds) then area is sore and tender. this can happen when moving. i get the same pain in upper arm too?
we need to know if associated with hpn then it could be angina. it is transient left chest pain with upper arm radiation. but if not with hpn and associated with lifting heavy object or exercise and tenderness on the area it can be tritze syndrome.
i've been having a pain on the top of my left breast i don't know if its muscles or my heart. hurts when small amount of preassure is applied?
i doubt you have coronary artery disease causing angina/chest pain. pain during pushing point toward chest wall pain/muscle pain. i will advice for a breast examination too.
amlodipine besylate and lymphedema?
one of the most commonly used norvasc (amlodipine) ( amlodipine besylate ) for hypertension and angina will develop in few patients edema of legs which is easy to treat.
yes dr they have given me a beta blocker. but ii really don't like meds. im on 12. 5 mg atenolol. still have some symptoms. andc c hest pain in middle.?
what is your diagnosis? there are 3 fda approved diagnosis for atenolol! 1. hypertension 2. angina 3. post-mi cardiovascular protection. im going to presume youre on it due to #2 and you still have chest pain! however your dosage is subtherapeutic. you should be on 50mg daily starting and maybe increased to 200mg daily.
what causes a chest pain near the heart?
causes of chest pain include: angina heart attack gerd costochondritis muscle strain anxiety pleurisy peptic ulcer shingles pulmonary embolism. for more patient information go to > <link>
why would someone with the minimal mild cad. complained of extreme fatigue on minor activities have an ekg was at first abnormal then repeated showed st elevation mi acute. then repeat borderline ekg.
variant angina can occur with coronary spasm. the ekg changes can mirror that when not acute. in the acute setting ekg changes like that represent clot formation and possible spontaneous resolution.
suffering from angina with recent inverted t wave. tota cholesterol 192. tri 70 hdl 53 and ldl of 125. bp 110/78 (avg) 125pd female. getting no help!
and get your questions answered as inverted t wave is very nonspecific.
what is carvedilol?
hi. carvedilol is a alpha-1/non-selective beta receptor antagonist. it is a good drug for chf angina high blood pressure and pulse control. blocking alpha-1 receptors lessens arterial vascular tone and lowers after load. blocking beta-1 receptors slows heart rate diminishes cardiac contractility and decreases myocardial oxygen demand. blocking beta-2 receptors is not desirable; it's syd efect
what is carvedilol?
good medicine to treat hypertension angina some arrhythmias and heart failure. well tolerated with very few side effects. as a general advise: this is the first question you need to ask the doctor who prescribed it and discuss all possible effects and side effects. reading or asking over internet is not as helpful.
what do you advise for heart palpitations extending into both arms?
interview with regard to consideration of evaluation for arrhythmia or angina/cad. tests that might be ordered include ecg stress testing monitoring cath or electrophysiology study depending upon initial results from interview and exam.
when can ectopic atrial tachycardia be dangerous?
if recurrent and causes symptoms of chest pain syncope and dizzy spells as well as angina or palpitation induced shortness of breath.
what do beta blockers do and why are they prescribed for so many heart problems?
beta blockers have multiple effects on the heart including slowing the heart rate and reducing contractility. one property that follows from these is that they reduce the amount of oxygen demand of the heart or "calm" the heart down. these properties are useful for a wide variety of heart conditions including rhythm problems angina and having had a history of a heart attack.
what are the symptoms of a heart trouble? like blockages or something like that. or an impending heart attack?
angina pectoris =substernal pressure pain with radiation to the neck or left or right arm and shoulder. some will have abdominal pain-and be confused with gallbladder or stomach symptoms. ladies seem to have less classic// or tolerate pain better than men. relief with nitroglycerin is very suggestive. a feeling of impending doom pallor sweating suggest a bad day!
i have several ekgs x-rays blood test and one stress test. can i still have an angina pectoris or heart disease?
with presumably normal ekgs etc. . and a stress test the probability is remote.
what is the significance of placing nitroglycerin under the tongue of a patient suffering heart attack?
placing a sublingual meds would serve the same purpose as giving meds through iv -- as you probably know nitroglycerin can relieve cardiac chest pain (angina pectoris) quickly and potentially halt the progression to a heart attack -.
i have long qt syndrome & an etopic beat plus i get a lot of chest pain & pressure. if it's angina & i don't get treated is it a problem?
if you have myocardial ischemia on top of long qt the situation could be quite threatening. it would be appropriate to see your doctor and make sure what's doing with the chest symptom and whether ischemia is present.
i have long qt syndrome & an etopic beat plus i get a lot of chest pain & pressure. if it's angina & i don't get treated is it a problem?
then yes it could be a problem. please discuss with your cardiologist.
i have pots i get chest pain like angina when exercising since 18 im 22. i've had ecg stress ecg echo cmri mr angiography. should i do any other?
assuming those tests were all normal (as i would expect in someone your age) i think it's clear that your heart is not the cause of your pain. it's time to investigate a different potential cause. the 2 usual suspects are musculo-skeletal and gastrointestinal. your pain could be due to gastritis esophageal reflux peptic ulcer disease etc. or fibromyalgia costochondritis myofascial syndrome.
i am 64 and for last 10 years am suffering from mi and angina pectorus. had angioplasty with 2 stunts and balooning. feel weakness and breathlessness.?
see your cardiologist.
is nicotine a vasoconstrictor does it cause tachycardia?
nicotine is a vasoconstrictor and cause angina tia peripheral vascukar disease. it also causes the heart to race due to its stimulant effects.
i am the nervous type. have jaw pain can be a symptom of a heart attack? but what i also have tmj?
odds are jaw pain is just due to pain in the jaw (eg tmj). you're right that people with angina may get pain that spreads from their chest to their jaw and less often can get just jaw pain alone but what is causing your pain depends on your profile. are you at risk for heart disease? can't answer that here of course - you need to be evaluated by your family doctor.
i have had 4 previous mi's. at night exper. chest heaviness but no pain? some wheezing. minor discomfort taking deep breaths. is this another mi?
in patients with diabetes chest heaviness may be your unstable anginal equivalent or even sometimes that is all you may feel while having a heart attack. this is obviously a serious matter and i think you should insist to your cardiologist that your symptoms are serious enough and want a coronary angiogram. coronary stents do close specially in diabetics. if you have coronary stents r/orestenosis.
i jog a 3-4 min. jog every day and 3/4 mi. once a week. its hard to breath and hurts my throat and lung/heart area. had bronchitis b4. idk athsma?
this is a matter that needs further evaluation especially if this is a recent change for you. the work up should consider heart related issues ruling out angina and chf. from the lung point of view a breathing test is needed checking for asthma and copd. blood tests to check for anemia thyroid problems. etc.
if i had a heart attack what is the likelihood that i will not survive?
survival likelihood depends on the extent of their heart attack and the health and age of the patient. one commonly used tools to calculate likelihood of dying considers age history of diabetes high blood pressure or angina evidence of heart failure severity of attack weight and timing of therapy. risk of dying within 30 days with mid-high score is 1-36%. after 30 days it's 1-17% for 1 yr.
i have a dull ache in my left shoulder that shoots down to my elbow and/or wrist is this a symptom of a heart attack i do have two bug bites on same shoulder
yes it is possible. angina or the pain from heart can easily present as left arm or shoulder pain. you would need stress test which will probably reveal the nature and origin of the pain.
is chest pain from anemia peptic ulcer pulled muscle impending heart attack gerd or angina? 17 of sept i was out " de-rusting " a bike & getting any rust of the chain. also i did lift the bike ; a rockhopper. btw i am female 5'3" 110 lbs
heart attack or angina is rare if the pain goes away after rest.
impending heart attack anemia angina gerd muscle strain? taken tylenol used salonpas took alprazolam. nothing works on the 17th of sept i was out " de-rusting " a bike & getting any rust of the chain. also i did lift the bike ; a rockhopper.
if you were having angina - cardiac chest pain after activity - you should have been calling 911 getting ems or going to a hospital and not sitting at your computer typing. tylenol (acetaminophen) salonpas and xanax are not the right treatment for an impending myocardial infarction. see your doctor about your chest pain and work on reducing your risks - smoking overweight high fat/cholesterol. take aspirin.
impending heart attack anemia angina gerd muscle strain? taken tylenol used salonpas took alprazolam. nothing works on the 17th of sept i was out " de-rusting " a bike & getting any rust of the chain. also i did lift the bike ; a rockhopper.
upon onset of this severe chest pain you should have called 911. during a heart attack chest pain occurs a blockage in the heart is cutting off flow to parts of the heart causing cardiac tissue injury. this is manifested by severe chest pain that can feel like tightness and pressure in the chest. this pain can also radiate to the arms back and jaw. other symtoms include shortness of breath sweating and light headedness. always seek medical attention when you feel chest pain. get help call 911. do not drive.
i am displaying classic signs of a heart attack such as fatigue dizzness discomfort in both arms nausea jaw pain as well as back and stomach pain. i am not sure if it is idiotic to be unsure if this actually means i am having a heart attack. i had fou
by the date of this post almost a week has passed. if you have not seen a doctor already it is wise to do so. the symptoms you described can indicate angina or myocardial infarction (mi also known as heart attack). also your symptoms could have merely been due to an adverse effect of taking four 5 hour energy drinks. this high amount of caffeine can often mimic the signs of a mi. i recommend you cut down on these drinks so as to avoid any unwanted side effects. regardless you will need a work up which will include an ekg (test that checks the electrical activity of your heart) this test can give an indication if there is concern for an mi or risk of one. after a detailed history exam and testing your doctor will be able to give you a likely diagnosis and treatment plan. good luck.
is there any way to tell if someone died of a heart attack without an autopsy?
people who die with a hand or clenching fist in their chest when they collapse or if they had history of coronary disease ( had previous heart attacks stents or cabgs or had recent angina attacks ). if they die while sleeping overnight and have the previous history. unless they have signs of stroke (paralysis or severe weakness of one leg arm or face associated to abnormal speech) we assume it.
i have angina due to to having coronary artery spasms. how serious is this condition and can i have a heart attack through it.?
yes it is so important for your doctors (pcp & cardio) to get to know you. coronary heart disease not always has typical symptoms of angina radiating to neck/left arm nausea or vomiting. it could be manifested as fatigue indigestion leg swelling or no symptom.
i have angina due to to having coronary artery spasms. how serious is this condition and can i have a heart attack through it.?
if you have all the tests done and the cardiologist decided that you have variant/prinzmetal angina you are prone to have a variable course. generally you have good prognosis if they did not find any lesions on the cath.
i take warfarin & metoprolol. if i suspect a heart attack should i chew a 500mg aspirin?
if you suspect a heart attack the first thing you should do is call 911. however in regards to your coumadin (warfarin) use you should still also take an aspirin 325 mg. although both are blood thinners they work differently and aspirin is the only one of the 2 found to decrease mortality with heart attacks. if you have angina nitroglycerine is also good to have as needed at home. see your cardiologist.
is it ok to exercise vigorously while taking blood pressure meds like metprolol(lopressor)?
if you just take metoprolol for high blood pressure vigorous exercise is safe. the medication will blunt your peak heart rate and may make it difficult for your to reach a predetermined target heart rate but you'll still get the benefits. if you take metoprolol for other reasons (eg following a heart attack or for angina) you should discuss the specifics with your own doctor.
i have 2 leaky heart valves not severe think previous angina but heart rate is rapid while resting doc. put me on a beta blocker y & poss. causes?
s/he needs to know your hr is still rapid on b blocker and maybe monitor your heart to see what the rhythm actually is. also state clearly that you need to have an explanation of why the hr is rapid and what you can expect to happen in the future if it cannot be controlled. good luck!
is it possible for a person having a heart attack to have neck and jaw pain but no chest pain?
yes it is absolutely possible for heart attack victims to have neck or jaw pain as their presenting symptoms. in fact patients who a diabetic run a risk of having no symptoms at all. while chest pressure or pain is the most common symptom anginal equivalent such as neck pain extreme fatigue nausea vomiting or shortness of breath may be symptoms as well.
if you have a rapid heart rate for many hours can you actually feel a sore heart?
not like a sore thumb! but if you have coronary artery disease it's conceivable that rapid heart rate could precipitate angina - usually not described as being sore but as feeling heavy and associated with difficulty breathing. the real question is: why is your heart rate "rapid for many hours? " you should be checked out.
i had a heart attack 5 years ago and i am 39 years old. is it ok to take cialis? i take plavix (clopidogrel) but no nitrates.
treatments for erectile dysfunction (ed) including cialis should not be used in men for whom sexual activity is inadvisable as a result of their underlying cardiovascular status. patients who experience symptoms upon initiation of sexual activity should be advised to refrain from further sexual activity and seek immediate medical attention. in other words be sure that your heart can keep up with other organs. pde5 inhibitors including cialis are mild systemic vasodilators. this means that blood vessel "pipes" can become wide open and drop your blood pressure. patients with left ventricular outflow obstruction (e. g. aortic stenosis and idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis) can be sensitive to the action of vasodilators including pde5 inhibitors. consult a cardiologist to evaluate your heart with an echocardiogram if any other physician has concern that you could have one of these above mentioned conditions. cialis was not studied and is not recommended in patients who have recently suffered a heart attack (within 90 days) or stroke (within 6 months) or patients with uncontrolled hypertension hypotension uncontrolled arrhythmias heart failure (new york heart assocation [nyha] â‰¥class 2 in last 6 months) unstable angina or angina occurring during sexual activity. this means that a patient should be refrain from using cialis until after a safe period of time has lapsed after a heart attack. potential drug interactions: cialis can potentiate the hypotensive effects (lowering of blood pressure) of alpha-blockers antihypertensives or substantial amounts of alcohol (â‰¥5 units). cialis is not recommended in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) symptoms because efficacy of the combination has not been adequately studied and due to the risk of blood pressure lowering. caution is advised when cialis is used as a treatment for ed in men taking alpha-blockers. cialis for once daily use provides continuous plasma tadalafil levels. therefore daily use of cialis must require daily attention to avoiding the above mentioned drugs that can interfere with blood pressure. pde5 inhibitors such as viagra cialis or levitra (vardenafil) are generally safe and effective if used wisely and with common sense.
is the a difference between metoprolol succinate and metoprolol tartrate?
metoprolol succinate is an extended-release version dosed once daily meanwhile metoprolol tartrate is an immediate-release (short duration) version dosed twice daily for long-term management. both can treat hypertension and angina (chest pain) however succinate is also indicated for heart failure and tartrate can be used to treat an acute myocardial infarction (heart attack).
i have terrible spasms in esophagus and leads to afib sometimes. how can i prevent them?
heartburn or spasms in your esophagus may not be what you think they are they may be signs of angina especially if they are assiated with heart dissrythmias. see your dr about a stress test or angiography.
i have tachycardia chest pain that radiates between my shoulders nausea could this be angina or symptoms of heartattack?
could be heart or gastro-intestinal or musculo-skeletal. seek medical advise soon to determine which one it is.
i have tachycardia chest pain that radiates between my shoulders nausea could this be angina or symptoms of heartattack?
but given your age it is unlikely a "heartattack" or "angina". your symptoms should be evaluated by an in office visit. certain abnormal heart rhythms are possible or even non-heart related conditions such as gastroesophageal reflux disease and even anxiety and stress may trigger such symptoms. go get checked.
i have chest pain for years but its started to get stronger by the day. its like someone holding me downhow would i know if i'm having a heart attack?
if you have suffered from chest pain for years an it is now worsening you have unstable angina. this could be a sign of an impending myocardial infarction (heart attack) get seen today by a physician. now. don't keep reading get up get on the phone get in to your emergency room. really.
is it possible to have poor blood circulation even if you have a normal heart rate and blood pressure?
while heart disease and arterial disease are strongly related heart rate and blood pressure alone are not necessarily related. a history of angina or heart attacks is related and if present should make one be more suspicious of arterial disease in the legs or carotid arteries.
is it safe to stop abruptly taking 25 mg of metoprolol for 2 weeks?
metoprolol & other beta blockers should not be stopped abruptly: doing so can cause rebound hypertension rapid heart beat angina heart attack (in those with coronary disease) or thyroid storm (in those with overactive thyroid). this class of drugs should be tapered gradually to prevent such rebound.
is it safe to stop abruptly taking 25 mg of metoprolol for 2 weeks?
that is a low dose of metoprolol but suddenly stopping beta blockers can cause a rebound in blood pressure and/or heart rate even possibly trigger angina in people who are unstable. check with your doctor first.
i am 62 yrs. old male & had my byepass 4 yrs. back. now my ecg reads as i have biatrial enlargment inferolateral ischemia. is it serious?
depends on prior ecg's and whether you are having symptoms suggestive of angina. check with your cardiologist.
i have been having chest pains on the right hand side and when i do i have a rapid pulse of around 120bpm my mum has angina do you think its linked?
although it very unlikely in a 19 year old there are things like a congenital malformation of the coronary arteries or a myocardial bridge that can cause it so go see a doctor and get it checked out.
i have achy dull chest pain every once in a while lasting usually about 5 minutes if that. exercise does not worsen itpacs &pvcs at times; ekg normal.?
your pain is not anginal in character so it is not likely to be do to coronary artery disease. the underlying cause of your extra heartbeats should be clarified by a careful listening for a heart murmur check of your blood pressure careful taking of your history and perhaps an echocardiogram. your esophagus could be another source of pain (inflammation or reflux of stomach acid).
i had a pain in the center of my chest for like 5mins then it went away. could i have had a heart attack? it isn't there anymore.
even under the best (worst) of circumstances 5 minutes is an inadequate time for irreversible damage to the heart to have set in. i would say that it's remotely possible that you had a transient event called unstable angina but at 18yrs old that's absurdly unlikely. it's very likely not your heart but if it is it's more likely related to something called vasospasm than coronary issues.
is hawthorn tea good for heart palpitations?
the university of maryland medical center states that the antioxidants found in hawthorn berries may be responsible for treating a long list of cardiac respiratory and circulatory conditions. hawthorn berries are especially helpful in combating heart disease high blood pressure palpitations chest pains (angina) and elevated cholesterol levels.
is having pain in your neck shoulder chest and down your arm called having a heart attack even if its only mild breathing difficulties?
the pattern of symptoms you describe is very suspicious for a heart attack or angina pec toros caused by not enough blood getting to the heart. this person should be carefully checked for coronary artery disease.
i am 25 years old. is it possible to have a heart attack?
in your age it is extremely unlikely. only if you would have certain forms of abnormal lipids in the blood due to genetic mutation anatomic abnormalities severe prinzmetal's angina.
i know someone who died of ischemia. what caused the sudden heart attack?
most are progressive narrowing to the point of serious impairment of coronary blood flow with exercize etc. causing angina or heart attack some are acute thrombus on a plaque or elevation of the plaque like a trap door- dissection or rupture of the built up area of disease.
i am having heart attack symptoms could it be anxiety or my acid reflux?
remember a heart attack is an occlusion of a coronary artery and doesn't mean cardiac arrest. if you develop sudden crushing chest pain not relieved with rest you may be having a heart attack. seek urgent medical attention. chest pain associated with activity could be angina and you should be checked out.
i've been having heart attack symptoms left arm pain and shoulder pain that alternates to the right side. what could be wrong?
listen to your body sound like you might ae angina for real. see your family doctor and get the proper work up and treatment before you have a massive heart attack!
i am on synthroid (thyroxine) for hypothyroid. i suffer from chest pain palpitations similar to angina when i am on the medication when i stop medication these sensations disappear.
you should consult your physician regarding the dose of your medication synthroid (thyroxine). you are probably taking higher dose of medication than needed. the dose of synthroid (thyroxine) need to be decreased and you should get your tsh level checked. make an appointment today.
i am on synthroid (thyroxine) for hypothyroid. i suffer from chest pain palpitations similar to angina when i am on the medication when i stop medication these sensations disappear.
you may actually have angina induced by the medication although this should not come and go with individual doses of the medications. should see your doc to rule this out.
i am on synthroid (thyroxine) for hypothyroid. i suffer from chest pain palpitations similar to angina when i am on the medication when i stop medication these sensations disappear.
you may have cardiovascular disease which can become symptomatic when stimulated by synthroid (thyroxine). therefore we may want to find that our first then work with your doctor to adjust the doses to see if he or she will find a tolerable level for you!
i felt induce tachycardia and mild chest pain when im on workout after a month off with it. is it angina? or is it normal uncondition for workout?
doubtful you have coronary disease at 29 but nothing is impossible. may be a bit exaggerated for only one month without exercise - unless had been bed-ridden. many other causes as well dehydration acid reflux pulmonary emboli . as will all chest pain - if in doubt best to have it checked out at least once. hard to say without ecg further history and perhaps additional tests.
i felt induce tachycardia and mild chest pain when im on workout after a month off with it. is it angina? or is it normal uncondition for workout?
any exercise induced chest pain should be evaluated by a medical professional before further heavy exercise. in young people the risk of coronary artery disease is relatively low but it is not zero especially in the setting of major risk factors like diabetes or smoking.
i walk 5 minutes & get feeling of something stuck in throat & right arm pain. passes after 5 minutes and i'm ok. ekg bloodwork fine. thoughts?
if you have risk factors for heart disease (family hx smoker cholesterol diabetes obesity) you should probably have an exercise stress test. women often do not have typical symptoms of angina (heart pain). a stress test is easy to do and if normal will give you a level of reassurance that everything is fine.
i have a-fib v-tach and angina why would tikosyn (dofetilide) be prefrable to flecanide?
treatment of heart rhythm problems can be very complicated. flecainide is contraindicated in patients with hx of heart attack (increased mortality) and chronic atrial fibrillation (excessive rhythm problems).
i have a-fib v-tach and angina why would tikosyn (dofetilide) be prefrable to flecanide?
there are risks associated with all antiarrhythmic drugs. doctors choose them based on the individual patient and their status. discuss with your doctor.
i am a 26 year old male 6'6'' 300 lbs. i've been having left chest pain and left arm numb followed by strong burp. ekg and nuke stress neg. any ideas?
yes -- you may have gerd or reflux esophagitis giving chest pain that radiates to the left arm just like cardiac angina -- take some prilosec once or twice a day for about a week -- hope you feel better.
if someone had angina at 130bpm would you expect angina everyytime the heart rate is 130bpm?
if it is stable angina.
if 15mins biking causes chest pain at 130bpm but walking upstairs 1min causes 150bpm no chest pain can angina be ruled out? 22 male had stress ecg
probably but need more information.
is it actually true that an ecg will detect angina?
angina is the symptom chest pain caused by coronary artery ischemia. an ecg taken while angina is occurring will often be abnormal with characteristic findings.
i'm 21 had angina-like pains when running all my life. since a flu 3 months ago been experiencing breathlessness and palps; i'm almost immobile. ekgs echo blood tests normal. could it still be heart?
look for other causes such as thyroid and adrenal disease as well as other possibles. the fact that it only exercise induced may be important. consider asking as a stress echo.
i'm 21 had angina-like pains when running all my life. since a flu 3 months ago been experiencing breathlessness and palps; i'm almost immobile. ekgs echo blood tests normal. could it still be heart?
or holter moniter? these are 2 other tests i would do before giving you the all clear!
if someone had angina. would you expect the pain to come eveytime it reaches the same heart rate the pain occurred before?
if a person has obstructive coronary artery disease that is a narrowing/stenosis/"blockage" of 70% or more in one of the vessels one would generally expect that at a certain workload/"heart rate" range that the person would be expected to have angina. an exception would be in the case that the person develops small blood vessels around the blockage; this may change the hr that angina occurs.
i'm 21 and have had problems with angina-like pain all mylife. more recently i have started getting palpitations and breathlessness. i have had ekgs holter echos bloods and cardiac ct angiogram done. have i left any bases uncovered?
you seem hung up on cardiac causes but you haven't said anything about consultation with a gastroenterologist to look at your esophagus. esophageal spasm can mimic angina and can even get better with nitroglycerin. you should also consider whether or not this is an anxiety or panic attack.
i'm 21 and have had problems with angina-like pain all mylife. more recently i have started getting palpitations and breathlessness. i have had ekgs holter echos bloods and cardiac ct angiogram done. have i left any bases uncovered?
pretext probability given your age was incredibly low for cad & incredibly thorough evaluation safely rules this out. . gi musculoskeletal or anxiety could be other causes.
i'm 21 and have had problems with angina-like pain all mylife. more recently i have started getting palpitations and breathlessness. i have had ekgs holter echos bloods and cardiac ct angiogram done. have i left any bases uncovered?
if after a that you still have chest pain it's likely not really angina and may be due to something else. angina is 21 year olds is quite uncommon.
it feels like someone is standing on my chest short of breath + irregular heart beat with my history what do u think?
should get evaluated to r/o another episode of pulmonary embolism and possibly angina and congestive heart failure. are you taking your coumadin (warfarin)? are you therapeutic in your inr? do you have an inferior vena cava filter placed in the past?
i got angina when i was 18 years old; now i am 22. i had stress ecg ecg 24 hour ecg echo cardiac mri and cardiac mra done. my heart is structurally perfect. is there any point in getting any other testing done at a young age?
extensive workup especially given age. if everything is ok anatomically and no abnormal cardiac rhythm consider non cardiac causes.
i got angina when i was 18 years old; now i am 22. i had stress ecg ecg 24 hour ecg echo cardiac mri and cardiac mra done. my heart is structurally perfect. is there any point in getting any other testing done at a young age?
chest pain is a common complaint in young people and most of the time it is not heart pain. the testing that has been performed is more than enough.
i got angina when i was 18 years old; now i am 22. i had stress ecg ecg 24 hour ecg echo cardiac mri and cardiac mra done. my heart is structurally perfect. is there any point in getting any other testing done at a young age?
you did not say f you ever fainted or have had dizzy spells or if there is a family history of heart disease fainting/dizzy spells or sudden death. absent any of those there is likely no reason to have more tests.
if echo stress ekg and x-ray come back clear what are the chances of having coronary artery spasms& would the studies have shown a presence?
coronary spasm occurs both in patients with blockages as well as in patients without (the classic prinzemetals angina description). most tests would not show it unless a provoking factor was stimulated or initiated (example ergonovine). it's often made as a diagnosis only after witnessing spasm or ischemia under provocation after anatomically defining the extent of coronary disease.
is it normal with idiopathic dcm and a bi vent icd to have pain or pressure in your chest with walking? i stopped and rested took bp-normal hr-95.
what you are describing is angina pectoris. it could represent a coronary artery obstruction. the symptoms merit a careful examination by ones doctor or by a cardiologist.
is kft & lft is required after angiography test (done) for a patient suffering from abnormal angina/rapid heartbeat and high bp?
by kft and lft i am assuming you mean kidney function tests and liver function tests. only kidney function tests need to be monitored as the contrast used for the angiogram can affect the kidneys. the doctor ordering the angiogram should have already checked the labwork prior to the study. i hope that helps.
i get angina symptoms but the doctors say that my heart is fine. small vessel disease showed up in stress test cta x-ray echo and ekg. i have 10 lesions in my brain and theyre trying to rule out ms but would they miss svd in mri?
both stress test with radiotracer (nuclear stress test) and cardiac mri with contrast can have findings that correlate with small vessel disease. if a nuclear stress test is definitely positive the cta negative and the person has typical anginal symptoms; they more likely have small vessel disease than anything else. chest pain on a treadmill remains the most reliable indicator for true angina.
i get angina symptoms but the doctors say that my heart is fine. small vessel disease showed up in stress test cta x-ray echo and ekg. i have 10 lesions in my brain and theyre trying to rule out ms but would they miss svd in mri?
small vessel disease typically not seen with any of the above tests. sometimes we can see in angiogram. sometimes it is more of a clinical diagnosis.
i get angina symptoms but the doctors say that my heart is fine. small vessel disease showed up in stress test cta x-ray echo and ekg. i have 10 lesions in my brain and theyre trying to rule out ms but would they miss svd in mri?
consider being checked for antiphospholipid antibody syndrome which is a clotting disorder which could explain some of your symptoms. if you have had blood clots or miscarriages in the past you definitely need to be checked.
i get angina symptoms but the doctors say that my heart is fine. small vessel disease showed up in stress test cta x-ray echo and ekg. i have 10 lesions in my brain and theyre trying to rule out ms but would they miss svd in mri?
the brain i assume was evaluated with the cta and mri with contrast. the heart with a stress test. not sure from your question if a cta was done of the heart. if your having on going chest pain but tests look ok then arterial spasm small vessel dz non cardiac sources should be ruled out. can't really tell what tests were done for your heart vs brain. ? what type of stress was done etc.
i have squeezing chest pressure and bleching. heart attack? i have no left arm pain but keep belching and i am bloated.
if you are an 18 year old female this decreases risk for a heart attack. however squeezing chest pressure and belching can be symptoms for a heart attack or for angina. it you were an older man i would likely recommend that you call 911. please seek medical care if you your pain is not resolving or right away if you have any trouble breathing.
what is the difference between acute coronary syndrome unstable angina and mi?
acute coronary syndrome or unstable angina usually means chest pain due interruption of blood flow to the heart muscle. myocardial infarction ( mi) implies damage to the heart muscle due to prolonged interruption of the blood flow to the heart muscle.
what is the difference between acute coronary syndrome unstable angina and mi?
all are caused by not enough blood flow to the heart. mi causes permanent damage. unstable angina does not. acute coronary syndrome can be applied to either of the others.
i have a high hr an don't no why now my husband as he explains as a bubble feelin in chest that drops to abdom area w/also heart racing suggestions? 2wk
a serious condition such as angina or even a heart attack. he needs to see a doctor as soon as possible.
is inderal (propranolol) good med for skipped beats and fast heart rate. my dr just put me on it. 10 mg twice a day. 48 year old female with normal bp.
management of hypertension; angina pectoris; pheochromocytoma; essential tremor; supraventricular arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation and flutter av nodal re-entrant tachycardias) ventricular tachycardias (catecholamine-induced arrhythmias digoxin toxicity); prevention of myocardial infarction; migraine headache prophylaxis; symptomatic treatment of hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.
what does it mean if you get left arm pain during attacks of svt?
many patients experience vague chest pain with svt however any symptom that may represent cardiac ischemia (angina) should be evaluated. think about it this way. stress testing identifies blocked arteries in the heart by increasing the heart rate to uncover problems with the blood supply. with svt the heart is essentially undergoing a stress test- if blocked arteries exist symptoms may develop.
when is bradycardia useful for the body?
a healthy heart closely regulates its rate to provide the amount of blood that it needed. seasoned athletes often have resting bradycardia because their stroke volume (amt of blood pumped per beat) is large and their peripheral muscles are efficient. people with angina benefit from bradycardia because it reduces their myocardial oxygen consumption. pts with mitral stenosis also benefit.
if a patient having angina pectoris is also suffering from hypotension and bradycardia which antianginal can be used that do not exacerbate hypotensio?
ranolazine is a specific antianginal therapy that does not cause bradycardia or hypotension. beta blockers and calcium channel blockers should be avoided in bradycardia while nitrates should be avoided in hypotension. angina may also be caused by bradycardia if slower than the heart demands. a treadmill test to evaluate for an appropriate rise in heart rate would help.
if a patient having angina pectoris is also suffering from hypotension and bradycardia which antianginal can be used that do not exacerbate hypotensio?
nitrates and some calcium channel blockers but you should have an angiogram.
if i have an enlarged heart due to hypertension along with angina palpitations and breathlessness does this mean i have heart disease?
all heart disease is not created equal however. generally when we talk about heart disease we are speaking if coronary artery disease which at your tender years you don't have. you could have a congenital cardiomyopathy or a viral cardiomyopathy of myopathy based on essential hypertension. an enlarged heart and high blood pressure is "heart disease". talk with your cardiologist for clarifying.
is intermittent tingling on two fingers and a pressure feeling on the tip of thumb on my left hand a sign of impending stroke or heart attack?
this may be related to a nerve compression syndrome but tia or atypical angina need to be considered. see your doc to get it checked out.
what happens to someone with graves who has a heart attack?
if you have thyrotoxicosis (hyperactivity of thyroid) from graves disease it can complicate a heart attack by worsening angina and increasing the heart rate and arrhythmias. it has to be immediately counteracted by large dose of beta blockers and medications to control your thyroid including steroids.
what is angina how do you know if chest pain isnt from a heart attack?
angina is a symptom of coronary artery disease. whether or not your chest pain is cardiac in origin is best answered by a visit to your doctor or nearest er if necessary.
what is angina how do you know if chest pain isnt from a heart attack?
angina basically means chest pain. there are symptoms that tend to tell us that someone is having a heart attack. one can have squeezing type of chest pain or a heaviness on the chest. the pain can radiate up to the neck jaw or left shoulder and arm. there is usually shortness of breath and cold sweats as well as palpitations. nausea and vomiting can also occur.
what happens if someone goes to the doctor with heart attack symptoms and told they're fine?
a person may have pre infarction anginal symptoms which are unique to that person or no symptoms at all. that is why serial troponins are obtained and patients kept in observation. if serial troponins do not elevate there was no infarction. the person could have experienced pre infarction angina or equivalent or other diagnosis. further evaluation warranted if clinically indicated.
what foes a high digoxin level mean? can it cause chest pains?
ditalis toxicity can cause gi symptoms such as nausea and vomiting neurological symptoms such as yellow vision arrhythmias both brady and tachy. one might have anginal pain with ashd and a tachyarrhythmia.
if someone had angina from a quick bp drop but stabilizes will it cause damage or cause ventricular tachycardia?
if the angina was caused by the blood pressure drop (caused for example by a medication) and it resolved (and the heart rhythm was normal) when the blood pressure returned to norma l it is unlikely it caused permanent damage. however if the angina was the cause of the blood pressure drop that would be more concerning. either way this needs to be carefully evaluated by a doc.
what is isosorbide mononitrate used for?
it is a longer acting nitrate to vasodilate coronary arteries if a patient has exertional angina.
what are the symptoms of dilated cardiomyopathy?
some patients may be asymptomatic but others have symptoms that range from exertional fatigue to overt anginal chest pain to exertional shortness of breath to overt heart failure with severe shortness of breath on low levels of exertion. the extreme involves syncope from near fatal or fatal ventricular arrhythmias to fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction (heart attack).
what is the difference between metoprolol succinate and metoprolol tartrate?
metoprolol succinate is an extended-release version dosed once daily meanwhile metoprolol tartrate is an immediate-release (short duration) version dosed twice daily for long-term management. both can treat hypertension and angina (chest pain) however succinate is also indicated for heart failure and tartrate can be used to treat an acute myocardial infarction (heart attack).
what are the symptoms of hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy?
some patients may be asymptomatic but others have symptoms that range from exertional fatigue to overt anginal chest pain to exertional shortness of breath to overt heart failure with severe shortness of breath on low levels of exertion. the extreme involves syncope from near fatal or fatal ventricular arrhythmias to fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction (heart attack).
what's the difference between metoprolol succinate and metoprolol tart?
metoprolol succinate is an extended-release version dosed once daily meanwhile metoprolol tartrate is an immediate-release (short duration) version dosed twice daily for long-term management. both can treat hypertension and angina (chest pain) however succinate is also indicated for heart failure and tartrate can be used to treat an acute myocardial infarction (heart attack).
what is the difference between a heart attack myocardial infarction?
heart attack is a general term that can include chest pain from angina to bad rhythms in your heart or any other discomfort causing heart related abnormality. however myocardial infarction means that the blood flow to part of your heart has be compromised and is killing the muscle of your heart. this is when we take you to a catheter lab and place stents in your arteries to open up the flow.
is unstable angina controlled by just a beta blocker? or does it need a combination of beta ace-inhibitors calcium blockers or other?
true unstable angina means having chest pain at rest with shortness of breath etc and needs urgent evaluation for possible angioplasty with stent placement if needed.
i get this weird mild pain in my left arm that comes and goes is that a sign of a heart attack?
if you are a 21 year old generally healthy male it is unlikely that left arm pain is an "anginal equivalent" i. e. due to inadequate blood supply to heart muscle. things that would make it more likely to be cardiac in nature would be if it is mostly brought on by physical activity. even if your arm pain is exertional it is unlikely to be cardiac in nature unless u have a strong family history
why do people take beta-blocker's?
angina coronary artery disease high blood pressure chf atrial fibrillation and other heart rhythm disorders palpitations public speaking anxiety tremor and migraines all can see some benefit from beta blockers. cad chf af and bp are the most common reasons.
what is the difference between a heart attack and angina pain?
insufficient blood flow to the heart usually during exertion or other forms of stress due to a partial blockage causes chest pain lasting 5 to 10 minutes and is referred to as angina. persistent complete or near complete interruption of blood flow to the heart muscle results in permanent damage and is referred to as a heart attack. the pain usually lasts much longer than 5 to 10 minutes.
what is the difference between a heart attack and angina pain?
a heart attack is usually a reference to dead cardiac muscle while angina is discomfort caused by ischemia (oxygen starvation short of actual muscle injury/death).
whats the difference between isosorbide mononitrate vs isosorbide dinitrate?
the main difference is how long they last. most dinitrate products are designed to be taken at least 2 x a day where as most of the mononitrate products once a day. they both are quite effective at controlling angina when appropriately prescribed. some side effects thought a bit less with mono v. di but that varies a lot from person to person.
what the difference between my anxiety symptoms and angina? the left side of my body goes numb after eating. i've been examined in the er and the doctors said i have no signs of heart attack stroke or cancer. i didn't notice i was depressed. could i be
angina means heart pain which is much much more likely to occur in older people and during physical exertion while panic attacks are often random or due to some specific trigger such as supermarket/closed space likely elevator etc. . during a panic attack the symptoms are quite like angina. being 24 and had work-up without cardiac involvement panic is likely. consult doc for treatment. good luck.
if i got good blood lipid profile result is it possible to get heart attack or suffering from angina.
a good lipid profile lowers the risk of heart attack or angina. it is certainly better than having a high ldl or other negative lipid numbers. however it is still possible to have a cardiac event even with good lipids. heredity diabetes age and smoking all can affect the risk of heart disease even in the presence of normal lipids.
i have just been let out of hospital after two day thinking i had angina had five ecg chest x-ray twelve blood test blood pressure and all come back?
post hospitalization instructions will advise you to either follow up with your family physician or specialist. please refer to your hospital discharge instructions!
i am experiencing impotence since being diag with angina and arrythmia no problems b4 tking asprin simvastatin nicorandil bisoprolol fumatate help.
erectile dysfunction (ed) that occurs with a more sudden onset is often due to new medications. bisoprolol is just one of many that can cause this. depending on the arrhthymia your have there may be alternative meds that have less effect on you in this area. also consider any new stress/anxiety perhaps related to your new diagnoses that can also induce ed.
i am experiencing impotence since being diag with angina and arrythmia no problems b4 tking asprin simvastatin nicorandil bisoprolol fumatate help.
there are 2 issues: medications and psychological. bisoprolol can interfere with both libido and potency but many men also have difficulty with concentration and self-confidence after a diagnosis of heart disease. nicorandil and simvastatin are not generally the culprits. bisoprolol and others in its class are excellent for angina & must not be stopped abruptly if at all. go slow & give it time.
i am experiencing impotence since being diag with angina and arrythmia no problems b4 tking asprin simvastatin nicorandil bisoprolol fumatate help.
beta-blocker medications in your case bisoprolol can have the side effect of erectile dysfunction (ed). the same artery disease affecting the heart may affect the penis. the psychological reaction to the discovery of a new diseases will also complicate your ed. speak with cardiologist about ed specifically & whether it's safe to try a different dose or beta-blocker brand/class.
i can't tell if i am having a heart flutter or not. i just get this weird feeling in the top of my chest sometimes. no pain or fast heart beat. help?
the story here is important. angina is classically discomfort worse with exertion and relieved with rest. if you have this "weird" feeling and you run down the street and it gets better that is not a heart attack! if it occurs with meals when you assume a certain position when you see a certain person it could have more or less significance (esp. if you're in love:]! ). get a check-up soon
what is angina chest wall pain and a mild heart attack?
angina is chest pain that occurs when there is a partial blockage of one of the coronary arteries. this is as opposed to heart attack when there is a near total occlusion.
what is angina chest wall pain and a mild heart attack?
angina-chest pain from heart issue with ischemia low coronary flow and no permanent damage. mild heart attack includes some damage to the heart in a localized area with ekg or cardiac cell death and enzyme release. massive heart attack is more cells damaged- killed. chest pain many causes from heart to lung to esophagus or the chest wall( ribs muscle pleura etc)and more.
if at left main (lm) there is 50% stenosis and stenting has not been done whether af ablation can be performed?
af ablation is done in the left atrium. your left main arises in the aorta. they're physically separate. ablation can be performed. note: the left main is generally not stented. if you develop angina or have evidence of ischemia objectively bypass surgery has been shown to prolong life as well as relieve symptoms.
what are heart attack symptoms in women?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
what causes chest pain and rapid heart rate during a panic attack?
you are flooded with adrenaline which would normally occur in fight or flight stress responses when you are faced with life or death emergencies. this activates nerves supplying muscles in heart and elsewhere. if the heart muscles blood supply is compromised pain or even angina can occur. but initially the lactate from metabolism of glycogen as an energy supply can cause muscle pain.
i've done the ecg the doctor said i had hypoxia.
unless your doctor meant that you have hypoxia of the heart muscle i. e. heart attack or angina i do not know what the diagnosis of "hypoxia" means. you might want to get a second opinion.
will imdur along with bisoprolol reduce or eliminate angina pain during jogging?
it depends on how bad your coronary artery disease is. if you are taking imdur i do not think you should be jogging. but normal walking would suffice. ask your cardiologist.
will all forms of angina show up on an ekg and x-rays?
definitely not on an x-ray and probably not on an ekg. a transient reduction in coronary artery blood flow is not likely to show up on an ekg.
will all forms of angina show up on an ekg and x-rays?
none of it will show up on a standard x-ray. you may need either a stress test or a stress test with imaging (nuclear medicine scan). another non invasive option is a ct coronary angiogram. not all places do this although it is becoming more commonplace.
went to hospital in canada with angina enzyme levels were 14 does that mean i had a small heart attack?
what enzyme? was tested? what is their normal range? any ekg? any echo? any follow up echo or ekg? see your doctor get canada medical record.
went to hospital in canada with angina enzyme levels were 14 does that mean i had a small heart attack?
the cardiac enzyme numbers usually mean that the heart has sustained some damage and you may have had a small heart attack. but you should follow up with your doctor and make sure that your heart function is normal after that. also you should make important lifestyle changes if they are needed. definitely follow up and good luck!
i walk daily for around 45 mins. i take ivabradine 5 mg daily once after lunch. do i have anything to worry health wise?
you'll have to ask your doctor who knows you and your history and data that question. if you're on that drug it is used for angina pectoris mostly and for chf in some patients. if you're taking it for some other reason.? it isn't a drug most of us would prescribe if you don't have some kind of problem that will be helped by it.
what are the means by which beta-blocker drugs help in treatment of angina?
they reduced heart rate and therefore oxygen consumption by the heart.
what are the means by which beta-blocker drugs help in treatment of angina?
they slow the heart rate and lower blood pressure this decreases myocardial oxygen demand and lengthens time for diastolic filling of heart vessels.
when i have angina pain in ribs rt arm tingling pain and short of breath when exercising. should i go to the er? hbp minimal atelectasis tachy
the er. although you're still young to have serious heart condition still go to the er for worsening chest pain and sob. i presume u had previous ekg's ct/mri/xrays of chest based on the history you've given. ask the er dr and your physician for the cause of your symptoms. if heart condition is ruled out possibly you may have anxiety/panic attack thyroid condition white coat syndrome arrythmia etc.
when i have angina pain in ribs rt arm tingling pain and short of breath when exercising. should i go to the er? hbp minimal atelectasis tachy
yes go to er if you experience any chest pain. your cardiologist should be aware of all such symptoms.
when i have angina pain in ribs rt arm tingling pain and short of breath when exercising. should i go to the er? hbp minimal atelectasis tachy
its not necessary angina but if its a new problem go to the er anyways to make sure its not a pe (pulmonary embolism). hope its nothing major. not sure how you know you have atx. good luck.
i may have clogged heart arteries but cant afford angioplasty. what are cheaper alternatives? can i just do medications & proper care/diet?
specific answers to an individual case need healthtap prime. general info: when chronic stable angina(e. g. chest pain/pressure or trouble breathing from poor oxygen flow to the heart)limits activity despite treatment or when clot blocking left main or multiple arteries w heart not pumping well procedures not just meds preferred. abrupt symptoms or onset of rest symptoms may be heart attack.
what is causing this twitching in my chest? stress test was great echo was great also my ekg was fine. i'm not having any pain with. any idea?
"twitching" as a form of angina (= chest pain from coronary artery blockages) is rare. so if you have no other symptoms (pain or numbness in your chest jaw or arms; shortness of breath dizziness/fainting) no family history of early heart disease or sudden death no high blood pressure or high cholesterol the odds that you have coronary blockages is low.
how high does blood pressure get before a heart attack?
no number is the "magic number" but very high pressures (for example >200/>110) when associated with angina are considered a "hypertensive emergency" and should be promptly treated. symptoms of stroke heart failure kidney failure or encephalopathy (confusion) are the key symptoms of a hypertensive crisis.
will ekgs and blood work tell if im at risk for a heart attack?
ekg and blood work can tell if on is having a heart attack. chest pain due to coronary artery disease ( angina) may not be detected with either of these tests. stress test may be indicated. again stress test may be falsely negative. coronary angiography is the gold standard to rule out narrowing of coronary arteries.
how can i differntiate betwen heart attack and heart burn?
one can be easily confused with the other and it is important to see a doctor to find out. generally speaking angina pain tends to last 2 to 5 minutes comes on with exercise and resolves with rest. heart burn pain tends to be related to certain types of oily acidic or spicy food can lasts or hours and some relief noted with antacids. warning. do not try to self diagnose!
how does heart burn feel differently from heart attack pain?
heart burn usually occurs after eating and heart attack pain (angina) usually occurs after strenuous activity. . but either can occur in either scenario.
is there any reason other than afib for a patient to be on iv heparin in the hospital before going for cabg?
heparin can be used to prevent blood clots in a bedridden patient; it can also be used in a patient having unstable angina.
wake up with discomfort in heart region but after 1hr vigorous exercise feel fine. i take atenolol lisinopril flecainide for mild arrhythmia. worry?
we hear chest pain there is concern. though generally chest pain increases with exertion unstable angina can cause pain at any time. you may try something for reflux like zantac (ranitidine) prior to bed but consider a baby asa and follow up with your doc. good luck.
would ecg during exertional angina show signs of angina? no one believes me as im 22 so i've got a 24hour ecg monitor
ecg during a treadmill study may show signs of ischemia i. e. poor blood flow to the heart. 24-hour monitoring is not detailed enough to show this. it is meant more for rhythm abnormality analysis.
what heart conditions can cause ectopic heart beats?
conditions can cause it. like coffee and energy drinks dehydration alcohol smoking cold medicine street drugs like marihuana lack of physical conditioning/ obesity hyperthyroidism anxiety attacks to mention few. heart conditions like angina hypertension conduction delays etc. or just can be normal for a person. i get pvc's after exercise. normal echo and stress test. see your physician.
how can you tell the difference between heart attack and angina?
angina is the symptom of chest pain. it does not necessarily mean you are having a heart attack or even have heart disease. heart attack is a laymen's term for damage to the heart muscle from inadequate blood to part of the heart muscle usually due to a temporary or permanent blockage of one or more coronary arteries. only a doctor can tell the difference.
how can you tell the difference between heart attack and angina?
serial troponin elevation is very sensitive for myocardial cell death. clinical suspiciousness may lead to diagnose an acute myocardial infarction before the troponins begin to elevate and lead to emergency coronary revascularization within an hour of arrival to the emergency room thus preventing death and significantly preserving myocardial function and improving patient survival.
had heart attack with two stents currently having sharp pains left side of chest one in lad/ld the pain is like some one 56 year old female
over time new blockages or stent stenosis can occur. your recurrent symptom of angina is likely to be sign of coronary obstruction. does it respond to nitroglycerin? see your cardiologist soon.
how long could you have chest pressure before a heart attack?
chest pain due to blockage without heart damage usually lasts 5-10 minutes then it goes away. this is angina pectoris. prolonged pain of the same type often lasts 30 minutes or more during a heart attack. it is rare for pain to last much over an hr or two without relief. some folks have painless heart attacks.
how accurate is an electrocardiogram?
is a useful test. it depends what we order it for. all people with hypertension should have a baseline ekg we like to compare an old ekg when pt gets another ekg when having angina. ekg can detect heart attach changes (not all the time). so it is important to have a doctor order and interpret ekg on the right clinical scenario.
how do i know if i have costochondritis pain and not a heart attack?
if pain is alongside your breast bone (sternum) and is worsened by pressing along the ribs there or worsened by coughing or deep breathing more likely costochondritis and less likely heart attack. . if worsened by activity and associated with nausea sweating arm or neck pain lightheadedness shortness of breath and not with touching the ribs near the sternum then possibly angina.
how do i know if i have costochondritis pain and not a heart attack?
costochondriis is inflammation of the junction between cartilage in the front of the rib cage and the bony rib. it is a sharp soreness that hurts particularly as the chest moves (mist noticeable in inspiration or with palpating). it lasts a split second. angina is a deeper more visceral sensation. it represents nervous stimulation due to lack oxygen in hert tissue. lasts minutes.
i'm a 37y/o female and i 've been having this pain on my chest jaw both my arms and mg neck feel heavy. am i having a heart attack or angina?
symptoms could very well be related to heart. you should seek medical help without delay to rule out cardiac disease.
i'm a 37y/o female and i 've been having this pain on my chest jaw both my arms and mg neck feel heavy. am i having a heart attack or angina?
it's possible - you should go to an er to be evaluated to find out.
will prinzmetal angina kill me?
this form of angina differs from usual angina in that the pain can occur at rest and the cardiographic changes are different. treatment is similar as is clinical course. if you smoke stop. if you are overweight lose weight! take your meds as prescribed and if you continue to get pain you need adjustment of your medications - perhaps a longer-acting form of nitroglycerin or higher doses.
i'm 22 female type 1 diabetic 20 years & graves disease. had baby 12/2 & sick for month. angina irregular heartrate syncope short of breath. help?
i would suggest having your thyroid function tests obtained and an evaluation for autoimmune disease. the other test that you should have while you are at the pcp is an ekg.
went for thread mill stress test. at 85% heart rate it is ok but at 110% slightly positive. how do you interpret this result.
if one exercises for 9 minutes or more on a standard bruce protocol stress test even if one has known coronary disease the prognosis is excellent. however decisions concerning further testing such as a stress echo test or an angiogram take into consideration the presence or absence of angina (chest pain) during the test the amount of abnormality on the ekg during the test and other factors.
why ivabradine is not available in the u. s.?
ivabradine has been approved for marketing for patients with angina by several regulatory agencies throughout the world. the drug has never been submitted for review by the fda because the french manufacturer servier lacked an american subsidiary to market the drug. however in july 2013 amgen announced that it had obtained commercial rights in the u. s. to this novel oral drug for further tests.
what is the difference between impending heart attack symptoms and actual heart attack symptoms?
angina can be quite severe and respond to rest oxygen nitroglycerin. and fully recover with no muscle death. the pain fibers are the same source. some myocardial infarction can be asymptomatic all the way to the worst ominous pain ever! there is heart muscle death as the defining entity may need surgery or intervention.
why are heart palpitations so annoying and scary? can it itself lead to heart attack ever?
and are associated with serious conditions including ischemia and angina and heart attack. many times a few irregularities are rare benign and no risk. if very fast persistent then there is risk and the body brain responds with fight or flight response.
how serious are coronary spasm? is this different than a heart attack?
if you have all the tests done and the cardiologist decided that you have variant/prinzmetal angina you are prone to have a variable course. generally you have good prognosis if they did not find any lesions on the cath. recurrent chest pain and very rarely mi/ arrhythmia can occur.
how do you know if you are having a heart attack or it's "angina"?
there is no foolproof way to tell the difference without er/hospital studies - generally if one has a history of angina and it isn't resolving with rest or nitrates or has a different character (more intense or with accomp. pain elsewhere or nausea/sweating) -- it may be a heart attack and he/she should get to the er right away. new chest pain should always be eval'd right away. time is tissue!
how do i know when someone is truly having a heart attack? does it go on for days? is chest pain always present?
determining if a patient is having a heart attack requires looking at a compilation of the patient's history (circumstances of pain) ekg and lab analysis. chest pain is not always present (there is less chance of typical chest pain in women and diabetics) and even without a heart attack (myocardial infarction) a patient may be having angina (chest pain from heart strain) that also needs care.
why is it that you need to dilate the veins to avoid tachycardia induced by drugs?
purely vasodilating drugs can induce a reflex tachycardia. examples are hyralazine and nifedipine. it is for this reason that these drugs are not used by themselves in patients with angina but must be given with a rate modifying drug often a beta blocker. and it's not venous dilitation it's arterial dilitation.
how can you tell the difference between esophegeal spasms and heart palpitations?
heart palpitations does not cause the pain in the mid chest like what you would feel with esophageal spasm -- in fact you can not differentiate esophageal or heart cause of angina pectoris or chest pain.
would a holter stress test and echo rule out heart disease in 40 year old female with chest pain and arm pain. when im stressed i get pain from lft shoulder down to my elbow. low to norm bp.
if you have chest pain and shoulder pain whenever you experience stress or anxiety it could be vasospastic angina. it may not show up in regular stress test. it need special tests. consult your physician.
heavy feeling on my chest yesterday and an ache in my arm. could it be angina? i have been lacking excersise. had ekg done a few months ago itwasfine
yes it could be angina; call your doctor.
heart rate decreases to 53-54 in cold temprature 15- 16 c causing increased bp and discomfort. what is the issue?
cold can induce the heart arteries to spasm causing a lack of blood flow to the heart muscle and cause the symptoms you feel. cold can also worsen angina from obstructive coronary artery narrowing. you should avoid such situations and seek medical consultation immediately.
hi my left arm feels cold. and hurts abit was diagnosed with shingles over a week a go but that never happend. had ecg was clear?
your symptoms are atypical for angina and you are young. shingles usually burns and is painful. still shingle can have many features and symptoms. you dont even have to see a rash to be diagnosed with it. other causes could be vasospasm or blocked arteries to arm. pinched nerves as well. go back for follow up and see if more testing is needed to sort things out.
is labetalol as effective as atenolol for pots syndrome and angina? im on prazosin and verapamil but those alone dont control.
labetalol and atenolol are not the same medications. labetaolol has alpha blockade too along with bb. i am assuming you have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. would stick to a pure bb short acting. would talk to your md. a pure bb will also help with angina. this is a imp discussion to have with your md.
i am 35 yrs and have normal bp and prediabetic. recently my palpitation has increased between 110 & 120. doctor has prescribed amtad m25 and cocor am5.
amtas m25 contains amlodipine & metoprolol and cocor am 2. 5 contains amlodipine and bisoprolol. both are a combination of a calcium channel blocker & a beta blocker and both can treat high blood pressure angina and palpitations. i'm not not sure why your doctor has prescribed both to you. if your palpitations continue or if you experience side effects please see your doctor again.
what is anterior ischemia (+ chest pain) & how accurate is an ecg (dr read results & referred to cardiologist) anything to be super concerned about?
anterior ischemia means forward [anterior] heart muscle is not getting enough oxygen. this is representative of angina and ultimately heart attack. ecgs are good but can miss problems. they are not always easy to interpret. there are additional more thorough tests if there is any concern regarding heart muscle ischemia ex: exercise stress test heart catheterization to name the most common.
had heart attack five years ago ended up in coma for 3 day and had a stent put in. for the 3 weeks have chest tightness difficulty breathing ?
stents are helpful but recurrence or new blockages can happen. you are describing angina like symptoms. the pattern of new onset needs attention now.
what to do if chest pain but not a heart attack?
what tests have you had to make sure the chest pain is not a heart attack? you could have angina or you could have costochondritis which is inflammation where cartilage and ribs attach at the breast bone (sternum).
i've been getting this tingling feeling on the left side of my neck and armpit. i just recently stop drinking energy drinks i drank them for over 2 y?
the stress involved in withdrawing from the stimulants might be causing muscle tightness in the neck and some pinched nerves. with your other conditions and risk factors despite your young age i might also want to be reassured by assuring that there was no evidence the symptoms might represent angina. that is symptoms associated with your heart not getting enough blood. an exam would help.
what symptoms might i have months after a silent heart attack? i exercise regularly & have no symptoms but ekg shows possible heart attack.
from none at all to angina or heart attack. worth consult and stress testing. there are multiple causes from congenital to atherosclerosis and aging. be checked.
how do they diagnose acute coronary syndrome? 2nd stage of stress test my heart rate was 170. heart ultra sound shows leaky valve. can hardly exersise
coronary syndrome. . active anginal pain or heart attack.
my heart is pounding so hard it is making my upper back hurt. is this normal? my chest feels heavy and it makes me slightly short of breath. this has been going on for nearly 2 months off and on. is it possibly just stress related?
it sounds like you may have a dysrhythmia (abnormal heartbeat) that is occurring intermittently. there are several types of dysrhythmia that can cause the symptoms you describe but paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia or psvt (see link below) is a fairly common dysrhythmia that can cause your heart rate to increase far beyond normal. whenever your heart beats faster it requires more oxygen to compensate for the increased workload. if your coronary arteries cannot supply enough blood to meet this demand chest or back pain (angina) can result. if this situation persists you could have a heart attack. stress caffeine alcohol and certain medications can increase the irritability of your heart and make a dysrhythmia worse but in most cases the "trigger" for the abnormal rhythm is already present somewhere in the tissues of your heart. other conditions such as anemia could contribute to your symptoms as well. in healthy young adults psvt is typically well-tolerated but any time a dysrhythmia causes angina chest pressure shortness of breath or fainting urgent medical evaluation is warranted. all things considered i think your body is sending you a message. whatever is going on here your heart doesn't seem to be tolerating it. call your doctor as soon as possible for an evaluation. good luck! <link>
hello doctors what does st/t wave changes mean on an ekg?
depending on what the other indicators in history and physical and presentation are this could be a nonspecific finding could also represents ongoing active ischemic heart disease such as a heart attack or angina.
hello doctors what does an ekg and holter monitor detect?
abnormality of heart rhythm htn angina heart attack and many others dx can be made from these tests ask the doctor if and why when they are ordered.
how come some peopke die while exercising? i get nervous sometimes working out because i get palpitations and think i'll have cardiac arrest. anxiety?
can have mi at rest if a vessel thrombosis. but if narrow and heart wants more oxygen during exercize the supply may be limited and cause angina-heart pain or myocardial infarction as next step. to alleviate your concern see cardiologist and do monitored exercize-stress testing.
i have chest pain. doctor called it angina. how do i manage it? how does this affect me in the future? could it have any remote link with thalassemia?
chest pain and diagnosis of angina is no joke you're still young follow your cardiologist 's advice carefully go for cardiac cath if need be reduce weight stop smoking control your blood pressure sugar and cholesterol. thalassemia by itself isn't a major risk factor for developing angina/cardiovascular disease good luck
i have chest pain. doctor called it angina. how do i manage it? how does this affect me in the future? could it have any remote link with thalassemia?
if u have been diagnosed with angina then you ought to be on multiple cardiac meds to treat u optimally. u need to see a cardiologist. further sickle cell disease and thalassemia (depending on severity) would affect angina as it changes the rheologic properties of blood. you need a good hematologist and cardiologist to coordinate your care.
i am a 41 y. o. female. woke up with tightness in my chest tingling in left arm & slight jaw pain. could this be angina?
go to urgent care right away and get examined.
i am a 41 y. o. female. woke up with tightness in my chest tingling in left arm & slight jaw pain. could this be angina?
regardless the cause chest pain tingling in left arm and jaw pains always a red flag and visit to the er is warranted. do not drive call 911.
i am a 41 y. o. female. woke up with tightness in my chest tingling in left arm & slight jaw pain. could this be angina?
call your physician or go to er for evaluation asap.
i am a 41 y. o. female. woke up with tightness in my chest tingling in left arm & slight jaw pain. could this be angina?
symptoms are often atypical. it's not prudent to take a chance. go get checked out today.
my husband has atrial fibrillation and today while walking had a 5-minute episode of burning left-sided chest discomfort. should we be concerned?
i would be concerned. we must rule out a coronary artery disease like angina or a heart attack. i hope that you already consulted with his cardiologist or taken him to the er by the time you read my answer.
metoprolol tartrate what is it used for?
metoprolol tartrate (lopressor) is an immediate-release (short duration) beta-blocker dosed twice daily for long-term management of hypertension and angina (chest pain). metoprolol tartrate can also be used to treat an acute myocardial infarction (heart attack).
metoprolol tartrate what is it used for?
metoprolol is a beta blocker used to treat hypertension coronary artery disease during an acute heart attack or for treatment of angina and congestive heart failure.
why does it feel like eating and stomach causes my pvcs?
if u have a definite relationship between eating and pvcs u should consult a cardiologist. eating requires more blood for stomach and may cause myocardial ischemia causing pvcs angina sob and fatigue in significant heart disease. u should r/o cardiomyopathy.
my husband has angina he has recently been diagnosed as having sinus rhythm with some ventricular ectopics is?
not sure of question but beta blockers would be potential treatment for both.
my doctor said the veins in my heart are in spasm what does this mean and how is it treated. i have had attacks like a heart attack starts in my upper back going into my chest throat and jaw lasting about 15 to 20 minutes. he also said i have no blockage
prinzmetal variant or vasospastic angina are all the same. the coronary arteries go into spasm and reduce blood flow just like a migraine headache. it is treated with vaso-dilating drugs like calcium channel blockers (norvasc procardia (nifedipine) diltiazem verapamil). it can cause heart attacks but only in rare instances. the cause is endothelial dysfunction get tested for insulin resistance.
my husband seems to have all the red flags for angina. also a family history of heart problems. he went to the e. r. and his ecg was borderline. i don't think the dr is taking this serious enough. she sent him home with anti acid meds. he is scheduled for
angina and heartburn present very similarly in terms of symptoms. i would presume he discussed his family history with the er physician. since you say he is scheduled for. i hope that is a follow up. "borderline" ecg isn't typically a term that is used. abnormal or irregular perhaps- but ok to follow up with your internist or ask for a referral to a cardiologist if antacids didn't work.
my heart stopped beating during tilt test for 8 seconds after being sprayed under my tonque with nitroglycerin why?
medication for angina is designed to relax the blood vessels around the heart increase the o2 demanded needed for the heart- however it can lower your bp- if you are healthy- there may be some concerns- esp since you are young- and are doing a tilt test.
what are the side effects from weening off of propranolol 160mg?
in your age group (26) palpitations and fast heart rate are the symptoms one would expect. in older people (>60 for women) one might occasionally see angina develop but not at your age. slow weaning prevents all of the above - i'm referring to abrupt cessation.
i think i had my first warning sign for heart attack which last 5 minutes it was really tight in the chest is that a heart attack. i'm fine now thro?
consult with your doctor immediately b/c your symptoms sound like angina. depending on your risk factors and physical findings your doctor might suggest further tests such as stress test.
is angina pectoris deathly?
angina pectoris is chest pain thought tone cardiac in nature. it is a true warning sign of a heart attackand should be taken seriously. if left untreated it can be potentially life threatening
if nictotine causes coronary & cerebral vasoconstriction why doesn't it cause angina or light headedness in people running with a hr of 180bpm?
dominate responses not chemistry administered from outside; despite marketing to the contrary. medicine is low-tech: the hi-tech (as embodied soul? mind? brain? body creatures sending >1 000 000 orders/sec brain? body with similar feedback) is within. artery & arteriole control is from brain plus local control. study: <link> & <link> for better understanding.
minimal rt lung base collapse shown on chest xray cause? shortness of breath when running no angina hbp tachycardia
unless the collapse has been known to be present for a long time and stable may represent infection blocked airway (? aspiration) congenital malformation or even tumor (not likely in 17 yo). can't give more detail without exam. see your doctor.
how can i discriminate if i have panic attack or angina attack? both include chest discomfort rapid or irregular heart beat and anxiety.
one condition is potentially life threatening angina and the other is not. you should be evaluated by a physician to exclude life threatening causes of chest pain with testing such as an ekg labs and stress test.
i am a 54 year old man who takes aspirin regularly due to angina i'm also on blood pressure medicine and this morning i awoke with a black right eye.
can cause bleeding inside tissues with minor rubbing or trauma. see eyemd of any vision changes.
what's more effective external counter pulsation or working out cardio wise for building more capillaries to create your own bypass?
if you can exercise enough to build more capillaries you are not a candidate for eecp. eecp for angina is used only when diet exercise maximal medical therapy interventional or cabg treatment have all failed to yield adequate symptom relief.
what antihypertensive drug belongs to the beta-blocker class of drugs?
beta blockers include: metoprolol carvedilol bisoprolol nebivolol atenolol nadolol sotalol esmolol acebutolol are a few. some of them are more useful in chf others for angina arrhythmias and most for hypertension
when stressed i get chest pain going to left arm and neck. had echo echo stress test all clear. no tests for angina. 25 years old?
thallium stress test if negative consider paroxitene
when stressed i get chest pain going to left arm and neck. had echo echo stress test all clear. i'm 25 could this be prinzmetal angina?
you had work up done for coronary artery disease it is apparently negative. you do not seem to have any significant risk factors at least you did not mention any. most likely you have stress situations causing anxiety. check with your doctor who can help you.
how to prvnt get heart disease & angina? i'm in anxiety disorder sometime exp chst pain. how to diff normal and abnormal chs pain? did ecg already
u have no angina unless u have premature cad in ur family. fyi angina comes with exercise and goes away with rest usually.
had cto of lad opened. 1 doc said take betablocker 1 said no need. no known heart attack or high bp. what is betablocker benefit or indication here?
there is no evidence that beta locker has particular benefit inthe absence of angina arrhythmia or heart failures. its proven benefit is following a heart attack.
my father had cabg 2 yrs ago. he's taking procoralan and concor both in am. procoralan is quite expensive. is there any alternative meds w/ same effect?
procorolan is a very specific drug used for angina in patients who are not tolerant of beta blockers. sometimes doctors prescribe expensive drugs for a specific reason. please ask your doctor why. if he can tolerate any other drug he doesn't need this.
my dad refused to see the doctor but recently he is having chest pain. im worried because it might be stroke or heart attack. any home remedies? <negative_smiley>
the typical symptoms of angina are chest pressure or pain with exertion and relieved with rest. heart attacks can have associated sweating arm pain difficulty breathing. have him assessed for his new symptoms and risk of coronary artery disease asap.
my tmt is negative for inducible ischemia no angina no arrhythmia?
if you have no risk factors if your exercise treadmill is negative with no cp and arrhthmia your risk of having cardiac event in next3 -5 yrs is very low.
male 22. nuclear stress show myo ischemia and angina. coronary arteries clear and perfect? have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. ideas?
positive stress with clear coronaries. . coronary vasospasm could cause angina and positive stress even if coronaries are clear. any drug use history?
i have a pain in my chest near my heart that is a little sharp and is mostly present when i rest. it comes and goes. should i worry about heart attack?
patient of unknown age gender medical conditions medications with question about intermittent sharp chest pain at rest. yes. if your chest pain is present at rest and not relieved w/rest it may be unstable angina especially if you have experienced chest pain when not resting as well ( i notice you put "mostly" at rest). if you have cardiovascular history or risk factors seek er care 911
where does one have pain from a heart attack behind the breastbone or to the left of it? and where does it start from. thank you
heart attack discomfort comes from deprivation of oxygen for several minutes to an area of heart muscle. if the representing pain is transient it is called angina and little or no damage is done to the heart. discomfort of a heart attack can be feeling of upset stomach with nausea pain down either arm or into jaw pressure in chest/ back etc depending on part of heart involved. see md if worried.
i drive a truck over the road i've noticed a few extra heartbeats when i'm driving it's gotten much better since i quit tobacco none when not drivin?
i commend you for quitting tobacco. thank you for informing about hbp high cholesterol benazepril simvastatin and post traumatic stress disorder. benazepril may cause dizziness and hypotension. simvastatin it may cause angina. see cardiologist for status of your heart bp cholesterol and side effects of medications. see psychiatrist for therapy for ptsd stresses causing overeating
i'm having squeezing in the left side upper chest for a week now. they did ecg blood work and x-ray everything was good. could this be angina?
age. any family history of heart attacks in mid-twenties? there are lots of things in the chest besides the heart that can cause discomfort. go see a board certified internist if this sensation persists and forward all hospital records prior to your appointment. see if 1-2 advil (ibuprofen) helps for 3-4 hours. in my experience in your age group this will be musculoskeletal and may respond to advil (ibuprofen). all the best.
i'm 28 and don't smoke. can i still have an afib or angina if my ekg chest x-ray blood and stress test came back normal? one ekg showed abnormal heart rhythm but 4 others ( taken within 5 month span) showed normal heart rhythm. i'm really scared.
afib and angina are definitely unlikely in a person your age with the results you described. you should think about other causes. and "abnormal heart rhythm" is too vague.
i'm 28 and don't smoke. can i still have an afib or angina if my ekg chest x-ray blood and stress test came back normal? one ekg showed abnormal heart rhythm but 4 others ( taken within 5 month span) showed normal heart rhythm. i'm really scared.
28 year old woman with cardiac concerns. please stay calm and follow up with your physician. hypertension is a disease with no symptoms that can affect young people as can arrhythmia. ekg is one point in time and arrhythmia can be episodic and needs to be investigated with a zio patch or holter/event monitoring. you need a cardiology consult. stay strong and manage it. you can do it good luck.
i can breath but i feel like i cant catch my breath anxiety maybe? its been all day also my chest is sore like pulled muscle or maybe agina?
“i feel like i cant catch my breath” is likely anxiety. “sore like pulled muscle” can be due to muscle strain it does not seem angina as you do not have difficulty in breathing on exertion. see psychiatrist for • diagnosis • therapy for stress • medication if needed • breathing relaxation • visual imagery • meditation • yoga • tai chi
muscle burning fatigue heavy legs heart palpitations gerd malaise lasts for mos. diagnosed with ptsd and panic disorder. anxiety cause these symptoms? my doc sees no blood test abnormalities.
cp with normal bp relieved with nitro is classic for angina. she should go to the ed. if reluctant then asap md apt (next day) for history and physical/ecg. rf need to be assessed. and stress test.
heart great condition. pain under left pec that comes and goes. can i still develop angina/have heart attack?
always a possibility. unfortunately symptoms are very poor discriminants. talk to your doc about your symptoms.
i take iso mono er 30mg for angina and omep 20mg. when hungry but do not feel hungry have chest pain (pressure/tightness left of chest center). why?
if you are experiencing an increase in your usual angina worsening pain or more frequent episodes go see your doctor. perhaps you are mistaking discomfort from worsening coronary artery disease for hunger pains. you should go talk to the doctor who knows you and your history to sort this out.
i have chest pain tightness & fullness; that radiates to my left arm shoulder neck jaw and back. it worsens with activity & distress & lying down.
you provide the symptoms of an ischemia to the heart or angina (insufficient o2)) or may be an aortic aneurysm of the arch and arterial hypertension. i strongly suggest to have an appointment with a primary care dr. to check your blood pressure have an ekg in the office refer you to a cardiologist for a coronary angiogram and an mri of the chest. with these information an intelligent treatment will be provided. do the dr. appointment today you may have a serious condition.
is amlodipine effective for migraines related to prinzmetal angina? reviews on drugs. com is 9/10 for migraine for norvasc! thats best for any med!
first off amlodipine is generic norvasc. calcium channel blockers can be helpful for migraines and this includes amlodipine cardizem and verapamil. as to what is best that depends on the inidiviual another thought is try some magnesium. it is your bodies natural calcium channel blocker.
if i have longstanding prinzmetal angina due to accidental od on pseudoephedrine will it be life long?
prinzmetal angina or variant angina (spasm of coronary arteries) is a rare but chronic condition. the long term survival for pa is good for those patients who tolerate calcium channel blockers (ccb) and do not smoke. poor prognosis would include those patients who smoke have coronary atherosclerosis (hardening of arteries) an intolerance to ccb and spasms of coronary artery.
is amlodipine the superior medication for vasospastic angina to verapamil? it sounds like it would be. (sounds very effective for migraine aspect 2)
amlodipine is an effective agent for vasospastic angina as well as migraine prevention. i am not aware of studies comparing it's effectiveness with verapamil. verapamil has been around longer than amlodipine and has been used for both indications successfully.
my husband just had a heart attack after seeing his pc twice in a wk for nk sh chest pain& he sent him for a mri of his neck. do we need a new doctor?
patients at high risk for heart disease (family history tobacco use hypertension high cholesterol) who present with chest pain should always be taken seriously. however in a healthy person with low risk chest pain may be musculoskeletal gastrointestinal or even anxiety related. angina (heart pain) can be difficult to diagnose if it occurs in low risk patients.
so my grandfather is 89 and diabetic and he dosent like to show pain what are signs he might be having a heart attack?
because of the possibility of peripheral neuropathy many diabetics do not present with symptoms during small heart attacks than only show on the ekg. he should have regular appointments with the drs pcp and cardiologist. very subtle or rare symptoms like jaw pain wrist pain or other nonspecific could be angina-equivalents. obviously thoracic pain in the area of the heart ( chest pain) is typical.
how much propranolol can be taken at one time?
propanolol has many indications including hypertension angina migraine prevention thyrotoxicosis etc so depending on what is being used for the maximum pharmacological dose varies. for example for hypertension max is 640 mg per day while for other consitions may only be recommended max 240-320 mg or as the patient can tolerate based on its side effects.
should imdur oral b used prn or should it b taken all the time? not exp. chest discomfort rt now.
imdur is a slow release medication meant to prevent angina. it is of little benefit once there is an attack because it will not work for hours. if there is no angina perhaps the dose could be reduced or the medication may no longer be needed. dosing should be once daily in the morning and not more or less frequently. talk to your doctor about whether to wean off this medication.
symptom of heart attack?
most heart attacks have no symptoms. in men when symptomatic pressure/squeezing sensation most common; also for women but women often describe many more variations. if discomfort changed reproducibly by deep breaths change in body posture or direct pressure on/around the location probably not heart ischemia. if relieved by ntg could be angina if ntg no effect probably not angina etc.
should i request for central line iv access during surgery if i have angina and undiagnosed ekg abnormalty?
for iv fluid and blood during major operations is an indication however to monitor cardiac function many anesthesiologists now use non-invasive methods of monitoring heart function including cardiac output monitors and intra-operative ultrasound.
should i request for central line iv access during surgery if i have angina and undiagnosed ekg abnormalty?
as a surgeon i would prefer pre-operative cardiac risk stratification over a central line. if you have very poor peripheral vein access a central line might be helpful. make sure to discuss this concern with your surgeon and the anesthesia team. good luck.
what can cause your arms to experience sever pain then subside also dizzy with occasional chest pain?
at your age sounds like angina with decreased blood flow to heart. see your md asap to check this problem.
why is propranolol prescribed for angina if it constricts blood vessels? i thought you wanted vasodilators for angina like ccbs.
propranol is a non-selective beta blocker in that it blocks beta 1 and beta 2 receptors. by blocking beta 1 it helps to slow down the heart allowing more blood to fill the chambers. by blocking beta 2 it constricts the coronary arteries allowing for more oxygenated blood to supply the heart muscles. ccbs work strictly on slowing down the heart and may be used in conjunction with beta blockers
why is propranolol prescribed for angina if it constricts blood vessels? i thought you wanted vasodilators for angina like ccbs.
propranolol reduces the workload on the heart muscle and slows the heart rate allowing more blood flow during diastole thereby reducing ischemia. persons who have a myocardial infarction (heart attack) are less likely to have a second if treated with beta blockers like propranolol. thanks for trusting healthtap!
why is propranolol prescribed for angina if it constricts blood vessels? i thought you wanted vasodilators for angina like ccbs.
vasoconstriction with propranolol is quite minor. the rate slowing is far more significant to helping angina.
since 18 chest pain wen excersise. had ecg stress ecg echo cardiac mri 24 hour ecg bp normal. now 22 what can this be! strange angina!
by this point i can tell you that your probability of having ischemic heart disease is very low. prinzmetal angina an spasm of the coronary arteries without significant coronary blockage should be in the differential but probably was already r/o by your doctors. acid reflux can give you pressure pain and chest wall pain due to costochondritis if you lift weight at work or at exercise.
went to doc for heart attack systems 2weeks ago ekg and blood work good but still have the systems and i'm worried it could be my heart can it. help?
if you're still suffering from symptoms eg angina or chest pain then go see your familydoc & cardiologist for further testing. check out <link> <link> & <link> anxiety can do this
was on metoprolol xr 100 and lasix 80 upon discharge from hospital. cardiologist reduced lasix to 40 for maintenance dosage but bp at night higher. will a second 50 mg dose of metoprolol help? consider nitrates due to acr/arb restriction (low gfr)?
metoprolol xl is given once a day though you can have doses >100. but you have a cardiologist so it is best to discuss the situation with them they should be directing your care. nitrates are usually for angina care but there are other hypertensive categories calcium channel blockers alpha blocker s mixed blockers alpha 2 adrenergic receptor agonists discuss with your cardiologist
i 22 shortness of breath all time when sitting walking and sometimes when i eat i get scared as it hard to breath is it angina or copd pains chest?
probably hyperventilation. but better to be safe and see a lung doc. no reason to wait. good luck and all the best.
sharp chest pain on gentle masturbation pain gone in 1 second repeated and same spot pain lasted one second. excellent health 30 ekg great. angina?
sharp pains are not characteristic of angina. the duration is too short. angina would be very unusual in someone your age.
she felt pain on her chest specifically on heart area and also luke a strong pressure on it her heart rate dreceased considerable. what was that?
this can be from a heart attack /angina or something else and she needs to see a doctor asap.
where the breast join together in the middle bit i just had a really bad paid it was really tight am 40 f is that a heart attack sign pain has stop?
pain in this area of the chest can represent pain from a heart-attack or it can be angina (pre-heart-attack pain) or it can be pain from your stomach or other things. cardiac chest pain frequently feels like pressure or a weight on your chest. if you have pain like this that happens when you exert yourself climbing stairs or walking etc you need to see a doctor asap. best wishes!
my dad passed from a heart attack. i found him there was stomach acid everywhere why? hadn't gone to doc in 15 yrs. blood pressure was normal
i'm sorry for your loss i hope you have a supportive for family around you. nausea is a common symptom associated with heart attacks and heart pain (angina). he may have been nauseous enough to vomit because of the heart attack. again my condolences.
please help me what is the main difference between acute coronary syndrome angina and mi?
mi is non reversible resulting in the loss of some heart muscles. angina is when the coronary arteries diameter is constricted and does not provide enough blood (=oxygen) for a certain degree of activities. treat by reducing activities temporarily while waiting to be treated aggressively = er immediate. but lot other diseases have sx that mimic heart angina even good doc have difficulty to dx.
please help me what is the main difference between acute coronary syndrome angina and mi?
all are caused by not enough blood flow to the heart. mi causes permanent damage. angina does not. acute coronary syndrome can be applied to either of the others.
should anticoagulants taken with beta-blocker and drug against angina pectoris? i woke up with sudden pain in lower left stomach just under ribs?
the history you've given (chest pain periorbital edema allergies) the meds you list (vitamin d b6 magnesium? ! azelastine antihistamine spray) and your question (anti-angina rx beta-blocker) simply don't add up. we can't judge the appropriateness of a regimen like what you list especially without much more information.
post orthostatic tachycardia syndrome causes reduced blood flow possible cause of angina when excersing due to this reduced blood flow?
is caused by dysautonomia meaning that the autonomic (automatic) nervous system is unbalanced and irritable. it may be genetic but a common cause is poor diet because that affects the control mechanisms in the brain.
postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. if gravity pulls blood down can this be a reason for angina with negative coronary angiogram?
all chest pains are not coronary insufficiency. having said that small vessel disease doen't show up on angiography. if there is no angio evidence and no metabolic evidence for cardiac ischemia then there is no evidence for ischemia.
postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome gives me angina. male 22. if i exercise laid down no heart and arm pain if stood up i get it.
pots cannot give you angina. to get angina you have to have narrowed or blocked coronary arteries. that's unheard of at your age unless you use cocaine or are diabetic (and then it's very rare). if you have abnormal cas pots can exacerbate the supply/demand balance by making your heart beat faster (which increases demand). your exertional pain is likely muscular.
postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome gives me angina. male 22. if i exercise laid down no heart and arm pain if stood up i get it.
postural ortthostatic tachycardia occurs due to a change the position help with low dosis of beta blocker drugs.
taking 5 mg bystolic (nebivolol) @ 8 pm causing low pulse rate day 50 to low 60 and while sleep high 30 to low 40. can amlopdipine be substitute if you have cad.
amlodipine is beneficial in cad but uses a different mechanism than bystolic (nebivolol). amlodipine won't slow your heart at all. if you have angina a bb is preferable. if you don't have angina amlodipine is a good alternative.
why was my younger brother rushed to hospital for emergent heart catheterization after severe crushing chest pain. didn't have heart attack but his troponin level was high? got discharged 2 days later.
that if he had these symptoms and his serial troponins were high then he by definition did have a heart attack despitewhat the catheterization showed. this would be spasm of the coronaries not blockage. it is called prinzmetal's angina and can cause a heart attack with clean coronaries
what are some of the risk factors for getting angina?
high blood pressure smoking diabetes hyperlipidemia peripheral vascular disease coronary artery disease.
what are some of the non-drug treatments for angina?
cardiac rehabilitation cardiac catheterization stress test stress thallium test.
what are some of the tests for angina?
electrocardiogram echocardiogram cardiac enzymes complete blood count basic metabolic panel lipid panel coagulation profile xray of chest coronary angiogram myocardial perfusion scan with exercise cta of coronary artery ct of chest.
how common is angina in young adults? i have a burning senstaion in center of chest but i have had also have chest pain since last sat? im 27 male
you're taking cocaine-this could cause it. otherwise unlikely. see a dr if symptoms persist
how to relieve painful in my chest when i have stable angina?
if you are 19 and have stable angina this is extremely rare and i would suggest you consult your cardiologist
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (better by: anti-inflammatory medication antacids rest) (quality: burning or stinging) (side: left) (.
it sounds like a complicated condition as the pattern of pain is contradictory & so i can't make heads or tails of it. ludwig's angina normally requires additional symptoms like a recent infection fever etc. perhaps u could consider an extended consultation on healthtap prime where a doctor can ask more questions in real time. they can help pinpoint a diagnosis. thanks for ur question.
painful palpitations (long history but never painful till recently). i exercise 3/wk. should i bother gp? no lasting chest pain only transient.
palpitations as you know are distressing but they're not painful. i would be suspicious that something else is going on. for instance pericarditis could cause pain with forceful or irregular heart beat. because of your age an unusual presentation of angina also needs to be considered even though your spells are brief.
pain that comes and goes in lower part of my left breast between breast and abdominal! pain been coming and going for 2 weeks ekgs were fine any idea?
depending on risk factors for coronary disease we may perform stress test. however does it come and go with exertion? there are many reasons to have cp remember the gi tract holds a very close relation with your heart. you can have a stone cold normal ekg with angina. it can occur at rest but most likely with exertion. please see pcp.
pupils enlarged rhr 110 palps angina feel hb in upper abdomen dizzy disoriented weak headache jaw discomfort. 27yo f epss 5mm ef 52. 8%. related?
get evaluated for panic disorder and hyperthyroidism
two negative nuclear stress tests last one in january. have mvp. still have left sided chest ache after not during exertion. could mvp explain this?
frustrating problem for both patients and physicians. . what did your cardiologist tell you about other causes of pain? has costochondritis been ruled out? what about vasospasm (prinzmetal's angina) mvp is not a cause of pain in the context of 2 negative nuclear stress tests. an internet doctor cannot diagnose the causes of your chest pain nor adequately reassure you. this is simply a suggestion.
this is my second admission for unstable angina with ecg shown inversion of "t" waves from v1-v4. stress test done-normal. should i go for angiogram?
if you have been admitted with unstable angina two times with inverted t waves in those leads (especially if deep and symmetrical) and an alternative cause has not been established a definitive study such as an angiogram or perhaps a cardiac ct angiogram would be most frequently recommended.
this is my second admission for unstable angina with ecg shown inversion of "t" waves from v1-v4. stress test done-normal. should i go for angiogram?
angiogram esp. if u have risk factors for heart disease. what's the finding on the echo? discuss with your primary dr and cardiologist about their next plan. take care! <link>
this is my second admission for unstable angina with ecg shown inversion of "t" waves from v1-v4. stress test done-normal. should i go for angiogram?
if twave changes are new.
whats better for prinzmetals angina verapamil or diltiazem? how much better? whats correlation w migraine? does treating one resolve other?
verapamil has been time tested for treating both prinzmetal angina and migraine headaches. they have similar mechanisms of vaso-spams of the coronary and cerebral small arterioles causing the pain symptoms.
would angina increase troponins? not an actual mi?
you can have elevated troponins without heart damage. usually this is of concern and that type of elevation warrants close observation. other causes for elevated troponin include hypertrophic heart and if renal problems troponin can be elevated.
hi i'm waiting to see if i have angina and to have treadmill test is it safe to fly my doctor has advised me not to i would appreciate your opinion ma?
please get your stress test first. being on a plane where you cannot get help is a bad idea. good luck.
i am 38 yo cardiac patient 70% small vessel 40% lad heavy chest pain every time i eat that last 2-3 mins. last stress echo 9mons. ago is fine.
be on antianginal medications other than aspirin. contact your health care provider and explain your concerns over your new symptoms. there are many medical therapies that could help you.
left arm pain and numbness accompanying fast heart rate (anxiety or mi)?
you don't mention your age barbara511911 but it's possible that your fast heart rate is precipitating angina especially if you have cardiac risk factors and are not as young as you used to be. why not have a talk with your primary care doctor about these worrisome symptoms? this would be a terrific reason for doing a stress test!
low bp mine has been fluctuating with a sometimes high hr should i worry?
adjust your bp meds or it could be a sign of poor pumping of your heart muscle/ cardiomyopathy. it can potentially cause angina/ chest pain and irregular heart rhythm. take care!
left arm pain/anxiety er: normal ecg/bp. 26 years old very fit. felt washed out/chest pressure a few times over next month. heart lung gi issue?
if you don't use cocaine and don't have diabetes angina at your age is unheard of. it's likely acid reflux gastritis or just a sore muscle.
norm tsh levels &ekg unable to breathe through nose angina no period in 5yr cause? recc. wieght loss hist hbp minimal lung base collapse
i will address the nose problem. your nose may be congested due to allergies. you could also have a deviation of the septum which make it difficult to breathe through your nose. you could also have turbinate enlargement which could make it hard to breathe a doctor can check this out for you. the period issue is more. complex. 18 yos should be having normal periods. see a doctor to sort it.
please tell me if angina pectoris and myocardial infarction are the same disease?
angina pectoris refers to chest pain specifically spasms of the pectorals muscle but usually the chest in general. this may be a symptom of a heart attack which is also called a myocardial infarction (mi). myocardial means heart muscle and infarction is the lack of blood flow causing the mi and then the angina pectoris. chest pain may also be caused by other things besides the heart.
propranolol and flecaninied what are these for?
flecainide and propranolol are drugs which we use to control heart rate and rhythm. propranolol also is used for blood pressure angina anxiety and several other conditons. flecainide is primarily used just for cardiac rhythm control.
stress test shows small perfusion defect along lateral wall which appears reverisable and is suspicious of ischemia 2. mild hypothesis prior mi?
vasospastic angina (coronary spasm) is associated with normal coronaries . in the presence of significant physical emotional or chemical (drug abuse) stress chest pain is experienced. nitroglycerin calcium channel blockers anti-anxiety medication relaxation therapy help. also worth trying omega oils (eg from www. cardiamin. com using discount code cmc) magnesium and vitamin d supplements.
what tests are enough to confirm angina? only ecg or more?
hi! an exercise stress test is the standard test for angina. this is performed by the cardiology department but a primary care physician can help to arrange it for you.
what tests are enough to confirm angina? only ecg or more?
angina pectoris is the fancy name for chest pain caused by the heart muscle usually because of atherosclerotic narrowings in the coronary arteries. angina is a clinical diagnosis; in most cases an experienced doctor would not need any tests to confirm it is present. tests may be useful to assess the severity of the problem and to guide treatment.
i had a sharp pain in my sternum area that came and went away took mylanta as i do have gerd but could this be heart related ekgs and blood normal?
with usual symptoms of angina. yet ekgs miss most endocardial myocardial infractions. be aware medicine mostly about symptoms advanced disease not health: <link> & myocardial infarctions happen suddenly after decades of setup: <link> thus best optimize (not normalize) key artery disease driving factors: lchf lipoproteins (not cholesterol) hba1c bp don't smoke etc
lately ive been having text book heart attack symptoms. im 29 with no history. i went to the er and was completely normal. what else could it be?
the condition that most closely mimics angina is acid reflux. that's why they call it "heartburn". btw unless you're diabetic or use cocaine the incidence of heart attacks in 29 year olds is
my blood pressure 126/75 heart rate 103 i'm 22 breathless not good even when sitting down and walking and pains chest could it be angina?
angina is highly unlikely. however if you are saying that you are always breathless and having chest pain you need to be seen. good luck.
my mother got a pacemaker in february 2016. she is having chest pain (about 5-8 minutes) on a daily bases. doctor said it is nothing. is it?
reasons that a patient could have chest pain following a pacemaker implantation. lead perforation pericardial inflammation higher heart rate resulting in angina. intermittent chest pain would be less likely to be serious but still concerning. if her doctor says it is nothing perhaps you should seek a second opinion. unfortunately this is not something that lends itself to internet evaluation.
need to take 30 mg er imdur for angina. would it cause low blood pressure. how effictive it is vs regular isosorbide regular release on blood pressure?
both may cause some drop in blood pressure but usually not very much. nitrates are not typically used for treatment of hypertension. the effects of the short and long acting isosorbide mono nitrate are similar; the difference is how often it has to be taken i. e. once vs. twice a day.
nail bed infection for 4 wks low potassium and having on and off chest pain and tightness. why the chest pain and tightness? related symptoms?
these symptoms are apparently unrelated to each other. hypokalemia produces symptoms like arrhythmia muscle cramps/weakness and paralysis depending on its severity. a nail bed infection is localized and can have a bacterial or fungal cause. finally your chest pain and tightness are signs of angina in an older person but in your case it could be due to anxiety or stress. if they persist see dr.
normal sinus rhythm. if my open heart surgery (cabg) is 2 days away why am i on heparin?
the information here is limited. are you having unstable angina?
post mistaken od on sudafed had the classic overdose case short of aneurysm. why oh why do i still have angina tachycardia migraine a year after!
it is very unlikely related to sudafed overdose. check with your pcp or cardiologist for causes of your symptoms
recently diagnosed with partial rbbb in sinus rythym i suffer from angina with a history of mi's. is there anything i can ask in terms of treatment?
right bundle branch block (rbbb) even partial is not a serious condition. most likely this is unrelated to your history of mi's and angina. at your young age you should be managing your blood pressure and cholesterol aggressively to help prevent any further cardiac complications. ask your cardiologist if there is a diet and/or exercise regimen that will help improve your prognosis. then do it!
the past 3 days straight ive been getting heart pain with severe cold sweats fatigue etc. even with beta blocker. heart attack or anxiety?
beta blockers are prescribed for angina heart attack high blood pressure and anxiety. • beta blockers can cause fatigue cold hands • headache • upset stomach • diarrhea • shortness of breath • trouble sleeping • these are also symptoms of anxiety. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis and treatment including therapy medication and yoga.
what can cause me to have sharp chest pain associated with high left side back pain up into the back of my neck sometimes causing a headache?
with the limited information the foremost concern would be a heart condition such as angina. i would recommend that you get evaluated as soon as possible. it is possible you have cervical spine or a muscular cause for your symptoms but these conditions are not life-threatening. please get a cardiology evaluation first and make sure you don't have symptoms related to heart disease.
what is the definition or description of: chest tightness?
chest tightness is the feeling of a "squeezing" or a pressure in the chest. sometimes there is an associated breathing difficulty. there are numerous potential causes. heart attack angina pericarditis chest wall pain heart rhythm condition esophagus spasm lung condition are some possibilities to consider.
how does the flu effect people with heart conditions (i. e)angina?
assuming the heart conditions are under control then the flu should have little or no effect. however high fevers or low temperatures or high or low blood pressure associated with the infection can affect heart issues. as long as basic vitals are followed you should be good
how does the flu effect people with heart conditions (i. e)angina?
worse! people who get the flu who have chronic systemic illness or have decreased function levels or are frail and debilitated do much worse in general tolerating acute illnesses.
hi sir my grandpa is 93 years old. cardiologist suggest angioplasty to rule-out angina. is his age suitable for this procedure? . we live in karachi
whether he is suitable to undergo an angioplasty depends mostly on his health and how mobile and able he is. if he is fairly well then it may be a good idea to go ahead with the angioplasty. if he is rather feeble then i would say he should not. good luck either way.
hi sir my grandpa is 93 years old. cardiologist suggest angioplasty to rule-out angina. is his age suitable for this procedure? . we live in karachi
sorry to hear about your gp. if you fill out a membership for him we can then give advice. without that we cannot. sorry. i am happy to do 2nd opinion to help when that has been done.
if i have chest pain and my x-ray was clear do i need to worry about lung cancer why would a tumor not show?
pain in the chest can be caused by many different reasons. lung cancer can be one of these but it will often produce other symptoms such as cough and shortness of breath. if a chest x-ray is normal then you are not likely to have any tumor in your lungs. other reasons to exclude is angina(although it is a disease of the older people) or muscular pain(this is the most likely reason). such pains go
i have a middle ear infection by broken eardrum. i have also an angina. can i use this medicines together? 1. ceptik 100mg 2. sanexon8mg 3. amoxicillin?
so long those medicines are prescribed and supervised by a doctor. no interaction. ceptik = cefixime snaoxen= methylprednisolone
i have a middle ear infection by broken eardrum. i have also an angina. can i use this medicines together? 1. ceptik 100mg 2. sanexon8mg 3. amoxicillin?
drugs. com drug interaction checker showed no interactions between sanexon (medrol) & amoxicillin. however i don’t have a clue what ceptik is. is it spelled correctly? if yes it may be an obscure name for a medication that is sold somewhere in the world.
i am experiencing tightness in chest (time frame: gradual onset) (severity: mild) the following also describes me:. it feels as if there is air trapped in the center of my chest and it tingles every so often as if there's air bubbles?
there could be many causes of your chest tightness. because heart disease happens to be one of those possibilities you need to be seen asap by either your doctor or in an emergency room to be sure that you were not having angina. if heart disease turns out not to be present your doctor can help you sort out what the true cause is. do not delay. go now.
just came back from er. feel pain on the left chest heart position when inhaled and movement. ecg just now and observation fine. please help me!
you are not having heart trouble. you have muscle spasm or chest wall tightness. you do not have angina or a heart problem. you are 29 years old. a man does not just have muscle or chest pain if he has heart problems. he has numerous other symptoms as well. observation is fine. go see your primary care doctor and not the er for your follow up health care.
knowing that certain beta blockers are sometimes prescribed for angina just curious ad to how effective coreg (carvedilol) is for angina?
it is very effective for angina. it lowers the blood pressure and heart rate and ultimately oxygen consumption by the heart.
knowing that certain beta blockers are sometimes prescribed for angina just curious ad to how effective coreg (carvedilol) is for angina?
coreg (carvedilol) is also effective for angina. the dose titration for angina needs to achieve rate control which is a bit different from the chf dosing.
keep having a achy chest of and on and sometimes wakes me in the night. blood work shows high cholesterol and take a beta blocker as needed any ideas?
you have angina till proven otherwise immediately see a physician
lingering chest pain for over 3 days now. initially called angina but tests negative except ulcer. should i be worried?
if cardiac tests are neg treat your ulcer. i personally suspect you suffer from costochondritis
left-sided chest pain under breast x4. 5 wks. pain located over ribs and sternum. pain is dull and nagging. causes?
from angina pleurisy neuralgia gerd shingles etc. it is best to consult with your physician to make sure that it is nothing serious.
most of time i feel some pressure and tightness in right chest only nothing in left. can it symptoms of angina.
when to see a doctor? how do you know when you need medical help for chest pain? it's not always easy to tell. helpful simple quiz: <link>
most of time i feel some pressure and tightness in right chest only nothing in left. can it symptoms of angina.
at your age highly unliely angina but you shcould not be having recurrent right sided pressure. given the symptoms are recurrent and persistent it would be worth checking. i would be more suspicious or a pulmonary problem.
most of time i feel some pressure and tightness in right chest only nothing in left. can it symptoms of angina.
could be possible. see your doctor for review.
my husband is experiencing right arm pain and chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing) (severity: moderate) (time frame: sudden) (?
he should go to the ed pulmonary embolism and angina should be considered. other causes include tendonitis.
new angina wont go away er said it wasnt a heart attack im already on beta blockers. should i be seeing my dr or keep taking the blockers?
there are numerous causes for chest pain- some are worrisome some are not lethal but important to assess. for chest pain which a clear cause has not been determined the recommendation is to remain on prescribed medications and seek alterative medical evaluation or emergency department evaluation for new or recurrence of worrisome symptomology.
ongoing chest and shoulder issues. april 2011 normal nuclear echo holter. plain exercise fine july 12. worse last 3 weeks four normal ekg. angina?
these tests are notoriously in accurate especially for young women. if it occurs again you need to seek help. you may also benefit from a session of multifunction cardiogram a. k. a mcg. if you test normal on mcg the chances are you are normal! <link>
ongoing chest and shoulder issues. april 2011 normal nuclear echo holter. plain exercise fine july 12. worse last 3 weeks four normal ekg. angina?
it is possible to have negative tests and still disease but probability not high. would discuss with dr. more history and physical and details needed to advise meaningfully.
out of angina chest wall pain and a mild heart attack which one is the scariest to have?
depends on how scare you get when you may die of either.
out of angina chest wall pain and a mild heart attack which one is the scariest to have?
is usually benign and thus least dangerous. angina is manifestation of heart disease but occure before any damage or heart attack therefore the worst is mild heart attack which means mild damage has been done to the heart.
on a 3 lead 24h ecg would it pick up changes from angina like a 12lead?
depending on the leads and the area affected. it is possible albeit a 12 lead is more definitive. further testing would rule out ant coronary occlusive disease.
on a 3 lead 24h ecg would it pick up changes from angina like a 12lead?
it can but the 24 hr monitor is moreso to diagnose any abnormal heart rhythms that might be causing palpitations or dizziness. you are a bit young to be worrying about angina and getting so many tests. i hope everything turns out negative and you can focus on better things.
on drugs for angina arrythmia no prev problem erectile disf and today tried and masturbated b/coss i ws worried ejc but sevre pain in penis after?
i think you'll find that that was a temporary problem/unrelated. masturbation is a good means of regaining your self-confidence. plan for more foreplay with your partner - you've proven the equipment works; it's likely a matter of confidence & timing. try something novel and exciting and you'll be gratified.
ocasional pain in lt side heart specially in morning not severe bt recurring none other related symptoms ecg clear phy v active run 5 mi a day?
chest pain is a tricky diagnosis while your symptoms are atypical for angina pectoris (heart related chest pain) the only way to exclude this with a high degree of certainty is with the use of a functional test such an an exercise treadmill stress test furthermore given your history of ventricular septal defect i would also recommend an echocardiogram and outpatient holter monitor
on metoprolol xr 100 and losartan 25 once a day. pharmacist said imdur 30 mg will cause too much blood pressure drop (currently 140/80 at night). safe to start on half the 30 mg dose to help with angina? are nitrates safe for kidney? thanks
always follow your doctor's instructions carefully. of course you may ask your doctor to explain any part you do not understand.
on metoprolol xr 100 and losartan 25 once a day. pharmacist said imdur 30 mg will cause too much blood pressure drop (currently 140/80 at night). safe to start on half the 30 mg dose to help with angina? are nitrates safe for kidney? thanks
have the decision on medication combinations as doc. recommended. pharmacist does not know enough about the disease and management they are chemists
on metoprolol xr 100 and losartan 25 once a day. pharmacist said imdur 30 mg will cause too much blood pressure drop (currently 140/80 at night). safe to start on half the 30 mg dose to help with angina? are nitrates safe for kidney? thanks
i am not sure why a pharmacist is giving this type of advice which should be between you and your physician. secondly given your current bp it's not accurate. thirdly you should discuss with your doctor doubling your losartan to twice a day (the appropriate interval) rather than starting to add an additional medication. imdur is safe for kidneys.
recently visited a md about my elevated bp. feel slight chest pressure & lump in my throat. also feel like there is a lump above my sternum. thoughts?
in an older age cohort the primary concern would be cardiac issue; at your age this is less likely but not rare; so reconsult with the md to secure a diagnosis ie angina gi source globus hystericus etc etc.
stress echo ekg 30day event monitor egd asthma tests blood work ctpulmangio all normal. still have chest pain arm weak like angina?
that's a lot of testing for a low probability of angina from the start. musculoskeletal and other possibilities should be considered.
sometimes i get a mild pain in my left side next to breast. could this be angina or related to my anxiety?
chest pain outside the nipple line is rarely cardiac in origin. more likely is intercostal muscle pain or radiculopathy or irritation from a pulmonary source if you have pain when taking a deep breath in. you are also a young woman and unlikely to have angina without significant history or risk factors. please see your md for a physical exam.
should i take isosorbide dinitrate or isosorbide mononitrate?
whichever your health care provider has recommended. mononitrate has a longer half life and less likely to develop tolerance. used more commonly in stable angina patients. ask your health care provider this questions as s/he has your medical history available.
sharp chest pain left-front 3rd rib from bottom. ~5 min of pain 1-2 times/day. no pain w/breath/touch. pain always same place/type/duration. thanks!
more information will be needed. with chest pain on the left without obvious cause or origin you want to rule out cardiac causes. if all work ups are negative you have been having this pain for sometimes and it does not cause any problem it might be prinzmetal's angina. please follow up your doctor for further evaluation.
throbbing tight neck palpitations and stomach and chest pain. can gerd cause this?
these symptoms can be attributed to gerd but there can be other causes too like angina heart valve problems. good to consult with a doctor.
throbbing tight neck palpitations and stomach and chest pain. can gerd cause this?
these symptoms can be caused by angina heart attack panic attack valve prolapse as well. best to discuss with your doctor.
take 240mg ccb at night and low dose bb in morning. what is effect of taking both? how much bpm lower should my hr be?
without knowing your age pre-treatment blood pressure presence of angina or other complicating conditions it is hard to be specific. generally the target pressure for average users is 140/70. a drop of 20 is desirable if you're in the 160+ range. i need more information to advise more cogently.
told i have microvascular dysfunction in heart. prescribed ranexa. if they are wrong and its not angina can ranexa hurt a healthy heart? i wanna try
need to know more details. this is a diagnosis made by exclusion and the drug is not without side effects including ekg changes so it is affecting "the heart" that is why it is given. happy to do 2nd opinion to get and give more information. i would consider other methods to treat this. 1. nitroglycerin. 2. weight loss. 3. low sodium diet or dash eating plan which may improve by lowering bp.
urgent! > pain in ribs on right side when breathing and short breath and no angina cause? hypertension rt lung base minimal collapse tachycardia
urgent care or er. could be muscle strain pleurisy etc but other conditions have to be excluded e. g. heart lung pathology. hope u feel better!
urgent:moderate pressure angina on right side pulse is 68-72 no short of breath what should i do? tachycardia hbp rt minimal lung base collapse
don't exactly know what to make of this. please describe your symptoms as best you can. in general you are way too young for angina. do you have a known lung collapse?
urgent : chest pain and dizziness and burning sensation. hist: palps tachycardia hbp?
are you really 18 years old? do you get regular medical care? do you have a family history of very early heart disease? it would be very uncommon for an 18 year old female to have angina and cardiac chest pain. it sounds like you need to find a good team of doctors to work with: a primary doctor a cardiologist a gi doctor and someone to help with the stress this must be causing. good luck.
upper and lower left side chest pain after drinking 20 beers 48 hrs ago?
pain in chest after drinking alcohol could be due to various reasons starting from gastric reflux ulcer pancreatitis or angina or heart attack. please see your doctor or go to emergency department.
what is the definition or description of: imdur allergy?
isosorbide mononitrate (imdur) is a medication to prevent angina. for adverse effects see: <link>
running and jogging bad for angina? is high intensity running or jogging bad for a person with angina? i'm talking about really pushing yourself to the limit.
if you really do have angina (documented arteriosclerotic heart disease) exercise is good but "pushing it to the limit" is dangerous. when you reach your anginal threshold your balance between myocardial oxygen supply and demand is marginal and if you exceed it permanent damage and dangerous arrhythmias will result.
running and jogging bad for angina? is high intensity running or jogging bad for a person with angina? i'm talking about really pushing yourself to the limit.
yes high intensity aerobic exercise should be avoided. but moderate aerobic activity is beneficial. this is because high intensity exercise increases your risk of having a heart attack during the activity. i would strongly advise against pushing yourself to your limit. developing a safe moderate-intensity aerobic exercise plan is an important part of maintaining your health and preventing worsening heart disease. you should aim for activity that produces a sweat but allows you to easily maintain a conversation throughout. typically this is no more than 60% of your maximum predicted heart rate. your maximum predicted heart rate can be estimated by subtracting your age from the number 220 (e. g. a 55 year-old man would have maximum predicted heart rate of 220 - 55 = 165 beats per minute). a cardiac rehabilitation center could help you develop your exercise plan. you can be referred by your cardiologist. of course if you develop angina with exercise be sure to stop immediately and rest.
are beta blockers used to treat both stable and unstable angina?
yes beta-blockers are used to treat both stable and unstable angina as a role in reducing cardiac workload.
are beta blockers used to treat both stable and unstable angina?
beta blockers are commonly used to treat coronary disease and the weight of the evidence actually is for those patients who have already suffered a heart attack or have congestive heart failure. however by corollary and by some evidence actively ischemic heart disease patients (stable and unstable angina) do better with lower heart rates which result from beta blockers.
a heart attack or angina? what are the differences in symptoms between a heart attack and angina?
angina and heart attack symptoms are both the result of reduced blood flow to heart muscle. both can result in chest pain pressure or squeezing that can radiate into the neck jaw or arm and can be accompanied by other symptoms such as sweating dizziness or nausea. there are important differences though. angina is brought on by exertion and relieved by rest or certain medications such as nitroglycerin. it is the result of chronic cholesterol buildup in one or more of the coronary arteries which restricts adequate blood flow to heart muscle during periods of increased activity. angina usually resolves within 15 minutes of stopping activity or taking nitroglycerin. when someone experiences angina for the first time or when their angina is provoked more easily this is called unstable angina and requires immediate medical attention. as opposed to angina heart attacks happen suddenly and the symptoms can be more severe and persist much longer. heart attacks are a result of a sudden blockage of the coronary blood vessel typically by a ruptured cholesterol plaque. heart attack symptoms persist until the blockage resolves or if it does not resolve until the heart muscle dies. not all patients with heart attacks have angina prior. heart attacks are a medical emergency and always require immediate medical attention.
a heart attack or angina? what are the differences in symptoms between a heart attack and angina?
angina is low oxygen for the heart heart attack is low oxygen with damage to the heart.
could you have a chest spasm that is not heart related if all my test came back normal within a month echo ekg stress test?
esophageal spasm can cause chest tightness which can imitate the chest tightness of angina. if you are having reflux this could provoke these symptoms.
chestpressure at random moments (hr remains steady) also rest ecg and excersize ecg are perfect? 22 yo male. still possible to have cardiac problem?
it is not enough to rely on studies done so far if symptoms are ongoing ;though atypical for angina one needs to know the cause given myriad differential diagnoses so consult with physician.
some htn medicines seem to have been proven to save lives whiles other prescription classes do not. which classes are proven to save lives?
there are hypertension medications indicated as first line for certain conditions but all are used to control bp if needed. bblockers are used to control bp and slow the heart and fill up coronaries in people with coronary artery disease and ace-i and arb are indicated to protect from proteinuria in dm and nitro are used for anginal pain as are some ccb. all are used to bring bp down as needed.
please describe the medication: diltiazem hydrochloride?
diltiazem is in the class of medications called calcium channel blockers. diltiazem is used to lower blood pressure slow heart rate in certain heart rhythm conditions and assist in the treatment of angina. common brand names are cardizem tiazac (diltiazem) or dilacor. diltiazem has various immediate release and sustained release formulations so be sure that you are taking it properly.
symptoms of angina?
the common symptom is a pain ache discomfort or tightness that you feel across the front of the chest when you exert yourself. . you may also or just feel the pain in your arms jaw neck or stomach. an angina pain does not usually last long. it will usually ease within 10 minutes when you rest. if you take some glyceryl trinitrate it should go within 1-2 minutes
symptoms of angina?
the typical description would be: heaviness pressure like an elephant sitting on my chest radiating to the shoulder. however in females and diabetics it could show up like reflux or an uncomfortable feeling in the chest. if you are worried about your symptoms it is best to be evaluated.
symptoms of angina?
chest pain or discomfort pressure heaviness tightening pain in your arms neck jaw shoulder or back accompanying chest pain nausea. .
can a person with sinus tachycardia do push ups and other exercises? and i also have a slight pain in my heart like an angina and im travelling abroad
yes at your age this shouldn't be a problem.
couldnt breath & pain in left arm- all test came back neg- ct scan of lungs ekgs bloodwork- no heart attack per dr. - 24 hrs still having same issues?
you may need stress test or coronary angiogram to rule out angina. this may be necessary if pain persists. similar pain can arise from esophageal disease or disc degeneration but not with shortness of breath. ekg is often time normal in the presence of cad.
can severe palpitations and high pulse for a few hours be caused by panic/anx attacks or could gas also cause this. eventually subside?
panic attacks involve a crescendo of anxiety that results in an outpouring of sympathetic stimulation (high adrenalin state). the symptoms resemble angina although there is typically an overwhelming "sense of dread" that something bad is about to happen. the heart races a tight throat and chest might appear along with shortness of breath with hyperventilation. beta blockers and anxiolytics help.
poison can cause angina? is it possible that poison in particular poisonous metals can cause angina?
many toxins can cause spasm of the coronary arteries resulting in angina so it is possible. this is not a classic symptom of metal poisoning though.
poison can cause angina? is it possible that poison in particular poisonous metals can cause angina?
angina is caused by inadequate circulation in the heart. heavy metal poisoning can cause many symptoms but angina isn't one of them.
should a stress test detect angina?
a stress test should help in determining if chest pain is due to a blockage in an artery within the heart.
should a stress test detect angina?
a stress test is designed to progressively increase the heart rate and cardiac workload in order to bring out signs and symptoms of obstructive coronary artery disease. substernal chest discomfort which comes on with physical or mental exertion and is relieved by rest or nitroglycerin defines angina.
could having no stent be the reason for a heart attack?
heart attacks generally occur as a result of plaque rupture at sites of lipid (cholesterol) build up in the lining of heart arteries (intima). stents are generally placed at sites of severe narrowing. stents are placed to relieve angina that can be a result of such severe blockages. studies have not demonstrated that stents prevent heart attacks.
symptons heart attack?
anterior sub sternal crushing pain worst ever with radiation to neck(angina) and frequently left arm occasionally to the upper abdomen and back however it is quite variable.
can angina attacks be exper by missing 1 day of bp meds? if so my pain level was an 8 with heaviness in chest. if so does this warrant getting ekg?
missed doses or not if your chest pain changes in pattern you need an ecg now.
slight pressure in chest gets up threw throat to head little trouble breathing?
these are symptoms that may be consistent with angina - heart pain. need to get to er asap and check them out!
should the physician have to be onsite for eecp treatments?
many practices use this and use this for chronic angina. so patients use ntg and this modality hopefully would help. some problems that could be encountered would be leg and thigh pains if severe peripheral vascular disease is present. pressure elevation can occur so this needs to watched for during the procedure.
smoking cigaretts after open heart sergary my friend had triple bypass open heart segary a year ago. he has continued to smoke 4-6 cigaretts a day. recently he has been complaing of sever chest pains (similar to pains he experience with heart attach) inab
absolutely! tobacco smoke is toxic to arteries and a major contributer to the formation of cholesterol plaques in heart arteries cardiac bypass grafts peripheral arteries in the limbs and also can cause aneurysms in the aorta. your friend's tobacco abuse contributed to the severe coronary disease in his native heart arteries and may now be contributing to the closure of the surgical bypass grafts. the symptoms you describe (classic angina) are very concerning for recurrent blockage(s) and he needs to see his physician immediately. there are new drugs that can be very effective in helping patients stop smoking. it is imperative he quits.
what do you suggest if my father is diabetic and is having chest pains?
hi. chest pains are non-specific but we evaluate them in the order of most serious first and and then move on to consider less serious causes. since the most serious would be angina because it could signal en evolving heart attack i'd say take him to the er to evaluate the heart or at least call his doctor (who knows his case). good luck.
what happens if your posterior descending arterial branch of the right coronary artery diffuse proximal 60 to 80%?
many people walk around with significant blockages without knowledge or harm. if the person described has angina or evidence of ischemia on testing a percutaneous intervention should be considered. otherwise forget it - but treat the underlying arteriosclerosis: statin aspirin mediterranean diet exercise ideal body weight no smoking good bp control.
what is anjiner in the heart and what couses it?
i trust that you are inquiring about angina. it is pain due to inadequate blood supply to the heart. usual symptom is pain in the chest on activity. however it may be heaviness in the chest discomfort or pain in the left arm of the even the left jaw. please visit this site for more info. <link>
what are the precautions that need to be taken if one has unstable angina and also have high blood pressure and high blood sugar levels?
your question is vague. someone with the problems you describe needs treatment with a low fat low starch diet medications to control the blood pressure blood sugar. if you are describing yourself (age 35) you need to see a cardiologist or doctor who can verify unstable angina. you would need a cardiac cath to see if you need a stent placed.
what are the signs of aortic regurgitation/leakage?
do you mean symptoms? (signs are physical findings your doctor detects during an examination). ar causes no symptoms for many decades but when it finally does start to cause symptoms it's congestive heart failure - shortness of breath with minimal exertion or at rest. less common symptoms are: angina (chest pain) and syncope (passing out).
what are the half-lives of isosorbide mn and nifedipine?
5 hours for isosorbide mononitrate used for prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary heart disease htn and mi. it is a vasodilatory agent that dilates the blood vessels. it lowers blood pressure and reduces the left ventricular preload and after load reducing the hearts oxygen requirement. nifedipine 1/2 life 2 hours. calcium channel blocker. go to medscape or drugbank for more info.
what if after treating angina the tonsils dose not come to the normal size?
please try your question again. try another word variation. the english translation didn't make sense. we're not sure what you're asking.
what can i expect withdrawing from atenolol 25 mg?
depends on how long you've been taking it how large you are and the reason you were taking it (bp arrhythmia or angina). the dose is small and often can be stopped cold but if you hare prone to angina or arrhythmia you're wise to taper it (take it every other day for 7 doses) before stopping it.
will the clearing of an 80% blockage of the lad help a a 20% efficient heart?
heart function sometimes improves after opening a blocked artery but not always especially if you have had a heart attack in the past. symptoms of heart failure or angina such as shortness of breath and chest pain are more important than the number attached to your heart function. best wishes.
what is the difference between kounis syndrome and syndrome x? is there a test to diagnose?
knunis syndrome can cause angina heart attack from coronary hypersensitivity and allergic reaction metabolic syndrome is a group of group of risk factors that occur together that increases the risk of cad. strolke and diabetes.
what would be the forward and backward effects of aortic stenosis?
the heart must push harder which is a strain and causes "muscle bound" left ventricular hypertrophy and later heart failure. the muscle needs more oxygen to pump and coronary flow is interfered with causing angina or heart attack in some. low forward flow can lead to fainting syncope. it is related to degree if stenosis- narrowing of this door! think of it as a door which does not open fully.
why would you have muscle spasms around your heart?
uncle spasm or precordial pain. it can be due to angina please get your self checked out by your doctor asap.
what changing lifestyle is good for angina patient?
first get a stress test to determine how much light exercise you can do then start a light regimen take all necessary meds for blood pressure or. . don't smoke light to moderate alcohol only eat healthy (fresh veg no fried foods more fish and grains) loose weight correctly through exercise not diets.
what does a heart attack feel like. what are symptoms before having one? what do u do if ur having one
angina pectoris =substernal pressure pain with radiation to the neck or left or right arm and shoulder. some will have abdominal pain-and be confused with gallbladder or stomach symptoms. ladies seem to have less classic// or tolerate pain better than men. relief with nitroglycerin is very suggestive. a feeling of impending doom pallor sweating suggest a bad day!
what is likelyhood of having heart attack or angina after angioplasty (balloon) & stent placed on main artery?
heart attack is not necessarily prevented by angioplasty or stent. we do treat the underlying disease aggressively as well as dual anti platelet therapy to prevent stent thrombosis. if you smoke it negates much of the treatment. most people do well after angioplasty and stenting.
what is likelyhood of having heart attack or angina after angioplasty (balloon) & stent placed on main artery?
u are at high risk & need aggressive prevention (lifestyle & medications).
what organ is under your heart?
that's why many people mistake angina for indigestion.
what is hypertension urgency?
it's more accurately: severe htn with mild symptoms. mostly bp doesn't cause symptoms but when it's very high (we're talking >200/>110 - sometimes much higher) there may be angina heart failure or encephalopathy. if severe it's a hypertensive emergency. "urgency" is a term used for a borderline situation.
what wood cause chest pain dead center of chest feels more like muscle but not sure. my heart feels racy and resting pulse is is mid 90's rite now?
with your history of angina previous cath it is best to assume your symptoms are cardiac until proven otherwise.
why do i have chest pain?
chest pain is not normal. there are many causes. angina is a term we use for pain caused by inadequate blood flow to the heart muscle. to know why you have chest pain you need to see a physician. could be musculoskeletal but heart consideration should be ruled out.
what can i do to get over neck chest and arms angina pain from stenosis?
the pain you describe is far more likely to be musculoskeletal caused pain than myocardial ischemia(angina pectoris). work with your doctor for proper diagnosis of your problem and treatment of it.
what to do if i get severe pains in my chest is it angina or normal chest pains?
chest pain is not normal. there are many causes. angina is a term we use for pain caused by inadequate blood flow to the heart muscle. to know why you have chest pain you need to see a physician.
why would the pain of angina be brought on by exercise or stress?
angina is the pain produced by not enough blood flow to the heart muscle. both exercise and stress increase the heart need for blood flow to the muscle. when the demand rises and the narrowed arteries don't allow the supply to increase angina results.
why would the pain of angina be brought on by exercise or stress?
when the heart is working harder with stress or exercise it requires more oxygen to supply the heart muscle. if arteries feeding the heart are narrowed then they might not be capable of supplying oxygen to the heart during these times. a heart at rest might have all of the circulation it needs but when beating harder and more forcefully requires more blood causing angina if supply is decreased.
what are stable and unstable angina and myocardial infarction and links to other infomration?
angina can be quite severe and respond to rest oxygen nitroglycerin. and fully recover with no muscle death. the pain fibers are the same source. some myocardial infarction can be asymptomatic all the way to the worst ominous pain ever! there is heart muscle death as the defining entity may need surgery or intervention.
what are stable and unstable angina and myocardial infarction and links to other infomration?
stable angina pain is under control with medication. unstable angina : pain is unstable and increases in intensity or occurs at rest. myocardial infarction : death of heart muscle.
which sort of condition that could induced hypertension causes?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what can cause chest pressure and pain?
the most common cause of chest pains is stress. the next most common cause is stomach acid reflux next is musculoskeletal including costochondritis (inflammation of ribs and rib cartilage) next is heart disease (angina). other causes include pneumonia pleurisy pericarditis gall bladder inflammation etc.
what is the difference between a heart attack and angina?
angina can be quite severe and respond to rest oxygen nitroglycerin. and fully recover with no muscle death. the pain fibers are the same source. some myocardial infarction can be asymptomatic all the way to the worst ominous pain ever! there is heart muscle death as the defining entity may need surgery or intervention.
what is the difference between a heart attack and angina?
angina is caused by exretion or strenuous activities or emotional stress and lasts less than 5 minuets and on rest; heart attack causes pain lasting more than15 minutes and can cause death of heart muscle as there is complete shut down of blood supply to certain part of heart angina can become unstable under certain circumstances and can lead to heart attack.
which of gerd and angina fade by change position or respiration?
this is not a way to diagnose the problem if there is any reason to suspect angina depending on your age and risk factors you need to get checked right now!
which can cause sob sensation& left arm/chest mild burn/tight 10 mg isosorbide monotrite two times a day or 5 bystolic (nebivolol).? my oxg 98% hr 58 & bp great
symptoms you are describing is related to angina. bystolic (nebivolol) is a betablocker sometimes can cause bronchospasm and sob. i recommend to see your physician soon.
what short and long term affects are associated with cardiovascular disease?
heart: angina heart attack congestive heart failure arrythmias carotid: tia stroke dementia legs: limited walking=claudication rest pain gangrene amputations veins: clots and pulmonary embolism and varicose veins disability and death prevention is worthwhile for dollars and life style .
what are some common symptoms associated with heart problems?
palpitations (skipped beats or rapid beating) exertional shortness of breath (dyspnea) exertional chest pain (angina pectoris) faint feeling (syncope or near-syncope) swelling of legs (edema) exertional fatigue. sometimes cardiac pain is felt in the throat jaw neck stomach area or back.
what can i do if medication is not helping my angina pain?
the best treatment for angina which is not controlled by optimal medical therapy is revascularization by coronary artery bypass grafting or stenting.
what can i do if medication is not helping my angina pain?
if confirmed angina then confirmation angio and intervention with pci or surgical cabg may give full durable relief.
what is an arterial spasm?
provides this answer: coronary artery spasm: sudden constriction of an artery that deprives heart muscle of blood & oxygen can cause a type of sudden chest pain referred to as variant angina/prinzmetal angina. it can be triggered by emotional stress medicines street drugs (particularly cocaine) & exposure to extreme cold. treatments include beta-blockers & classically nitroglycerin to open aa.
what to do about chest pains that come and go fast?
very brief chest pains (seconds) are almost never due to heart disease. chest pain that comes when you are very active but eases off in minutes when you relax could be angina. not enough detail to give a meaningful answer - ask your doctor.
what is the relationship between burning sensation of toes fingers and ischemic heart disease?
"burning" is a symptom most commonly associated with a nerve. carpal and tarsal tunnel (nerve compression) neuritis (inflammation) and some metabolic diseases (like diabetes and anemia) can also produce a burning feeling. the most i can think of is angina can sometimes cause the left arm and fingers to tingle or even burn. it certainly would have no affect on the toes though.
what does myocardial ischemia means?
myocardial ischemia is what causes chest pain or angina. this occurs when there is plaque that blocks the arteris and reduces flow to the heart muscle.
what is the average life-expectancy for aortic stenosis as?
on severity and specific symptoms. prognosis is poor once heart failure angina or syncope is present.
what causes headaches stomachaches and mild chest pains at the same time?
if you are having angina (chest pain) this could cause stress since it is a serious heart problem that needs to be diagnosed and treated by a doctor. worrying about chest pain causes upset stomach and headaches see a doctor and get the workup to find out if anything is going on with your heart. information and treatment will calm your headaches and stomache.
wheezing when i cough and chest pain. what could this be?
wheezing cough and chest pain may suggest bronchial asthma chronic or acute bronchitis etc. need to see doc for office spirometry and chest radiograph or see a lung specialist to make sure that you do not have bronchial asthma. angina is less likely with cough and wheezing unless associated with congestive heart failure.
what is the cause of angina pectoris?
typical angina is caused by partial of a coronary artery causing inadequate blood supply to meet the oxygen demands of the heart.
what is the cause of angina pectoris?
angina is caused by inadequate circulation and oxygen to the muscles of the heart. can be caused by arterial blockage or arterial spasm. activity can sometimes cause the heart to need more blood supply than can be provided resulting in episodes. nitroglycerine under the tongue (sl) can quickly open arteries temporarily restoring blood flow
what is the cause of angina pectoris?
angina is caused when blood flow to an area of the heart is decreased impairing the delivery of oxygen and vital nutrients to the heart muscle cells. when this happens the heart muscle must use alternative less efficient forms of fuel so that it can perform its function of pumping blood to the body. the byproduct of using this less efficient fuel is a compound called lactic acid that builds up
what is angina of the heart or chest?
angina is the discomfort one feels in the chest due to blockages in the coronary arteries that impede blood flow to the heart.
what can cause pain in the lower left chest area an shoulder at the same time?
it could heart related. chest pains along with shoulder pains misty with exertion certainly could be angina from the heart. need to see an md and have a stress test.
why would my chest and or heart hurt when i consume caffeine?
while caffeine can rarely cause the arteries feeding the heart to spasm or more commonly can make the heart race which may provoke angina (heart pain when the work required outstrips the blood supply) it is also possible that someone having chest pain with caffeine is having heartburn or gerd - a well known side effect of caffeine. seeing a doctor and having a stress test is reasonable.
what can you be doing about angina after bypass surgery?
these are the options for recurrent angina after bypass surgery. pci is angioplasty and redo refers to repeat bypass surgery. of course a thorough work up as to the cause of the angina would proceed the above.
why my heart hurts after i do exercise bike?
sometimes muscles in the chest wall are strained when doing an exercise like the exercise bike (if certain positions are uncomfortable or if the work is extreme). this is usually a pain that u can reproduce by pressing over the upper rib cage. however one has to be concerned about a deeper chest discomfort that comes on after exercise as it could signify a heart problem like angina.
what to do about chest tightness and labored breathing?
the most serious possibility is angina which is a symptom of myocardial ischemia; that is poor circulation to the heart. another possiblity is that the tube that connects ones mouth to the stomach may have a problem. another possibility is that the lungs are affected by an infection such as preumonia.
what are the symptoms are characteristic of unstable angina?
chest pain not relieved by rest. please note that there are many instances of atypical presentations and it may range from vague feeling of discomfort pressure on chest shortness of breath anxiety sweating feeling of impending doom nausea vomiting. if you suspect unstable angina get to an er asap call 911.
what is coronary artery disease -- hypertension?
coronary artery disease is the build up of atherosclerotic fat plaques in the arteries of the heart. these can partially block blood flow to the heart muscle causing angina or block completely and cause a heart attack. hypertension is high blood pressure which can be caused by a variety of medical conditions.
when is a coronary angiogram necessary?
(do you work for the government? ) seriously it should be done to stratify risk and plan further treatment by either percutaneous intervention or surgery in patients with known or suspected coronary disease. common scenarios are: during a heart attack to investigate new or unstable anginal symptoms following an abnormal stress test or prior to planned valvular or other heart surgery.
what are the symptoms of cabg failure?
cabg failure either means the grafts clotted off or else the grafts were not placed in the best area to bypass all the blockages especially in patients with diffuse blockages where there may not have been a good place no matter what. . symptoms are return of the angina decreased exercise tolerance fatigue shortness of breath lightheadedness nausea sweating etc.
what does it mean if i have chest pain right between my breasts?
maybe due to angina pectoris muscle pull or osteochondritis. you need to see a thoracic surgeon for full evaluation and rx.
what does it mean if i have some chest pain between my boobs?
there are many reasons for chest pain in that location. reasons include primary breast infection musculoskeletal pain (costrochondritis) angina (heart related chest pain) and reflux. your doctor should be able to help evaluate.
what are the tip-offs that you might have coronary spasms?
this is a not a common question nor a common occurrence. in other words spasm of the coronary arteries is not very common and the most typical symptom would be cyclical pain; also called prinzmeta's angina due spasm of the muscle fibers of the coronary artery. much more common is cad from atherosclerotic blockage.
what are the tip-offs that you might have coronary spasms?
coronary spasms are not common. sometimes anxiety and caffeine can cause them but reflux is a much more common cause of angina pain. try heartburn treatment first. if you still have pain see your doctor. medication called calcium channel blockers are used to treat the spasm.
why are some people more likely to develop coronary spasms than others?
coronary spasm or atypical angina usually occurs in women who don't have coronary disease. on occasion it can be severe and can mimic a heart attack. it may occur with stress or cold temps and can be treated with calcium channel blockers which are a type of blood pressure medicine.
what sort of problem is acute cardiovascular disease?
the conception of actue cardiovascular disease is mostly a dangerous situation such as unstable angina acute myocardial infaction hypertension crisis etc. it not handled in a timely manner endanger life.
what could pain in the chest lead to?
it is rather what could lead to pain in the chest. serious conditions that have to be considered and ruled out include angina or heart attack blood clot in the lungs and rarely tearing or enlargement of the large blood vessel in the chest (aortic dissection or aneurysm). gall bladder disease neck or rib arthritis acid reflux esophageal spasm pleurisy or pericarditis lung disease are some others.
when i get stressed i feel sharp chest pain and can't seem to breathe properly. is this normal?
either hyperventilation from severe anxiety or else angina. need to consult with your doctor.
when is an interventional cardiac catheterization procedure needed?
when a patient has angina valve disease clinical symptoms needing further evaluation. prior to international treatment all patient should get diagnostic cardiac catheterization. this will decide what is the appropriate treatment for that patient. risk of the procedure is low and benefits out weigh risks.
what happens when someone gets coronary artery disease?
some remain asymptomatic and have normal lives. others develop angina. some ar complicated with heart attacks.
what is the significance of provocable ischemia?
provocable ischemia occurs when a heart artery is blocked and exercise creates a condition where the heart muscle needs more blood than the artery can deliver. it may create the classic clinical symptom of angina pectoris or chest pain. tests to diagnose provocable ischemia include the treadmill nuclear stress/chemical testing and stress echocardiography.
what is another word for heart pain?
heart pain that occurs with exertion is also known as angina pectoris.
what is another word for heart pain?
angina.
what are some of the consequences of coronary artery blockage?
spectrum of problems including angina heart attacks arrhythmias heart failure and sudden death.
what is the simplest way to cure heart pain?
once you know the cause you can begin to relieve it. if the pain is from angina or blocked arteries drugs such as nitroglycerin will help. see a doctor if you have heart pain.
what are signs and symptoms of coronary artery disease?
coronary disease may have no symptoms until a heart attack occurs. the most common symptom is chest tightness felt under the breastbone though it may be felt in the jaw or left arm. "angina" is chest pain that comes with physical or emotional stress when the heart is working harder. the pain o a heart attack is similar but can come at rest and lasts longer.
what is the importance of the coronary arteries?
the coronary arteries supply blood to the heart muscle itself. there are usually 3 - the left anterior descending circumflex and right coronary. closure or blockage of one of these main arteries or a branch vessel from cholesterol or a clot causes a heart attack or angina (chest pain).
what is the difference between coronary heart disease and chronic heart disease?
coronary heart disease specifically refers to disease in the blood vessels that supply your heart. blockages in these vessels can cause angina or heart attacks. chronic heart disease is a broader term. it can include coronary disease congestive heart failure valve problems and many more.
what is the difference between angina coronary artery disease and heart disease?
angina and angina equivalents are symptoms of cad: coronary artery disease - which is often pooled with other heart aliments and described as heart disease. heart disease could potentially encompass other conditions such as congestive heart failure chf atrial fibrillation or flutter af kinds of cardiomyopathy bundle branch block and valve disorders and potentially more.
what is the difference between angina coronary artery disease and heart disease?
angina is chest pain due to diminished blood flow to heart muscle; maybe from constriction or blockage. coronary disease is abnormality in coronary artery itself. heart disease is abnormality in any part of the heart.
what is the success rate of heart bypass surgery?
bipass is very successful in relieving angina pectoris pain related to blockage in the arteries. in most circumstances there is not good evidence that it also lengthens life. whether you have surgery or not it is critical to address your risk factors such as smoking blood pressure cholesterol stress diabetes obesity lack of exercise etc.
what is angina vs. heart burn? how do you tell the difference between angina and heart burn?
heart burn is a misnomer and has nothing to do with the heart except it can mimic angina. angina is pain or discomfort that occurs because of inadequate circulation in the heart. classic symptoms can usually be distinguished but most people need tests to tell them apart at least early on until they know what they have. you should see your doctor!
what is angina vs. heart burn? how do you tell the difference between angina and heart burn?
angina and heart burn can feel very similar but there are important differences that can help you discern between the two. heart burn is caused by the reflux of stomach acid into the esophagus. it is more common after meals especially with acidic or spicy foods and can also be increased by alcohol. heart burn also is more likely to occur if you lay down shortly after your meal. heart burn usually improves with antacids. angina is caused by reduced blood flow to the heart muscle and is more likely to occur with exertion. except in advanced stages angina is usually not precipitated by meals. angina not does improve with antacids but instead gets better with nitroglycerin or rest. sometimes people who have a condition called gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) have acid reflux so frequently that they can heart burn that can be confused for angina. conversely some people have atypical angina that feels so similar to heartburn that nobody recognizes their heart disease. if you are not sure about your symptoms be sure to discuss them with your doctor.
what is diabetic heart disease? are dizziness shortness of breath cold tips of finders and chest pain strong indicatros of diabetic heart disease?
all of these can be symptoms of cardiology and diabetes dramatically increases the risk of cardiology. chest pain shortness of breath and associated dizziness can all be symptoms of angina which is caused by narrowing or blockages in the coronary arteries. angina might also be accompanied by excessive sweating nausea or fatigue. cold finger tips may be a symptom of poor circulation to the hands which can be caused by atherosclerosis in the peripheral arties or also by diabetic nerve disease. if you have these symptoms whether or not you have diabetes you should definitely see your doctor for further evaluation.
what is diabetic heart disease? are dizziness shortness of breath cold tips of finders and chest pain strong indicatros of diabetic heart disease?
there isn't actually such an entity per se but people with diabetes tend to develop accelerated atherosclerosis which tends to affect the smaller (distal) vessels to a greater extent than non-diabetics. that could result in angina (chest pain)but often doesn't because diabetics lose the ability to perceive pain. dizziness and cold fingers are non-specific issues caused by many things.
what is coronary microvascular disease? what are the symptoms of coronary microvascular disease and is it true that it is more prominent between women?
coronary microvascular disease (mvd) affects the smallest branches of the coronary arteries instead of the larger portions of the coronary arteries which are affected in traditional coronary atherosclerosis. mvd has similar symptoms to traditional coronary artery disease but it is much more common in women than men. patients can have angina which is chest pain pressure or burning that increases with activity and improves with rest. they might also experience shortness of breath with activity. the diagnosis can be difficult but is typically made when patients have symptoms of obstructive coronary artery disease but do not have blockages in the larger arteries. since mvd affects the smallest arteries they are too small to see on coronary angiography. the risk factors for mvd are the same as for traditional atherosclerosis but perhaps there is a hormonal component to explain the increased incidence in women.
what genes play an important role in angina?
this information is not yet known. stay tuned (and check back in 10 years).
what genes play an important role in angina?
you might want to discuss this matter further with a cardiologist. i don't know of any specific genes that have been implicated as a cause of angina. however a family history of heart diease high blood pressure diabetes elevated lipids and smoking are all risk factors for heart diease including angina. it is possible that genetic factors could put an individual at higher risk for this problem.
what does sharp chest pain signify?
cp may be due to several reasons: just with quality of pain like sharp chest pain may not indicate anything specific. you may have to rule out heart attack angina pericarditis aneurysms pneumonia pleurisy acid reflux etc.
what makes someone eligible to get a heart transplant?
end stage heart failure intractable angina or ventricular arthythmias are the most common indications for heart transplant. eligibility screening includes a thorough evaluation: medical (to rule out contraindications such as active cancer bad diabetes etc. ) social (good support system non user of tobacco heavy alcohol or drugs) and financial (ability to pay for meds afterwards).
what is the difference between eecp and heart bypass surgery?
eecp is external counterpulsation therapy for patients with angina that can not undergo coronary bypass surgery. coronary bypass surgery requires a surgeon to open your chest and connect an artery or a saphenous vein between the aorta and the coronary arteries beyond the blockages with or without the use of a heart-lung circuit w/wo stopping heart.
what is the difference between eecp and heart bypass surgery?
both coronary bypass surgery and eecp are used to treat patients with coronary artery disease and angina. typically bypass is for patients who have multiple blocked arteries or other situations where angioplasty and stenting are not feasible. eecp is used for treatment when either angioplasty or bypass surgery are not feasible and the patient continues to have angina despite maximal medications.
what procedures is enhanced external counter pulsation seen as an alternative to?
eecp is used for chronic angina as a way to develop the little collateral vessels in your heart. most commonly this would be used in patients who have no further surgical angioplasty or further medicine options.
what procedures is enhanced external counter pulsation seen as an alternative to?
not as an alternative to any procedure but as a complementary procedure to medications for angina.
what are other names for coronary artery disease?
atherosclerotic heart disease angina blocked arteries from plaque buildup acute coronary syndrome.
what causes heart pain when you use the restroom?
there is nothing about using the restroom to cause heart pain. if you have pain from your heart (aka "angina") it will occur with any form of exertion. pain in your chest with valsalva ("pushing" like with a bm) can be due to acid reflux and is the more likely cause of your chest pain.
what happens during an enhanced external counter pulsation?
the eecp system involves inflatable trousers that blow up and deflate with each heartbeat. patients are lying down during the therapy. the patient typically undergoes 45 minute sessions of this 5 days a week for six weeks. the therapy is used for patients who have refractory angina.
what happens during an enhanced external counter pulsation?
the device compresses and releases with your heart beats (pegged off of the ekg) using compression wraps that go around the lower legs thighs and the buttocks. it is supposed to help with coronary perfusion/circulation. it is mainly meant for those whose angina is not helped with meds surgery or angioplasty.
what is an alternative for nitroglycerin?
nitroglycerin is used to treat angina or pain related to lack of oxygen to heart muscle. other medications include beta blockers calcium channel blockers and a medication called ranexa (ranolazine). only nitroglycerin is fast-acting and used on an as-needed basis.
what is heart pain that feels like heartburn?
heartburn is not heart pain at all - the term is a misnomer. it is due to acid reflux in the esophagus and is called "gastroesophageal reflux disease". on occasion actual angina (true pain arising from inadequate circulation in the heart) is mistaken for heartburn because some people can't tell the difference and/or the two conditions can feel similar. a stress test can separate them.
what happens when a coronary arteries become clogged?
of blockage. if hemodynamically significant then angina can result. any degree of blockage increases risk of a heart attack.
what happens when a coronary arteries become clogged?
this largely depends in the severity. in narrowing s of over 75 or 80% patients may experience angina or chest pain with extertion. the scary thing is that smaller narrowing a like 20- 30% can ulcerate and cause sudden heart attacks or death.
what information is a person given before enhanced external counter pulsation?
eecp is generally considered for patients that are not candidates for revascularization but have on-going stable chest pain or angina symptoms. patients who have serious heart failure or heart valve problems uncontrolled hypertension peripheral vascular disease (pvd) blockages - 80% of heart disease patients have pvd pregnant or have bleeding disorders including ulcers should not have eecp.
what causes chest pain while breathing in after eating?
cp may be due to several reasons: you may have to rule out heart attack angina pericarditis aneurysms pneumonia pleurisy acid reflux etc.
who benefits from coronary artery bypass surgery?
patients with either narrowing in all 3 cornary arteries or left main narrowing and a damaged left ventricle live longer with bypass surgery more than 95 % have improvement in their angina pectoris (chest pain).
what is nitroglycerin paste used for?
nitroglycerin is a medication used to treat angina (chest pain) and can be used in a pill spray patch or paste form.
what is the function of a myocardial perfusion scan?
a myocardial perfusion study is performed in order to detect blockage of the coronary (heart) arteries using intravenous injection of radiotracers which will have a distribution proportional to the blood flow. studies are performed at rest and after stress or pharmacological stress and then compared to each other. this will help detecting ischemia ( angina) or infarction (heart attack).
what age does someone have to be to get coronary heart bypass surgery?
it is treatment for angina-chest pain so one has to have coronary vessels blocked. it is not an operation done without specific indications of disease some very aged frail high risk persons may not be candidates.
what are the treatments for coronary heart disease?
treatment depends on the extent of the problem. exercise and a low cholesterol diet may have a role in prevention of cad. if cad is present low dose aspirin (81 mg daily) can reduce risk of heart attack 50%. cholesterol meds (statins) also lower risk 20-30%. if it is symptomatic (angina) medicines such as nitroglycerin beta-blockers and sometimes calcium channel blockers can be used.
what are the consequences of ignoring coronary artery disease?
atherosclerosis known to start ~age 7 on average most commonly becomes obvious by reducing/stopping blood supply to portions of the heart muscle; heart attacks (most asymptomatic until large) resulting in congestive heart failure angina and/or premature death. stress testing all forms completely miss the problem until after the disease is quite advanced & after most smaller heart attacks.
why do people with heart illnesses have heart pain after a cup of coffee?
coffee contains caffeine which is a cardiac stimulant: it makes the heart beat faster and may cause rhythm disturbances. when the heart beats faster the heart muscle needs more oxygen. if there is blockage present rapid heart rate can outstrip the blood supply which hurts (angina). even with a normal heart skipping can feel uncomfortable.
why do people with heart illnesses have heart pain after a cup of coffee?
this is very atypical. however caffeinated coffee may elevate the heart rate and cause it to squeeze with more force or cause an arrhythmia with an elevation in heart rate. this increases the heart's oxygen demand. if supply cannot increase the result may be angina (heart pain).
what are the causes of chest pain?
cp can be due to heart attack angina pleurisy pneumonia gall bladder disease esophageal spasm aneurysm pulmonary embolus costochondritis etc.
what type of surgury will i need i have a cardac problem i went to the heart doctor i gotan untersound of the neck the results on my left side i have blockage from the neck to the upper part of my left arm and becausee of this problem i get num in the ar
although the exact nature of your cardiac problem was not given i suspect that you likely have coronary artery disease or blockage of one or more of the arteries in the heart perhaps associated with symptoms such as chest pain or left arm pain also known as angina. people who have coronary artery disease requiring coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery often have narrowing of other arteries. if the carotid artery the artery carrying blood to the brain is narrow (called carotid stenosis) this may increase the risk of stroke during or after cabg surgery occurring in up to 3% of patients. surgery to remove the carotid narrowing (called carotid endarterctomy) might prevent these complications of cabg surgery but also has risks. in randomized trials of patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis the perioperative risk of stroke or death after carotid endarterectomy was approximately 6% but this represents a substantial reduction in the risk of stroke (and thus greater benefit) compared to medical therapy alone. however the benefit gained from carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic carotid stenosis is less and should probably best be done at institutions where their complication rate is less than 3%. unfortunately there continues to be ongoing debate as to whether to address the carotid stenosis prior to cabg surgery. carotid endarterectomy performed to prevent stroke during cabg surgery has not yet been conclusively shown to be safer than the staged approach and thus this should be carefully discussed with a vascular surgeon and cardiac surgeon.
what are some of the risks of coronary heart disease?
atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries is a progressive disease if it is allowed to continue without any remediation the arteries will become blocked and in the heart this will cause ischemia -becoming irreversible -and ultimately muscle death. in the interim one could be sidelined from preferred activities due to angina or equivalent. but you can partner with your doctor to slow/stop it.
what is the relationship between cardiac ischemia and shortness of breath?
the exact mechanism by which cardiac ischemia causes dyspnea is unknown. there are a number of possible reasons including 1) increased pulmonary edema from poor heart function during ischemia (ie systolic dysfunction) 2) weakening of filling of the heart during relaxation (ie diastolic dysfunction) and 3) increased sensation of shortness of breath due to chest pain (angina).
what are symptoms of an aortic valve prolapse?
av prolapse results in aortic regurgitation. even if it's severe it may take decades before symtpoms occur if ever. symptoms when present may be breathlessness with less than usual activity anginal type chest pain or spells of passing out/nearly passing out.
what is the function of enhanced external counter pulsation?
the precise mechanism of how eecp relieves angina (chest pain) is not known. the treatments actively assist the heart in ejecting blood so it has to work less hard and help the coronary arteries fill with blood to supply heart muscle. however pain relief persists after treatments possibly due to effects on the endothelium cells lining the coronary arteries which make them more efficient.
when could eecp treatment be used for people with angina?
only certain patients qualify for eecp treatment. some criteria include: being no longer helped by medicinal therapy having angina that is restricting one from doing daily activities being at high risk of complications if catheterization or surgical treatments were to be done not having blood pressure heart rate or heart valve problems that would disqualify one for eecp etc.
when could eecp treatment be used for people with angina?
when everything else fails.
what is eecp (called as natural heart bypass)?
enhanced external counterpulsation (eecp) is a procedure that forces more blood to flow into the coronary arteries (which supply blood to heart muscle). a person uses the eecp machine 1 hour 5 days a week for 7 weeks. the treatments are intended to cause long-term improvements in blood flow to the heart muscle thus decreasing angina (chest pain) symptoms. only certain patients qualify for eecp.
what is the principal symptom of coronary artery disease?
symptoms from coronary artery disease (cad) can vary. the most common is angina and can include chest pain as well as pain in the arm jaw or abdomen. the pain typically gets worse with activity and better with rest. shortness of breath can also develop especially as the heart muscle begins to weaken from inadequate blood flow.
what is the difference between coronary heart disease and heart disease?
coronary disease refers to the blood vessels specifically supplying the heart. narrowing of these vessels can lead to what we call angina. rupture of plaques in these vessels can cause "heart attacks. " heart disease is a more generic term. it can be many different things affecting the many different parts of the heart.
what are the causes of heart failure?
coronary artery disease (angina) diseases of the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy). high blood pressure (hypertension). diseases of the heart valves. abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias). medicines alcohol excess cocaine and some types of chemotherapy. severe anaemia thyroid disease (hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism) and paget's disease of bone.
what is the treatment for coronary artery disease?
the dominant treatments are for the symptoms: anti-anginal + anti-clotting meds angioplasty bypass surgery. however the best treatments are optimizing the ds. drivers: optimize lipoproteins (not cholesterol see nmr particle test) blood glucose (optimal hba1c? 5. 0%) blood pressure (optimal sbp? 120 mmhg) don’t smoke etc. stress tests overwhelmingly miss the disease until after advanced.
what is the harm of hypertension?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what are the symptoms associated with coronary artery disease?
cad can pesent with chest pain left arm pain or a varient ie jaw teeth neck etc nausea diaphoresis shortness of breath can be anginal equivalent. it can be at rest or with exertion. if it occurs at rtest then its demed more unstable and demands immediate treatment.
what patients can benefit from cardiac rehab?
patients who have had a heart attack angioplasty & stent bypass surgery and valve replacement are candidates for cardiac rehab. also patients with angina pectoris (chest pain) who are treated with medical therapy would benefit from rehab.
when does the pain stop after heart bypass surgery?
why is:the pain is due to poor circulation to the heart muscle causing angina pectoris or heart attack. bypass brings blood past the blockages and feeds the heart muscle cells wen after surgery is within 2 months in general but faster fir some.
why is a heart bypass sometimes necessary?
the native arteries that feed the heart muscle become plugged with plaque and or clot causing angina or heart attack bypass is a detour around that blockage from aorta to distal coronary. the bypass machine is a name for the heart lung machine used while operating on a quiet heart.
which conditions is enhanced external counter pulsation used to treat?
angina is chest discomfort caused by insufficient blood supply to heart muscle. it can manifest as pain pressure/tightness burning or even shortness of breath. eecp while labor-intensive and requiring several months of treatments is effective in reducing angina severity in patients who are resistant to anti-anginal medications and stents/bypass surgery.
what does chest pain in the lower right hear mean?
it usually means that it is not of cardiac origin - it is not a heart pain - heart pain (angina pectoris) is usually non focal many a times are described as pressure or tightness involving the whole region of chest or trunk and the discomfort may radiate to the left or both arms - but you may consider getting gi (bowel gallbladder) evaluation.
what is the progress or timeline for a heart failure?
the majority is related to coronary disease (angina or heart attack) the degree of coronary disease determine progress of failure of the heart. but salt and fluid restriction goes long ways in keeping heart failure compensated (controlled) and that has a good effect on progress of disease.
what are markers for microvascular angina in hypertensive patients?
there are no "markers" for microvascular angina per se. the diagnosis can be made invasively at specialized centers (only a few around the country) but often is based on a "gestalt" of suggestive symptoms sometimes with evidence of impaired blood flow ("ischemia") on stress tests in a person with traditional heart disease risk factor when typical angiograms show no blockages.
what are markers for microvascular angina in hypertensive patients?
angina occurring without demonstrable narrowings of the larger coronary arteries on the surface of the heart. can be definitively diagnosed only with a coronary angiogram.
why does heart pain happen and what are the causes?
heart pain (angina) occurs when there is an imbalance between myocardial (heart muscle) oxygen supply and demand. supply is based on the condition of the coronary arteries and blood. demand is related to chamber wall stress contractility and heart rate.
why could i have chest pain after vomiting?
chest pain induced by vomiting is unlikely to represent angina though it is possible if the vomiting is an atypical presentation of heart attack. this can be seen occasionally. the esophagus can undergo significant strain during vomiting/retching and it is even possible to tear it slightly which can be dangerous if not immediately detected.
what are the consequences of coronary heart disease?
coronary heart disease can result in chest tightness or pain on exertion (called "angina") exertional shortness of breath ("dyspnea") heart attack (coronary occlusion) heart failure cardiac rhythm irregularities ("arrhythmias") cardiac arrest ("sudden death") and a shortened life expectancy.
why do some patients undergo heart bypass?
why is:the pain is due to poor circulation to the heart muscle causing angina pectoris or heart attack. bypass brings blood past the blockages and feeds the heart muscle cells.
which drugs are best for chest pain?
typically pain due to angina or a reduced blood flow to a region of the heart is relieved in the short term with sublingual nitroglycerin. both tablets and spray are available. in the hospital setting morphine may be used if the pain persists. long acting oral or topical nitroglycerin preparations are available.
who are candidates for eecps?
if a patient has symptomatic angina and non intervenable disease they are candidates for that form of treatment.
why do people with coronary disease get chest pain?
coronary disease results in blockage of the coronary arteries which results in not enough oxygenated blood to reach the affected heart muscle which causes angina or chest pain.
why does angina cause pain and breathlessness?
lack of oxygen causes pain in any muscle when oxygen demand out strips suply. in the legs its called cludication. as for the shortness of breath it can be due to the dysfunction of the left ventricle due to poor oxygen suply. much like an engine sputters if the fuel line is clogged. along with heart failure pain and anxiety can also cause shortness of breath.
why does angina cause pain and breathlessness?
the pain is a common symptom to injury -- in this case hypoxic/anoxic injury and the breathlessness is due to reduced perfusion (functional circulation) to the lung -.
when i cry over something very serious i sometimes start to feel chest pains. why is this?
the heart is an emotional organ -- interesting right? but it's true -- you can actually have the heart pain - angina pectoris - with emotional stress -- the broken heart syndrome! so being content and at peace is good for your health <positive_smiley>).
why would i have chest pains that spread all the way down to my back?
two worrisome causes for such pain that have to be ruled out are angina/ heart attack and thoracic aortic aneurysm or dissection. acute episodes of such pain need immediate evaluation in the emergency room.
what is prinzmetals angina?
prinzmetal's angina is chest pain due to spasm of coronary arteries which tends to occur in young women. it can be triggered by drugs like cocaine or cigarette smoking or associated with blood vessel spasm of other parts of the body like raynaud’s phenomenon involving upper extremities.
what is prinzmetals angina?
it means chest pain caused by decreased blood flow to the heart from spasm of the blood vessels supplying the heart.
what is prinzmetals angina?
described as angina from spasm usually spontaneous of a coronary accompanied by specific ekg changes and without coronary artery blockage.
what could be causing my head neck and shoulder pain and extreme fatigue i have two stents hbp cardiovascular disease and angina.
while head neck and shoulder pain is most often musculo-skeletal and non-life threatening anyone with a significant cardiac history should always have a new onset of symptoms evaluated promptly by their doctor. heart problems do not always present as typical chest pain esp. in patients who have a prior history of cardiac issues. this should be ruled out first before accepting another diagnosis.
what could be causing my head neck and shoulder pain and extreme fatigue i have two stents hbp cardiovascular disease and angina.
this certainly could be a minifestation of angina. more information is needed to determine what other possibilities are for this particular constellation of symptoms. when do you get the pains? what are they like? are they related to any particular activity? do the pains come and go? can you characterize the fatigue to a greater extent?
what sort of disease is coronary artery disease?
coronary arteries supply the heart with blood. cholesterol plaques can build up and narrow the size of these. angina is chest pain fatigue or shortness of breath from too little blood flow. these plaques can also break off or allow blood clots to form that can cause total blockage causing heart attack. many ways to evaluate. treat with meds and/or bypass surgery angioplasty and/or stenting.
what could consant pain in the center of my chest that has lasted foir several weeks be?
chronic chest pain has a long differential. most worrisome is a cardiac problem such as unstable or stable angina. more commonly chronic chest pain can be musculoskeletal acid reflux esophageal spasm peptic ulcer disease costochondritis. further evaluation such as associated symptoms your medical history and an ekg is needed to be performed by a physician to clarify the diagnosis.
what sort of disease is coronary spasms?
coronary spasms or vasospastic angina or variant angina are acute and sudden muscular contraction with occlusion of the blood vessels of the heart which produces heart attack like symptoms (angina pectoris).
what are the most common symptoms of esophageal spasm?
it can feel like heartburn but many people describe a pain that is similar to "angina" (which is just latin for strangling). an unpleasant squeezing or tightness in the chest. it's sometimes relieved by a belch or antacids. drugs like nitrates and calcium channel blockers are also effective but not uniformly so. sometimes antidepressants (yes those! ) work to reduce the spasms.
what are some reason id be nauseated dizzy tired and sjort of breath?
it would have been helpful if you'd provided more info including your age medical history and medications you may be taking. however what you are describing could be due to cardiac causes including atrial fibrillation heart failure angina or even heart attack. it could also be due to infectious causes like pneumonia. medication side effects or allergies are also possible. go see your doctor!
what are the most common symptoms of coronary artery disease?
there are classical anginal symptoms atypical anginal symptoms angina equivalent symptoms and sudden death. if the person has diabetes most patients just feel heaviness oppresion tiredness shortness of breath opressive sensation awakening person from sleep. sometimes the symptom is inability to control diabetes. see your cardiologist.
what the heck is calcium channel blocker overdose really?
calcium channel blockers are a group of medications we use to treat hypertension and angina. even though they belong to the same class the meds in this class have different effects. any time more drug is taken than a pt should side effects will be seen. weather it's an overdose or a pt that's especially sensitive an over dose of verapamil will cause heart block. if norvasc (amlodipine) then bp will tank.
what's a simple way to say what cardiospasm really is?
temporary narrowing of blood vessel to heart causing obstruction of blood flow and chest pain. usually resolves with nitroglycerine. the condition is called prinzmetal angina and is diagnosed by abnormal ekg showing st segment elevation when you are having chest pain but resolved within a few minutes .
what are the top reasons for getting unstable angina?
unstable angina is usually due to a plaque rupture which limits the blood flow to an area of the heart. this is caused by increase in the size of the plaque or elevated blood pressure or increased heart rate which make the narrowing more likely to occlude the artery. this causes a change in the usual angina or the onset of new angina or cardiac chest pain.
what are the top reasons for getting unstable angina?
rapture of an atherosclerotlic plaque is the most common cause of unstable angina often associated with active inflammation within the plaque.
why does angina causes pain in the chest and arm?
the pain fibers in the spine innervate areas of the body (dermatomes) in relation to their proximity to the spine during development. the heart upper chest and left arm develop with the same set of nerves. when you get angina the heart hurts and co-stimulates the nerves of the arm and upper chest. always keep in close contact with your cardiologist if you have this.
what will happens if someone with a heart condition goes on a roller coaster?
"heart condition" encompasses a broad range of maladies! someone who experiences angina with exertion should avoid the stress of a roller coaster but most people with hd who have been stable and free of symptoms for long periods can tolerate brief stress well. if in doubt of course discretion is the wiser part of valor.
why does a higher stroke volume reduce angina?
stroke volume is the amount of blood ejected from the heart with each beat. a higher stroke volume implies increased cardiac contractility which means more oxygen demands by the heart muscle. in the presence of significant coronary artery disease this increased contractility will increase not reduce angina.
why does a higher stroke volume reduce angina?
it doesn't higher stroke volume means the heart is working harder likely to provoke angina.
why does a higher stroke volume reduce angina?
higher stroke volume helps decrease angina by decreasing the oxygen demand on the heart and improving the oxygen supply and demand ratio.
why does a higher stroke volume reduce angina?
cardiac output is increased and hence the "supply" side of the supply-demand equation is increased.
what do you do when you feel like your heart is tight but only lasts a couple minutes?
angina and a couple minutes is a long time. if these events are happening regularly multiple times and increasing get to the er.
what birth control will be best for me that is easy non-messy and affordable? i'm a 47yo female diagnosis with esrd and on dialysis since 2009. have chronic hypertension angina and heart disease. what birth control will be best for me that is easy n
hello. i can't say what would work best for you. but how about good old fashioned condoms? they are cheap usually not messy can be carried easily in a wallet and there are no drug- drug interactions. take care.
what birth control will be best for me that is easy non-messy and affordable? i'm a 47yo female diagnosis with esrd and on dialysis since 2009. have chronic hypertension angina and heart disease. what birth control will be best for me that is easy n
the safest least expensive and most effective form of birth control ever developed is the vasectomy performed on a male partner. the vasectomy can be performed under local anesthetic on a patient with virtually any medical condition. compare that to tubal ligations that must be done under a general anesthetic and are not appropriate for patients with significant medical problems.
what can be the consequences a small area of ischemia at the apex of the heart?
if you really have ischemia at the apex there may be no consequences if it's chronic. over-exertion could potentially cause angina. if it's unstable a heart attack (mi) could result. but be aware that shifting soft tissue on nuclear stress testing often leads to a reading of "a small area of apical ischemia" which is a false positive due to technical issues. is your "ischemia" confirmed by cath?
why do i feel my chest burning when i bench press?
a burning feeling in your chest while you lift weights is most likely caused by working the muscle which in turn releases lactic acid and causes a burning sensation. other less likely possibilities include acid reflux (brought on by laying down) or heart pain (angina). typical angina would be more of a crushing heavy feeling + nausea + sweating + shortness of breath - but it's not all typical.
what are the causes for chest pressure or pain?
angina (heart) pulmonary embolus (lungs) airway congestion (bronchitis asthma) infection (bronchitis/pneumonia) heartburn (esophagus) musculoskeletal (e. g. costochondritis muscle spasms) radiculopathy (nerves pinched as they exit spine). many. see md if persists or worsens.
why is my chest burning stright down the middle. what is that about?
strong burning in the chest can be caused by a number of possibilities. these include heart problems (heart attack angina aneurysm etc. ) lung problems (pneumonia etc. ) or even intestinal issues (acid reflux ulcers bleeding etc. ). best to see your doctor who can examine you to narrow the diagnosis. if severe or persistent one should call 911 or get to the er for an emergency evaluation.
what is the relationship between vitamin d and heart attacks in women?
both parts of the framingham and nhanes studies found an increased association of heart disease including things like angina and heart attack in adults with low vitamin d levels. not all doctors agree but since replacement is fairly simple i believe it quite appropriate to check it at least every 2-3 years in my adult patients. not sure if specifically greater risk in women/cardiac wise.
what is the relationship between lipoprotein in the blood stream and heart disease?
some types of lipoproteins which are carried in the blood can lead to fatty deposits in the arteries and these fat deposits or fatty streaks can lead to narrowing in the arteries. this narrowing causes decreased blood flow and can occur in the heart brain intestines or anywhere. these narrowings in the heart can cause angina or chest pain or a heart attack due to complete blockage.
what is the treatment for prinzmetal angina?
medications to reduce coronary artery spasm such as nitroglycerin.
what is calan?
verapamil a member of the calcium channel blocker family of drugs. perhaps most commonly used for hypertension but also for certain heart rhythm disturbances. can be used for angina treatment and neurologists may use it for migraine prevention. does have side effects so talk to prescribing doctor carefully.
what is calan?
a calcium channel blocker used for high blood pressure and angina. see <link>
why do a person take vascor?
vascor (generic name: bepridil) was used to treat angina but was taken off the market in the usa. it is still available in some countries other than the united states. a serious potential side effects is that it can cause a life threatening rhythm disturbance (torsades de pointes tachycardia).
what group of medicine is propranolol hydrochloride in and what does it do?
inderal (propranolol) contains the medicine propranolol hydrochloride which belongs to the group of medicines called beta-blockers. what is indera used for? inderal (propranolol) is helpful in treating angina which is chest pain caused by too little oxygen reaching the heart muscle. this occurs when the need for oxygen (demand) of the heart exceeds the amount that it can receive (supply). and could use for many other thanks.
what are the symptoms of coronary artery disease (cad) in men?
often there are no symptoms until patients develop chest pain or angina. the pain may be in the chest shoulder jaw epigastric area or arm. usually there are associated with other symptoms such as shortness of breath nausea lightheadedness and/or diaphoresis. the hallmark of cardiac chest pain is that it comes and goes with activity and resolves with rest.
what are the symptoms of coronary artery disease (cad) in men?
cad by itself may not have any symptoms but significant cad can cause angina (chest pain) possible arm or neck pain nausea sweating shortness of breath lightheadedness fatigue weakness anxiety and so forth. .
what are the symptoms associated with valvular aortic stenosis?
from mild to severe. aortic valve stenosis signs and symptoms typically develop when narrowing of the valve is severe and can include: chest pain (angina) or tightness feeling faint or fainting with exertion shortness of breath especially with exertion fatigue especially during times of increased activity heart palpitations sensations of a rapid fluttering heartbeat heart murmur.
what are the symptoms associated with unstable angina?
chest pain not relieved by rest. please note that there are many instances of atypical presentations and it may range from vague feeling of discomfort pressure on chest shortness of breath anxiety sweating feeling of impending doom nausea vomiting. if you suspect unstable angina get to an er asap call 911.
what does constricting chest pain to the upper chest mean?
could be angina. . need to consult with your md to get your heart check.
would severe asthma type attacks and neck pain be related could this be heart problems?
asthma don't think is related to neck pain. heart pain/angina could be realted to neck pain. consult with your doctor.
what causes chest pain and difficulty breathing after exercise?
chest pain as in angina. . can be chest arm neck wrist. that is the heart can hurt and we feel it somewhere else. we call that an "anginal equivalent". chest pain healthy. is your diaphragm (the big muscle under your lungs that drives your breathing) is "hurting" needing to clear the metabolites of muscle work.
what might calan be prescribed for?
verapamil a member of the calcium channel blocker family of drugs. perhaps most commonly used for hypertension but also for certain heart rhythm disturbances. can be used for angina treatment and neurologists may use it for migraine prevention. does have side effects so talk to prescribing doctor carefully.
why does a person take vascor?
vascor (generic name: bepridil) was used to treat angina but was taken off the market in the usa. it is still available in some countries other than the united states. a serious potential side effects is that it can cause a life threatening rhythm disturbance (torsades de pointes tachycardia).
what are the symptoms of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis?
slowly progressive shortness of breath chest discomfort cough with exercise declining exercise capacity. at advanced stages weight loss leg swelling frank chest pain simulating angina.
what exactly is angina?
angina is the symptom that develops when there is a mismatch between the amount of oxygen required by the heart muscle and the amount provided be bloodflow. the sensation is a discomfort or sometimes squeezing or crushing pain centered or sometimes slightly left in the chest. it is not generally changed with position or with respiration. it generally gets worse with exertion or emotion.
when is nitroglycerin given for diseases?
ntg is given to people with known or suspected angina for rapid relief of chest pain resulting from inadequate circulation in the heart. if taken as prescribed it is a relatively safe medicine that is commonly used throughout the world over the last 6 decades to treat angina (pain from the heart due to "blockage". ).
what options if bypass surgery cannot be performed?
medical therapy first and foremost. angioplasty if suitable target vessels. tmr is laser channels for refractory angina if above fail.
what is the average lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis if not corrected?
patients with uncorrected aortic stenosis have a poor survival: half of the patients that develop angina (chest pain) will die within 5 years half of the patients that develop syncope (passing out) will die within 3 years and half of the patients that develop heart failure will die within 2 years. aortic valve replacement can pretty much normalize the life span and improve symptoms markedly.
what are the symptoms of cabg (coronary artery bypass graft) failing?
angina heart attack sometimes heart failure with shortness of breath or leg swelling without angina.
what is the difference between a myocardial infarct ischemia and angina?
ischemia means an area of the heart is not getting enough blood usually because of a blockage in an artery. the severity depends on whether it is a major artery or not. an intact occurs when the artery is completely blocked and the muscle dies. angina is the pain felt when ischemia occurs.
what are the consequences of forgetting diabetic / high blood pressure meds?
'forgetting' to take your blood pressure pills for even 1 day may cause a rapid rise in blood pressure causing a stroke or precipitating angina. i have admitted patients to the hospital for such a problem. also missing diabetes meds or insulin can cause severe hyperglycemia in a short period of time causing dka (acid in blood) or coma (hyperosmolar syndrome). please don't skip meds!
what do you feel like when you have high blood pressure?
high bp usually has no symptoms - it is often referred to as the silent killer. very high bp may be associated with neurologic symptoms angina or headache.
what is unstable angina?
angina is chest discomfort caused by a coronary artery blockage. unstable angina is angina that: 1) occurs at rest 2) is increasing in severity or frequency or 3) is new or recent in onset.
what is unstable angina?
chest pain associated with coronary artery disease.
what will be the interaction be between aortic stenosis and weight lifting?
symptoms of aortic stenosis are syncope (passing out) angina (chest pain) and heart failure. weight lifting may actually increase the heart muscle thickness (although the right heart may be affected more). with aortic stenosis the left heart gets thicker. weight training is probably okay but you need to discuss it with your cardiologist.
what does it mean to have a positive treadmill test?
stress testing is an important modality for evaluating patients with known or suspected coronary heart disease (chd). when you take a treadmill (or exercise tolerance) test data is collected (duration of exercise any anginal symptoms and changes on ekg). this data is used to come up with a score from which you are categorized as low intermediate or high risk for coronary artery disease.
what are the tests for coronary spasms?
prinzmetal or "variant" angina is chest pain caused by coronary artery spasm typically in a patient with some underlying vascular disease. cold environment stress and stimulant drugs (including cocaine) can trigger spasm. spasm in other vascular territories (such as raynaud's phenomenon) and migraine headache are sometimes associated with spasm in the coronary arteries.
why do i get chest pain while doing physical activity followed by burping?
any complaint of chest pain or shortness of breath with exercise should first be evaluated to eliminate the possibility of angina chest pain from heart disease. some people do have nausea or burping along with this. if the symptoms continue with rest you should seek an emergency evaluation. if you're very short of breath or feeling lightheaded call an ambulance.
why would a doctor give nitroglycerin for high blood pressure?
nitrates are vasodilators but are usually weak bp lowering agents ( not to mention the headaches) and would only be used in pts with angina or heart failure pts. they are also used in pts with coronary vasospasm pts. if pts have one of theses conditions and bp is not optimal the dr may increase your dosage in hopes of treating both conditions.
what poisonous metals can cause angina or heart failure?
mercury and lead - are known to cause significant damage to the heart muscle.
waking up with congestion with chest tightness. what should i do?
chest x-ray aspiration / hiatal hernia bronchitis pneumonia heart/ angina/ heart failure/pulmonary edema.
what is the use of propranolol?
for hypertension anxiety/panic angina arrhythmias myocardial infarction essential tremor prophylaxis of migraine or cluster headaches tension headache akathisias from antipsychotic medications aggresion in brain injuries glaucoma post-traumatic stress disorder.
what's coronary microvascular disease diagnosed with?
this is a clinical diagnosis when stress tests and angiograms reveal no significant obstructions but individuals still have anginal symptoms. . in particular diabetics.
what is coronary artery disease?
cad is atherosclerosis (known to start ~age 7) an accumulation of white blood cells in the walls of the heart arteries with artery enlargement (protects blood flow for decades) ; subsequent plaque ruptures with debris+clots downstream + local clots which narrow artery opening producing permanent muscle damage angina progressive heart muscle weakness ;? ing arrhythmias. angio;stress tests miss.
what are the effects of taking both atenolol and amlodipine?
lower blood pressure and pulse rate. less angina pectoris. fewer strokes and heart attacks.
what could be the symptoms of clogged arteries in the heart?
chest pain / angina. other symptoms may include shortness of breath arm or jaw pain diaphoresis. see your doctor.
what could cause mild chest pain nausea and diarrhea after exercise?
well the most concerning possibility is that this is angina from heart disease. you should see your doctor asap and have this evaluated. also i would back off on the exercise until you get this done. i would recommend a stress test with an imaging component to help establish that this is/ or isn't from heart disease.
what does tightness in my chest mean when i run?
tightness in the chest experienced while running could be indicative of significant ischemic heart disease (angina pectoris) or exercise induced asthma. in either case you should urgently see a cardiologist who can do a stress test and some blood work to establish the diagnosis.
what's causing my pain in my chest area? i get the pain sometimes during the day but i seem to always get it in the evening time
chest pain can be due to several reasons some can be serioius. without knowing your age it is difficult to tell you the cause but these are some of the common causes of chest pain 1 chest wall pain muscular or costochondritis 2 esophageal reflux disease 3 cardiac angina amd myocardial unsufficiency aortic dissection&pericarditis 4 from lungs like pleurisy and pnemonia pulmonary embolism.
what body systems are affected by cornoary heart disease?
coronary arteries are the main vessels coming off the aorta supplying blood to the heart muscle. there are 3 main coronary arteries. when they have significant plaques in them (coronary atherosclerosis or coronary artery disease) people develop chest pains (angina) shortness of breath chest tightness with exertion heart attacks and various other consequences.
what is angina. and what are the symtoms?
angina is a specific term for chest pain that results from decreased blood supply to the heart muscle because of a hemodynamically significant coronary artery blockage. it is a symptom.
what is angina. and what are the symtoms?
underlying heart problem. often described as severe chest pain like tight band or heavy weight on chest or vise squeezing chest. may be accompanied by nausea; pain/numbness/ tingling in left neck/shoulder/arm; profuse sweating. caused by decreased oxygen to heart muscle due to blockage (plaque or clot) or spasm. requires immediate attention.
what could be causing chest pain and arm pain i. a 25 yr old female?
chest pain can be caused by heart attacks angina costchondritis pleurisy acid reflux pulmonary embolism gall bladder disease etc. get checked with your doctor.
what's a coronary artery bypass graft for?
this is a "detour" created to get blood past a blockage of an artery to supply the heart muscle. it is done to relieve angina and in some specific circumstances to prevent heart attacks and death.
what is the treatment for angina?
medical therapy is the workhorse of therapy however frequently revascularization with angioplasty/stenting and bypass surgery is necessary. see your doctor/cardiologist.
what is the treatment for angina?
medical while evaluating total situation and overall risks (nitroglycerin) commonly cardiac catheterization with percutaneous intervention or subsequent cardiac surgery depending on the anatomical coronary findings people have lived for years with treated angina. total personal factors play a role.
what are the symptoms of angina-ischaemic heart disease?
shortness of breath or fatigue generally.
what is anterior wall ischemia? is it dangerous? is it curable.
or angina. it should be addressed by a cardiologist immediately.
why am i getting these heart/chest pains when i exercise in some form feels like a headache in my heart and it gets me to the point i want to cry?
you did not mention your age but chest pain on left side of chest may be due to angina and you need cardiac evaluation ekg blood test to check your cholesteroland sugar etc nuclear stress test and if positive coronary angiogram. so have it checked out we also want to know if you have other risk factors like smoking obesity diabetes hypertension high cholesterol and family history of heart disese.
went to 2 ers for my severe neck pain they said they think its a pinched nerve im in exstreme pain and i think i need a mri how can i get one w/o insurance the pain is causing my bp to stay up around196/152 this pain is affecting my health and i can't ge
at that level is unrelated to your pain. the neck pain may be a presentation of a heart problem just like the elevated blood pressure and not a pinched nerve but possibly cervical angina. go right back to the er now or call an ambulance to rule out a heart issue first. then they can evaluate your spine.
what causes neck sholder and back pain on left side?
left side neck shoulder & back pain may be caused by cervical arthritis disc or radiculopathy coronary artery disease with angina bursitis or rupture of biceps tendon pe subclavian artery blockage injury of neck or left shoulder. diagnosed by ekg x-ray cervical spine & shoulder mriof nech & shoulder cbcwith sed rate & arthritis profile echocardiogram stress echo thallium stress test cardiac cath
what does eecp (enhanced external counterpulsation) mean?
eecp is a device put on the lower extremities to rhythmically inflate and deflate rapidly in order to try to develop the collateral blood vessels in the heart to reduce angina.
what is nifedipine?
it's primarily used to treat high blood pressure and also the chest pain in patients with angina.
what are someuncommon causes for a heart transplant?
there are several reasons for transplant. refractory angina is rare (cardiac pain from blocked arteries than cannot be fixed) while other causes all center around poor heart function. those can include dilated cardiomyopathy from blocked arteries viral infections genetics end stage valve disease or unknown causes. hypertrophic cardiomyopathy requiring transplant is usually genetic.
what is the definition or description of: heart bypass surgery?
heart bypass surgery is for coronary artery atherosclerotic disease. arteries and veins are used as bypass grafts to bring new blood supply into coronary arteries beyond these blockages. these operations are done usually with cardiopulmonary bypass via a sternotomy incision. relief of angina improved survival and heart function are the expected results.
what are the parts of a physical exam on a new female patient? age 61 partial hysterectomy diabetes high blood pressure angina
im guessing if your asking this question you went to a new dr and he didnt do as detailed h&p as you would have expected. you may have seen the bill and were even more surprised. if im right you can check on line a see the billing codes and see what they should involve. then if you feel theres a problem address it with your doctor. usually if they are busy they are un aware and will remady things.
what are the parts of a physical exam on a new female patient? age 61 partial hysterectomy diabetes high blood pressure angina
complete physical exam including ekg x ray chest pulmonary function test lab tests including cbc chemistry lipids thyroid function tests urinalysis hb a1c review of present medication and good follow up.
what is the definition or description of: mesenteric arteriography?
of the arteries that supply the stomach and intestines. it is used when a blockage of these arteries is suspected such as pain after eating urge to need to defecate quickly after eating etc. "intestinal angina" can be quite painful (and deadly) but easily fixed with a stent to the mesenteric arteries. other reasons to do this would be blood in the stool from a leaking intest. artery or avm.
what's the difference between heart burn chest pain and chest pain that could mean heart trouble?
heartburn is esophagitis gastritis reflux and related to diet timing bending over regurgitation better with antacids gi meds prilosec etc. sometimes belching. tends to be front and neck and " burning"! angina and heart attack tend to be pressure squeeze and sweaty clammy fearful- anxiety provoking fear of death!
what's the link between anemia and left arm pain also being anemic is there any threaten to my cvs &heart? i'm afraid
left arm pain is associated with angina -- lack of adequate oxygen supply to the heart muscle. while we commonly consider angina to be caused by arterial blockage severe anemia can contribute greatly to this syndrome due to lack of oxygen-carrying capacity in the setting of reduced numbers of red blood cells. see your doctor.
why doctors are not advising radiation for my father with buccal mucosa cancer moderately differenciated age 90 with angina.?
first off i would question the mds. i think that buccal mucosa cancer might be handled surgically. your father's age medical status and perhaps the extent and severity of the lesion itself may be the real reasons that they do not want to treat this aggressively.
why doctors are not advising radiation for my father with buccal mucosa cancer moderately differenciated age 90 with angina.?
are the doctors recommending hospice or palliative care? the doctors may feel that the treatment is worse than the disease at his age and medical status.
what is ludwid angina and how is it treated?
ludwig's angina is a strangling sensation caused by swelling of the floor of the mouth the tongue and the pharynx (upper throat). it can be life-threatening by preventing the patient from breathing. it is treated with antibiotics and may require extensive surgery to drain the infection. a tracheostomy may be needed to allow the patient to breathe.
what do you think about propranolol?
is a beta-blocker used to treat angina high bp heart rhythm problems migraines tremors & anxiety. caution if u have breathing disorder congestive heart failure diabetes liver/kidney/thyroid disease or depression.
would frankiemuniz be stable if heart pouding and chest pains after hard hike? would it be anginaor stress
exertion all symptoms could indicate heart or lung disease. stop exercising and see a doctor.
why do doctors prescribe concor 2. 5 for hypertension?
is a highly selective beta blocker used for mild to moderate hypertension (& angina pectoris). it lowers bp and block blood renin levels (which can raise bp). the 2. 5 mg strength in no way suggests it is a weak med; another bp med may require 100mg or more to get same effect. usual dose is 5 mg but that dose may cause your bp to be too low; so doc decreased to 2. 5 mg.
what medication can treat mid lad coronary blockages effectively. fyi my ldl is already 50 tc 105 & tg 80.
if you are having symptoms of angina evaluation with stress testing and possibly percutaneous revascularization (angioplasty/stenting) might improve symptoms. long term use of aspirin and statins (low dose-even in the setting of a low cholesterol) might be indicated. statins have pleotrophic effects on plaque stability beyond chol. if still w angina use of beta blockers nitrates and ranexa (ranolazine).
would sob sensation left hand pain and chest burning be caused by right thalamus stoke.
although there is a central pain syndrome associated with thalmic strokes shortness of breath would not be seen. in one with those symptoms angina or heart disease which can be associated with shortness of breath chest burning and typically arm pain but hand pain could be possible. patients with stoke are at risk. other causes exist as well. this problem needs medical evaluation asap.
why do your arm start to hurt when you're about to have a heart attack?
most common is sub sternal crushing pain. but the nerves to the heart and pericardium send signals that the brain focuses on neck or chest or arms. sometimes one comes before the other does as angina then full spectrum when muscle dies.
what distinguishes coronary heart disease in men from its presentation in women?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
what's the differencce between heart burn or a heart attack?
heartburn is esophagitis gastritis reflux and related to diet timing bending over regurgitation better with antacids gi meds prilosec etc. sometimes belching. tends to be front and neck and " burning"! angina and heart attack tend to be pressure squeeze and sweaty clammy fearful- anxiety provoking fear of death!
which part of the arm aches in an angina attack?
can be any part or none generally we speak of the inside of the left arm but that is not specific.
what is the difference between a tia and petit mal seizure?
a tia is a vascular event similar to angina pectoris in the heart they both are temporary decreases in blood flow causing transient symptoms. petit mal is a type of electrical abnormality in the brain that comes and goes. petit mal is not necessarily vascular related a tia is by definition.
what is the most effective treatment for coronary heart disease?
angina may be medication alone. if unstable progressive severe then studies and cardiac catheterization to identify specific blockages is needed. then intervention with stents / and or surgery. surgery coronary bypass particularly with left internal thoracic artery has incredible durability. best is prevention !
what is right arm numbness shortness of breath and light headed when i walk upstairs?
the symptom you describe could be benign but could also be an anginal equivalent. you should see your dr. and get checked out.
we all know chest burn/discomfort/sob can be from gi or other causes. how can you diagnose angina clinically. would angina symptoms only during exertion?
you need a stress test if you are worried about angina but it might be useful to try an antacid like pepcid (famotidine) to see if it resolves. also yes if it happens only with exertion angina is more likely.
we all know chest burn/discomfort/sob can be from gi or other causes. how can you diagnose angina clinically. would angina symptoms only during exertion?
typical angina is brought on or made worse with exertion but atypical angina also occurs which am have no pattern. gastrointestinal discomfort is usually either brought on or relieved by food intake.
we all know chest burn/discomfort/sob can be from gi or other causes. how can you diagnose angina clinically. would angina symptoms only during exertion?
typical angina pectoris is a squeezing sensation in the chest brought on by exericse excitement or other form of physical or psychologic stress. when the the typical type of pain happens at rest we call that pre infarction angina.
what can high blood pressure do?
high blood pressure damages arteries leading to atherosclerosis. this leads over many years to gradual blockage of arteries and eventually to heart attack (death of heart muscle from lack of blood) angina and stroke. high blood pressure also damages the kidneys and heart muscle and can lead to chf and kidney failure. it also increases risk of dementia. treatment is safe and effective.
what would be the most impportant range of treatment for chd angina/heart attack. medication or surgery?
angina and heart attack is from coronary obstruction and depending on vessels involved and other risk factors surgery can be amazing and durable. some respond to medicine and some are suitable for percutaneous. your surgeon and cardiologist will discuss risks and benefits and options. for valvular heart diseases surgery also has a long and trusted approach.
what would be the most impportant range of treatment for chd angina/heart attack. medication or surgery?
it is difficult to lump all angina and heart attack cases together to find most effective treatment effectivity of treatment depends on many factors age of patient the coronary arteries involved percentage of blockage and other existing medical conditions. the choices are angioplasty with/without stents coronary byepass surgery and in some cases just medical treatment. all are effective in selected.
would taking 500 mg ranexa (ranolazine) twice a day interact with bb such as 5 mg bystolic? what are the risks if any?
ranexa (ranolazine) is an anti-anginal agent while bystolic (nebivolol) is a blood pressure lowering agent that also slows heart rate. presumably doctor who prescribed both drugs should have warned of possible interactions as noted by epocrates. com & drugs. com and made appropriate adjustments to dosing. and pharmacist should have commented on this too. make sure both know everything you take.
would taking 500 mg ranexa (ranolazine) twice a day interact with bb such as 5 mg bystolic? what are the risks if any?
the two medications are compatible. most patients who are on ranexa (ranolazine) are also on a beta blocker for treatment of their coronary artery disease and angina.
what would be the average lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis?
slight stenosis and minimal pressure gradient can be tolerated for a long time. example congenital bicuspid valve patients can be aged. once symptomatic aortic stenosis with syncope angina heart failure the historic data suggest less than a year survival. that's why these patients are identified by murmur echo and treated surgically.
what's the probability of having a heart attack after an attack of pectoral angina?
some folks with angina pectoris can have repeat spells for years without having a heart attack!
what are early symptoms of heart attack?
angina pectoris =substernal pressure pain with radiation to the neck or left or right arm and shoulder. some will have abdominal pain-and be confused with gallbladder or stomach symptoms. ladies seem to have less classic// or tolerate pain better than men. relief with nitroglycerin is very suggestive. a feeling of impending doom pallor sweating suggest a bad day!
what causes a chest pain on the right side?
pain inside the chest can radiate just as easily to the right as to the left so would not disregard the symptom just because it is on the right. it still should be evaluated. it still could be angina pericarditis chest muscle wall pain costochondritis a lung condition or an aorta condition.
will a sore left arm have anything to do with the heart?
in general a sore arm is not related to the heart. sometimes however it can be a part of the angina symptom spectrum.
what is the treatment for abdominal bruit? is it surgery?
history review with respect to history of hypertension smoking diabetes hyperlipidemia weight loss post prandial abdominal pain abdominal angina and claudication. physical exam focusing on potential abdominal aortic aneurysm and renal bruits. abdominal ultrasound and duplex ultrasound may be performed to clarify size of abdominal aorta and exclude evidence of sma and renal arterial disease.
what are the signs that you might get a heart attack?
usually there are no signs preceding a heart attack. however there are risk factors which if present increase the statistical chance of having a heart attack. they include smoking diabetes chronic kidney disease and hypertension. sometimes a patient will develop angina pectoris (chest pain) on exertion which can precede overt heart attack.
what are the signs that you might get a heart attack?
angina pectoris (chest pain behind the sternum) is classic but pain that radiates to left arm & neck/mandible can also occur. dyspnea or extreme shortness of breath alone may occur too. indigestion is occasionally misdiagnosed as gerd or reflux. you need cardiac enzymes (blood test) and an ekg (electric tracing of heart fxn). also take 81mg or 325mg aspirin is helpful to lower mortality.
what can you do to tell the difference between heart problems and acid reflux?
"heart burn" typically occurs after meals worse in supine position described as a "burning" "gnawing symptom that is associated with dyspepsia symptoms in the epigastric region. heart "angina" typically occurs with activity resolves with rest and is described more as a tightness in the upper chest area sometimes radiating down the left arm. symptoms can intertwine often.
what are the symptoms for men and women for a myocardial infarction are different. why is that?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
which type of issue that could induced hypertension causes?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what to do if someone keeps getting stage 2 high blood pressure?
stage 2 hypertension is defined as a blood pressure above 160 systolic and/or 100 diastolic; values consistently above 140/90 will damage arteries leading to atherosclerosis and blockages. this process causes heart attack (death of heart muscle from lack of blood) angina and stroke. high blood pressure also damages the kidneys. low salt weight loss exercise and extra medications will lower bp.
what are some poisonous metals that can cause angina or heart failure?
controversial data on lead and mercury. few jama articles in early 2000.
what are the disadvantages and advantages of triple bypass surgery?
pro - in general if you have 3 vessel coronary artery disease and require "triple bypass" surgery you will fare better over the long run than you would with stenting or medication alone. you would have better control of angina symptoms and a lesser risk of a heart attack. con - risks of bypass surgery having to go through with surgery and recovery from it. in most patients risks are small.
what are the disadvantages and advantages of triple bypass surgery?
reduce angina save muscle prolong life of many but some low frequency serious risks death bleeding infection sternal infection stroke recurrence graft failure long list but infrequent.
what is angina?
angina is chest pain or discomfort you get when your heart muscle does not get enough blood. it may feel like pressure or squeezing pain in your chest. it may feel like indigestion. you may also feel pain in your shoulders arms neck jaw or back. angina is a symptom of coronary artery disease the most common heart disease. it happens when sticky substance called plaque builds up in arteries.
what is angina?
it is chest pain due to ischemia of the heart muscle generally due to obstruction or spasm of the coronary arteries.
what is treatment for angina?
treatments for angina include lifestyle changes medicines medical procedures cardiac rehabilitation (rehab) and other therapies. the main goals of treatment are to: reduce pain and discomfort and how often it occurs prevent or lower your risk for heart attack and death by treating your underlying heart condition.
what may be the causes of heart pain except acute coronary syndrome & angina pectoris?
those are the common ones. pericarditis pericardial effusion myocarditis other cause of chest pain- lung esophagus etc. can be confusing.
what may be the causes of heart pain except acute coronary syndrome & angina pectoris?
it is important to rule out catastrophic causes like acs dissection of aorta. constochondritis and muscular problems. pneumonia and pul conditions. gi conditions like gerd esophageal spasms could also cause chestpain. nature duration location associated symptoms and patient risk factors are helpful in initial assessment.
when someone gets angina from excersise say biking and they stop pedalling and stop and the pain goes almost instantly is this still angina character?
angina is a mismatch between demand and supply. when the demand is increased and supply is limited then chest pain occurs. exercise increases the demand and when there is a blockage in coronary arteries the patient feels the symptoms upon stopping his activity the pain goes away.
which types of heart conditions cause angina pain?
angina is chest jaw arm back or shoulder pain that comes from the heart due to lack of proper blood flow to heart muscle. the classic cause of angina is coronary disease this is typically cholesterol blockage of the arteries of the heart. another cause is "syndrome x" which is spasm in the small vessels of the heart. prinzmetal angina is caused my spasm (pinching) of larger heart arteries.
would a mri w/ contrast show blockage causing abdominal angina?
although much depends on quality of scan & location of stenosis.
would angina usually hurt where the heart muscle is in the chest? my pain is a little higher than the hearts main cetre and doesn't go to the left
the location of pain is a poor predictor of angina: it can be practically anywhere above the waist in a given individual. angina is exceptionally rare in a 22 year old.
would angina usually hurt where the heart muscle is in the chest? my pain is a little higher than the hearts main cetre and doesn't go to the left
ischemic heart chest pain usually retrosternal pressure irradiating to the left shoulder or arm worsening with activities and improving with rest. if above test were negative you do not have coronary artery disease. r/o chest wall pain and acid reflux. follow up with your doctor.
what is the difference between pericarditis and angina? years ago i had test done in the er was told there was swelling in the middle of my chest.
pain can be in same area. but cause very different! pericarditis is inflammation of the sac which surrounds the heart like a ziplock bag! angina is ischemic pain of the heart muscle from coronary disease. some heart attacks will have pericardial irritation fluid blood as part of the process.
what is the difference between pericarditis and angina? years ago i had test done in the er was told there was swelling in the middle of my chest.
pericarditis is due to inflammation around the heart. it causes chest pain that worsens with breathing or change in position. angina his pain typically from a plugged coronary artery. it worsens with activity or emotional upset among other things. i can't tell what you had years ago in the emergency room. but it probably doesn't have anything to do with angina given your age.
why everytime im upsit my chest hurting? it was a werd chest pain recently i undergo a stent in my heart? i am heavy smoker and i try to stop?
people who have coronary artery disease (blocked arteries in heart) often get chest pain with physical activity or emotional upset. this is called angina. the symptom you are feeling could definitely be coming from a blocked heart artery. you need to do 2 things: 1) tell your heart doctor about your symptoms. 2) quit smoking or you will definitely be back for more stents or worse. good luck.
what would cause the feeling of an air bubble in the area of the heart?
hiatal hernia gerd esophageal dysfunction rarely blocked coronary artery causing angina or heart attack.
whats the most effective blood pressure medicine?
there is no simple answer to your question. all bp meds have their advantages and disadvantages. if you have diabetes with protein in your urine you would be best treated for hbp with drugs such as an ace-i or arb. if you have some angina you may be treated well with beta-blockers. parents are different and it's up to them to have a discussion with their doctors to get the best regimen possible.
which one is better metoprolol or cardizem? what are the pros and cons?
it depends. both treat angina palpitations and high blood pressure. cardizem has fewer side effects. metoprolol can make you tired depressed and worsen asthma. metoprolol is less expensive. both come as once a day extended release formulations. the combination of both is especially good for treating angina.
will bisoprolol stop panic attack adrenaline chest pain? i believe this is the muscles in chest wall getting tighter? feels like angina but had tests
bisoprolol is a beta-blocker. that is it blocks the effect of adrenaline on specific organs. it may help reduce the symptoms related to anxiety. it is not effective on everyone. there are other medications more specific and effective for panic attacks. if not improving talk to your doctor about ssri's. also make the necessary lifestyle changes in order to prevent these attacks.
what is angina?
as a word has its origin in greek and means strangling. . suggestive of the symptoms that patient with angina pectoris have when they are exerting themself. they usually have chest pain and they feel short of breath.
what is angina?
angina means pain. angina pectoris is chest pain caused by heart artery disease and is a serious problem.
what is the difference between angina and angina pectoris?
is pain and classically chest pain. angina pectoris means pain of the chest.
what is the difference between angina and angina pectoris?
they can be used interchangeably. it's chest pain from insufficient blood flow to the heart muscles. take care!
what is the difference between angina and angina pectoris?
technically angina just means pain and angina pectoris means pain in the chest. in practice we use both to refer to the pain caused by myocardial ischemia.
what is the difference between angina and angina pectoris?
both refer to chest pain caused by blocked heart arteries/ coroanary artery disease.
what would angina pain feel like please explain?
angina is generally not painful although it can get painful if unchecked. it's typically described as a pressure or tightness in the mid chest. many describe it as a vise tightening around their chest or weight sitting on their chest. there is often breathlessness. it lasts 5 to 20 minutes usually but is variable. please note: it does not occur in 19 year olds!
would it be safe for bp to be in the range of 140/90 after consuming concor plus 5mg every day?
concor is the branded name (not is the usa) for bisoprolol 5 mg - indicated for control of bp angina and arrhythmia. 140/90 is still mildly elevated. if you were my patient i'd either increase the dose or add a second agent.
why do i feel like i can't breathe when i have coronary artery spasms?
coronary spasm can lead to symptoms of angina and an anginal equivalent can be that of shortness of breath.
what to do about chest pains?
chest pains or angina from a blocked artery to the heart typically occur with exertion and might be a pressure or heaviness or burning in the mid chest or radiate to the neck or shoulder or arm. pains that occur only at rest last only a few seconds are worse with swallowing or twisting/ bending may not be from the heart. the best way to find out more is to have a checkup with you doctor.
what are the symptoms of a heart attack for a woman?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
woke with r upper jaw sore neck tender feels out of place can't chew. teeth ok. this was on l with ludwigs angina. feels bruised?
but so difficult to diagnose with no other info. you say your teeth are 'ok' but how do you know? has a dentist recently examined you with radiographs? either way give a local dentist a call for a consult. if you feel your tongue swelling (possible mandibular dental infection) go immediately to the er. ludwigs angina can close off your airway.
woke with r upper jaw sore neck tender feels out of place can't chew. teeth ok. this was on l with ludwigs angina. feels bruised?
one of the most fear complication of lugwig angina is compromised airway. go straight to the emergency room and have it check out! infection will kill us slowly but compromised airway will definitely an acute emergency situation!
woke with r upper jaw sore neck tender feels out of place can't chew. teeth ok. this was on l with ludwigs angina. feels bruised?
thanks for all the information. however without actually being able to personally and clinically examine you along with seeing x-rays of your teeth and jaw we can't diagnose your problem(s) nor advise you what treatment is necessary. you will have to consult with a local dentist to get those answers. if you already have and are not happy with your dentist find another well respected dentist.
what are the main causes of shortness of breath? i don't feel any other symptoms except that it feels hard and slightly heavier to breath. any idea?
there are so many causes! pulmonary disease including asthma bronchitis emphysema pneumonia and pulm. embolism. heart disease: especially heart failure and angina; systemic causes such as anemia thyroid excess and acidosis (like from diabetes. other causes include hyperventilation panic attack foreign body airway obstruction. this is the short list!
what is the difference between chest pain and muscle pain?
new chest pain in a 40+ year old person requires urgent workup. causes can include pain in the chest wall including muscles and connective tissues. more worrisome causes can include angina and heart disease. you can't always tell the difference by yourself but your doctor can definitely help you through examination ekg's and other lab studies.
why. di. i always. have. heart burn. every. time. i. eat?
is the most likely reason. with stomach acid splashing into your esophagus. but it could be more serious like an ulcer or even angina of the heart or intestine you could try one of the over counter reflux drugs first to see if it helps but i would rather you checked with your doctor first so he can ask questions and poke on your stomach first.
which part of the circulatory system does angina affect?
angina is caused by heart muscle ischemia. sometimes the blood pressure drops as a result of the ischemia.
what is the difference between isosorbide mn and dn?
mononitrate has a longer half-life and higher bioavailability compared to dinitrate. mononitrate may be a better choice for angina whereas dinitrate may be better for heart failure when combined with hydralazine.
what does it mean when your heart hurts after you see a 3d movie?
don't know any cause effect relationship of 3d movies and chest pain. but the excitement of a movie could give you chest pain. do you have any risk factors for heart problems like obesity htn diabetes smoking stress sedentary lifestyle? typical cp of angina is pressure type associated with activities. do you have cp during any other activities? see a physician for a stress test and ekg.
when should you go to the emergency room with high blood pressure?
when you have symptoms of hypertensive crisis: angina heart failure or encephalopathy.
what exactly is angina?
angina is pain in the chest area due to poor blood flow to the heart muscle. <link>
what is the definition or description of: angina?
angina is pain in the chest area due to poor blood flow to the heart muscle. <link>
what does it mean if angina attack last a long time?
prolonged chest pain could be a sign of a serious conditions such as heart attack. it should be evaluated promptly.
what isthebest test for checking if my angina diagnosis from. 6 years ago has deter oater?
a treadmill stress test is best. if you can't walk a pharmacological stress test is second best. if your ekg is abnormal or it's pharmacological you'll need nuclear imaging with it. good luck.
what isthebest test for checking if my angina diagnosis from. 6 years ago has deter oater?
angina is what you feel and therefore you would have to say if your feeling worse. if you are looking for a test to help identify the cause of angina stress testing may be helpful. depending on risk past medical history currents focal problem ability to exercise and expertise of you doctor there are several different types of testing available. discuss further with your doctor.
what does nitroglycerin do to the body?
in the heart that can increase blood flow to stop an angina (chest pain) episode but it also can produce side effects of low blood pressure (so take it sitting down) or headache.
what is the symtoms for heart attacks or strokes before they happen? for women?
most heart attacks ; strokes are both sudden ; "clinically silent"; the person having them neither has symptoms or recognizes problems are happening. angina is classic but symptoms commonly more variable in women. thus optimize driving factors: nmr particle test (not chol. ) hba1c bp ; emphasize hflc foods. study my other answers on healthtap for many leads ; specific optimal not normal values.
what are the signs for a heart attack in a woman?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
what is angina pectoris?
this condition is usually the result of coronary artery disease (obstructive) leaving the smooth muscles of the heart w/out enough supply. it varies from mild to severe pain and can be fatal - but the pain is not indicative of the threat. you need treatment if you have this condition.
what does sharp chest pain on the left side that comes and goes for a few seconds mean last like 5 minutes i suffer from high blood pressure take med?
chest pain in someone your age with hypertension is concerning for ischemic heart cause of pain (angina or heart attack ). if you are having pain now call ems. if not see a doctor as soon as possible.
what causes your heart to feel like its being squeezed?
there are several possibilities but angina needs to be ruled out since it's the most serious. a stress test is indicated.
what is the medicine that best treat angina?
angina is caused by a mismatch of oxygen demand and supply in the heart. if you have not done so already you should have a stress test to confirm. if indeed there is a coronary artery obstruction then will need either a cardiac cath or bypass surgery. may also be reasonable to medically treat but would consult a cardiologist.
what is the risk associated with patient diagnosed of unstable angina involve in regular exercise?
is by definition unstable ; intervention not exercise is recommended. . are you sure you mean unstable?
what is the risk associated with patient diagnosed of unstable angina involve in regular exercise?
if it is unstable ex.
what is the risk associated with patient diagnosed of unstable angina involve in regular exercise?
it can be dangerous for a person with unstable angina to exert himself. engage in physical activities only after receiving approval from your physician.
what is a possible non heart attack cause of a quick sharp pain in the left chest/arm? can it be gas? other stomach issues?
quick sharp pain in left chest and arm need not be from heart attack. it could be angina with out heart attack. consult your physician. other non-cardiac causes are pericarditis (inflammation of outer layer of heart) musculoskeletal pain or neural pain.
what is the reliability of a nuclear stress test? particularly with regard to ruling out angina / cardiac related chest discomfort?
a nuclear perfusion test in the right lab can reliably indicate whether abnormal myocardial perfusion is present. angina pectoris is a symptom of abnormal myocardial perfusion. a positive perfusion study in a good lab has greater than 90% specificity and a negative test slightly less. some labs are not as good as others as with any study.
what is the reliability of a nuclear stress test? particularly with regard to ruling out angina / cardiac related chest discomfort?
after a negative radionuclide stress test the rate of cardiac events is less than 1% per year.
what are symptoms of stroke? how do i know that my father is having a stroke. he sometimes complains of chest pain and lies down on bed to get rest
stroke is like heart attack in that a brain blood vessel gets occluded and causes problems with vision strength sensation balance. but you are likely describing angina pectoris a sign of decreased blood flow to the heart and this is a risk for myocardial infarction. do not delay he needs to see a physician urgently as prevention here is worth tons of cure.
when under stress i get left collarbone and arm discomfort immediately when the stressor occurs. is this different than angina?
if you are stressed that can bring on angina too. i would consider it angina until proven otherwise. talk to your doctor about this. also work on stress reduction techniques. best of luck to you.
when under stress i get left collarbone and arm discomfort immediately when the stressor occurs. is this different than angina?
since angina and muscular pain can feel exactly the same one can't tell without some testing: your symptoms are a perfect indication for doing a stress test. if it's negative you can rest comfortably that your pain is not angina. if it's abnormal additional heart testing would be indicated (at least in the usa)
what could cause chest tightness and squeezing after but not during exercise? isn't angina type pain typically during increased exertion?
you're correct however there are exceptions to every rule. if you're having chest tightness and squeezing it could be an atypical form of angina but could also be a type of asthma or muscle spasms. it would be best to talk to your doctor about this.
what is angina?
lack of circulation to the heart muscle causing an uncomfortable sensation in the mid chest which is often described as "tightness" "heaviness" "squeezing" or like a "weight on the chest".
why we don't use b2 agonist for angina pectoris?
a beta agonist will stimulate beta receptors on the heart which will cause the heart to beat more forcefully and more rapidly both will increase oxygen demand and may increase angina. a beta blocker (antagonist) will have the opposite effect.
what to do for someone who suffers from angina and other cardo vascular conditions?
many things diet exercise medicines to control cholesterol angina asprin anti platelet rx beta blockers healthy diet see the doctors for follow up if changes in status will need internationale treatment like angioplasty and possible bypass sx if needed.
what would make my left arm ache/numb when or after eating? occasional chest pains
postprandial angina. need to be evaluated by cardiologist or your physician.
when someone gets angina for a few minutes due to coronary disease does it scar the heart or damage it? or is it just heart attacks that damage muscle.
brief episodes of angina likely do not cause any measurable heart damage. they are however a very important warning sign and should not be ignored. if the frequency/duration/severity of anginal attacks is increasing or if someone has new onset angina that hasn't been evaluated yet then it is important to see a doctor asap.
with ludwings angina does the neck swell first or under the tounge?
the infection starts like a skin infection under the tongue or the gum/teeth. . the swelling starts there and lifts the other tissues and the tongue will then obstruct the breathing and swallowing as it is pushed against the walls of the mouth and throat from the swelling that usually starts under it.
with ludwings angina does the neck swell first or under the tounge?
the infection starts in the floor of the mouth usually from an infected tooth. as with any infection the infections spreads locally at first follows the path of least resistance through tissue blood vessels or lymphatics and may develop in any direction until it becomes symptomatic. see the following for more information: <link>
with ludwings angina does the neck swell first or under the tounge?
and side of the face usually first then tongue.
when do i know i have exersized enough with cad?
assuming you feel good with exercise and don't have any angina and your heart function is fairly normal - then exercise is good for you; if you've had cardiac rehab then you may be familiar with the level of exercise they had you do. generally an hour of exercise most days of the week is best. too much is better than not enough stop if you feel poorly or have chest ache. review with your md
was laying down and suddenly got a brief second of sharp stab pain on left chest side by heart. went away. feel okay. no heart history issues. worry?
brief sharp chest pains that occur at rest and go away without any other symptoms are not worrisome and this symptom is definitely not a heart attack. heart attacks would cause a different type of pain and not go away quickly. similarly angina heart pains occur with activity and go away with rest.
what is a coronary steal? which are the symtoms? a coronary fistula could produce that? betablockers worse the situation? thanks
the abnormality takes blood flow from the desired circulation area. subclavian steal coronary steal etc. an arteriovenous communication-fistula does that. if severe enough the distal circulation- heart in your example can show ischemia. symptom angina!
what are the symptoms of high blood pressure?
in most cases you cannot feel your elevated bp even though anecdotally people think they do. in a hypertensive crisis (bp ranging around >200/>110 more likely >240/>120) one may have confusion (encephalopathy) shortness of breath (heart failure) or chest discomfort (angina). acute renal failure which you can't feel also occurs.
what makes a person lose control of his emotions? it seems when i don t like the situation my chest starts to hurt and i get short winded.
panic attacks can make you feel like you are having a heart attack but there are other organic conditions such as uncontrolled bp and angina that need to be assessed with your doctor. psychiatric disorders as well.
what would cause sharp right chest pain goes in neck and only right side face up to my ear and pain down my arm?
a number of conditions can cause right chest pains. angina or heart pain from reduced blood flow to the heart is not usually sharp nor is it typically on the right side of the chest nor does it typically go up into the face or right arm. although it does not sound too likely your symptoms are from the heart you should see your doctor to figure out what is the cause.
what would cause my arms to feel num a little chest pain?
you should get evaluated immediately if you are having numbness in the arms particularly with chest pain this could be related to angina. get evaluated to assess whether your symptoms are related to angina this should be ruled out first before other things can be considered.
what do you advise if i have chest pain like pressure and it gets worse when move left arm should i be worried?
left chest pain radiating to the left arm is typical of heart pain. while tthere are other causes you will need to undergo a thorough evaluation by your doctor. sounds like angina but other causes are possible as well. please do not delay the exam.
what are the signs of an unstable angina attack?
frequency severity
what to do if i have recently been diagnosed with angina. what are some natural things i might try?
cave men had only natural treatments - their life expectancy was short. we have lots of proven treatments for angina. why not follow your doctor's advice? that no doubt includes some recommendations for diet and exercise. stress reduction. maybe stents surgery and/or medications too.
what should i do about pain in chest area (right below right boob) and shoulder while and after jogging?
the most serious cause would be angina which is due to narrowed arteries supplying the heart. the pain is more common on the left side but can certainly be on the right multiple other conditions could cause these symptoms as well but you should check with your doctor to see if you need a stress test and/or other tests.
what age is associated to trigger coronary artery disease? i have angina especially in afternoons. bp is 68-112. i scare to have coronary disease.
there is no age for coronary artery disease. that fact that you are young makes it less likely but not impossible. other factors play into account. chest pain can be from acid reflux chest wall(muscles and joints) heart lungs too. so you need to check this out if it persists.
what causes feeling of tension in the chest above breasts below collarbone and near armpits? pain only lasts seconds. fear cardiac but pcp says heart ok
pain that last seconds are usuall not angina. muscular skeletal issues and non specific problems can cause such
what are 3 types of heart problems?
angina arrhythmia and congestive heart failure
what do you suggest if my father's blood pressure is 187/108. i know that's very bad. what can happen to him?
stroke congestive heart failure kidney failure angina. he needs to have it gradually controlled.
what to do if i was a given a proscribed medicine vastarel 35mg what is this for?
it's a second line drug for the treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris. it's not fda approved or available in the usa. it's used in france and some other european countries. how'd you get it?
what do you suggest if my mother has ischemia and i want to know what the best medical treatment for this and is it reversible?
it's not generally reversible without an intervention (either percutaneously or with surgery). the best medical treatment consists of : aspirin beta blocker statin angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. correction of anemia hypoxia and not smoking. if angina persists a nitrate and/or ranolazine can be added.
what do you suggest if my doctor has me ranexa (ranolazine) wtat is it for?
ranexa or ranolazine is a drug we use for anginal pectoris.
why unstable angina is a contraindication for stress test?
i presume you are scheduled for an exercise stress test or a treadmill test where an ekg is performed while you walk on a treadmill. in this stress test the test must be stopped as soon as you experience chest pain. therefore the test is not useful (and thus contraindicated) in patients with unstable angina. less invasive tests such as a nuclear medicine scan may be used instead.
why unstable angina is a contraindication for stress test?
a stress test forces the heart to work more and it needs more oxygen. blood vessels dilate to allow more flow. in unstable angina the vessels have limited capacity to dilate in response to the increase need for oxygen so you can precipitate a low oxygen state muscle wall ischemia/death i. e. a heart attack. in angina you do a catheterization and if indicated stent or cabg
why unstable angina is a contra indicator for stress test?
with unstable angina the cardiologists do not like to do a stress test because the stress on the heart could precipitate a heart attack. if they need to examine the heart in someone with unstable angina they are more likely to do a coronary angiogram so they can look directly at the vessels without stressing the heart. also with the do the angiogram they may be able to place a stent for treatment.
when i do sex & then sleep i feel next day with cheast pain it calms down when i drink water before sleep i've gerd is this heart related or gerd?
if you're really 26 as stated heart pain would be exceedingly rare unless you have diabetes or use cocaine. moreover pain that occurs at rest or lying down is very atypical for heart pain. (gerd can occur with exercise however and distinguishing this from angina requires a stress test).
what are symptoms of heart related disease/angina?
read this: <link> heart. org/heartorg/conditions/heartattack/symptomsdiagnosisofheartattack/angina-pectoris-stable-angina_ucm_437515_article. jsp
what to do if over worrying about angina for most of the day?
sounds like you have an anxiety disorder which may require psychologic or psychiatric help. .
what are the symptoms of heart related diseases / angina?
read this: <link> mayoclinic. org/diseases-conditions/heart-disease/basics/symptoms/con-20034056
what are the differences between ischaemia and infarction in terms of definition cause and clinical example?
heart pain of ischemia is angina and is reversible. heart pain of infarction is a heart attack and dead muscle. both are caused by atherosclerosis commonly and low oxygen to the tissue. similar with brain tia and stroke.
what is the treatment protocol at er for angina due to coronary disease?
assessment for emergency therapy is needed by evaluating for signs of a heart attack (myocardial infarction). this is done with an ekg blood tests focused questioning and physical exam. often pain relief with morphine and nitroglycerin is given as well as an aspirin and oxygen. monitoring in the hospital is also common. call 911 if you suspect a heart attack. discuss with doctor.
why shouldn't you use nitrolingual (nitroglycerin) spray to relieve angina in cases of hypothyrodism?
hypothyroid patients often have slow heart rates and impaired vascular reactivity. if you cause venodilation with a dose of nitroglycerin in such a patient you could drop the bp very low and cause syncope or worse
what is vastarel? what is it for?
it is a drug not available in the us. it is used in europe as a treatment for angina when the usual drugs aren't adequately relieving symptoms. it works by interfering with fatty acid metabolism.
what cause angina to affect the system and how it affect the system?
angina is an uncomfortable sensation from heart muscle suffering from lack of circulation - essentially acute oxygen deprivation. if this deprivation is not corrected then a heart attack with permanent heart muscle damage can follow. hope that helps.
what cause angina to affect the system and how it affect the system?
is generated through demand supply mismatch due to narrowed/ diseased coronaries heart arteries. atherosclerosis is the most common cause.
what cause angina to affect the system and how it affect the system?
spasm or narrowing. please get a full cardiology workup and evaluation. anginashould be medically evaluated and treated.
what will happen to tissues such as the heart and brain if oxygenated blood is not delivered in a timely manner?
tissues which don't get oxygenated blood when they need it malfunction or even die. for the brain this can mean loss of consciousness or stroke. for the heart this can mean angina heart failure or infarction.
when i'm really stressed i get a tight full feeling in my chest and i sometimes get hot or sweaty suddenly. i think it's heart related or angina. ?
sounds more like anxiety attacks take a deep breath and breathe slowly
what is the difference between unstable angina and stemi / non-stemi?
unstable angina is when chest pain coming from the heart increases in frequency severity and/or intensity over the last couple of month. if pain is severe and lasts for over 20-30 minutes and pt shows in er the ekg may show specific changes (st segment elevation myocardial infarction = stemi) or subtle or no changes and the heart attack is diagnosed with blood tests (nstemi= non-st elevationmi
sudden pain in left arm without any injury?
there is a concern for heart problem ( heart attack or angina pain). for sudden persistent or recurrent pain i would recommend going to er immediately. pinched nerve in neck or elbow and and other nerve problems can also cause pain.
should i go to er 56 yr old female bp left arm 130/90 74 pulse bp right arm 159/93 achy non sharp pain top center chest left shoulder pain radiating from neck area weakness in left arm
er eval is a good idea. you have chest pain and left arm symptoms radiating from the neck these could represent angina which means an impaired blood supply to the heart muscle from the coronary arteries. there are certainly other causes of chest and arm pain but your combination of symptoms sounds concerning. it's better to be sure go to the er.
should i go to the emergency room for chest pains that have went away? this has happened twice now. i get pain and pressure in the upper slightly left center of my chest. it lasts for a couple of minutes then goes away. its a little hard to breathe and fe
these are serious symptoms. it sounds like you are dealing with angina which is a type of chest pain that is caused by reduced blood flow to the heart muscle. angina is a symptom of coronary artery disease and is very dangerous if left untreated. you need to see your doctor right away if you have not done so already. if the episodes are persisting and increasing in intensity you should present to your local er. all the best.
should i feel labored just to do normal things? went downstairs to put load of laundry in my hearts started beating faster i felt extremely weak got sweaty and was shakeing i am currently on bactrin for a staff infection about 4 days now.
palpitations shortness of breath weakness and sweating with minor exertion is a potentially concerning problem. it is not normal. if you haven't seen a doctor for evaluation you need to as soon as possible. this could be angina which in women can present without the classic chest pain symptom. hopefully it's not but please don't ignore it get checked!
what are the symptoms of angina?
chest pain chest pressure rapid heart beat.
what are the symptoms of angina?
angina is different in men and women. angina is usually chest pain that lasts 30 minutes or so associated with shortness of breath sweating and arm pain. in women shortness of breath usually predominates.
what medicines help heart disease and high blood pressure?
controlling bp with medications especially beta blockers ace inhibitors and diuretics will help to reduce risk of heart injury heart failure and heart pain (angina). some of the effects of high bp on the heart can be reversed with these bp meds and optimum control of bp (110-130/60-80). follow up with primary md and/or specialists (cardiologist and nephrologist if kidney problems).
what can be done for an unstable angina when the atherosclerotic plaque ruptures?
what the anticlotting agents (eg. aspirin clopidogrel lmw heparins etc. ) the clot destruction tpa agents (including alteplase reteplase & tenecteplase) & emergency angioplasty are about. slow clotting destroy the clots &/or mechanically break up the clots which narrow the artery & block blood flow in an effort to reduce the damage/restore blood flow to the muscle downstream. yet little&late.
what tests show plaque in your arteries of your heart? if my chest gets heavy during an argument could that be angina?
a ct scan either for calcium score or angiogram will show calcified plaque non-invasively a cardiac catheterization or coronary angiogram will show soft or calcified plaque but is an invasive test. a simpler test such as a stress test may be a good starting point. check with your doc.
should i get help for sharp pain under my left armpit if i have valvular heart disease?
valve disease would not cause a sharp pain like you describe. common symptoms are angina like chest pain shortness of breath leg swelling fainting.
what is unstable angina?
unstable angina is sudden persistent unprovoked chest pain related to coronary artery disease that is not relieved with rest or nitro glycerine. it may also be associated with shortness of breath and low blood pressure.
what are ways to treat heart disease angina and high blood pressure?
work w/your family doc & cardiologist to treat heart disease angina & high blood pressure (bp). 1st make appropriate lifestyle modifications: quit smoking start exercising regularly then commit to eating healthy. enough rest plus meditation can help. statins are now 1st line drug for anyone w/heart disease. nitrates are useful for those suffering from angina (chest pain). many drugs to treat bp
can you prevent a heart attack by putting in a stent?
actually most of the time coronary stents are placed to resolve angina (chest pain or shortness of breath due to arterial blockage). if a patient comes to the emergency room while they are having a heart attack angioplasty may prevent the dying of the muscle that would normally result from the heart attack it may event save the person's life.
why is the pain of angina brought on by exercise and stress?
if you have angina one or more of your heart (coronary) arteries is narrowed. this causes a reduced blood supply to your heart muscle. when your heart works harder (when you walk fast or climb stairs and your heart rate increases) your heart muscle needs more blood and oxygen. if the extra blood that your heart needs cannot get past the narrowed coronary arteries the heart responds with pain
why is the pain of angina brought on by exercise and stress?
angina is related to impaired blood flow. at rest the heart is better able to tolerate "clogged" pipes but it doesn't require a high flow rate. under stress like exercise "clogged" pipes are a problem. because of obstructions the flow can't appropriately increase even though the heart require more blood flow/nutrients. the lack of nutrients damages the cells of the heart and leads to pain.
what kinds of health poblems are caused by blockages in coronary arteries?
if flow is obstructed angina pectoris or myocardial infarction can result.
can anxiety cause a silent heart attack or angina?
stress does contribute to heart attacks but does not directly cause them. family history diabetes high blood pressure hyperlipidemia and smoking are the known risk factors. occasionally even people without cad will feel tightness in their chest when anxious hyperventilating or tightening their musculature. of course if their is any question one should seek care by their pcp or er.
can anxiety cause a silent heart attack or angina?
significant stress from any cause whether it be extreme physical exertion emotional distress or extreme anxiety can precipitate a myocardial infarction. this is especially true if there is a favorable substrate for such an event like pre-existing coronary artery disease or other known cardiovascular risk factors.
can having a lot of stress causes you to have a silent heart attack or just angina?
both conditions can be brought about by stress.
can having a lot of stress causes you to have a silent heart attack or just angina?
if you have coronary disease (blockages in your coronary arteries) stress can cause your heart to pump harder and faster outstripping its limited blood supply resulting in angina. if prolonged permanent damage can result (heart attack). if your heart is normal stress cannot cause angina or a heart attack.
can chest pain from a heart attack last for 5 days or is it just muscular pain?
angina is the mild discomfort when the heart suffers before the final attack which is usually extremely painful. angina can last on-off for days even at rest and can linger on for weeks even. symptoms can frequently be so atypical not like a real one at all that people may not recognize the deadly warning. even er docs can miss an angina. law suits from unrecognized heart problem at er +++.
sharp pain that may last 2 to 3 sec localized to just the area where my heart is located. it happens perhaps 1 a month. angina?
angina generally last longer than a few seconds and is not typically localized to a small area on the chest.
what would cause cramps in the left side of neck has been happening a lot since my quadruple bypass 9 months ago?
your cardiologist. neck pain can be a form of angina and a cardiac cause of neck pain must be ruled out. once this is done a musculoskeletal cause can be addressed.
