what are the symptoms of a heart trouble? like blockages or something like that. or an impending heart attack?
angina pectoris =substernal pressure pain with radiation to the neck or left or right arm and shoulder. some will have abdominal pain-and be confused with gallbladder or stomach symptoms. ladies seem to have less classic// or tolerate pain better than men. relief with nitroglycerin is very suggestive. a feeling of impending doom pallor sweating suggest a bad day!
i have several ekgs x-rays blood test and one stress test. can i still have an angina pectoris or heart disease?
with presumably normal ekgs etc. . and a stress test the probability is remote.
what is the significance of placing nitroglycerin under the tongue of a patient suffering heart attack?
placing a sublingual meds would serve the same purpose as giving meds through iv -- as you probably know nitroglycerin can relieve cardiac chest pain (angina pectoris) quickly and potentially halt the progression to a heart attack -.
is it normal with idiopathic dcm and a bi vent icd to have pain or pressure in your chest with walking? i stopped and rested took bp-normal hr-95.
what you are describing is angina pectoris. it could represent a coronary artery obstruction. the symptoms merit a careful examination by ones doctor or by a cardiologist.
is inderal (propranolol) good med for skipped beats and fast heart rate. my dr just put me on it. 10 mg twice a day. 48 year old female with normal bp.
management of hypertension; angina pectoris; pheochromocytoma; essential tremor; supraventricular arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation and flutter av nodal re-entrant tachycardias) ventricular tachycardias (catecholamine-induced arrhythmias digoxin toxicity); prevention of myocardial infarction; migraine headache prophylaxis; symptomatic treatment of hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.
if a patient having angina pectoris is also suffering from hypotension and bradycardia which antianginal can be used that do not exacerbate hypotensio?
ranolazine is a specific antianginal therapy that does not cause bradycardia or hypotension. beta blockers and calcium channel blockers should be avoided in bradycardia while nitrates should be avoided in hypotension. angina may also be caused by bradycardia if slower than the heart demands. a treadmill test to evaluate for an appropriate rise in heart rate would help.
if a patient having angina pectoris is also suffering from hypotension and bradycardia which antianginal can be used that do not exacerbate hypotensio?
nitrates and some calcium channel blockers but you should have an angiogram.
i walk daily for around 45 mins. i take ivabradine 5 mg daily once after lunch. do i have anything to worry health wise?
you'll have to ask your doctor who knows you and your history and data that question. if you're on that drug it is used for angina pectoris mostly and for chf in some patients. if you're taking it for some other reason.? it isn't a drug most of us would prescribe if you don't have some kind of problem that will be helped by it.
how long could you have chest pressure before a heart attack?
chest pain due to blockage without heart damage usually lasts 5-10 minutes then it goes away. this is angina pectoris. prolonged pain of the same type often lasts 30 minutes or more during a heart attack. it is rare for pain to last much over an hr or two without relief. some folks have painless heart attacks.
how can you tell the difference between esophegeal spasms and heart palpitations?
heart palpitations does not cause the pain in the mid chest like what you would feel with esophageal spasm -- in fact you can not differentiate esophageal or heart cause of angina pectoris or chest pain.
is angina pectoris deathly?
angina pectoris is chest pain thought tone cardiac in nature. it is a true warning sign of a heart attackand should be taken seriously. if left untreated it can be potentially life threatening
should anticoagulants taken with beta-blocker and drug against angina pectoris? i woke up with sudden pain in lower left stomach just under ribs?
the history you've given (chest pain periorbital edema allergies) the meds you list (vitamin d b6 magnesium? ! azelastine antihistamine spray) and your question (anti-angina rx beta-blocker) simply don't add up. we can't judge the appropriateness of a regimen like what you list especially without much more information.
please tell me if angina pectoris and myocardial infarction are the same disease?
angina pectoris refers to chest pain specifically spasms of the pectorals muscle but usually the chest in general. this may be a symptom of a heart attack which is also called a myocardial infarction (mi). myocardial means heart muscle and infarction is the lack of blood flow causing the mi and then the angina pectoris. chest pain may also be caused by other things besides the heart.
what tests are enough to confirm angina? only ecg or more?
angina pectoris is the fancy name for chest pain caused by the heart muscle usually because of atherosclerotic narrowings in the coronary arteries. angina is a clinical diagnosis; in most cases an experienced doctor would not need any tests to confirm it is present. tests may be useful to assess the severity of the problem and to guide treatment.
ocasional pain in lt side heart specially in morning not severe bt recurring none other related symptoms ecg clear phy v active run 5 mi a day?
chest pain is a tricky diagnosis while your symptoms are atypical for angina pectoris (heart related chest pain) the only way to exclude this with a high degree of certainty is with the use of a functional test such an an exercise treadmill stress test furthermore given your history of ventricular septal defect i would also recommend an echocardiogram and outpatient holter monitor
what are the half-lives of isosorbide mn and nifedipine?
5 hours for isosorbide mononitrate used for prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary heart disease htn and mi. it is a vasodilatory agent that dilates the blood vessels. it lowers blood pressure and reduces the left ventricular preload and after load reducing the hearts oxygen requirement. nifedipine 1/2 life 2 hours. calcium channel blocker. go to medscape or drugbank for more info.
what does a heart attack feel like. what are symptoms before having one? what do u do if ur having one
angina pectoris =substernal pressure pain with radiation to the neck or left or right arm and shoulder. some will have abdominal pain-and be confused with gallbladder or stomach symptoms. ladies seem to have less classic// or tolerate pain better than men. relief with nitroglycerin is very suggestive. a feeling of impending doom pallor sweating suggest a bad day!
what can i do to get over neck chest and arms angina pain from stenosis?
the pain you describe is far more likely to be musculoskeletal caused pain than myocardial ischemia(angina pectoris). work with your doctor for proper diagnosis of your problem and treatment of it.
what are some common symptoms associated with heart problems?
palpitations (skipped beats or rapid beating) exertional shortness of breath (dyspnea) exertional chest pain (angina pectoris) faint feeling (syncope or near-syncope) swelling of legs (edema) exertional fatigue. sometimes cardiac pain is felt in the throat jaw neck stomach area or back.
what is the cause of angina pectoris?
typical angina is caused by partial of a coronary artery causing inadequate blood supply to meet the oxygen demands of the heart.
what is the cause of angina pectoris?
angina is caused by inadequate circulation and oxygen to the muscles of the heart. can be caused by arterial blockage or arterial spasm. activity can sometimes cause the heart to need more blood supply than can be provided resulting in episodes. nitroglycerine under the tongue (sl) can quickly open arteries temporarily restoring blood flow
what is the cause of angina pectoris?
angina is caused when blood flow to an area of the heart is decreased impairing the delivery of oxygen and vital nutrients to the heart muscle cells. when this happens the heart muscle must use alternative less efficient forms of fuel so that it can perform its function of pumping blood to the body. the byproduct of using this less efficient fuel is a compound called lactic acid that builds up
what does it mean if i have chest pain right between my breasts?
maybe due to angina pectoris muscle pull or osteochondritis. you need to see a thoracic surgeon for full evaluation and rx.
what is the significance of provocable ischemia?
provocable ischemia occurs when a heart artery is blocked and exercise creates a condition where the heart muscle needs more blood than the artery can deliver. it may create the classic clinical symptom of angina pectoris or chest pain. tests to diagnose provocable ischemia include the treadmill nuclear stress/chemical testing and stress echocardiography.
what is another word for heart pain?
heart pain that occurs with exertion is also known as angina pectoris.
what is the success rate of heart bypass surgery?
bipass is very successful in relieving angina pectoris pain related to blockage in the arteries. in most circumstances there is not good evidence that it also lengthens life. whether you have surgery or not it is critical to address your risk factors such as smoking blood pressure cholesterol stress diabetes obesity lack of exercise etc.
who benefits from coronary artery bypass surgery?
patients with either narrowing in all 3 cornary arteries or left main narrowing and a damaged left ventricle live longer with bypass surgery more than 95 % have improvement in their angina pectoris (chest pain).
what patients can benefit from cardiac rehab?
patients who have had a heart attack angioplasty & stent bypass surgery and valve replacement are candidates for cardiac rehab. also patients with angina pectoris (chest pain) who are treated with medical therapy would benefit from rehab.
when does the pain stop after heart bypass surgery?
why is:the pain is due to poor circulation to the heart muscle causing angina pectoris or heart attack. bypass brings blood past the blockages and feeds the heart muscle cells wen after surgery is within 2 months in general but faster fir some.
what does chest pain in the lower right hear mean?
it usually means that it is not of cardiac origin - it is not a heart pain - heart pain (angina pectoris) is usually non focal many a times are described as pressure or tightness involving the whole region of chest or trunk and the discomfort may radiate to the left or both arms - but you may consider getting gi (bowel gallbladder) evaluation.
why do some patients undergo heart bypass?
why is:the pain is due to poor circulation to the heart muscle causing angina pectoris or heart attack. bypass brings blood past the blockages and feeds the heart muscle cells.
when i cry over something very serious i sometimes start to feel chest pains. why is this?
the heart is an emotional organ -- interesting right? but it's true -- you can actually have the heart pain - angina pectoris - with emotional stress -- the broken heart syndrome! so being content and at peace is good for your health <positive_smiley>).
what sort of disease is coronary spasms?
coronary spasms or vasospastic angina or variant angina are acute and sudden muscular contraction with occlusion of the blood vessels of the heart which produces heart attack like symptoms (angina pectoris).
what are the effects of taking both atenolol and amlodipine?
lower blood pressure and pulse rate. less angina pectoris. fewer strokes and heart attacks.
what does tightness in my chest mean when i run?
tightness in the chest experienced while running could be indicative of significant ischemic heart disease (angina pectoris) or exercise induced asthma. in either case you should urgently see a cardiologist who can do a stress test and some blood work to establish the diagnosis.
why do doctors prescribe concor 2. 5 for hypertension?
is a highly selective beta blocker used for mild to moderate hypertension (& angina pectoris). it lowers bp and block blood renin levels (which can raise bp). the 2. 5 mg strength in no way suggests it is a weak med; another bp med may require 100mg or more to get same effect. usual dose is 5 mg but that dose may cause your bp to be too low; so doc decreased to 2. 5 mg.
what is the difference between a tia and petit mal seizure?
a tia is a vascular event similar to angina pectoris in the heart they both are temporary decreases in blood flow causing transient symptoms. petit mal is a type of electrical abnormality in the brain that comes and goes. petit mal is not necessarily vascular related a tia is by definition.
we all know chest burn/discomfort/sob can be from gi or other causes. how can you diagnose angina clinically. would angina symptoms only during exertion?
typical angina pectoris is a squeezing sensation in the chest brought on by exericse excitement or other form of physical or psychologic stress. when the the typical type of pain happens at rest we call that pre infarction angina.
what's the probability of having a heart attack after an attack of pectoral angina?
some folks with angina pectoris can have repeat spells for years without having a heart attack!
what are early symptoms of heart attack?
angina pectoris =substernal pressure pain with radiation to the neck or left or right arm and shoulder. some will have abdominal pain-and be confused with gallbladder or stomach symptoms. ladies seem to have less classic// or tolerate pain better than men. relief with nitroglycerin is very suggestive. a feeling of impending doom pallor sweating suggest a bad day!
what are the signs that you might get a heart attack?
usually there are no signs preceding a heart attack. however there are risk factors which if present increase the statistical chance of having a heart attack. they include smoking diabetes chronic kidney disease and hypertension. sometimes a patient will develop angina pectoris (chest pain) on exertion which can precede overt heart attack.
what are the signs that you might get a heart attack?
angina pectoris (chest pain behind the sternum) is classic but pain that radiates to left arm & neck/mandible can also occur. dyspnea or extreme shortness of breath alone may occur too. indigestion is occasionally misdiagnosed as gerd or reflux. you need cardiac enzymes (blood test) and an ekg (electric tracing of heart fxn). also take 81mg or 325mg aspirin is helpful to lower mortality.
what may be the causes of heart pain except acute coronary syndrome & angina pectoris?
those are the common ones. pericarditis pericardial effusion myocarditis other cause of chest pain- lung esophagus etc. can be confusing.
what may be the causes of heart pain except acute coronary syndrome & angina pectoris?
it is important to rule out catastrophic causes like acs dissection of aorta. constochondritis and muscular problems. pneumonia and pul conditions. gi conditions like gerd esophageal spasms could also cause chestpain. nature duration location associated symptoms and patient risk factors are helpful in initial assessment.
what is angina?
as a word has its origin in greek and means strangling. . suggestive of the symptoms that patient with angina pectoris have when they are exerting themself. they usually have chest pain and they feel short of breath.
what is angina?
angina means pain. angina pectoris is chest pain caused by heart artery disease and is a serious problem.
what is the difference between angina and angina pectoris?
is pain and classically chest pain. angina pectoris means pain of the chest.
what is the difference between angina and angina pectoris?
they can be used interchangeably. it's chest pain from insufficient blood flow to the heart muscles. take care!
what is the difference between angina and angina pectoris?
technically angina just means pain and angina pectoris means pain in the chest. in practice we use both to refer to the pain caused by myocardial ischemia.
what is the difference between angina and angina pectoris?
both refer to chest pain caused by blocked heart arteries/ coroanary artery disease.
what is angina pectoris?
this condition is usually the result of coronary artery disease (obstructive) leaving the smooth muscles of the heart w/out enough supply. it varies from mild to severe pain and can be fatal - but the pain is not indicative of the threat. you need treatment if you have this condition.
what is the reliability of a nuclear stress test? particularly with regard to ruling out angina / cardiac related chest discomfort?
a nuclear perfusion test in the right lab can reliably indicate whether abnormal myocardial perfusion is present. angina pectoris is a symptom of abnormal myocardial perfusion. a positive perfusion study in a good lab has greater than 90% specificity and a negative test slightly less. some labs are not as good as others as with any study.
what are symptoms of stroke? how do i know that my father is having a stroke. he sometimes complains of chest pain and lies down on bed to get rest
stroke is like heart attack in that a brain blood vessel gets occluded and causes problems with vision strength sensation balance. but you are likely describing angina pectoris a sign of decreased blood flow to the heart and this is a risk for myocardial infarction. do not delay he needs to see a physician urgently as prevention here is worth tons of cure.
why we don't use b2 agonist for angina pectoris?
a beta agonist will stimulate beta receptors on the heart which will cause the heart to beat more forcefully and more rapidly both will increase oxygen demand and may increase angina. a beta blocker (antagonist) will have the opposite effect.
what to do if i was a given a proscribed medicine vastarel 35mg what is this for?
it's a second line drug for the treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris. it's not fda approved or available in the usa. it's used in france and some other european countries. how'd you get it?
what kinds of health poblems are caused by blockages in coronary arteries?
if flow is obstructed angina pectoris or myocardial infarction can result.
