i have high crp levels due to ankylosing spondylitis. does high crp levels help cause leptin resistance? if so will irvingia gabonensis help?
crp levels are usually normal in ankylosing spondylitis so i would look for other causes. a high crp has nothing to do with leptin and irvingia will not help the crp or the spondylitis.
i was prescribed low thc. 61% high cbd marijuana for ms and ank spond. i have svt but would such a small amnt of thc effect me. im new to this.
i am trying to make sense of this. marijuana can be used with some success to treat spasticity but has no effect on the course of ms or ankylosing spondylitis and yet it appears you are not taking any medication specific for either condition. since am a neurologist you should be taking a disease modifying agent for your ms and supplementing vitamin d if you have any hope of controlling ms
my dad has ankylosing spondylitis i have developed postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome could i have ankylosing spondylitis which caused it?
the two diseases are unrelated.
my dad has ankylosing spondylitis i have developed postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome could i have ankylosing spondylitis which caused it?
to the best of my knowledge there is no relationship between pots and ankylosing spondylitis.
left side chest pain over 10 years daily n/a. chronic?
have you ever had chest surgery and the pain is following the procedure? or had chest trauma like a mva? or had shingles or herpes zoster? some causes • eophageal spasm • reflux • cervical spondylosis • prolapsed mitral cusp • da costa's syndrome • pulmonary hypertension • peptic ulcer • gallbladder disease • chronic pancreatitis • ankylosing spondylitis • tietze's disease • lesions of sternum • mediastinal tumor • spinal disease • spinal infection • spinal tumor • spinal spondylosis • chronic trauma • bronchial carcinoma • rib metastases • aortic aneurysm
what causes insufficiency of the aortic valve?
used to be rheumatic heart disease but we see that infrequently now. congenital problems like a bicuspid aortic valve. hypertension. dissecting aneurysm. syphilis. marfan's syndrome. ankylosing spondylitis. reiter's syndrome. lupus. infection (endocarditis).
what causes insufficiency of the aortic valve?
a congenitally bicusip aortic valve and annuloaortic ectasia (these 2 account for most cases in developed countries). also: marfan's syndrome syphilis (rare nowadays) ankylosing spondylitis endocarditis aortic dissection rheumtoid arthritis and degenerative calcific aortic sclerosis. rheumatic heart disease is the most common world wide cause but uncommon in the usa.
what puts someone at risk for aortic regurgitation?
acute: blood infection leading to valve infection (endocarditis) trauma a tear in the aorta (dissection) marfan's syndrome. chronic: high blood pressure/aneurysm congenital bicuspid valve syphilis behcet's takayasu and reiter syndrome ankylosing spondylitis rheumatoid arthritis and idiopathic (cause unknown) - this is a board question!
