what effect can hunger & starvation have on the human body?
if you are talking about anorexia nervosa then turn off your computer and call your doctor. anorexia nervosa is a serious problem that can kill you. get help now. call your doctor.
i have an eating disorder pica and crave/eat paper and cannot stop! what can i do i've tried everything?
certainly counseling along with appropriate medication is a good idea. in children developmental disorders can be associated with pica in adolescents depression and substance abuse are often part of pica. pregnancy may have pica associated with it causing cravings for clay or starch. iron and zinc deficiencies can lead to pica. anorexia nervosa autism and schizophrenia can also. keep trying.
if i lose weight will my thoracic outlet syndrome pain be less?
even though i am far from a bean pole weight loss in general will improve most all disorders (with the exception of emaciation anorexia nervosa and bulimia of course). dr. j.
if somebody becomes bilimic how long would it take to lose weight?
a person with bulimia nervosa may not lose weight at all. in fact he or she might eve be overweight. it is easy to confuse bulimia nervosa with anorexia nervosa the latter of which always involves being underweight.
i am 38 female. and have thinning hair that has got me worried. i have lost 33lbs since march by dieting and walking some. i have had my thyroid checked and that was not the problem. how can this stop?
you should keep in contact with your physician to discuss possible odd causes. thyroid disease local trauma (blow-drying or chemical products) anorexia nervosa and genetic predisposition are the most common causes. if your doctor determines those are not the problem you may want to try taking a multivitamin and 1 mg of folic acid to give your hair the vitamins it needs to grow.
what are the causes of binge eating disorder?
this is an eating disorder similar to anorexia nervosa which probably has some neurological correlates; but they have not been identified. psychologically it appears related to early childhood experience in terms of parents reactions to their child at mealtime.
i have lost weight in face always been thin my whole life now got ulcers what makes you lose weight in face besides ulcers?
poor appetite makes you loss weight face skinny due to lack of food intake. anorexia nervosa gives you also poor appetite makes you asthenic.
what are some of the health problems associated with anorexia nervosa and binge-eating disorders?
the symptoms of anorexia are mostly related to starvation or malnutrition. they can be quite severe including heart failure loss of bone strength dehydration loss of menstruation. binge eating (eating too much at one sitting) is not really associated with symptoms other than weight gain. binge eating and vomiting (bulimia) is associated with health problems that are due to the vomiting.
what are some of the health problems associated with anorexia nervosa and binge-eating disorders?
ryan multiple consequences leading to increased mortality include hypokalemia or low potassium followed by cardiac arrhythmia or abnormal rhythm of the heart usually followed by death.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
beginning of anorexia nervosa a dangerous disease so you should seek help locally.
what's the least amount of calories i can have without going in starvation mode?
if you are talking about anorexia nervosa then turn off your computer and call your doctor. anorexia nervosa is a serious problem that can kill you. get help now. call your doctor.
why might i look fat if my bmi says i'm underweight?
bmi from 20 to 25 is in the normal range. if you are falling into this range and are still feeling like you look fat this makes me concerned about you may have some tendencies of anorexia nervosa. we live in a culture which blasts thin models at every turn. most of these gals are severely underweight. see a psychologist for starters to explore these issues!
what can i tell someone who's trying to lose weight by only eating 500 to 1000 calories a day and is under wait and how long can this take to backfire?
i am afraid. if female it could be early anorexia nervosa a dangerous disease. she should seek medical help.
i have been binging after discharge from anorexia treatment?
anorexia nervosa which is associated with bing-eating /purging type behavior. during the last 3 montns an individual has engaged in recurrent episodes of bing eating or purging behvior--self -induced vomiting or the missuse of laxatives diuretics or enemas. use of recurrrent compensatory behviors in order to prevent wt. gain--others diuretics fastimg excessive exercise. 1x/week for 3m.
what can be done about binge eating disorder by yourself?
one thing many with eating disorders have in common is difficulty sharing their feelings. it's common 2keep feelings & some types of thoughts secret. so consider taking steps 2share: see "get help" page of national assn of anorexia nervosa & related disorders (anad) website: <link> take a big step & call their helpline at (630) 577-1330? or email them at anadhelp@anad. org?
i'm bulimic but i'm 5'3" and 78lbs. i'm losing weight from it. but binge and purge only at night 200 cal in the day. i thought bulimia was overweight?
you may have anorexia nervosa binge-eating/purging type. in any case your weight and consequently your bmi (body mass index) are severely out of the normal range. eating 200cal/day will cause you serious medical problems if not now in the near future. please ask your parents to take you to see your pediatrician and a child psychiatrist asap. this is urgent!
what to do if i have a binge eating disorder?
one thing many with eating disorders have in common is difficulty sharing their feelings. it's common 2keep feelings ; some types of thoughts secret. so consider taking steps 2share: see "get help" page of national assn of anorexia nervosa ; related disorders (anad) website: <link> take a big step ; call their helpline at (630) 577-1330? or email them at anadhelp@anad. org?
my bmi is 14. i am scared and don't know where to turn?
if your are severely underweight then you should see your doctor for a full medical evaluation. he or she will ask you about your eating habits to assess if you have bulemia anorexia nervosa or some other psychiatric related eating disorder. you will also need blood tests to check for diseases that contribute to weight loss.
my wife has a history of bulimia and binge eating and confides in me about it. i often struggle with my response. what's the best way to respond here?
consider learning about eating & seek expert help/support 4 family members/loved ones of someone w/an ed. check "get help" page of website of the national assn of anorexia nervosa & related disorders (anad): <link> call their helpline: (630) 577-1330. email them: anadhelp@anad. org. the eating disorders information network (edin) also has very helpful resources: <link>
what to do if i'm 16 years old and have an unhealthy bmi of 16. help.?
depends on your mental state? if you have been thinking that you are fat and have lost weight having a persistent occupation with food yet restricting your intake then you may have anorexia nervosa requiring comprehensive care. if you do not have the mental issues discussed schedule an exam with your doc you will need a thorough evaluation including exam and blood work.
would you consider anorexia that's 5'3" and 77. 5 lbs severe? i know most severe ones are between bmi 9-12 i'm not i'm at 13
whatever label one might put on it a bmi of 13 is dangerous. anorexia nervosa is very serious. young women die from it all the time. please get help with this life-threatening condition. there's nothing more tragic than an otherwise healthy young woman literally starving herself to death because of deranged body image. please do not minimize or rationalize this. get help. your life is at stake.
my friend's 8 years boy refuses to eat healthy food she thinks he has alack of calcium yesterday he just had a morning sandwich till supper?
ask him at the table "do you want any of this dinner"? if he says no ignore it. if he asks to "get down" the answer is "no stay unti we have all finished. if he asks for food a little later say "no you must wait for the next meal". if this does not work (you have to be cruel to be kind) he might have anorexia nervosa that occasionally occurs in boys. that is more serious and you will need help.
what would cause loss of appetite? not on any diet pills or anything.
loss of appetite if accompanied by weight loss is anorexia nervosa. it can lead to malnutrition. medical complications of anorexia include: cardiovascular e. g prolonged qt interval low heart rate low blood pressure. abnormal or no menstrual cycle severe bone loss constipation etc. if you have loss of appetite and weight loss you need to see doctor asap. it can lead to these serious problems
went swimming yest @ waterpark and ate quite a bit of junk food. threw up at 4 am woke up at 10 w/bad headache and green snot. infection or something?
or something. please reesubmit your (? ) w/ answers to these questions. if you have anorexia nervosa why do u take phentermine? do you sometimes induce vomiting? do you normally eat small low calorie meals? did you swallow pool water or inhale it through your nose? did you drink any alcohol yesterday? do u have a fever belly pain or other symptoms? any recent change in lexapro (escitalopram) dose?
how do i know exactly what is binge eating disorder?
"binge eating is characterized by insatiable cravings that can occur any time of the day or night usually secretive and filled with shame. bingeing is often rooted in poor body image use of food to deal with stress low self-esteem and tied to dysfunctional thoughts. " source is the binge ed page of the national assn of anorexia nervosa & associated disorders (anad) website: <link>
how common is this the binge eating disorder in the u. s.?
it is 9 times more common in women and the prevalence is approx. 1-3%. the mean age is 18 with a range of 12-35 years. also upto 50% of patients with anorexia nervosa develop binging/purging symptoms.
how is being on a low-calorie diet different from being anorexic?
being on a low calorie diet = being on a diet that is low in calories. anorexia nervosa = believing that one's body is abnormal contrary to perceptions of others (example: someone who is very thin insisting that he/she is too fat); obsessing about possibility of weight gain; insisting on being underweight even if it is affecting his/her health severely. it can be a life-threatening illness.
how do you handle type 2 diabetes when you have an eating disorder and phobia of weight loss?
it is vital that all the health care professionals treating you are coordinating their services. i am not sure what type of eating disorder you have but if it is anorexia nervosa it can be life threatening and you may need in patient care if your body weight gets too low. psychiatric meds may aggravate your diabetes. phobia of weight loss is rarely seen in today's society.
how do binge-eating disorder anorexia and bulimia nervosa affect the lifespan?
binge eating can lead to overweight obesity and related disorders e. g. diabetes high lipids hypertension etc. bulimia can cause dental sinus gastrointestinal kidney issues. electrolyte abn. can cause (fatal) rhythm disturbances. anorexia nervosa can cause arrythmias kidney problems etc. - can be fatal (karen carpenter ring a bell? ) all can cause additional emotional issues.
how can i get my body out of starvation mode and resume normal eating?
if you are talking about anorexia nervosa then turn off your computer and call your doctor. anorexia nervosa is a serious problem that can kill you. get help now. call your doctor.
can me/cfs actually cause unintentional weight loss to the pt of anorexia?
myalgic encehalitis and chronic fatigue syndrome both can lead to weight loss. but these are very different disorders from anorexia nervosa. in anorexia there is fear of gaining weight; refusal to maintain normal body weight; and distorted body image. me/cfs does not generally have those characteristics at all and one condition does not develop into the other.
can me as in (me/cfs) cause wight loss 2 pt of anorexia not anorexia nervosa just that much weight loss no appetite?
any chronic illness that affects appetite or metabolic rate can cause weight loss. the word "anorexia" just means loss of appetite in medical-speak it is not necessarily referring to anorexia nervosa.
can me as in (me/cfs) cause wight loss 2 pt of anorexia not anorexia nervosa just that much weight loss no appetite?
is that what you are referring to? suggest you see a doctor. that much weight loss and loss of appetite has another cause. please go get evaluated soon.
can an overweight person have an eating disorder? aren't people with eating disorders really skinny?
eating disorders include anorexia nervosa bulimia nervosa and eating disorders not otherwise specified (ednos) under which binge eating disorder falls. binge eating disorder is the most common and is characterized by frequent periods of compulsive overeating without purging. those with binge eating disorder are not skinny and most patients with bulimia nervosa are either normal/overweight.
hi i've got a really bad binge eating probably and am putting on weight quickly how can i stop gaining weight and binge eating? thanks
anorexia nervosa & bulemia are potentially life-threatening diseases. binge eating is not but is nevertheless characterized as an eating disorder & as such is best treated by providers who have substantial clinical experience in dealing with eating disorders. there are centers of excellence at many tertiary institutions that combine the expertise of many specialists--find one near you please.
how can anorexic people still lose weight if their metabolism is slow?
people with anorexia nervosa limit their food intake to the point where they're literally starving their bodies. along with many other issues there is loss of all fat stores and muscular wasting. this happens in other starvation situations also such as concentration camps and being prisoners of war. in these though the food limitations are coming from external controls.
can a very low calorie diet make your heart rate slow (57bpm) and is it a problem?
bradycardia is a typical feature of individuals suffering from chronic anorexia nervosa. this is an early sign that muscle tissue in the body is being consumed for energy purposes. your nutritional status should be reviewed by a knowledgeable physician to determine what your risk might be.
how do anorexics lose weight without other people knowing?
anorexics don't eat and often become very skilled at concealing it. they often fly under the radar and go unnoticed. that makes it even more deadly because before you know it a person may become quite ill from their anorexia nervosa.
how high is the percentage of obese people have eating disorders?
hard to answer as there are few studies but the prevalence rate for anorexia nervosa is 0. 3% and the prevalence rates for bulimia nervosa are 1% and 0. 1% for young women and young men. since roughly 30% of our population is obese it would suggest that a relatively small number have eating disorders though this isn't accurate since many have undiagnosed eating disorders.
can an anorexic person be someone who has normal weight/overweight?
according to the diagnostic statistic manual an anorexic individual refuses to maintain their weight at or above a minimally normal weight for age and height. so the answer to your question is no a person suffering from anorexia nervosa will not have a normal weight or be overweight. this is a serious disorder with high mortality rates. treatment is available. visit your pmd or a psychiatrist.
how are atheletes/models/etc and binge-eating disorders linked?
many models and performers suffer from eating disorders including bulimia anorexia nervosa and binge eating disorder much higher than the general population.
can you be overweight but still diagnosed anorexic?
one of the diagnostic criteria for anorexia nervosa is that the person's weight should be below 85% of the normal weight for that age height and weight. so an overweight person who usually has a bmi of greater than 25 cannot be considered anorectic. thanks.
can you be overweight but still diagnosed anorexic?
anorexia is by definition unhealthy weight loss usually due to loss of appetite from some systemic illness. "anorexia nervosa" is an eating disorder caused by psychological misperceptions of body image and resultant calorie restriction and weight loss. bulimia on the other hand is a psychological eating disorder associated with binge eating and purging and can be associated with weight gain.
do anorexics actually see themselves as fat?
many individuals with anorexia nervosa do perceive themselves to be fat even if they are remarkably thin or malnourished. dissatisfaction with their body is a hallmark.
how common is overeating after anorexia?
individuals with anorexia nervosa generally restrict their food intake in order to reduce their body weight often to dangerous or life-threatening levels. there is a subset of people with the "binge eating/purging type" who may also overeat at times (but then purge with self-induced vomiting diuretic or laxative use or enemas) but this is not the common situation.
are there different kinds of binge eating disorder?
binge eating do (compulsive overeating) is one type of eating disorders. other types are anorexia nervosa bulimia nervosa purging do rumination pica night eating syndrome.
anorexia and on snickers and diet coke diet?
i am not sure what you're asking? anybody consuming only snickers bars and diet coke is not providing adequate nourishment to their body. if this kind of food restriction is an effort to not gain weight then yes it could be anorexia nervosa -- and yes this needs help. you can get help from your physician plus a psychiatrist and psychotherapist. i hope you'll decide to do that.
does binge eating and going aneorexic actually help you lose weight?
bulimia/anorexia nervosa. oddly enough these two opposites often go together and are indications of serious biochemical changes in brain. since this is potentially dangerous you badly need local medical advice.
anorexia recovery rapid weight gain what to do?
approach is really important in recovery from anorexia nervosa. recommend haivng input from a nutritionist your physician and a behavioral health provider. take care.
a couple times each year i go through a several day phase where i am hungry 24/7. i believe it's related to mental state somehow. could cortisol be it?
anorexia nervosa & bulemia are potentially life-threatening diseases. binge eating is not but is nevertheless characterized as an eating disorder & as such is best treated by providers who have substantial clinical experience in dealing with eating disorders. there are centers of excellence at many tertiary institutions that combine the expertise of many specialists--find one near you please.
been starving myself /obsessed with weight since oct and lost 30lbs. my bmi is still normal at 19. 2 (5'5" 115lbs) what eating disorder would this be?
anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder that entails starving oneself or severely limiting calories. it can become life threatening. bulimina is an eating disorder that involves vomiting or purging with diuretics and laxatives to lose weight. more about anorexia nervosa and other eating disorders: <link>
do you think the bmi chart for women in america is too lenient? is it okay to go lower than the 18. 5 bmi if i still have excess body fat?
a bmi of 18. 5 is low but the measurement has limitations. it is only weight/height (2) so people that are short/tall/chunky/small boned can all skew the numbers. presumably you are over age 18 and not suffering from anorexia nervosa. are you menstruating? you feel that you still have excess body fat. suggest you let your physician help you with this determination.
how come i have to have a blood test and an ecg tomorrow because of my eating disorder?
individuals well below ideal body weight especially in anorexia nervosa tend to be malnourished. be aware that if you lose weight strictly by restricting your diet without exercising half the weight you lose is muscle! so you also become less physically capable weaker and. the heart is a special kind of muscle! most deaths from an result from cardiac arrest due to a combination of factors.
what causes sudden cardiac arrest in young people?
we know some risk factors - prolonged qt syndrome hypertrophic cardiomyopathy blunt trauma to the chest possibly sudep (sudden unexpected death in epilepsy) drug overdoses & cardiac complications of anorexia nervosa. check out the cdc/nih registry for more info: <link>
what causes exercise intolerance?
exercise intolerance is a symptom of many conditions. it is most often found in cardiopulmonary disorders and in chronic fatigue syndrome. . other causes include abnormal heart rate acute or chronic back pain overtraining anemia and anorexia nervosa. statin drug use has been implicated in causing exercise intolerance. source: wikipedia.
what happens to the heart when a person has anorexia nervosa?
the heart is at risk of potentially severe problems like arrythmias (for different causes: electrolytes imbalances anatomic changes etc) always depending on the degree/stage of the disease personal medical/family history and genetic factors. in short anorexia nervosa is no good for the heart.
what happens to the heart when a person has anorexia nervosa?
can have numerous complications. death may occur suddenly & may result from abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) or an imbalance of electrolytes—minerals such as sodium potassium & calcium that maintain the balance of fluids in your body. heart problems may include mitral valve prolapse abnormal heart rhythms & heart failure. a person with anorexia nervosa requires medical & psychiatric care.
