zoloft (sertraline) has helped my anxiety but now i feel in between emotions. i don't get overly excited like i use to and i don't get down as much. is this normal?
it is possible to have a paradoxical reaction to an antidepressant such as zoloft (sertraline). these reactions: increasing anxiety or feeling no emotions means it is time to try a new medication. this is not dangerous but it is common and needs to be addressed by the professional who you have been working wth.
zoloft (sertraline) for three months has stabilized my anxiety. but i don't feel highs in joy like before. i'm scared i want to function without it. what do i do?
unfortuately all drugs have side effects which you must know about before using any drug. antidepressants like zoloft (sertraline) can help to stabilize moods and reduce anxiety-but at a price- they narrow your range of emotion and take off the highs and the lows. also drugs are a short term solution to a long term problem best resolved by pursuing psychotherapy.
zoloft (sertraline) dose up to 100mg and takin klonopin 1mg twice a day. will this balance my anxiety feel like my doc is focused on depression not anxiety?
medication specifically for anxiety. zoloft (sertraline) is used to treat both depressive disorders and anxiety. it sounds like your provider is addressing your anxiety.
zoloft for anxiety now being switched to buspar (buspirone) is it the same thing?
different medications. zoloft is an antidepressant that is also effective for anxiety. buspar (buspirone) is an anxiolytic medication. i used both them of them often. they are both helpful medications. take care.
zoloft (sertraline) makes me feel like i can't sit still muscles tensed poor sleep. should i find another ssri or will it eventually go away? taking for anxiety
if you've been on the zoloft (sertraline) for more than about a week talk to your doctor about switching to another ssri. if you've been on the drug for a short time the stimulating effect may go away. otherwise another medication may benefit you without the side effect burden.
zoloft (sertraline) makes me feel like i can't sit still muscles tensed poor sleep. should i find another ssri or will it eventually go away? taking for anxiety
you can try prozac marplan or effexor (venlafaxine).
zoloft (sertraline) for 3 weeks worsening depression; constant thoughts of suicide daily self harm & more frequent and severe anxiety. psychiatrist no help at all?
you should seek help from another psychiatrist if the one following you is not able to get you on the right track. calling a local hospital and asking them for several references usually is a good way of finding names of people in your area.
zoloft 50mg and risperdal 0. 25 ativan 2mg and buspar (buspirone) 20mg i tapered buspar (buspirone) and stopped it but i felt deeprssd strong anxiety i start again what to do?
always consult your prescribing doc before making any changes to your med regimen. if you tapered buspar (buspirone) at ur docs instruction (or even if you did it "on ur own") give her a ring and let her know how u've been feeling since u've stopped the med. u & ur doc can work out the best course of action which may include resuming changing the dose of a med ur already taking or several other options <positive_smiley>
zispin or lexapro (escitalopram) which is best for anxiety. thanks?
lexapro (or escitalopram) is an ssri thats commonly prescribed for the treatment of depression and anxiety (& is fda approved for both of these uses). zispin (or mirtazepine) is a noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressant. itis also often used to treat anxiety. there is no on best agent to treat your anxiety anxiety. talk with your doc about the right meds& treatment for you!
zispin or lexapro (escitalopram) which is best for anxiety. thanks?
both mirtazapine (zispin remeron) and escitalopram (lexapro) have us fda approval in major depression; escitalopram additionally has generalized anxiety disorder as an approved use which means that the manufacturer has submitted sufficient evidence showing a significant benefit on anxiety to satisfy regulations. other treatments may also work but may not have the data to show it.
zoloft (sertraline) seroquel lamictal and klonopin. anxiety is gone but i have been using the restroom more for bowels and diarrhea lately. is this normal?
this is not normal please contact your dr. it is unlikely related to you medications. please drink a lot of fluids in the meantime
zoloft 50mg buspar (buspirone) 20mg ativan 2mg a day doc gave me wellbutrin 150 xl for sexual dysfunction it work good but it gave me anxiety what i can do?
have you been taking the wellbutrin (bupropion). it often makes people anxious in the beginning but this lessens as your body gets used to it. you might also want to talk with your doc about the zoloft as this may be causing the sexual problem.
zispin and lexapro (escitalopram) work great together for anxiety. i am on both 2 weeks now i feel great. is it o k to continue on them?
cat zispin and lexapro (escitalopram) both work partially by stopping seratonin uptake. the two can interact causing seratonin syndrome with flushing increased heart rate and blood pressure and vomiting. in the proper doses they can be taken together but only in close consultation with your doctor. hope this helps!
zispin and lexapro (escitalopram) work great together for anxiety. i am on both 2 weeks now i feel great. is it o k to continue on them?
success is hard to argue with. but they are a risky combination w/ respect to serotonin syndrome. that can be quite serious. but if you don't feel blurry confused disoriented etc. you don't. that's good! but do work closely w/ your provider to watch for any bad reactions. really important! but whatever the high chance of rain weatherman predicted if it's sunny - it's sunny! enjoy but watch.
zoloft 100mg helped anxiety but not depression effexor (venlafaxine) 150mg helped depression but not anxiety. is there a medication that will help both?
both meds can treat anxiety and depression. my suggestion is to work with your prescriber to try a higher dose of either med to see if one can treat both. although generally not recommended i have combined these two meds for the reason you stated. i sometimes find doses of effexor (venlafaxine) above 150mg cause more anxiety. an alternative idea might be to add buproprion to zoloft adjusting each.
zoloft (sertraline) 22 days; at 75mg for past 5days; still some anxiety &heart racing sometimes; giving me more anxiety; norm w increase& intro to med or a problem?
hang in there. this medicine is very good. it takes weeks for true benefit. it promotes an increase in serotonin in brain and in gi tract. your experience is typical as your serotonin tissue levels increase. you are not toxic. try splitting the dose. 50 mg after breakfast. 25 mg after lunch. as your dose is increased you will adapt and be better. be sure cognitive behavioral therapy is ongoing
zoloft (sertraline) 22 days; at 75mg for past 5days; still some anxiety &heart racing sometimes; giving me more anxiety; norm w increase& intro to med or a problem?
occur when you start zoloft (sertraline) & with dose increases. for most people - it resolves as the body adjusts to the change.
zoloft (sertraline) increase 100to150; change due to still having some anxiety but doing much better; can increase cause jittery/wired feeling;no caffeine?
from 100 mg to 150 may cause transitory jittery feeling especially if you are taking it along with celexa (citalopram). watch for elevated temperature elevated heart rate muscle stiffness and problems with sleep. if you have any of these or racing thoughts contact your prescribing doctor.
zolpidem is prescribed for sleep & clonazepam is prescribed for anxiety or sleep. between these which causes more dizziness in day working hours?
klonopin (clonazepam) due to its longer half life.
zapping or shocking sensation in the back of my head. how can i stop this. i have anxiety & this worsens it. please help. thanks in advance.
i understand your discomfort and anxiety conflicts with parents relationships with turmoil and separations peer pressure and doubts about identity can cause anxiety and physical symptoms. use breathing relaxation visual imagery tai chi yoga and meditation music exercise see a psychiatrist for therapy to understand stressors how to cope to overcome anxiety to resolve conflicts
zofran (ondansetron) hasn't been working. can 1000mg ginger capsule help with nausea due to anxiety? recently tried it & possibly helped. psychological or physical?
ginger root helps seasickness and motion sickness and does help nausea caused by many etiologies. so your 1000 mg ginger root capsule does in fact work fairly well. in my experience seems equivalent to many prescriptions and otc meclizine and dramamine (dimenhydrinate).
i think i have a fear of natural disasters. how do i know?
interferes with daily function sleep work and relationships. it preoccupies your mind and doesn't allow you to enjoy life. it is normal to have respect for natural disasters and take precautions when there is a risk ie wear life preserver in boats or deep water go to storm shelter or evacuate when advised by authorities. if anxiety is a problem counseling and possibly meds are helpful.
in a healthy heart can strong emotions such as fear anger anxiety and a rxn to a natural disaster cause a heart attack or cardiac arrest? <negative_smiley>
there is a condition caused "broken heart syndrome " where someone can get cardiac arrest from severe stress or emotions. it is quite rare but it can happen. it is caused by the surge of stress hormones like adrenaline that can be released from severe stress. i must stress - no pun intended - that it is rare but it can happen and i have seen it happen.
in a healthy heart can strong emotions such as fear anger anxiety and a rxn to a natural disaster cause a heart attack or cardiac arrest? <negative_smiley>
"acute stress cardiomyopathy" is a condition which mimics heart attack. it can cause severe heart complications including heart failure and death. the diagnosis is generally made by the history (a sudden severe emotional or physical stress followed by chest symptoms) and the finding of heart muscle dysfunction (often in takotsubo pattern) and no coronary artery occlusion to explain it.
in a healthy heart can strong emotions such as fear anger anxiety and a rxn to a natural disaster cause a heart attack or cardiac arrest? <negative_smiley>
need other issues-atherosclerosis and risk factors smoking obesity sedentary lifestyle diabetes etc.
in a healthy heart can strong emotions such as fear anger anxiety and a rxn to a natural disaster cause a heart attack or cardiac arrest? <negative_smiley>
although very uncommon sudden cardiac arrest has occured in people with healthy hearts when sudden severe emotional trauma has occurred.
in a healthy heart can strong emotions such as fear anger anxiety and a rxn to a natural disaster cause a heart attack or cardiac arrest? <negative_smiley>
the event you have worried is extremely rare and unpredictable in attesting life is a constantly changing adjusting dynamic process of struggle to cope with reality certainty & uncertainty of daily living. how to face life reality? peruse articles in basics of life reality & self-care in <link> and its related articles inside the category.
i had a tetanus shot some weeks ago and still worry that it has caused me to be ill. is it possible?
most reactions to a tetanus shot will occur within 24 hours and can be similar to any major allergic response. your brief lists you with depression and severe anxiety. there has been a lot of misinformation put out by vaccine haters to the point babies are dying needlessly from preventable disease. it is hard to feel secure but the chance of you having a shot related issue is minimal. disc with doc
what is wrong with me? last night i went to the er because both of my feet and legs are swollen and i have a dull achy pain that has moved up to the back of my thighs and lower back the doctor said i have celutitus in my toe on my left foot it doesn't and
i would rather think the blood pressure elevation is secondary to the pain and anxiety from having your condition and having no good explanation. i do agree that a thorough medical evaluation for the swelling is required. i think if that can be effectively addressed you will do well. there are relatively uncommon conditions like regional pain syndrome etc that can arise with trauma or infections but first be assured that more common sources of swelling in the legs have been ruled out. your pcp is more likely to help out there then a pain specialist per se. with your other conditions you are clearly more sensitive to developing chronic pain disorders so all the more reason to get to the bottom of this asap.
what are the common natural disasters coping mechanisms?
on what you are asking! in "general" when people are in natural disasters they are in shock. there is fear/anxiety and grief. there are many ways people cope in response to disasters and i would suggest going to fema. org for more info. people who have a disaster plan in advance will do better coping than those that do not so like they say in the boy scouts "be prepared! "
i have a burn out condition with excluded stroke and epilepsy. my thyroid hormones are slightly above normal could that affect to anxiety sweating?
i'm afraid i'm not quite understanding what you mean by "burn out condition" but to answer your questions yes elevated thyroid hormones (depending on which ones) can contribute to worsening anxiety and sweating. if you'd like to schedule a personal appointment to go over more information please write me at: www. healthtap. com/drsaghafi and use key code: pdxfnr to make an appointment.
i am stressed about earthquakes - what may i do?
if you live in an earthquake prone area and moving isn't an option the following may help: read how you can protect yourself in an earthquake. plan an emergency escape route and have an emergency bag. cognitive behavioral therapy can help. see my checklist "overcoming anxiety and stress" and "meditation" if the anxiety doesn't improve medication may help>see dr
i am stressed about earthquakes - what may i do?
having a plan is the best way to be ready. learn about ways to protect yourself since we are still not able to predict when the "big one" might hit us. this should decrease your anxiety.
i had heavy rubble fall on my chest and now i'm having trouble breathing. what could it be?
could be fracture a number of ribs if more than 2 fx in 3 ribs it is usually considered flail chest - not expand properly may have puncture the lung in the process and have pneumothorax-may have a contusion of the heart which is no different then heart attack or rupture of esophagus with spillage of acid into chest. or laceration of liver spleen. or anxiety. breath slowly gently go to er
had tiny anal cut/perforation turned e coli abscess drained/sutured 2yrs ago. can i safely have anal sex? ptsd like fear of getting hurt but miss sex
there are other forms of sex you know. but if it is long healed you should be okay. use lots of proper lubricant use condom take it slow - stretch yourself step by step to avoid tears. gentle non sharp or too inflexible insertions only! if you really mean ptsd take it extra slow to manage anxiety. take care - have fun. be safe!
my arm is healed but i think i have a phobia after a dog bite?
after an unprovoked attack it is quite normal to experience anxiety and stress in the presence of a dog. therapy may be required to overcome the anxiety.
my arm is healed but i think i have a phobia after a dog bite?
seek a cognitive-behavioral therapist who specializes in phobias. one method they use is systematic desensitization which slowly and incrementally brings the person closer and closer to the thing they are afraid of in slow graduated steps that help make the anxiety more tolerable.
how can i deal with the anxiety i have when i think about tornadoes?
cognitive-behavioral therapy can help immensely with learning to manage anxiety. consult with a psychologist here on healthtap or in your community to start the process of developing healthy coping strategies.
how can i deal with the anxiety i have when i think about tornadoes?
whether you have experienced a tornado personally in which case this may be post-traumatic stress disorder or whether you are just fearful of them in a general sense which would be anxiety or a phobia counseling/therapy should help.
how can i deal with the anxiety i have when i think about tornadoes?
and stock it with water food medical supplies and survival gear.
how can i deal with the anxiety i have when i think about tornadoes?
get the facts. learn about tornados. understand the facts and fictions. have a plan and prepare if storms are threatening. listen to the radio tv or watch radar. take cover in your preplanned safe place. relax if it is a long wait. take a book or music with you. the you focus on facts and what you can do productive anxiety decrease.
how can i deal with the anxiety i have when i think about tornadoes?
in contrast to other forms of psychotherapy cognitive therapy is usually more focused on the present more time-limited and more problem-solving oriented. in addition patients learn specific skills that they can use for the rest of their lives. these skills involve identifying distorted thinking modifying beliefs relating to others in different ways and changing behaviors.
i have felt anxious since the news about the hurricane started. will it go away on its own?
hurricane info may increase your anxiety but should resolve over time on its own. just deep breathe and relax
gf got anxiety a month ago from a car accident now everyday she gets dizzy feels weak n has a headache she take medication but shes not getting better?
identified or ruled out medical conditions your girl friend would be most helped by getting treatment for an anxiety disorder by a mental health professional. this is easily treated over a period of weeks or months. peace and good health.
last 48 hours i've had increasedmuscle spasms all over my body/immense pain in my neck. cut myself with a kitchen knife puncture wound last week but haven't had tetanus shot in 12 years should i worry?
answers to your dilemma. someone told you definitively if you had tetanus you would be dead by now. you are however suffering. i would recommend that you see your family doctor or go to the emergency room to find out what the cause is. it is apparently unlikely to be tetanus but something is going on and you are suffering badly so i recommend you return to the emergency room but have them evaluate you for your symptoms and don't even mention the word tetanus. there maybe something entirely different going on. you deserve to have your mind put at ease regarding what it is that is causing this intense suffering. if it turns out that nothing is physically wrong then please get into psychotherapy to deal with your health anxiety. see a psychiatrist as well. best wishes.
posttraumatic stress disorder and natural disasters are they related?
post-traumatic stress disorder can develop as a result of exposure to a traumatic event that results in intense anxiety fear of loss of life etc. this can certainly include exposure to a natural disaster such as a hurricane tsunami etc.
puncture wound has me going nuts w/ worry. can any doc can pls read my "conditions/symptoms" tab & puncture wounds 1-4 & tll me what to do nxt please?
it sounds like your obsessing on what has happened to you if this is a common occurrence then you may need to have an evaluation for anxiety and perhaps counseling and or medication you need help because you are at the point of not listening to your doctors regarding medical conditions
please share some do's and don'ts for coping with a drought.
it is not uncommon to experience mental and physical fatigue as well as feelings of stress anxiety fearfulness and even low mood after exposure to any traumatic event. do stay connected with others for support. if these feelings persist or prevent you from getting back to activities of daily living seek support guidance and assistance from a mental health or medical professional.
should i buy a dogtag or bracelet with my blood type on it in case i get hit in a mass shooting?
is any definitive advice on this. even though the frequency of these attacks is frightening the chances that any specific individual would be involved is still extraordinarily small. personally i would think the anxiety provoked by wearing a bracelet and being constantly reminded of this threat would outweigh any potential small benefit. perhaps it would not make you anxious but be reassuring?
what are the medical problems during thunderstorms and lightning?
fear and anxiety which are psychological and not pathological. the same as in fair weather.
what are the medical problems during thunderstorms and lightning?
medical problems depends on the individual patient. psychologically speaking storms can provoke anxiety in people which we need to be aware of.
why does loud thunder make me feel panicky?
there are many things that can trigger fear for us humans. however when our fear is greater than most people's when it limits our lives or causes a great deal of emotional pain then we need to seek help. remembered or not we may have had traumatic experiences associated with people animals natural phenomena. these anxiety reactions can be understood and mitigated in a good psychotherapy.
do i have a natural disaster fear with fixation on weather channel in hurricane season?
this can be part of an obsessive anxiety disorder or phobia. cognitive behavioral therapy which might be augmented by medications such as ssri or klonopin (clonazepam) can help. l.
after small car accident i didnt got hurt i started to feel anxious dizzy and headaches and sometime i panic now i have a fever why? only 2 days after
i feel empathy for your symptoms after the car accident. anxiety dizziness headaches and panic can happen due to stress before the accident events during accident and fear of future accidents. stresses of relationships with parents siblings and friends work and finances can cause anxiety and panic. see a psychiatrist for therapy medication music and breathing relaxation visual imagery.
does starting anxiety meds such as ssri's right after a terror attack block repetitive stressful thoughts and prevent ptsd symptoms?
some new research says yes. still too new for any definitive answer
does starting anxiety meds such as ssri's right after a terror attack block repetitive stressful thoughts and prevent ptsd symptoms?
you first need to see your doctor if you have been transfixed. then you need therapy to help you through your ordeal. the medications may play a role in your treatment plan but you need therapy tm right away
does starting anxiety meds such as ssri's right after a terror attack block repetitive stressful thoughts and prevent ptsd symptoms?
excellent question. columbia university college of physicians and surgeons has actually performed a controlled prospective clinical trial studying combined therapy of cognitive behavioral therapy (specifically prolonged exposure therapy) in combination with an ssri for ptsd at 10 weeks. combination cbt/ssri better at 10 weeks longer trials needed caps scale ptsd score includes repetitive thoughts
liposuction question is the removal of belly fat by liposuction ever done under local anesthetics?
old fashioned liposuction without local anesthesia is a dinosaur. almost all doctors place anesthesia fluid into the fat for three reasons. first to cause blood loss to be close to zero. it is not uncommon for us to remove 2 liters of fat with less than a tablespoon of blood loss. second the special local fluid prevents the shifting of fluids and salt balance in your body. third special anesthesia fluid can make your post-op recovery easy some patients without pain or bruising whatsoever. the main question to ask your doctor is: do you place a small amount of local (called superwet anesthesia) or a large amount (called tumescent technique). the second consideration regards your awareness and anxiety. doctors will often give choices. examples (from less strong to more strong) are oral valium (so-called â€œawakeâ€ procedure) im valium shot intravenous iv sedation (sleepy but arousable) and general anesthesia. all options are safe for most patients but different patients might strongly prefer one or the other option. best rule of thumb: always use local anesthesia with liposuction and let goldilocks determine the individual approach to anesthesia not too much not too little just the right amount!
other than obesity what are the long-term effects of lack of exercise?
regular exercise gives a person many benefits. with exercise many things in life get better. examples of some goods things: blood pressures go lower breathing rate goes lower mood gets better anxiety becomes less pain tolerance gets better sleep is more restful body feels more relaxed insulin levels stay lower happiness increases bones get stronger muscles have more stamina etc.
will decreasing mirtazipine result in side effects recurring? i. e. at 15mg sleep and eating too much was an issue. im currently on 45mg
mtz (adrenergic receptor antagonist w/ indirect serotonin activation) is generally well-tolerated. it has a quick onset of action. se’s = drowsiness constipation wt. gain dry mouth ; rarely suicidal ideation. sudden stopping can cause anxiety dizziness irritability diarrhea decreased appetite ; flu-like symptoms. slow dose reduction reduces se's. speak w/ provider before changing dose.
what is ' binge eating disorder '?
binge eating disorder is characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly and often to the point of pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and intense feelings of shame and guilt. bingeing is a negative coping mechanism and may be a response to anxiety or other uncomfortable emotions or as an way to convert emotional pain to physical or express loneliness.
what should i do to help my boyfriend stop overeating?
help him feel good about himself and about how much better he'll feel if he takes great care of himself. if mood/anxiety are issues treatment with meds can be helpful. if lack of success is a factor seek practical self-improvement steps +/- therapy. most important: learn to prepare fresh healthy tasty meals with moderate portions - make this fun for both of you -- gourmet cooking is "in" now.
i used to be very athletic. now whenever i excercise i feel out of breath light headed etc. does anxiety trigger this? im not overweight.
whenever the body does not get the regular exercise it used to get it does not function as optimally as when there was regular exercise. this may be manifested by lightheadedness shortness of breath palpitations etc. anxiety can have similar symptoms but not necessarily with exercise.
i used to be very athletic. now whenever i excercise i feel out of breath light headed etc. does anxiety trigger this? im not overweight.
not sure how old you are or if you have risk factors for heart disease. if you have gained weight and have been inactive for several months it is normal to be breathless when starting a workout. start slowly 10 minutes building up to 30 minutes 5x per week. stay well hydrated and eat a healthy diet. anxiety can contribute to this which is normal. relax and stick with it.
why do some docs say a long half-life mean a long withdrawal? xanax (alprazolam) and oxycodone have short h-ls and wd can last months. chemically speaking why?
drugs that leave your body rapidly are more likely to quickly reverse the effects of the drug. xanax (alprazolam) can make you calm relaxed euphoric and drowsy. when it leaves your body so abruptly you have a totally opposite reaction -- anxiety fear agitation insomnia tremors. seizure. most withdrawal symptoms for these drugs last about a week. sure there are some who have wd that can last longer.
was on wellbutril xl for yrs and switched to viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). felt great depression/anxiety wise but noticed rapid weight gain; same with lexapro. options?
wellbutrin does not have weight gain associated but works differently than viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). if the viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride) is working well for you then try to fight the weight gain with regular exercise and reduction of your portion sizes.
was on wellbutril xl for yrs and switched to viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). felt great depression/anxiety wise but noticed rapid weight gain; same with lexapro. options?
viibrid is the newest member of a class of drugs affecting mainly the serotonin neurotransmitters in the brain. it is less likely to cause weight gain than other medicines in its class (i. e. lexapro). since it was effective on the depressive symptoms perhaps your md could add back the wellbutrin (bupropion). also healthy eating and exercise should also be included in your treatment.
what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
you may have either a prostate condition like prostatitis or beningn hypertrophy or a ctone in kidney ureter or bladder or an infection you need a check up and urine test and may or may not need a cat scan or ultrasound exam.
what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
your doctor ordered the tests and you may have diabetese and a kidney infection or some other condition you may need more tests and depending on you symptoms may need treatment.
what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
you should follow up with your doctor.
what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
even though the course of 7 days of doxycycine is the standard treatment 6 days may be enogh to cure that but consult your doctor and if he feels you need full course he can call the pharmacy and give you 2 more pills.
what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
no there is no scintific evidence to support that myth.
what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
vlc(very low calorie diet)is only indicated if your bmi is over 30 and you need to loose weight fast but it is better if you are obese and have high cholesterol you go on just low calorie diet with portion reduction and low in saturated fats from animal sources like meat and diary products more fresh fruits and vegetables high fiber in diet and low carbohydrate as well.
what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
carbohydrates often contribute to bad cholesterol profiles. eat whole organic non gmo foods and avoid sugar and processed carbs. complex carbs ok in small amounts. cook with coconut oil.
what are your thoughts on a vlc diet for weight loss in a 32yo w/high cholesterol? had great stress echo 5yrs ago no other issues besides anxiety.
this liklely depends on how high your cholesterol is and how heavy you are. if you are in good shape/normal weight you can do it but you might not need it as much as you would if you are overweight. you don't want to deprive yourself of important nutrients that you would get in a balanced diet and some cholesterol is good for you and keeps your body from hoarding it. so be sure you need it.
weight loss anxiety irregular periods heart palpitations stomach cramps back pain what could be the problem?
you need a full evaluation followed by blood work and imaging studies-you won't get a satisfactory answer in a 400 character limited internet forum with such issues. start with your family doctor. good luck.
weight loss anxiety irregular periods heart palpitations stomach cramps back pain what could be the problem?
problems is the first thing that comes to mind. get evaluated by your physician.
when my stomach is empty it can burn and make my throat feel tight and sometime raw. also can induce anxiety. why? not overweight no eating disorder.
i would see a gi specialist who will probably dirctly look at these areas.
what defines a food obsession?
an obsession according to the oxford dictionary is a thought that persistently recurs despite attempts to resist it. an obsession provokes anxiety and dominates a person although the person regards it as being senseless. so being preoccupied with food like ;when you will eat what you will eat or how much you will eat are examples of a food obsession.
will children with adhd truly benefit from behavior therapy?
adhd is multimodal: medications + behavioral therapy + environmental manipulations at home & school. in the seminal multi-site trial mta (multi-modal treatment of adhd) sponsored by nimh in 1999 behavior therapy alone for school-aged kids with adhd-combined type was effective in 35%. medications alone or with behavior therapy was > 65% effective. the combo was esp. useful for adhd + anxiety.
what is a good replacement for binges due to too much stress?
although i agree with that symptom substitution (replacing the binging with a less destructive behavior) is a good part of the plan overall stress reduction is likely to be a more effective long- term solution. in looking for a replacement for the binging it needs to be something you enjoy that reduces anxiety or it's not likely to work. best of luck!
woman 55 thin 22 lbs loss not dieting insomnia several normal stools/ day all bloods including thyroid normal?
also psychological factors such as depression or anxiety.
why do i have a decreased appetite when i barely get enough sleep?
you may have anxiety or depression sx that cause you to have decrease appetite and not enough sleep. you need to see a doctor to help evaluate the problems.
what can i try to do for fatigue on my own before i see the doctor? have sleep apnea but sleep doc doesn't think it's the cause cortisol & tsh normal
things to consider: is your sleep apnea treated? if not try breathe right nasal strips to see if they help. otherwise the most common cause of fatigue is chronic stress anxiety or depression. try to build some relaxation into your life (meditation relaxation exercises); avoid caffeine; get enough sleep; improve your diet making sure you get enough vitamins and iron.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
dr. jackson is correct: these may be not at all related but clusters of symptoms from several etiologic origins. i think that depression could very reasonably be associated with a good deal of your symptomatology with the overlaying onset of an upper respiratory infection. firstly a thorough assessment by your pcp is in order then consultation with a therapist to address long term depression.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
i would recommend you start with a good physical exam and go over all your symptoms with your doctor. among things to rule in or out are low thyroid and/or fibromyalgia rheumatologist disease such as lupus sjögrens rheumatoid arthritis b12 deficiency folate (folic acid) deficiency lyme's disease. and that just for starters. go luck. your doc should have no trouble figuring it out. sleep apnea is also a possibility.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
there is no short answer here. these problems are all likely not related and represent separate issues. the best advice i can give you is to visit your primary care provider for a complete history and physical. some examples of problems you may be dealing with are: diabetes anemia thyroid disorder depression anxiety allergies arthritis etc. the list could go on. all these things and more can be ruled out or in after careful evaluation. best of luck.
what to do about panic due to aortic aneurysm? my poor sister has a 5. 2cm aortic aneurysm. it hasn't grown in a year but she's really overweight and panics every time she experiences an odd sensation because she thinks she's going to die. should she be
her aneurysm is close to the size where it should be considered for surgical repair typically 5. 5 cm for either a thoracic aortic aneurysm or an abdominal aortic aneurysm. it sounds like she has it evaluated annually which is the recommendation. it is also crucial that she controls her blood pressure and cholesterol and that she not smoke. weight loss would be beneficial but should be done with the guidance of her physician in order to avoid too much stress on the aneurysm. it is important to monitor symptoms because chest or abdominal pain can herald a potential aortic catastrophe; but in some people this vigilance leads to anxiety. it is important that she focus on the correct symptoms and not attribute all symptoms to a possible aneurysm. the symptoms she should look for depends on whether the aneurysm is in her thorax or abdomen and could be explained to her by her physician. if she experiences anxiety as a result of her medical condition she may be an appropriate candidate for anxiety medication.
i have sleep apnea large tonsils gerd. everytime i fall asleep after a few sec i wake up with heart pounding and making me panic. is it anxiety?
dr donley made some good points. the sleep apnea can cause one to wake up feeling anxious and gasping for air. the only way to know if there is a separate anxiety issue is to correct the sleep apnea and to assess.
i have sleep apnea large tonsils gerd. everytime i fall asleep after a few sec i wake up with heart pounding and making me panic. is it anxiety?
sleep apnea causes your blood oxygen level to go down and makes your heart beat faster trying to get more oxygen to your body. you need to seek treatment immediately. the first option would probably be to get the tonsils removed. this obstruction in your airway may be the cause of the sleep apnea and the gerd>.
i have sleep apnea large tonsils gerd. everytime i fall asleep after a few sec i wake up with heart pounding and making me panic. is it anxiety?
it's more likely that you are waking up due apnea episodes. obstructive sleep apnea; your upper respiratory muscles to relax when you fall asleep causing blocking of airway and you wake up gasping for breath. this happens several times in the night leaving you tired in am. enlarged tonsils can cause this in young adults but obesity can cause it too. get evaluated there are effective treatments.
i think i'm pregnant i have pcos showing a lot of symptoms im overweight and now my body weight has adjusted itself to my stomach do i sound pregnan
just do a pregnancy test. get one over the counter. consider getting on metformin if you need to lose weight and remember anxiety and depression problems are roughly double in those with pcos.
is meclizine and ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) available over-the-counter in the us?
ephedrine is not available as a single product in the us because of unpredictable side effects chiefly anxiety agitation elevated blood pressure headache. it is still found as an ingredient in some herbal and combination cold meds. meclizine is a prescription antihistamine used mostly for motion sickness pseudoephedrine and neosynephrine (phenylephrine) are available replacements for ephedrine.
is there any medication for anxiety that does not cause weight gain and loss of libido? wellbutrin (bupropion) caused extreme nausea and did not help anxiety.
cognitive behavioral therapy is very good treatment for anxiety other anxiety medication given for a short time only.
is diet cola dangerous?
the carbonic acid can contribute to caries mineral depletion & dehydration. increased caffeine in some sodas can ^ anxiety in people w anxiety disorders. if it contains artificial sweeteners & is used daily this is linked to a 3fold ^ in dementia & stroke.
is it good to put your child on anti-depressants to loose weight if he's overeating due to depression?
i am not a child specialist but in general i would not use antidepressants to loose wt. but i would consider the total amount of distress and disfunction associated with the depression including poor school performance social anxiety motivation suicidal ideation etc. any child should get therapy as well as medications if necessary.
is splenda (sucralose) dangerous? i'm using a meal replacement shake with sucralose in it. i'll also use it as a sweetener in coffee or in baking. since i'm trying to lose weight i thought this might be better than regular sugar. i've noticed many peopl
hello. possible side effects from use of sucralose can include: headaches to include triggering migraines; agitation; anxiety; moodiness; runny nose cough and breathing problems as well as tingling of lips tongue and mouth with chronic use.
is fat transfer ever done with just a local anesthetic? does fat transfer always require general anesthesia or can it be done with a local? .
if fat transfer is the only procedure being performed i will most commonly do under local anesthesia with an oral medication like valium or xanax (alprazolam) for patient anxiety. patients tolerate this extremely well. more often than not i am transferring fat in conjunction with other surgical procedures such as abdominoplasty facelift or even liposuction. these cases would be done most often under either general anesthesia or conscious sedation with an anesthiologist present. the fat transfer is variable in technique and actual "take" of fat. the fat survival rates vary anywhere from 30-70%. i tell my patients that we may need to perform a second transfer at a later date. but the results are oustanding when in the right hands. speak to your plastic surgeon about ypur best options. best of luck to you.
is there a difference between ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) and pseudoephedrine (ephedrine sulfate)?
they are chemically related but pseudoephedrine is safer has fewer side effects (elevated blood pressure pulse increased anxiety etc. ) and for the most part pseudoephredrine and phenylephrine have replaced ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) in most cold medicines. ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) is still around used in lots of chinese herbal remedies and weight loss drugs. i do not recommend ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) for any of my patients.
is it ok to mix adipex with lialda?
lialda is used in the treatment of ulcerative colitis while adipex is used for the treatment of obesity. its not advisable taking a weight loss medication when actively treating ulcerative colitis. there is some cross over in side affects such as nausea vomiting headaches anxiety and more serious side effects like chest pain and shortness of breath. these may be more magnified when taken together.
is xanax (alprazolam) effective at treating sleep apnea?
xanax (alprazolam) is really an anti anxiety agent that could help somebody who can't sleep because they're anxious ( but there are much better agents than xanax (alprazolam) for insomnia ) if you have sleep apnea then xanax (alprazolam) is not going to be a good option you'd still feel tired in the morning and definitely will do better with a cpap or bipap machine losing weight etc.
is obesity associated with any mental health illnesses?
yes many. depression eating disorders stress disorders chronic anxiety may all be associated with obesity. using food for comfort can be a common denominator. additionally medications used to treat mental disorders may cause or contribute to obesity. working with a nutritionist to improve eating habits may help. discussing medications with your doctor is important.
i have heard about the hcg diet. is it safe?
hcg is not likely going to cause any harm but weight loss is due to the severe caloric restriction. in men with low testosterone and normal testes it may work better because the hcg will increase the testosterone level. in women hcg may increase progesterone. higher progesterone may lead to less anxiety and therefore less eating. overall smart eating plus increased activity is a better choice.
i have noticed that at night i get the urge to munch on something sweet. how can i control that?
night sugar binging is one of the hardest habits to control. sugar cravings may be related to unstable blood sugars an inadequate intake of protein through the day or from anxiety. sugar can be a source of counterfeit energy to beat fatigue after dinner. lastly sugar cravings can occur if you have eaten a food you are sensitive to and should avoid. finish your meal with a hot drink & raw nuts!
i take sertraline can i take the diet pill a. c. e? will they counteract.
usually diet pills do contain stimulants. depends on what you are taking zoloft (sertraline) for. discuss this with your prescribing physician. there is no interaction between the two however the stimulant effects in diet pills can increase anxiety or panic attacks because they increase heart rate. they do not interact however.
i am a 42 year old female bmi of 20 - not overweight with fairly low cholesterol. i have been having pain on the left side of my chest for several days. i had a normal ekg a month ago. my doctor says it's muscular but i can't seem to get relief from st
it sounds like you may be dealing with costochondritis (inflammation between the ribs). this can cause recurrent chest pain. have you tried an inti-inflammatory medications like advil (ibuprofen) or motrin? also a short course of steroids may help alleviate your symptoms. lastly are you stressed or have anxiety? if so often times it can present as physical symptoms. if you had a normal ekg and negative stress test two years ago it is unlikely that your issue is cardiac. please continue to see your doctor until you have symptom relief. good luck.
i'm a 19 year old firefighter 6'4 225 lbs and an overall healthy guy. i don't eat fast food drink soda and i workout a lot. i have anxiety issues that cause panic attacks. my anxiety is over my health so they fuel each other. i have had it for a lon
if you are in peak condition and it sounds as though you are then after a full check up by pcp and are deemed healthy you should meet with a mental health professional and access their expertise. anxiety is common and can be helped. you are certainly not alone in this and figuring out how to manage it will be a great benefit in your life. good luck!
i'm a 19 year old firefighter 6'4 225 lbs and an overall healthy guy. i don't eat fast food drink soda and i workout a lot. i have anxiety issues that cause panic attacks. my anxiety is over my health so they fuel each other. i have had it for a lon
see ur pcp 2rule out any physical problems. then consult clinical psychologist specializing in anxiety/panic/ocd. expert can rule out other problems that may look like or go w/ anx/panic. to get the right doc(s) & most effective treatment(s) research anx/panic: learn all u can about them & how 2treat effectively. very helpful info: <link> referral 2psychiatrist 4med trial too.
i'm a 19 year old firefighter 6'4 225 lbs and an overall healthy guy. i don't eat fast food drink soda and i workout a lot. i have anxiety issues that cause panic attacks. my anxiety is over my health so they fuel each other. i have had it for a lon
it is normal to feel your heart pounding after you run up two flights of steps. some people will feel this in their chest others might also feel a pounding in their head. if these feelings go away after a few seconds or a minute there is likely nothing to worry about. what might be a problem is if your heart were to start beating vigorously and fast while you were simply resting or inactive and then to continue for more than 10 minutes without stopping. stress and anxiety can cause many symptoms in the body such as headaches nausea dry mouth chest discomfort heart racing etc. you acknowledge that you have difficulties with stress and anxiety. it sounds like you are otherwise young and healthy as you are a firefighter and have had a normal ekg and holter monitor. i would suggest seeking out assistance from a counsellor or therapist to help you work through your anxieties and to learn some stress management techniques.
i'm a 19 year old firefighter 6'4 225 lbs and an overall healthy guy. i don't eat fast food drink soda and i workout a lot. i have anxiety issues that cause panic attacks. my anxiety is over my health so they fuel each other. i have had it for a lon
getting good sleep is critical. 7 hours per night is optimal for most people. look up "sleep hygiene" for tips to help. after that you could try a magnesium glycinate supplement. 500mg per day is safe and will probably be effective. that helps to relaxthe smooth muscles in your blood vessels and it has a positive effect on anxiety.
is it possible to do liposuction under sedation without general anesthesia? how uncomfortable will it be?
depending on the area involved and personal anxiety a deeper anesthetic may be more appropriate but local with sedation can be an excellent choice in the right circumstance.
i'm on zoloft and gained 40 pounds so i'm on wellbutrin (bupropion) and zoloft now. will the wellbutrin (bupropion) help me lose weight?
wellbutrin (bupropion) by itself is not likely to help you lose 40 pounds. but then a 40 pound weight gain from zoloft is also pretty unusual. is there anything else that changed? one of the challenges i have run across is that for folks with pretty significant anxiety and "jitteriness" weight gain may be related to the therapeutic effects. in other words as you stop being so jittery you need less calorie.
i have a hard time remembering things any thing i can take to help me remember better?
if your memory loss is interfering with you job or affecting personal relationships then you need a medical evaluation. a large number of things can cause memory loss including sleep deprivation stress alzheimer's disease chronic anxiety/depression brain tumors metabolic disturbances (eg thyroid diabetes etc) if your problem is more than annoying get it checked out!
i'm taking seroxat lyrica (pregabalin) and xanax will i find it very hard to lose weight i exercise a lot but eat sweet stuff regularly?
both paroxetine ( seroxat) and lyrica (pregabalin) are associated with weight gain and craving for sweats and carbohydrates. there is no substitute for exercise and health diet and avoidance of executive calories intake. btw. i don't recommend taking xanax frequently. it is associated with worsening anxiety.
is general anesthesia used with tumescent liposuction? is tumescent liposuction done with general anesthesia or with a local? .
it all depends on your surgeon's preference your level of anxiety and the extent of liposuction.
is general anesthesia used with tumescent liposuction? is tumescent liposuction done with general anesthesia or with a local? .
tumescent fluid is the solution of lidocaine (for numbing) epinepherine (to reduce bleeding and keep lidocaine from metabolizing too quickly) and bicarbonate (to reduce sting) in saline used to anesthetize an area to be treated; it is used to a degree with several cosmetic procedures. patients who don't want general anesthesia or iv sedation can safely undergo tumescent liposuction of any body area with minimal oral sedation (xanax (alprazolam) and hydrocodone or oxycodone) but must still be monitored in the same way a patient would be with deeper sedation. i have treated over 3 000 body areas in the last three years this way. it requires patience on the surgeon's part so that the tumescent can be placed slowly and evenly and a patient who has at least a normal pain tolerance and understands that there will be a few a pinches during the procedure - patients who use narcotics for chronic pain or have unusually high anxiety about being awake should consider iv sedation. in my opinion general anesthesia is unnecessary in most patients and a source of elevated risk. this was confirmed in a study published recently in dermatologic surgery; this is a link to an easy to interpret summary of the findings: <link> don j peterson md cosmeticsurgicalarts. com.
if a bulimic stops throwing up will she get fat really fast?
with appropriate treatment for the underlying anxiety and depression and help from a dietician they don't need to gain weight unless they are very underwt. don't fear wt gain as an excuse to get help.
it looks like i might have hyperthyroid how big of a deal is this really? apart from pms like symptoms and major weight loss what is so bad about it?
bad news about uncontrolled hyperthyroidism include atrial fibrillation (which increases risk of stroke) and osteoporosis (which increases risk of fracture). that ignores the tremors anxiety and palpitations. check out mayo clinic's take on hyperthyroidism <link>
is it possible to be weaned off the effexor and get my body back to normal? i have been taking effexor for years. a doctor recently increased my dosage to 300mg from 75mg. i have major digestive issues (constipation) i can't loose weight no matter what i
serotonin discontinuation symptoms associated with abrupt discontinuation of effexor (venlafaxine) could be related to it's short half life. in most cases this may be minimized by slowly tapering the dosage. another strategy would be using a low dosage of a long acting ssri like fluoxetine. the physical symptoms include problems with balance gastrointestinal and flu-like symptoms and sensory and sleep disturbances. psychological symptoms include anxiety and/or agitation crying spells irritability and aggressiveness.
is meridia a good drug for anxiety and weight loss i am 26 and 458 pounds and suffer from panic attacks an this is what's asking about being prescribed but is it safe
no it is not. meridia (also known as sibutramine) is an appetite suppressant a drug that was intended to help reduce weight in conjunction with calorie restricted diet and exercise. it was withdrawn from the market in the us and in many other countries because of the serious adverse effects on the cardiovascular system. the following quotation is from an article on sibutramine posted on the us national library of medicine website (link below): "sibutramine is no longer available in the u. s. the manufacturer has decided to stop producing sibutramine based on information from a recent clinical study. in this study people taking sibutramine had an increased risk of cardiovascular events such as heart attack and stroke. if you are currently taking sibutramine you should stop taking this medication and call your doctor to discuss switching to another treatment for weight loss or maintenance of weight loss. ".
i have a slight ringing in my ear and an irregular hard pounding heartbeat?
this particular combination of symptoms suggests an anxiety or panic attack. however irregular heart beat should always be checked out. thyroid disease chemical imbalances medications can produce this but also too much caffeine nicotine alcohol stress or too little sleep. find out. the older you are the greater the chance it could be serious.
i am 48 yr old woman. on antidepressants and anti anxiety meds. finding it extremely difficult to lose weight. still get my period monthly.?
there are some medications that can cause weight changes as side effects. the hormonal changes can also contribute the stress which can be part of depression anxiety symptoms. best will be to review meds with your psychiatrist have a hormonal assay checked and watching diet and exercise. i know it can be frustrating but can be done with effort and support. good luck.
i am 48 yr old woman. on antidepressants and anti anxiety meds. finding it extremely difficult to lose weight. still get my period monthly.?
it is extremely difficult for everyone to lose weight. get your thyroid checked by the doctor.
is chocolate a dangerous food obsession?
chocolate comes from the seeds of the theobroma cacao tree. a lot of people develop cravings for it but probably not true obsessions. obsessions in the technical psychiatric sense are recurrent and persistent thoughts (impulses images) that are intrusive and inappropriate and cause a lot of anxiety or distress. these thoughts are not simply about real-life problems like craving chocolate.
i have an anxiety disorder i have had chest xrays ekg and bloodwork done that all came back ok buut yet i still have chest pains i am over weight help?
i don't know about your cardiovascular risk factors (smoking hypertension cholesterol levels etc) but the next step would be an stress test to see how your heart behaves under physical exertion (the most common) or chemical stress (for people who cannot do physical exertion). if it's normal you should treat your anxiety and see if the symptoms go away. consult your physician.
i have had rashes on my neck and hands for about a month. is this related to anxiety? or diet? or menopause?
your doctor needs to see your rash and talk to you to make a diagnosis.
is there medication that will help with the food cravings without the anxiety?
if you are having trouble with compulsive overeating try overeaters anonymous (see www. oa. org).
is there medication that will help with the food cravings without the anxiety?
it sounds like you have taken medication to help suppress appetite but experienced anxiety symptoms as a side effect. this is not uncommon because some of these medications stimulate metabolism and energy level and cause the anxiety. a few options: a lower dose of one you have been on in the past may cause less anxiety a different medication that doesn't cause that or focus on habits instead.
is it safe to take ionamin (phentermine) to reduce weight?
this is an appetite suppressant similar to amphetamine in structure used short-term to control weight. precautions include cardiovascular effects seizures agitation & severe anxiety & insomnia. also psychological addiction is common as well as tolerance & rebound weight gain.
i had gastric bypass in 2007. i have a severe eating disorder. i eat till i'm so sick i can't stand up. what kind of dr can i see for thi?
ideally treatment would include careful medical ; mental health assessment followed by individualized treatment involving medical ; nutritional support plus long-term individual ; family psychotherapy. from mental health perspective conditions like depression ; anxiety would be treated ; treatment might include meds. hardest thing = finding ; sustaining motivation 2recover. http//www. anad. org.
is there a diet for autistic adults with violent behavior problems which will help them feel more at ease? he is only 18 and goes through very dramatic ups and downs we think it might be hormones.
needs thorough medical & dental exams eeg baer vision exam. may require sedation. blood tests: genetic microarray dna probe for fragile x celiac panel food allergy panel etc gi eval for esophagitis constipation foreign bodies. functional behavioral assessment for environmental precipitants. psychiatric eval for mood/anxiety disorders. may need psychopharmacologic meds + behavioral therapy.
i don't know why im so fearful of colon cancer at my age of 22 i have a poor appetite but no other symptoms like weight loss or fever how common is the cancer in a 22 year old? is lack of appetite a symptom of colon cancer?
i had answered with the data on colon cancer to your question. from age 20-30 the percentage of people with colon cancer is a little over 1 %. remember that most people of any age do not get colon cancer. at your age this is very low on the list of causes. anxiety thyroid disease stress bad diet are all much more likely. see your doc so that you can stop worrying and live life happily.
i don't know why im so fearful of colon cancer at my age of 22 i have a poor appetite but no other symptoms like weight loss or fever how common is the cancer in a 22 year old? is lack of appetite a symptom of colon cancer?
you may have a phobic anxiety disorder. please check with your doctor for further elucidation of fear and possible treatment.
is gabitril (tiagabine) used for severe anxiety or depression. i was on gabapentin and it was the only med that worked but caused weight gain.?
gabitril or tiagabine is a gaba reuptake inhibitor a different mechanism of action than neurontin (gabapentin). it has been used off label to treat anxiety with some success. there are studies in treating both social anxiety disorder and generalized anxiety disorder.
i feel a lot of anxiety lately which makes me feel out of control and constantly mad. i am unable to deal with people closes such as my husband. i am quick to get angry and losr my temper. this is so far from my norm and i just want to be calm and rationa
for a checkup and some simple lab tests. get seen by a psychologist who can help you determine what may be the root of your troubles. anger management and anxiety support groups can be beneficial as well. eating healthy and engaging in a regular exercise program may help. the fact that you have taken steps to write this question is a good sign.
i feel a lot of anxiety lately which makes me feel out of control and constantly mad. i am unable to deal with people closes such as my husband. i am quick to get angry and losr my temper. this is so far from my norm and i just want to be calm and rationa
cognitive behavior therapy life style changes medications as indicated.
i feel a lot of anxiety lately which makes me feel out of control and constantly mad. i am unable to deal with people closes such as my husband. i am quick to get angry and losr my temper. this is so far from my norm and i just want to be calm and rationa
additional resources to help you manage anxiety and evaluate symptoms: free smart phone apps: 1) mycalmbeat 2) stresscheck 3) tacticalbreather (actually increases energy not relaxation) 4) lifearmor 5) breathe2relax 6) biozen 7) binauralbeats therapy <positive_smiley> instant heart rate.
i want to lose weight but can't stop eatting when i'm stressed.?
one must avoid food and get help from her primary care doctor for treating excess stress or anxiety. in order to avoid food one must not buy the food nor have it around. that way when stressed there is no food around to snack on. not easy to do but definitely possible.
i have anxiety and get panic attacks have been on paroxetine and clonazepam and have had severe weight gain? any medicines that don't cause that?
i would agree with dr dutka that other antidepressants may have less weight gain than paroxetine. it would be a great question for you doctor. while prozac or another ssri would be a fairly easy transition switching from paxil to wellbutrin (bupropion) can be quite difficult (due to serotonin withdrawal and activation from wellbutrin (bupropion)). also make sure your thyroid function has been recently checked.
i have anxiety and get panic attacks have been on paroxetine and clonazepam and have had severe weight gain? any medicines that don't cause that?
some antidepressants have less wt. gain potential such as pristiq and viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). discuss with your prescribing physician.
i have anxiety and get panic attacks have been on paroxetine and clonazepam and have had severe weight gain? any medicines that don't cause that?
none of the antidepressants are free of possible weight gain but you might try bupropion (wellbutrin) or fluoxetine (prozac).
i get severe hives every night-no change in diet medication detergent soap linens weather stress or habits. is there another possible cause?
stress/anxiety airborne/environmental allergens and the and the catchall "idiopathic" (meaning there is a cause but we have no idea what it is). if you're experiencing any shortness of breath tongue swelling or difficulty swallowing please seek medical attention.
i am going to have the tif procedure any advise before or after surgery? i have been having a lot of burning and chest pain with the gerd.
gerd/reflux/indigestion are all caused by a complex array of issues. imo can't really be fixed by surgery. see my other answers. check your other meds they may be aggravating the problem. lack of serotonin in the brain can disrupt smooth muscle functioning and cause gut problems. so an ssri anti-anxiety or antidepressant will allow the muscles to coordinate in swallowing. try l-glutamine.
i gained 8kg in this year i wanna lose them so badly but i can't stop eating i have anxiety i guess?
you can talk to a dietitian. also do you eat when you're hungry or you like to nibble throughout the day? keep a food diary -- how did you feel (emotionally) before you ate how did you feel (emotionally) after you ate? what things happen to you that 'made you eat'? exercise or just increasing your activity level will help you burn more calories.
i gained 8kg in this year i wanna lose them so badly but i can't stop eating i have anxiety i guess?
you may or may not have anxiety but if you're gaining weight you definitely are eating more calories than you burn! the only way to lose weight is to eat less calories than you burn. doing both (eating less and exercising more) will help you lose the weight fastest. if you eat because of your mental status then see a psychologist or psychiatrist before you get to a point of no return.
iv been diagnosed with adrenal fatigue anxiety/depression. i have bloated hard tummy rapid weight gain infertility night sweats and more. help!?
you clearly have some hormonal problems. i would not be surprised if you have thyroid problems estrogen and progesterone problems and adrenal problems as these types of hormonal imbalances are interelated. you need to see an md who is highly experienced in the management of functional hormonal and metabolic imbalances. in the meantime aovid sugars and fried foods to reduce your edible stress.
i have been diagnosed with hyperthyroidism and graves disease as well as type 2 diabetes my? is i've been having panick attacks and i need to know y
hyperthyroidism is likely culprit much less likely is a cause due to sugar- so unless hypoglycemic at onset of paniuc attack ( <70) focus with your md o treating the overactive thyroid state- initially with beta blocker med and control of production of thyroid hormone. lastly anxiety/ depression can be independent of both issues and would need to be addressed if not better
is it safe to take diet pills like hydroxy slim when taking medication for your thyroid (levothyroxin 112mcg) and for anxiety (strattera (atomoxetine) 40mg)?
as mentioned diet pills worsen your medical condition & anxiety.
is it safe to take diet pills like hydroxy slim when taking medication for your thyroid (levothyroxin 112mcg) and for anxiety (strattera (atomoxetine) 40mg)?
no. diet pills and supplements are not approved by the fda to be safe or effective. the supplements can have lots of side-effects. also you maybe want to consider the fact that in the long run diets really don't work and life style changes are key. if you have anxiety the diet stuff can make it worse. i've had folks test positive for methamphetamines from taking diet pills. i would avoid them.
is it safe to take diet pills like hydroxy slim when taking medication for your thyroid (levothyroxin 112mcg) and for anxiety (strattera (atomoxetine) 40mg)?
i would not recommend that due to worsening of anxiety & effect on cardiovascular system & thyroid function.
im 19 been having chest tightness and trouble catching breathe for three weeks on and off. i'm overweight and have anxiety. what could it be?
anxiety attacks are one possibility however there are medical conditions that can also cause your symptoms as well as the misuse of drugs such as amphetamines or cocaine. the first thing is to have an evaluation by a primary care physician. if you have no medical conditions that are causing your symptoms seek a psychiatry evaluation - this can help a lot with your symptoms.
i take paxil (paroxetine). paxil (paroxetine) caused 30 lb weight gain. i'm deaf & it aids tinnitus. any alternative i can use? please help.
there are many ssris a class of antidepressant. depending on the reason you are taking it (used for anxiety ocd as well as depression) a good substitute with less associated weight gain can be selected. your md can review the options with you .
i am overweight and have depression and anxiety. i am taking my md's rx. i would like to also take some supplements to help. what would be worth taking?
would be nice to seek help from holisitc doctor to get workup done and then take the recommended supplements. there are spectracell lab tests or others which might help.
i am overweight and have depression and anxiety. i am taking my md's rx. i would like to also take some supplements to help. what would be worth taking?
there is some evidence that omega 3 fatty acids and folate (folic acid) may help boost the effects of antidepressants. st. john's wort has antidepressant effects but may interact adversely with some prescription antidepressants. discuss this with your prescribing physician who should know about all medications and other substances you are consuming.
is it ok if i take diet supplements such as green tea fit weight loss supplement if i am taking citalopram 40mg will it effect me?
"green tea fit" also contains guarana and acai berry. guarana is a stimulant containing caffeine which stimulates the central nervous system heart and muscles. if you're taking citalopram because of anxiety this supplement could worsen that. there are no interactions between citalopram & these ingredients but you'll still need exercise & healthy foods (lean protein non-starchy veggies etc.
im currently taking a weight loss supplement called oxy elite pro i like it but it gives me the jitterd and makes anxious will i ever get use to them?
the main active ingredient in oxyelite pro that has been medically proven to do anything is caffeine. the label does not give the amount. this is where your jitters and anxiety is coming from.
why binge eating disorder is a bad one?
binge eating is harmful to both your physical and emotional health. bingeing can lead to weight gain and cause issues related to increased weight such as heart disease diabetes stroke and more. the level of shame and guilt associated with binge eating may lead to poor self-esteem depression anxiety and social isolation. there is treatment available and recovery is possible.
im a 18 year old female little over weight very insecure & i have depression. im always worring. & i can't stay asleep. doc says its stress. any advice?
the most effective way to feel better will be antidepressant medication and therapy at the same time. the medication will help you sleep and lessen anxiety. the therapist will help you with body image and insecurity. being slightly overweight at your age is attractive on many women and men will find you attractive. accept your body type as long as you have an active life and healthy diet.
if i take ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) could one of the side effects make me feel like i can't breath?
ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) stimulates beta-adrenergic receptors and releases norepinephrine. adverse reactions are insomnia nausea headaches dizzines s anxiety palpitations tachycardia. the question is why are you taking it.? this is not a drug that you should be doing without physicians oversight. please see your physician.
is this hyperthyroidism? symptoms include: insomnia weight loss eczema-chin hunger tsh: 1. 51 strong tremors anxiety polyuria weak upper str.
if your tsh is 1. 51 then you are not hyperthyroid. i would see your doctor and ask him to evaluate you in person - he will probably want to order labs to rule out diabetes which can cause weight loss and polyuria. if you have underlying anxiety that can cause your tremors and insomnia. find a doctor you are comfortable with and make an appt.
why is it important to lose weight?
excess body weight often leads to other medical problems including an increased risk for: hypertension (high blood pressure) heart disease diabetes strokes certain cancers back problems high cholesterol high triglycerides fatty liver disease kidney problems intestinal disorders gastro-esophageal reflux disease musculo-skeletal injuries depression anxiety low self esteem etc. etc.
what is the meaning of transient hypertension?
it is a high blood pressure event which resolves back to normotension we all occassionally will have something that will cause it like perhaps running into a grizzly bear on a hike. . if it happens a lot chances are you need treatment for hypertension or anxiety.
what does behavior modification therapy do for weight loss?
many people use food as comfort to cope with anxiety. behaviour modification therapy will help a pt. to be aware of the amount of calories a pt. take and teach them not to eat when they are not suppose to. the goal is to break with bad patterns of behaviour that makes pts to go to the refrigerator or to buy high. alley food.
what types of exercise suppresses the appetite?
exercise does temporarily reduce hunger but after several hours your appetite will return and overall increases. exercise does help lose weight by expending additional calories but also by reducing anxiety and increasing self-esteem. this makes it easier to resist snacking. walking a mile burns 0. 53 times your weight = calories and running burns 0. 75 times your weight = calories.
what are the consequences of binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder can impact your health negatively as bingeing often leads to weight gain and increased hypertension heart disease and more. psychologically there is often a lot of shame attached to bed. the behavior may undermines your self esteem and cause depression and anxiety. some people avoid social interaction with others so they can eat alone and become isolated.
what are the causes of binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder is a way of coping with difficult feelings by turning to food. the behavior with food expresses underlying issues conflicts or problems. bingeing feels like “the” problem but it is actually a “symptom” of deeper problems emotions or conflicts such as anxiety depression anger relationship difficulties job issues and more.
if i'm having muscle weakness weight loss and its colon cancer does that mean its spreading? colonoscopy in 2 weeks.
if you truely have colon cancer you are on the right track by having a colonosopy. it does not sound like you have that diagnosis as yet. your anxiety prior to an actual diagnosis could be the cause of your muscle weakness and weight loss.
what are some reasons that people put on a lot of weight?
weight gain is the result of taking in more calories than you use. some medications can lead to weight gain. and some people gain weight due to hypothyroidism but this is uncommon. eating in response to anxiety or stress is a very common cause of weight gain.
will medications that treat anxiety help my sleep apnea?
there are no fda approved medicines for the treatment of sleep apnea. if you have apnea the first line treatment is cpap. it is a serious medical problem that should be treated.
will medications that treat anxiety help my sleep apnea?
in fact if it is a benzodiazepine medication it can actually make it worse. also if it is a medication that causes weight gain it can worsen it. ssri medications can also fragment your sleep but will not worsen your apnea per se. alcohol definitely worsens sleep apnea.
will medications that treat anxiety help my sleep apnea?
depends on the class. benzodiazepines (e. g. lorazepam clonazepam) relax the upper airway and can make obstructive sleep apnea worse. previously studies were done to see if ssris might be helpful in osa by decreasing rem sleep. however these were not conclusive and we do not use these specifically to treat osa.
will lexapro effect my testosterone levels or metabolism? i am currently on lexapro for anxiety and am wanting to lose weight and after that start gaining muscle. the only problem is i have heard that lexapro can cause people to gain weight and can lower
lexapro (escitalopram) should not effect your testosterone level. however lexapro (escitalopram) is in the family of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. these medication can sometimes effect sexual function via the chemical nicotine synthetase which is found in the body. some people do gain weight when on selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. lexapro (escitalopram) is fairly weight neutral which means that although you could experience weight gain that most people don't tend to gain or lose a lot of weight on it. lexapro (escitalopram) use will not prevent you from gaining muscle mass. if you are concerned about body fat and muscle mass the more important issues are your diet/nutrition physical activity adequate hydration and your degree of committment to a healthy life style . the great thing is that if you take good care of yourself it might help the condition you are using lexapro (escitalopram) for. regular sleep physical activity healthy food and making your health and wellbeing a priorty are all things that would positively impact depression anxiety and a host of other conditions.
will lexapro effect my testosterone levels or metabolism? i am currently on lexapro for anxiety and am wanting to lose weight and after that start gaining muscle. the only problem is i have heard that lexapro can cause people to gain weight and can lower
lexapro (escitalopram) will not tend to effect testosterone levels or lower your metabolism per se and while it is not extremely likely no one can guarantee that it won't cause wt gain in any given person. if you want to lose weight and gain muscle and your doctor says you are in the appropriate condition to handle the diet and exercise regimen you've chosen then what are you waiting for? you may even find that the exercise is reducing the anxiety such that you don't even need so much of the lexapro (escitalopram) but you need to work closely with your doctor regarding possible decreases in your medication dosage. mayby you should also look into the martial arts for something that has a meditative aspect to it as this might also eventually help you to curb your anxiety with less need of medication.
what side effects can i produce if i take thyroid hormones to lose weight?
including anxiety heart problems insomnia and more. it is not a safe or effective means of long term weight loss. to lose weight and keep it off you need to change diet and lifestyle habits for the rest of your life. a program that cannot be maintained indefinitely is unlikely to result in sustained long term weight loss. weight watchers is one of the best programs out there.
is it safe to take metformin and phentermine even though i don't have diabetes but i do have pcos and morbid obese?
metformin is can be used in cases of pcos particularly when overweight and some form of abnormal glucose metabolism is present. it has some side effects mostly gastrointestinal but overall is well tolerated. phentermine has more side effects including elevated heart rate elevated blood pressure tremors palpitations and anxiety but is helpful(for some) in the short term for weight loss
what can i do to find out if i have low testosterone? i am 47 male and overweight. the internet is a bad place to look for medical information as you can find so many conflicting articles. anyway it seems that i have been very emotional lately which is s
i have treated several middle aged male patients for anxiety disorder or depression who were subsequently found to have low testosterone levels. frankly all of them were quite grumpy. it was remarkable how well their psychological conditions were impacted by addressing the low testosterone. i can not diagnose you nor can i state that you would have similiar results if you do have low testerone and it is treated. one of the men has almost completely weaned off his psychiatric medications.
i suffer from anxiety and depression. what is the best medication to take that will not cause weight gain?
this is usually pretty individualized depeneding on symptoms other meds taken side effects etc. if you have atypical depression - wellbutrin (bupropion) can be very helpful. ssri- are good for anxiety and classic depression. lexapro is probably the most weight neutral of those. discuss this with prescriber. take care.
i suffer from anxiety and depression. what is the best medication to take that will not cause weight gain?
it is unwise to take such medication without medical supervision very good meds (such as ssri's) are available for treatment remember there is usually a chemical imbalance that can be corrected by a specialist don't necessarily blame the environmental factors!
what to do when you lose your appetite from nervous overeating of junk?
there's nothing to do if you already ate junk. obviously you should avoid it in the future. if it's just a bad habit stay conscious of what you eat don't have junk food at hand (try healthy snacks instead) and have family/friends support you. if nervousness is the underlying problem check the many healthtap answers about how to handle nervousness or anxiety.
what are the side affects of phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
what is behavior therapy?
behavior therapy can also include techniques using relaxation and imagery for the treatment of anxiety fear and phobias.
i am overly stress up with my studies. i will often binge on food. i can't seem to control my cravings and i overeat a lot. is there any way to control?
you are compulssive which is what binge eating is about. stress will make it worse. since an ocd seems likely drugs that are ssris may be a good choice in that they are anti-anxiety and help ocd. i think you need to talk to someone. a psychologist might help!
i have sleep apnea ocd anxiety and adhd at age 18. is it really rare for someone my age to have all those problems?
it really doesn''t matter much whether this is a 1 in a 100 or 1 in a 1000 question. having all this in combination at 18 is a real problem for you and you should accept both the help of sleep specialist and a psychiatrist.
i have sleep apnea ocd anxiety and adhd at age 18. is it really rare for someone my age to have all those problems?
there are a lot of factors which govern this you should get yoursekf evaluated by an ent and see a sleep doc.
i have sleep apnea ocd anxiety and adhd at age 18. is it really rare for someone my age to have all those problems?
i would not say it is rare. but it is several problems for an 18yo to have. make sure you take care of yourself eat healthy get to and maintain a healthy weight see your doctor regularly and you should stay well. (some times with weight loss sleep apnea may improve). best wishes.
i take prozac and have been taking duromine 30 for the past 2 weeks is this safe and can i also take xanax (alprazolam) or valium at night for anxiety?
duromine (phentermine) is a stimulant which can lead to worsened anxiety and insomnia. it can also cause or worsen depression. similar to ativan and xanax (alprazolam) this medication can be habit forming tolerance and dependance can occur and a vicious cycle may set in. the question is best answered by the prescribing physician.
what is binge eating definition?
urge to eat regardless of hunger can be seen in mood disorders anxiety disorders eating disorders organic brain syndromes and some personality disorders.
what are the side effects of taking phentermine?
rapid heart rate palpitations and anxiety. it can also cause or worsen high blood pressure.
what are the side effects of taking phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
i am an 18 year old male with sleep apnea and chronic anxiety. i feel drained and dumber will this effect my success and lower my iq? i hate my life
you don't say if you are getting treatment for your sleep apnea. if not get treatment. yes untreated it can affect your success but no it will not lower your iq. your symptoms should all get better with the proper treatment. don't wait. do something asap!
i am an 18 year old male with sleep apnea and chronic anxiety. i feel drained and dumber will this effect my success and lower my iq? i hate my life
i too have suffered from sleep apnea for many years. i also hated the idea of wearing a cpap-figured my wife would shun me. so i did my research and discovered oral appliance therapy. you only get one life-this one-so take advantage of your smarts while youve still got them and treat your apnea get smart get strong lose weight if needed and stop feeling sorry for yourself-it doesn't help.
i'm 18 with chronic anxiety bad sleep apnea and always struggled getting sleep my grandma got dementia at 55. am i going to get dementia?
it is important to get your sleep apnea treated get regular exercise and eat a mediterranean type diet.
i'm 18 with chronic anxiety bad sleep apnea and always struggled getting sleep my grandma got dementia at 55. am i going to get dementia?
insomnia alone is not causal of dementia but long term use of hypnotics is. ask a doctor to find non-hypnotic sleep aids for you. also rbd (rapid eye movement behavior disorder) in men is very associated with lewy body dementia. it's not insomnia rather powerful dreaming and not likely what your grandma suffered. so get help with the anxiety & apnea avoid hypnotics and try to rest easy!
i'm 18 with chronic anxiety bad sleep apnea and always struggled getting sleep my grandma got dementia at 55. am i going to get dementia?
just keep using your cpap to protect your neurons. i am optimistic that there will be a cure not just treatment for alzheimer's by the time you are 55 anyway<positive_smiley>.
i'm 18 with chronic anxiety bad sleep apnea and always struggled getting sleep my grandma got dementia at 55. am i going to get dementia?
sleep apnea means that an individual is stopping breathing for at least 10 seconds. this means that the brain is being deprived of the oxygen it needs to function properly. prolonged oxygen deprivation can cause many problems including dementia. please see your physician and get treatment.
i have gastroparesis. md wants reglan (metoclopramide) but i have a family history of parkinson's and a personal history of depression and anxiety. what about the gastric sleeve?
surgery especially sleeve gastrecyomy would make the problem of gastroparesis much worse. medication is a much superior choice for this diagnosis. rarely subtotal gastrectomy as a last resort.
what can cause a teenager to lose hair and weight loss?
there are many reasons that a teenager may be experiencing hair and weight loss. the possibilities range from stress hormonal imbalance anxiety thyroid problems anorexia and many more. a thorough history and physical evaluation should be done by a physician.
is garcinia cambogia really effective and safe as some people have claimed it to be? does it help with depression and anxiety as well as weight loss?
garcnia cambogia is an ingredient in some herbal weight loss appetite suppressant and energy products. an analysis of data found a possible short-term weight loss effect (under 1 kilogram). but liver toxicity—led to one preparation being withdrawn from the market. another controlled study showed it no better than placebo. there is nothing i can find that shows help for anxiety or depression.
is garcinia cambogia really effective and safe as some people have claimed it to be? does it help with depression and anxiety as well as weight loss?
garcinia cambogia is in most weight loss supplements and can cause liver failure. it was also used in hydroxycut which was taken off the market as people died from using it. i see a handful of patients per month with abnormal liver tests after using this medicine. i would not recommend it. there is no "magic pill" for weight loss. diet and exercise remain the #1 way to lose weight and keep it off
is phentramine safe for weight loss?
phentermine is a stimulant agent very similar to amphetamines and meth. it is potentially addictive causes insomnia anxiety tremor sweating and high blood pressure. other drugs like it have been shown to increase heart attacks strokes and sudden cardiac death. i would not recommend this agent. diet and exercise should be first line and there are other drugs available if those don't work.
i've stayed up several nights now but i cannot fall asleep. feels like sleep apnea? what can i do today that can help me sleep tonight? need sleep sch
sleep apnea wakes you from a sleep multiple times per hour but only once you have fallen asleep. not getting to sleep has nothing to do with sleep apnea. it probably has more to do with anxiety and/or your mental status when you try to go to sleep. try some over the counter sleep meds or call yor md.
i got on medicine for anxiety gained 70 pounds in a year im 220 my whole life i have been 150 what could cause this im over weight now?
both anxiety and some medicines for anxiety can cause weight gain. the latter include risperidone and other atypical antipsychotics. and some other medicines like amitriptyline valproate clonazepam and ativan (lorazepam) can cause weight gain too. the best treatment for anxiety is psychological therapy such as cognitive behavioral or acceptance and commitment therapy.
i have diabetes and am trying to lose weight so am taking phentermine witha doctor precription is that good or bad?
phentermine has many side effects including anxiety irritability sleep problems sweating tremor dry mouth. it is also potentially addictive. most important it increases blood pressure and can cause heart attacks and strokes. diet and exercise are always the best first steps. if these don't work then there are other drugs that appear to be safer and more effective.
what are some of the side effects of weight loss drugs?
it depends on which drugs you mean. in the case of what are called stimulants such as phentermine or adipex the side-effects can be substantial and significant and may include jitteryness insomnia anxiety agitation depression and even psychosis and paranoia. one needs to carefully weight the risks and benefits of any treatment with the risks and benefits of not having the treatment.
what could cause rapid weight loss and trouble sleeping?
multiple possibilities: including hyperthyroidism and also drug abuse involving stimulants like methamphetamine. sometimes opiates like heroin if the person is not getting a steady supply. also severe agitated depression and some anxiety disorders. have seen some psychoses be like this also -- schizophrenia & mania. the person may not feel eating is necessary or hyperactivity is extreme.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
mood swings and anxiety may cause weight loss. or weight gain for different people. if depressed mood causes you to eat less and remain restless or have psychomotor agitation you will lose weight.
what is the difference between nocturnal panic attacks and sleep apnea?
sleep apnea is a breathing-related sleep disorder involving brief periods that a person stops breathing while sleeping. this triggers an alarm system in the brain to wake the person up so he/she will start breathing again. nocturnal panic attacks are discrete periods involving extreme anxiety associated with physiological changes in heart rate breathing sweating etc. that occur at night.
what is the difference between nocturnal panic attacks and sleep apnea?
anxiety feelings while lying flat on one's back can be a problem with the heart or lungs. one is still breathimg just not getting enough oxygen. that is called orthopnea. sleep apnea- obstructve type- the person stops breathing while asleep. a sleep study is something to talk to your doctor about. obsructive sleep apnea is ofteb associated wih being overweight. orthopnic folkz may not be.
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
a hiatal hernia associated with gerd reflux of stomach contents up your esophagus can cause cough aspiration pneumonia asthma like pulmonary problems. you have choice about next step in care. you may benefit from medical care further testing egd. surgery only after good medical care. start with your regular doc. be well.
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
it is possible that large hiatal hernias (so called paraesophageal hernias) can cause some respiratory symptoms. the only "cure" is surgical repair and this should be done by a general or thoracic surgeon experienced in laparoscopic repair. a full evaluation is necessary to see if operation is right for you - it may not be. hope this helps!
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
hh is an anatomic problem we do not cure it. we have drugs to minimize esophageal reflux in symptomatic patients.
i'm an 18 year old having untreated super high bp erectile dysfunction sleep apnea and chronic ptsd. have you ever known of an 18 year old with so many problems?
it sounds like you need at least 3 doctors -- a primary care one a psychiatrist and a psychologist -- all working together with you on your problems. using stimulants could possibly explain the hypertension. but if' you're not doing that i'm sure your primary care doctor will be tracking down other possible causes. ptsd can cause intense anxiety but not usually sustained hypertension.
is my anxiety causing me to hear my heartbeat in my ear?
when you are anxious you are more aware of your surroundings and your blood pressure and heartbeat go up. add that to your increased sense of awareness and you will hear your heartbeat.
is my anxiety causing me to hear my heartbeat in my ear?
your anxiety is causing yoiur heart rate to increase and blood pressure to rise making the blood flow through blood vessels near your more prominant. .
im 32 years old and currently taking celexa (citalopram). my belly fat is becoming bothersome. is it because of the celexa (citalopram)?
but there are many factors that are associated with abdominal obesity anxiety and hypertension. i would exclude those first before assuming it was the celexa (citalopram) unless the timing of the weight gain was with the celexa (citalopram). an example would be poly cystic ovarian syndrome. discuss this with your primary care doctor or psychiatrist.
what were the common sides effects seen in the qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) study? were there any uncommon but serious side effects?
phentermine+topiramate: numbness dry mouth constipation colds/bronchitis acidosis headaches insomnia dizziness nausea backpain blurred vision fatigue high potassium depression anxiety hair loss reflux and man many more. . and rare but serious ones: allergic reaction high blood pressure heart valve disorders tremors psychosis pancreatitis liver failures. consult doc. good luck.
i have tingling in my legs ringing in my ears fatigue dizziness pain spot on armpit. what could this be? and should i be scared?
try simple measures first -by breathing into a paper bag to slow down your rate of breathing and let your muscles relax. there are multiple causes for this type of emotional reaction. treatment is best if you can talk out your fears with a skillful therapist. after a number of weeks effort-if there is no imrpovement--consider taking some mild anti-anxiety medicine.
what's 5-htp and is it an implication for weight control social anxiety and depression?
5-htp is a precursor to tryptophan the amino acid used to create serotonin. the national institute of health recommends not to use 5-htp until more is known. 5-htp might be unsafe. some people who have taken it have come down with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) a serious condition involving extreme muscle tenderness (myalgia) and blood abnormalities (eosinophilia).
i am a woman of 49 years and i am 5ft 5. 5 inches tall how much should i weigh in kilos pls?
51kg to 68kg is considered the normal range. why do you use inches & kilos? mixed messages could mean anxiety. how you feel can be as important as bmi charts. live a healthy life-style and relax. i repeat myself.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
i understand your discomfort. please see a therapist about the stresses in your life your anxiety symptoms and uncomfortable feelings. and methods to cope with them.
insulin resistance severe weight loss am 5'6" &93lbs. all lab and scans normal. what could it be and what will help?
could be related to diabetes stress anxiety or a sign of underlying cancer. ask your dr for the cause. hope u feel better!
i've been having 4-6 stools a day i'm 18 male 170 pounds gaining due to binging. normal? or a worm?
your weight of 170 pounds and binge eating indicate not coping with stresses of relationships with unresolved feelings school work and finances. use of alcohol may also cause gain in weight and anxiety. anxiety due to stresses may cause loose motions. it is unlikely that your loose motions are due to worms. please see your physician for diagnosis and treatment.
is it possible that some of my weight gain is from 10mg lexapro (escitalopram)? i'm not usually the weight i am currently.
many patients may gain weight on medications like lexapro (escitalopram) when taken for anxiety and depression but not because the medicine is actually causing the weight gain. these medicines do not have calories do not induce food cravings and do not slow down a person's metabolism. many anxious patients fidget all day long and stop doing that once they are better. they also eat more when they feel better.
i think i accidentally took my concerta twice this morning. along with my one phentermine. should i be concerned? what should i do?
video you have been obsessing over this and then you accidentally took two instead of one. you are really quite discombobulated at this point. i wouldn't worry about anything. there are plenty of people taking higher doses of stimulants than this and have absolutely no problem. just make sure that you check your pulse rate. if it starts climbing above 120 or if your blood pressure goes above 150/100 then the visit to the emergency room to have thosedecreased may be warranted. you may feelmore calm or you may experience more anxiety. it could go either way. you may sleep better tonight or you may have trouble sleeping. it depends upon your individual response to these medications. best wishes. if you have any further questions please don't hesitate to post again.
is binge eating unhealthy?
binge eating can impact your health negatively as bingeing often leads to weight gain and increased hypertension heart disease diabetes and more. psychologically there is often a lot of shame attached to bingeing. the behavior may undermines your self esteem and cause depression and anxiety. some people avoid social interaction with others so they can eat alone and become isolated.
is binge eating unhealthy?
type 2 diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol heart disease gallbladder disease osteoarthritis joint and muscle pain sleep apnea gastrointestinal problems ;#40;such as reflux;#41; certain types of cancer emotional problems such as depression anxiety and panic attacks substance abuse problems obesity restrictive lung disease increased vascular disease increased risk of gastric rupture if the amount eaten is particularly severe. this is by no means to be taken lightly.
what would u say to obese patient who wants 2 exercise 2 improve heart health/lose weight but doesn't due to a phobia about having heart attack? <negative_smiley>
i would suggest to this person that treatment for phobias and other anxiety disorders is very possible and could be lifesaving. has your primary care physician (and maybe also your cardiologist) evaluated your cardiovascular health and made suggestions for you? have they cleared you for a gradual exercise program? those are important steps -- and also working with a therapist on your anxiety.
what would u say to obese patient who wants 2 exercise 2 improve heart health/lose weight but doesn't due to a phobia about having heart attack? <negative_smiley>
get a physical clearance to begin an exercise program. see a nutritionist and perhaps even a counselor. medications may be appropriate as well. basically you don't have to figure all this out on your own. getting these fearful thoughts out of your head with someone else does wonders for getting over them. fears in the head cause anxiety food can be a way to ease that anxiety. you can do it.
whats the signs of withdrawl of norcotics period like how can u tell someone is going threw it? wat can b done? adult wise. n is weight loss involed?
agitation anxiety muscle aches insomnia runny nose sweating yawning decreased tearing. later signs include abdominal pain nausea vomiting diarrhea dilated pupils sweating goose bumps. one could have weight loss due to not eating because of abdominal pain and diarrhea. narcotics withdrawal is unpleasant but not life threatening.
is their any antidepressant that won't cause weight gain or affect heart rhythm/blood pressure?
but there are also individual responses to consider. wellbutrin (bupropion) is a possibility that comes to mind but it will not help anxiety. (you list anxiety on your other information). lexapro is relatively weight-neutral also and does not affect bp etc.
i always eat food when i'm not hungry i get major anxiety because i have a past with binge eating and it gets me nervous. do you think i should eat?
helpful for me to tell you what to eat. what is important is why you eat. i encourage you to consider a 12 step group called overeater's anonymous. it is free confidential ; often effect. you will gain a support system ; learn how to cope when you are stressed tired bored or angry/sad. it will allow you to explore how your emotions ; your eating connect. this is about lifestyle - not just food.
why do diet pills and sugar blockers cause me heart palpitations and anxiety. these were prescribed by a doc. should i continue?
you did not say what diet pills you are taking but many are similar to amphetamines which can cause increased heart rate & blood pressure. some people are very sensitive to amphetamines & need a smaller dose. also they are contraindicated in people w/ cardiac problems or who have a family history cardiac problems. perhaps another doc can address the "sugar blockers" part of your question.
why do diet pills and sugar blockers cause me heart palpitations and anxiety. these were prescribed by a doc. should i continue?
these pills are giving you side effects. need to talk to the doctor who prescribed them. till then and after a work-up you can decide how to proceed.
why is my health so bad and i am only 18? i have hbp high liver enzymes erectile dysfunction major anxiety and more. i eat healthy and excercise.
many consider a low fat high (complex) carb diet healthy. hi carb diet increases triglycerides insulin estrogen(e2) and lowers testosterone (t) the htn can result from high trig + insulin + low t. the ed from high e2 & low t. the anxiety from hypoglycemia - from high insulin & low fat high carb diet. the fatty liver is result of storage of carbs as trig in liver. mdwellnessmd. com.
why is my health so bad and i am only 18? i have hbp high liver enzymes erectile dysfunction major anxiety and more. i eat healthy and excercise.
before concluding that diet is the problem i'd invite you to take a hard look at whether the ways of thinking and acting that enabled you to survive in whatever environment you grew up are perhaps now not working well for you. anxiety impotence and hypertension all suggest that life itself is treating you cruelly and perhaps your physician can hlep you find ways to beat it. please consider.
why is my health so bad and i am only 18? i have hbp high liver enzymes erectile dysfunction major anxiety and more. i eat healthy and excercise.
i agree with dr. rothman. . there is a lot of new research explaining that grains are the culprit leading to inflammation high triglycerides elevated liver enzymes etc. look into dr. mark hyman dr. michael eades or dr. loren cordain for some great research and information! you can take control of your health if you learn about good nutrition!
if you have sleep apnea is ativan or klonopin (clonazepam) a better choice for sleep. right now i take klonopin (clonazepam). thoughts on trazadone for sleep.
neither ativan nor klonopin (clonazepam) is fda indicated as sleep medication although these calm anxiety and can assist sleep through this pathway. trazodone is an antidepressant often used to aid sleep. depression can significantly disrupt sleep -- and it's possible to have this as well as sleep apnea. a psychiatrist can evaluate and help treat this problem. has a sleep mask been prescribed for you?
i don't eat healthy or exercise and also am lazy. i don't want to give in to obesity but am considering it. what do i do?
your issues have a strong chance of not only shortening your life but creating a lot of misery. while exercise can help the most important change to make is to eat healthy. if you don't want to do this i advise seeing a counselor to address the reasons; people often eat poorly due to anxiety/depression. consider overeaters anonymous ; <link> consider <link>
what causes me to get woke up from gasping for my breath. i have sleep apnea. for over a yr now.
could be direct effect of the sleep disorder medications u r on or an anxiety episode while asleep. please review with your doctor.
what kinds of issues can make obesity actually a mental health problem?
when obesity causes loss of self-esteem it can be a cause of numerous mental problems especially in teens and younger people. this includes feelings of inadequacy regarding appearance sports performance ability to make friends and interact. obesity often causes difficulty finding a job. obese people are felt to be "lazy" by many. depression & anxiety are the result of these self esteem issues.
i can take garcinia cambogia if i have hypothyroidism and take levothyroxine and have anxiety and take zoloft (sertraline)?
moderation you could take as appetite suppressant it interact with diabetes medications and cholesterol drugs.
what are symptoms of elevated prolactin. mine is 57. i have insomnia brain fog headaches anxiety weight gain. on orthocyclen which is culprit?
elevated prolactin can cause irregular periods infertility problems and lactation but more often there are no symptoms. if you have a tumor in the pituitary tumor causing the elevation of prolactin then you may possibly have headache. usually the tumors are very small and cause no symptoms
what are symptoms of elevated prolactin. mine is 57. i have insomnia brain fog headaches anxiety weight gain. on orthocyclen which is culprit?
women — when a high blood prolactin concentration interferes with the function of the ovaries in a premenopausal woman secretion of estradiol the main estrogen decreases. symptoms include irregular or absent menstrual periods infertility menopausal symptoms (hot flashes and vaginal dryness) and after several years osteoporosis. high prolactin levels can also cause milk discharge of breast.
what do i do if i took one too many hydroxicut pills? i'm having a little bit difficulty breathing nothing major but i'm slightly worried.
not advisable to take extras but should not be a big problem. if the dose were that critical there would be an awful lot of deaths and the product would have been withdrawn already. of course difficulty breathing is always worrisome. i would suggest this is probably anxiety but if you have serious trouble you should seek help.
what are the risks of taking adipex?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
what are the risks of taking adipex?
the side effects of using phentermine are those that accompany the use of stimulants. it is comparable to coffee. too much causes anxiety headaches insomnia etc. these problems are minimized because of the prescription protocol used by our medical professionals. the “start low go slow” approach that is used when prescribing medicine for chronic conditions works well in treating obesity also.
i have panic attacks i take cymbalta (duloxetine) for it is it safe to also takeslim quick pure caffeine free diet pill?
the caffiene that you use increase the liability for panic attacks and it reverses the action of cymbalta (duloxetine) in preventing or controling anxiety.
i am an 18 year old male fit and not over weight. blood pressure checked is 139 over 58. b. p 1 year ago 110 over 56. i have been stressed lately?
the upper number (systolic bp) is high the lower (diastolic bp) is normal. this can be due to a number of reasons including anxiety or stress but most often is due to improper technique used to obtain the blood pressure. make sure you have your bp checked by a physician or physician extender (e. g. nurse practitioner or pa) with the proper sized cuff and technique (i. e. not an electonic device).
i have pins and needles in my hands and feet. on toprol (metoprolol) 25ml for hbp. can it be from mild sleep apnea or pre- diabetes. also feel light head sometime.
there are many causes of pins and needles including nerve damage from diabetes circulation entrapment or pinched nerve or anxiety -- best check with your doctor.
i suffer from panic attacks. when i just worked out i felt the same symptoms of my attack. can the cause of my panic attacks be lack of exercise?
sometimes panic attacks are due to external or internal triggers that are not consciously recognized by a person. regular exercise may help decrease your overall level of anxiety ; tension. you may want to try deep breathing meditation yoga or other relaxation techniques. write down things you like about yourself ; read them daily. try not to be too critical of yourself.
i have type 2 diabetes anxiety and depression i have been feeling nervous a lot lately i can't concentrate on anything friends and family i need help?
you may be able to kill 3 birds with 1 stone through life style modification such as sticking to the proper diet and by engaging in a regular exercise program to include outdoor physical activities yoga etc. discussing the station with your doctor and consulting a mental health specialist is also advisable.
is it okay to eat healthy and smoking weed?
great. there are a variety of potential serious side effects from use of cannabis. possible effects of marijuana: anxiety depression fear panic delusions paranoia hallucinations losing touch with reality inattentiveness short-term memory problems disturbances of thought processes. fatigue poor concentration slowed reaction times ; slowed problem solving.
ikeep getting a sharp shooting electric shock pain in my chest or an awful achey feel and my heart beats so fast should i be worried as i'm obese?
have an anxiety disorder. i would not assume that this is because of anxiety - medical causes of symptoms need to be ruled out. please have this evaluated. take care.
what anxiety medications aid with weight loss?
anxiety disorders can be treated with different classes of meds - safest in terms of low risk potential are probably the ssris but many of those can in fact cause weight gain. wellbutrin (bupropion) is approved for depression - may or may not help for anxiety and may reduce weight a little. cognitive-behavioral therapy directed at lifestye exercise stress reduction etc is very effective but takes work.
it started with hear palpitations 6 weeks ago and since i found out i hiatal hernia and ulcers now pain all over body and sharp pain behind left ear.
your abdominal problem has nothing to do with your ears or the palpitation. i suspect that you are suffering from anxiety and should consult your doctor about this. if you are grinding your teeth at night this may be the cause for your sharp pain behind the left ear.
i have severe tinnitus with associated anxiety insomina depression starting trazodone does it cause weight gain like serowuel did and does thank you?
weight gain would be quite rare with trazodone.
why would sleep be so important to weight loss?
sleep is one of many thing important to weight loss. poor sleep habits lead to anxiety and that leads to poor dietary habits skipped meals snacking on junk food etc. eat less exercise more - and you'll probably end up sleeping better as well.
is it safe to take wellbutrin (bupropion) with the new popular "fat burning" supplement shredz?
there is no data looking at taking wellbutrin (bupropion) with an overthecounter supplement. neutraceuticals like shredz do not tell the exact amounts of ingredients b/c they are not monitored by the fda. it does contain caffeine and green tea extract which can act as a stimulant of the central nervous system. thus shredz combined with stimulation from wellbutrin (bupropion) may cause increased anxiety and insomnia.
when sick i can't stop eating! i get pain & reflux but continue to eat. does it mean i'm not getting the right nutrients or is it something else?
i can't guarantee that nutrients are unrelated but it's more likely an emotional reaction. you don't say what kind of sickness. anxiety & mood disorders can directly lead to strong drives to eat while any type of (medical) illness can lead to a wish for caretaking and nurturance. binge eating especially of "comfort foods " can be a way to satisfy this emotional need. not a good idea though.
i have sinus tachycardi but want to stop bisoprolol and see how i go. i eat healthy and im not stressed but my bp is always 140/93 and 120bpm causes?
you say you have sinus tachycardia but there are many causes of this including excess thyroid hormone (endogenous or medication) pregnancy infection anemia stress anxiety pain fever - and then there are cardiac causes like congestive heart failure and inappropriate sinus tachycardia. what's your cause?
why do i have so many problems? i have low t sleep apnea chronic anxiety weird sensations i am only 18 and life is bad. no muscle because of low t?
sleep apnea can occur at any age. anyone with sleep apnea is at a considerably greater risk of developing low testosterone. anxiety is extremely common. i don't know what type you have but anxiety itself can be caused by sleep apnea if it's untreated. 20% of people with depression for example have sleep apnea and it's been estimated that about 10% of children with adhd also have sleep apnea. certain conditions in medicine simply cluster together.
why do i have so many problems? i have low t sleep apnea chronic anxiety weird sensations i am only 18 and life is bad. no muscle because of low t?
poor diet the commonest cause of your symptoms. sugar in the diet causes a corresponding deficiency of vitamin b that then affects the lower part of the brain to cause sleep apnea anxiety and "weird sensations".
im afraid to do xray exam bcoz im afraid it will show atheromatous aorta because my ldl is very high 225mg/dl. what to do? i dont have dm2 not smoker.
your profile says you've had an angioplasty - i find that hard to believe if you're really 22? regardless of your age if you have coronary atherosclerosis finding changes in your aorta on ct will not alter your prognosis or your treatment. your anxiety is not justified. you're wise to be taking a statin (as noted) - you should take the highest dose of the most potent drug you can tolerate.
i'm a 38 yr old fml who has been taking lexapro. it causes weight gain but helps with anxiety. can i use wellbutrin (bupropion) instead so as not to gain? thx!
not an anxiety medication. lexapro (escitalopram) can be used for anxiety disorders and depressive disorders.
i'm a 38 yr old fml who has been taking lexapro. it causes weight gain but helps with anxiety. can i use wellbutrin (bupropion) instead so as not to gain? thx!
wellbutrin (bupropion) may make anxiety worse because it's more of a stimulant than lexapro. this is why it causes less weight gain but risk is that it makes you anxiety worse.
i'm a 38 yr old fml who has been taking lexapro. it causes weight gain but helps with anxiety. can i use wellbutrin (bupropion) instead so as not to gain? thx!
if the lexapro is working and you are getting more restful sleep the weight will not be such a factor. wellbutrin (bupropion) is a possibility that you will have to talk to your doctor about whether adding it or switching to it. it is best to stay with what is working for you. if you feel better you will exercise more and sleep better both of which help with weight loss. feel better.
im 25. no cholesterol diabetes overweight or hypertension. i don't drink or smoke. but i've anxiety and i'm sedentary. could i still have a stroke?
stroke is unlikely. fortunately anxiety and sedentary lifestyle are two conditions that you can control and minimize in your life. exercising can release endorphins which will reduce your anxiety. cognitive therapy is great for developing good exercise habits and reducing anxiety. the best years are ahead of you.
im 25. no cholesterol diabetes overweight or hypertension. i don't drink or smoke. but i've anxiety and i'm sedentary. could i still have a stroke?
your risk of stroke at your age and no risk factors is minute - but yes you *could* have one. bricks fall out of the clear sky too. stay active and try not to worry too much.
im 25. no cholesterol diabetes overweight or hypertension. i don't drink or smoke. but i've anxiety and i'm sedentary. could i still have a stroke?
if your blood pressure is normal stroke is unlikely.
im 25. no cholesterol diabetes overweight or hypertension. i don't drink or smoke. but i've anxiety and i'm sedentary. could i still have a stroke?
it is possible but at present would think low probability. exercise would be beneficial to you
i'm over weight have pcos & anxiety what supplements are recommended and what supplements should i stay away from? not looking to get pregnant.
work on losing weight and avoid unnecessary supplements. dont go more than 4 months without a period.
i take meds for fibromyalgia/spondylitis/anxiety but am interested in trying a juice cleanse to curb sugar cravings. will meds be affected?
a cleanse implies something is being cleaned. drinking juice does not clean anything. there is no data supporting juice cleanse or any other "cleanse" for that matter. sugar cravings tend to be caused by low blood sugar caused by the insulin surge from eating too much high glycemic food. eat less processed higher gi foods and you will be healthier and free of sugar cravings. good luck!
what's my chance to get a heart attack? no family history smoking or diabetes low bp and cholesterol. bmi 19. 5 but have anxiety and high stress.
hello. i can not provide you with a statistical probability. but the fact that you are asking the question means that you are concerned and that your stress levels are likely to be at least moderate. consider cognitive behavioral therapy to address & reduce these symptoms. the pay off is improved quality of life. take care.
what's my chance to get a heart attack? no family history smoking or diabetes low bp and cholesterol. bmi 19. 5 but have anxiety and high stress.
keep up the good work! walk or exercise and you are on the best track you control.
i've recently regained a good deal of weight and i'm currently just over 32 bmi and lately have severe lightheadedness when hungry and am much more hungry more often. what could this indicate?
hi the problem with bing eating is that causes a vicious cycle more u eat more ur body demands it especially that's true with carbohydrates. you gotta make sure u don't have anxiety or depressive disorder causing ur bing eating. talking to a psychiatrist specialized in eating disorder might help a lot. also keeping track of ur calorie and food is good try myfitnesspal. com or app.
what are the side effects of binge eating disorder?
binge eating is harmful to both your physical and emotional health. bingeing can lead to weight gain and cause issues related to increased weight such as heart disease diabetes stroke and more. the level of shame and guilt associated with binge eating may lead to poor self-esteem depression anxiety and social isolation. there is treatment available and recovery is possible.
i suffer from binge eating compulsive hunger and anxiety. i became obese in 15 months. how to lose weight if my hunger is like an addiction?
make a food diary of everything you eat for 2 weeks along with your anxiety level 1-5 and hunger. drop 300-500 calories per day for one pound a week weight loss. begin an exercise program 30 minutes of aerobic exercise 5-7 days a week with weight trainging 2-3 times per week. it isn't easy to eat while exercising. also reward yourself with a new outfit an outing with friends movie if doing well
is sugar cravings related to depression anxiety disorders? why
in insulin which impacts mood and health. high fructose corn syrup is a type of sugar that is in many products. please read labels to avoid it. high rates of diabetes even among children today. here's a link to one book but there are many. <link> peace and good health.
i weighed 125 3 months ago and now i weigh180. my weight just continues to rise i drink plenty of water and eat smart. could ibs or anxiety cause this?
if you are watching your portions and exercising 5 times per week for at least 30 minutes. you should not gain so much weight so quickly. see your doctor to rule out hypothyroidism or pco - polycystic ovarian syndrome. anxiety and sleep disruption can cause your cortisol level to rise and potentially cause weight gain but that amount is dramatic so be sure to get a full workup.
i'm 39 obese & never had dvt. i have a 4 hr flight & 1 hr flight. should i be overly concerned about dvt or is my anxiety getting the best of me?
saw your earlier question - your preventive plan is excellent. combine with good hydration. it does sound like you are getting pretty anxious - good thing you aren't flying all the way to australia or further. (: take care.
i've been prescribed duromine 40mg because i've gained 20kg in a yr but it's not uncommon for me to get anxiety. should i just avoid the medication?
duromine can cause restlessness and insomnia so i believe you take it in the day---you could stop it for a few days and see if your anxiety got better----however a lot of times folks deal with their anxiety by eating too much----so you would have to work some of it out in psychotherapy----seeing how you got overweight to start with-----best take up some sport or excercise---hope this helps---sid k
i'm a healthy 24 y/o female. i'm interested in starting ssris for depression and anxiety. how likely is it that these meds will cause weight gain?
everyone is different.
i'm a healthy 24 y/o female. i'm interested in starting ssris for depression and anxiety. how likely is it that these meds will cause weight gain?
until you are stabilized on medication. (if varies from individual to individual) if you have decreased appetite from depression and the depression lifts with medication you might find yourself wanting to eat more. a healthy diet and the right amounts and types of exercise usually can help if this occurs.
i'm overweight dad and grandpa high blood pressure. my bp always high even when relaxed but doctor say it anxiety although when he check it was high?
there is clearly a genetic component to high blood pressure and you may be at risk. life style and obesity contributes significantly. start with lifestyle changes such as a healthy diet rich in fruit an vegetables. exercise and weight loss. hopefully you can avoid medications.
i'm overweight dad and grandpa high blood pressure. my bp always high even when relaxed but doctor say it anxiety although when he check it was high?
check your blood pressures 3-4 times a day at home. you should buy a machine with target bp 120/80 at your age. it is well know that bp's at doctors' offices are as much as 15% higher than at home. if bp is still high at home you should try exercise weight loss and sodium restriction. also some meds can cause hypertension as side effect . then if this does not work you might needs med
i'm overweight dad and grandpa high blood pressure. my bp always high even when relaxed but doctor say it anxiety although when he check it was high?
response can raise blood pressure. do what your doc says but check out a book called the "relaxation response" by herbert benson. this little meditation can help. peace and good health.
what are the problems with binge eating?
binge eating is harmful to both your physical and emotional health. bingeing can lead to weight gain and cause issues related to increased weight such as heart disease diabetes stroke and more. the level of shame and guilt associated with binge eating may lead to poor self-esteem depression anxiety and social isolation.
i am 22 5 ft 121 lbs. i do exercise and don't eat fast food. my bp 110/90. what do you say about it? need some suggestions and advices. thank you!
could be quite normal. have it checked a few times by your doctor and see what the readings are. your doc should then investigate to see if there is any cause for your high bp and if so then that cause would need treatment first. anxiety can result in high bp readings. good luck.
i developed anxiety and pvc's after fundoplication. vagus nerve damage? i was fine before surgey!
damage to the vagus nerve is a known risk of fundoplication. how often this occurs has been investigated but has not been determined. because increased tone of the vagus nerve can suppress pvc's it is a reasonable possibility that new onset pvc's after fundoplication could result from damage to vagus nerve during the surgery.
what diet pill can i take to lose weight quite off the waist! any diet pills i can take for that?
all diet pills are extremely risky. not only can they dysregulate your metabolic system and your stress response system thereby increasing the risk for developing depression & anxiety they can interfere with absorption of nutrients and set up an individual for developing a serious eating disorder which then has a damaging & dangerous course of its own!
what makes phentermine cause chest pain?
anxiety can cause excess cortisol os adrenaline secretion which can cause a number of symptoms including dizziness lightheadedness rapid heart beat palpitations chestpain headaches etc. try calming yourself down by concentrating on slowing down your breathing over a few minutes if this doesn't help see your primary provider for further evaluation. good luck!
im 23 overweight hire come v when i go to the gym to workout i haven't in years i feel dizzy all the time i also have gad?
your medications may be causing some of your symptoms. inderal (propranolol) lowers your blood pressure by slowing your heart rate which makes it difficult to strenuously exercise. but it is a good medication for anxiety so do not abruptly stop it. work with your doctor to put you on a good weight loss regimen of mild exercise a healthy diet and better control of your gad symptoms.
im 23 overweight hire come v when i go to the gym to workout i haven't in years i feel dizzy all the time i also have gad?
this can either mean you feel light-headed or you have vertigo. the first is more common and may be related to positions (othostasis) and hydration during your workouts or to anxiety. vertigo however usually involves a sense of rotation of you around the environment or vice verse or a sense that the ground is coming up to meet you. if the latter see a doctor asap.
is something wrong with my brain? sleep apnea runs in father and sister. head feels like a brick at all times intermittent tingling brain memory loss horrible concentration brain fog forcing myself to breathe sometimes. lightheaded 90% when i get in
there may not be anything wrong with your brain but there could be other factors affecting the way your brain works! sleep deprivation drugs sleep apnea stress/anxiety can all cause symptoms like you describe. if you correct the underlying problem then your brain might work perfectly! i recommend seeing your doctor to try and determine what could be causing your symptoms!
is something wrong with my brain? sleep apnea runs in father and sister. head feels like a brick at all times intermittent tingling brain memory loss horrible concentration brain fog forcing myself to breathe sometimes. lightheaded 90% when i get in
check reason for sleep apnea like adenoids obesity. otherwise see md for anxiety or depression.
i'm overweight and 24 my life is pretty sedentary now but i grew up very active. i cut my caffeine intake and my heart rate has been consistently lower than i'm used to. i suffer from panic and chronic fatigue syndrome. i woke up rested for the first ti
in addition to what needs to be evaluated for you physically have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as panic/anxiety/depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
what weight loss pills can minors buy?
all diet pills wether designed for adults for minors are extremely risky. not only can they dysregulate your metabolic system and your stress response system thereby increasing the risk for developing depression & anxiety they can interfere with absorption of nutrients and set up an individual for developing a serious eating disorder which then has a damaging & dangerous course of its own!
which are the best weight loss pills?
all diet pills are extremely risky. not only can they dysregulate your metabolic system and your stress response system thereby increasing the risk for developing depression & anxiety they can interfere with absorption of nutrients and set up an individual for developing a serious eating disorder which then has a damaging & dangerous course of its own!
what are the risks of taking garcinia cambogia with celexa (citalopram)?
celexa has active ingredients of citalopram hydrobromide. it is used in depression stress and anxiety generalized anxiety disorder dysthymia depressed mood major depression. garcinia cambogia has active ingredients of garcinia. it is used in lipids abnormal weight loss. i found no interactions however clear this with your md.
i was diagnosed with chronic gastritis i have severe anxiety & that is what they say caused this. i am overweight. will this condition ever go away?
in addition to getting evaluated by your gp to rule out organic problems consider going to a psychotherapist to help get to the bottom of what is causing the "severe anxiety" as you say. living with this level of fear can be incredibly debilitating and imagine what your life would be like if the anxiety could at least be reduced if not eradicated altogether?
why is it so nerve raking to go to the dr or obgyn for a physical. i had elective gastric sleeve with no worry. how do i over come nerves?
you need to see a psychologist or psychiatrist to help u deal with your anxiety and perhaps get to the source of it. there are many techniques they can show you.
ive been feeling a weakness/numbing sensation in my legs i am overweight. but it just started happening im 19 years old. could this be serious?
you need to make sure that you can pee and poop without difficulty. you need to see your doctor to rule out herniated disc and do a full neurological examination. sometimes anxiety can do that tooo
i occasionally randomly get this pain in the middle and right below my chest. i eat healthy & exercise and am healthy in general. what could it be?
that area is the epigastric area and may be due to many reasons: 1. anxiety or panic attacks 2. reflux disease or heartburn (if its worse with certain types of foods) 3. gallbladder disease (pain worse at night or after eating meals) 4. stomach ulcer 5. musculoskeletal pain from straining muscle rib cage
i took phentermine for about 3 months 2 years ago. i have not taken it again since. can it cause long term severe anxiety?
phentermine is not known as being a drug that can have long term side neurobehavioral effects after being discontinued for enough time to be fully metabolized out of the body. if you have further questions or would like a 1-1 consultation i am happy to answer them. write me at: www. healthtap. com/drsaghafi key code: pdxfnr
im 16 and have struggled with eating disorders and started taking cla (6 pills a day) to help aid in weightloss and recently have had anxiety?
your anxiety is related to the cla. you should reduce the dose by a half. if the anxiety continues then stop cla.
i'm 29 female obese but otherwise very healthy. having recurring chest pains but ekg and ct show normal heart. thoughts?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it. lose weight get regular exercise use mediterranean diet don't smoke and check with your doc
i suffer from anxiety & have quite a bloated belly unlike fat you are unable to actually grab hold of it is this bloat or fat?
i feel empathy for your turmoil about bloated belly. at age 20 traumatic experiences of childhood unresolved emotional conflicts stressors of relationships breaking of relationships separations can cause anxiety concern about physical appearance and self-image. you are a good person. accept yourself as you are at this time and set the goal of enhancing your self-acceptance. see a therapist
i'm 21 overweight but working on that on the birth control pill i'm so so scared of having a heart attack any advice for health anxiety?
can determine your risk factors. but your young age makes a heart attack unlikely. you may need a stress test labs like cholesterol glucose and an echocardiogram. stay healthy.
what are some reasons for hypersomnia other than sleep apnea and messed up circadian rhythm?
hypersomnolence can be a reaction to many prescription and over-the-counter medications (including the ones you've listed) as well as some supplements. depression is a common cause. hyoscyamine/imodium are drugs used together to treat irritable bowel syndrome (often associated with depression ; anxiety disorders). other medical conditions can cause this too so get it checked out.
i eat healthy 3 meals/day + a snack (nuts or fruit) train 6/7 but since this week i'm always hungry even wakes me up at night. what's happening?
look at what is different this week. physically has your weight hit a low and your body is needing more fuel? are you exercising more intensely? emotionally consider whether you are worried or stressed by something new or upcoming excitement as well as trouble. is it hunger that is waking you up or anxiety? these questions may help you begin to figure it out.
i was diagnosed with erosive gastritis gerd and hiatal hernia. i have terrible stomach pain. why is ativan (lorazepam) the only thing that gives me any relief?
you may have anxiety disorder too. the physical findings such as gastritis gerd and hiatal hernia usually there is pain but no " terrible stomach pain" and it would respond to antiacid h2 blockers and proton pump inhibitors.
i take a vitamin b complex to help me cope with my severe anxiety. i noticed that the vitamins are megadoses - almost ten times the rda. is this safe?
mostly b vitamin dosing can be safe but not vitamin b-6 which above total daily dose of 400 mg can cause peripheral nerve and spinal cord toxicity.
will phentermine cause long term anxiety even after i quit taking it?
phentermine is a stimulant medication that can cause a variety of side effects. side effects vary for every individual taking a specific medication. if you feel you developed symptoms of anxiety due to a medication it is best to discontinue it. also understand that the medication may not be the cause of your symptoms and you may need to explore other causes.
is qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) safe for weight loss?
the most common adverse effects being headache dry mouth constipation numbness/tingling increased heart rate and increased anxiety/depression. remember it's not a cure all and you'll still be best served by optimizing your lifestyle(how and what your eat and your activity levels. )
i continued to eat ice cream but no soda or candy and my hba1c was 5. 6 and glucose was 83! i'm thinking about going high fat low carb! should i?
you've got anxiety and a history of obsessive-compulsive stuff. you give no history of diabetes. like most young adults and all physically healthy people you can eat what you want without your blood sugar going out of control. devoting emotional energy to food choices will rob you of the important stuff -- building relationships and achieving high-level physical fitness. that's real health.
i believe i am struggling with binge eating disorder and i was wondering what i could do about it without medication.
your doctor may need to refer you for psychiatric therapy if she also agrees with your diagnosis. you will need to see someone who specializes in that disorder along with possible medication. many anxiety disorders include fear of medication and the patient has difficulty consistently following the treatment plan. i hope you will be able to stay the course and get well soon.
wanted to know if diet pills affect essential tremors or anxiety?
anything that causes increase in adrenaline can cause anxiety. that is the simple answer. most diet pills do this.
is it safe to take any diet pills while on celexa (citalopram)?
it is important not to mix medications without checking first about any interactions. also what sort of diet pills do you want to take? most otc diet pills are expensive and ultimately ineffective. think about whether they are worth any risks they may carry relative to treating your depression/anxiety.
is overweight normal rather than being obese or underweight?
health risks of obesity are •heart disease •high blood pressure •stroke •diabetes •osteoarthritis •breathing problems health risks of being underweight- more likely to have infections due to effect on immune system. there can be vitamins iron and calcium deficiencies. being overweight is not normal as it may be due to poor coping with stress causing low self image anxiety de-pression.
i have noticed that when i eat too much junk food my depression and anxiety get much worse than usual. is there a relation?
eating food that is not healthy for you can lower your energy deprive your body of what it needs to run efficiently. this could cause a drop in mood due to the feeling of lethargy in your body. on the other hand feeling bad about yourself for eating junk food may also cause a lowering of mood. could be you're getting a double dose of depressed mood.
i have noticed that when i eat too much junk food my depression and anxiety get much worse than usual. is there a relation?
absolutely! there is definitely a link between foods that are high in sugar/fat and depression. part of the reason is that the brain "knows" what's wrong and is trying to fix the neurochemical imbalance - so it looks for food to stimulate the positive mood producing neurotransmitters (in this case dopamine primarily). hope that helps!
whenever i'm about to fall asleep i wake up gasping feeling as though my breathing has stopped. eliminated anxiety and sleep apnea. anything else?
did your doctor rule out postural nocturnal dyspnea due to heart disease.
whenever i'm about to fall asleep i wake up gasping feeling as though my breathing has stopped. eliminated anxiety and sleep apnea. anything else?
do your symptoms happen only at night? do you have associated runny nose or heartburn? rarely asthma post-nasal drip and heartburn can cause you to cough or gasp for air while sleeping.
i usually exercise often lately i have slacked. i have been getting these full body spasms. is this from lack of exercise? they get very bad at night
used to help w/muscle spasms but see your doc first. there are many causes for spasms / anxiety and it's best to get trained in strategies to resolve them. also too much magnesium can cause the runs and there are several types of magnesium. i use magnesium citrate w/patients. you may also find a brand called jigsaw magnesium helpful. peace and good health.
i poop right after i eat. and it's in a watery consistency. should i be concerned? and are leptin slimming coffee/tea dangerous or harmful?
did the diarrhea start after starting the teas or before? leptin teas are not leptin a hormone that regulates hunger but herbal blends. :caffeine green tea egcg yerba . lots of green tea egcg ( >600 mg /day) is associated with liver harm. yerba a caffeine s can increase anxiety bp. irregular hr stomach upset. for diarrhea check gb h pylori stop herbals food diary f/u w/doc
i keep regularly overeating at meals. what causes the urge to overeat? should i tell my doctor?
i understand that you find pleasure in eating. your health is precious! “regularly overeating seems to indicate lack of concern for your health eating on impulse to feel pleasure; to overcome anxiety sadness loneliness frustration or boredom. it is not what you eat it is what is eating you! tell your doctor about your diet overeating stresses in your life have balanced diet and therapy.
mysophobia (ocd) anxiety disorder possibly bipolar kleptomania pica epilepsy why do i have so many problems all at once?
some problems are man made and can be corrected. bipolar disorder ocd anxiety neurosis epilepsy and kleptomania are controlled by medications. pica may be a sign of anemia. these disorders are not as bad as cancer terminal illnesses or other sicknesses that they leave you to die because cure is no longer possible. pray and have hope.
my husband feels nauseous all day every day and has no appetite. eating used to be a favorite thing. he is 74 years old not overweight eats a vegetarian diet including lots of fruit and eggs. he exercises and uses marijuana to help with the nausea. h
nausea and decreased appetite can be symptoms of many underlying disorders both physical and emotional. your husband needs a complete evaluation with medical history physical examination and probably screening laboratory tests. if nothing physical is found exploration of mental health issues should be done as well since depression/anxiety can do this. pot may be part of problem as well.
why have i started to break out in hives daily? no changes to diet or grooming products.
hives/urticaria are most commonly form some allergen wither a new food or grooming product as you state. but also can be an external allergen such as pollen dust mold danders insects trees grass etc etc. anxiety can also cause a "stress induced urticaria. " try the otc meds and if they do not work get the dr. to evaluate you. best wishes.
i'm currently taking prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg i just got put on adipex can these two drugs be taken together?
i commend you for your concern about effects of medications. prozac 40 mg/day is for moderately severe to severe depression. this dose with long duration of use can cause many side effects. adipex is a stimulant like amphetamine. both medications can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia and lack of libido. use relaxation music meditation yoga. see a psychiatrist for therapy and medication.
i know ambien is short term but i have an anxiety disorder and trying to find a combination along w diet and exercise that will help me sleep at night. please nothing natural does not work for me. practice sleep hygiene. take klonopin but i do not li?
if ambien (zolpidem) helps please try a higher dose or cr try to optimize one medication
i know ambien is short term but i have an anxiety disorder and trying to find a combination along w diet and exercise that will help me sleep at night. please nothing natural does not work for me. practice sleep hygiene. take klonopin but i do not li?
but may not keep you from early morning awakening. clonazepam (klonopin) is anti-anxiety not as effective. the pharm company who owns the ambien (zolpidem) patent has done a disgraceful marketing job for the "new" medication for early morning awakening costing $250+ for 30 tablets. but guess what--the active ingredient is the same! dosage is 3mg sublingual! chewing half an ambien (zolpidem) works. bitter thoug
i want to know if zopliclone causes weight gain and if is better than valium. i can't sleep and i have a bipolar disorder.
i admire you for your concern for health. irregular periods weight gain and insomnia are likely due to stress causing anxiety and depression. you have been taking hiderax(atarax) which helps with anxiety and causes sedation. valium is for anxiety and is habit forming. in some people zopliclone can cause weight gain. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis medication; therapy for anxiety and depression
i am on lexapro (escitalopram) 20mg i need to know if i can take any weight loss supplements without adverse effects. i cannot loose weight. ?
i commend you for your desire to lose weight. lexapro is for depression and anxiety it can have side effects of weight gain anxiety and depression. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis medication benefits and side effects and therapy for stress in your life. lexapro with weight loss supplements are likely to have adverse effects. have balanced diet exercise gradually increase pace and duration
i want to know which of these drugs is associated with more weight gain: tramadol or valium. ?
i commend you for your desire to lose weight and have good health. thank you for sharing information about depression weight gain irregular periods and hiderax. tramadol is for pain; valium and hiderax for anxiety. tramadol is more likely to have weight gain than valium. have balanced diet 1500 cal/day; exercise. see psychiatrist for anxiety depression medication side effects and therapy.
i'm tired of being fat! 5'8 260 how many calories a day? i need my health back so i can stop bp med & lower cholesterol 239 total! mediterranean diet
multiple factors lead to weight gain. plain advise maintain emotional stability reduce anxiety get 7 to 8 hour of restful sleep avoid medications that cause weight gain like antihistamines avoid sugar beverages processed foods and fried food. eat 4 to 5 small meals with low glycemic index carbonhydrates lean protein and vegetables and exercise
i have irregular periods (early every month for the last 4-5 months) chronic headaches bloating and gas (worse at the end of the night) weight loss?
i understand your distress. irregular periods can be due to hormonal changes changing birth control pills iud overactive thyroid and stress. chronic headaches bloating and gas are likely due to anxiety. weight loss is likely due to depression or overactive thyroid. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis therapy for stress in your life. do breathing and music relaxation yoga meditation exercise
when i get shot at dentist i get hard heart palpations is it the phentermine or anxiety i'm scared i have appt wed roof canal?
either could cause it but dental injections commonly cause issues even in those not anxious since most anesthetics have epinepherine that can cause your heart to race. discuss nervousness with your dentist. there are multiple ways to manage anxiety but the dentist cannot help you if they do not know you need help!
when i get shot at dentist i get hard heart palpations is it the phentermine or anxiety i'm scared i have appt wed roof canal?
a root canal is a common dental procedure. sedation dentistry is used to provide a safe comfortable relaxing and anxiety-free experience for certain people receiving any dental treatment. depending on your degree of fear or anxiety different levels of sedation may be required. take care and have a comfortable experience.
when i get shot at dentist i get hard heart palpations is it the phentermine or anxiety i'm scared i have appt wed roof canal?
anxiety or phetermine could lead to palpitations. if no palpitations prior to fear about the root canal then it could be anxiety. anxiety to dental procedures could be severe and require desenstization or and anxiolysis prior to the procedure.
when i get shot at dentist i get hard heart palpations is it the phentermine or anxiety i'm scared i have appt wed roof canal?
talk to your dentist or to your doctor. you may need some sort of sedation.
is it okay if i take benadryl (diphenhydramine) at night if i take adipex in the morning. i don't have trouble sleeping. i am just having a reaction to new soap?
benadryl (diphenhydramine) can help with allergic reaction to new soap. adipex is a stimulant used for weight control along with diet and exercise. it can cause both adipex and benadyl can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia headache dizziness tremor palpitations and tachycardia. see physician for diagnosis need for adipex medication benefits and side effects dose and monitoring the medications
i've been lacking sleep drinking little water exercising less than usual and overeating for the past few days. i'm very bloated. how do i fix this?
i understand your discomfort. at age 16 traumatic experiences with unresolved feelings of hurt resentment shame guilt and stresses of relationship with parents siblings and boyfriend; separation peer pressure to use alcohol and drugs; school ; and to establish your identity can cause anxiety and depression. your emotional health is precious. see psychiatrist for therapy.
i am 26 and have been overweight since my teens. should i be worried about any heart problems or is my anxiety playing a role of me worrying so much?
independent risk factor for heart disease. you should be worried. in addition it also leads to other life shortening illnesses such as diabetes and hypertension. both of these disorders will lead to complications and a shortened life expectancy. lose weight. if you can't do it yourself ask your health care professional for help.
my doc wont do diagnostic tests for my symptoms i have fungal problems digestive problems excessive sweating fatigue back pain nausea anxiety and panic attacks night sweats chest pain weight loss eye floaters severe pmt im 34 female what tests should i as
for your symptoms of floaters you should see your eye doctor right away to see if it's the sign of a serious problem. as for your other symptoms they should warrant some further testing. if you feel you're not getting the proper care from your primary physician you should consider changing doctors or go to your local emergency room. chest pain can be a symptom of a very serious problem.
my doc wont do diagnostic tests for my symptoms i have fungal problems digestive problems excessive sweating fatigue back pain nausea anxiety and panic attacks night sweats chest pain weight loss eye floaters severe pmt im 34 female what tests should i as
there are really a thousand different tests which can be performed on the human body. i wouldn't begin to know which ones but seeing a new dr sounds like the best hext move for you if you are disatisfied with your current dr. i would start with a board certified internist or internal medicine doctor. good luck.
my bmi is 25. 5. i's this considered overweight? i'm 5'3 and weight 144 pounds.
this is just slightly over. do your best to increase your water and fruit and vegetable intake. and get 30 minutes of exercise. you can kill two birds with one stone with exercise like yoga since it will also help your anxiety!
my 70 yro diabetic mother in addition to the shoulder blade/chest pain is having fainting spells and weight loss. how concerned should i be?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
what painkillers and nerve suppressants do not cause weight gain?
best to discuss with the dr. who would be prescribing them for you. ibuprofen is an nsaid painkiller the would not cause weight gain and the benzodiazapine class of anti-anxiety meds do not particularly cause weight gain etc. discuss with your tx doctor best wishes.
i am sedentary obese have high bp scared of sudden death. are my chances of sudden death over 30%? i stay chronically stressed and have anxiety.
assessing the risk of sudden death is a serious process and can not be done based on a few words. a careful evaluation is required. you have identified some important areas of concern about your health and you should have a medical doctor guide you into better shape. get a consult here on healthtap or see a doctor in person to get started and get all your questions answered.
i am sedentary obese have high bp scared of sudden death. are my chances of sudden death over 30%? i stay chronically stressed and have anxiety.
staying sedentary and overweight increases chances of complications of obesity. these include diabetes high cholesterol and hypertension which are risk factors for coronary artery disease.
i am 4'10 105 pounds. i am slim build in an effort to become thin i tried hydroxycut recommend dose. can caffeine od cause throat pain? (i had other symptoms last night such as insomnia anxiety chest tightness irregular heart beat)
all the things you mentioned but so can poor diet. please see your doc because the symptoms you mention are dangerous. you also need to be evaluated for a possible eating disorder. peace and good health.
my mother is 64 over weight diabetic high blood pressure she is having chest pains fatigue and keeps falling we cannot figure out what is wrong she i?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
possibility as well as acid reflux post nasal drip anxiety/panic attack etc. get examined. god bless you!
is orlistat (alli) safe to take for someone who is on prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg daily? is it a safe medicine?
absorption and has no interactions with prozac (fluoxetine) simvistatin or allopurinol. grapefruit juice can significantly increase the blood levels of simvastatin. you are wise to review interactions when on medications. therapy may assist with anxiety obsessions and compulsions which can lead to fatigue. best regards for relief.
is a <0. 010 troponin level good? 22 y/o obese anxiety patient.
low troponin is not a problem.
is a <0. 010 troponin level good? 22 y/o obese anxiety patient.
as an isolated number that value is normal in a short and long-term context.
i have thyroid illness tsh is 4. 5 debilitating symptoms of menopause. severe anxiety illness. losing weight and tired. reoccuring infections. ?
b"sd based on your tsh your thyroid status is a little low so you should need some adjustment of your thyroid medication or make sure you are not missing doses as only a few missed pill per month can make a difference from great tsh ~ 1 to your value. menopausal sx's and others need attention. available to discuss details.
i have been presc. cymbalta (duloxetine) 60mg for anxiety and depression. i am afraid it will cause weight gain? i have bdd and am very self consious about wght?
duloxetine has a small chance of weight gain but most people don't get it. if you do get it rest assured that the medicine can be stopped or a counteracting medicine can be prescribed.
my son is taking ativan (lorazepam). 5 mg. works ok but makes him lose weight. 25lbs in 6 1/2 months. this makes his anxiety go up. what other pill works like ati?
while this is a very common story it is not good medicine to be on daily or chronic use of benzodiazepines. ativan (lorazepam) is in this class of drugs. it sounds like he is having negative effects from this and he should in my opinion stop the medication and get to his psychiatrist. or choose a new mental health provider to discuss safer and more effective drugs to prevent anxiety
what's better for binge eating most likely cause by anxiety. prozac or vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine)?
medication may not be the answer. anxiety can be helped by meds but first try a therapist who specializes in treating anxiety. some people find overeaters anonymous helpful for binge eating. finding things you can do to deal with the way you feel may be more effective than just looking for the right medication. i'm not saying that meds won't help but meds alone are often not a total solution.
i have a tsh of 2. 1 a clean ultrasound weight loss anxiety and insomnia with a left bulging eyeball maternal grandma had hashimotos any hints?
you could see an endocrinologist. there is long acting thyoid stimulating syndrome (lats) associated with bulging eyes but it takes sophiticated testing. this may not be related to the thyroid at all.
i think i have binge eating disorder. there are a lot of times that i go out for cravings eat food and then come back and wonder why i did it. suggest?
thank you for informing about obesity pantoprazole and chlordiazepoxide. it is not what you eat it is what is eating you! let the wise woman within you ask: being obese with cravings- due to unresolved feelings of sadness hurt guilt resentment frustration boredom or loneliness anxiety need for medications see psychiatrist for diagnosis therapy for cravings obesity anxiety; self-este
my jaw feels weird for around 15 sec a few times a day (swollen like) for and i hear sounds in my ear at the same time. no pain. can it be anxiety?
disorder of the tmj typically associated with jaw clicking or pain may also have some referred pain in the ear. you should see an oral surgeon or possibly an ent.
my jaw feels weird for around 15 sec a few times a day (swollen like) for and i hear sounds in my ear at the same time. no pain. can it be anxiety?
psychological. if there's no ear pain discharge fever or impaired movement of jaw i won't worry about it. enjoy life and seek a passion and purpose in your existence! <link>
what can i take to loose weight while on paraxitne? i am on it for anxiey i have tried cla and a few other things and in the end my anxiety flares up
paxil (paroxetine) is very tough to lose weight on. depending on your bmi and things like that will determine your calorie diet. adipex(phenetermine) has been very effective for weight loss while on paxil (paroxetine). very safe medicine.
i suffer from a personality disorder (mixed cluster b/c) depression anxiety and binge eating. how can i help myself recover and cope with life?
get a psychiatric evaluation for the symptomology that bothers you and consider possible medication management. then get a referral to a reputable clinician who specializes in whatever your issues may be.
i eat around 100cals a day & burn around 1 060cals at gym a day & consume laxatives and diet pills. im worried this might be an eating disorder? is it?
i wonder if you mean 1000 cal/day? i do not know your weight but my guess is that you are under weight. why don't you seek a consult to determines other issues; anxiety depression ptsd ocds personality disorder e. one strength in your favor is awareness of the problem and willingness to deal with it. congratulations! take the next step consult with a physician to guide your healthcare needs
i started to get nightmares and i start to shake and feel weird when i see an over weight person is that normal?
the physical symptoms you describe sound somewhat similar to those that can come with anxiety especially if a fear of wieight is present. developing and understanding for how this particular trigger functions to produce physical symptoms and developing skills for managing triggers for symptoms may help. consider consulting a healthtap psychologist for further guidance and clarification. be well
i get anxiety also start to shake and breathe hard when i see an overweight male. i recently started to get nightmares is that normal?
triggering anxiety. may be a conditioned response. have you had a bad experience w/and overweight male? consider seeing a mental health professional. peace and good health.
my hands and fingers began trembling slight swelling and reddening on the top 3 days ago. no change in diet meds or lifestyle. what could it be?
new tremor of the hands and fingers are seen in caffeine or nicotine excess withdrawal states overactive thyroid or anxiety but these conditions don't usually cause swelling and redness. if symptoms persist see your pcp for evaluation.
symptoms of weight loss heart palpitations stomach pain and respiratory distress. viral or anxiety?
anxiety last a long time (weeks-months) and can cause a vicious cycle of damages while a viral infection is self limited in time ( days to a week max) and people recuperates rapidly thereafter even without treatment. lasting anxiety needs long lasting treatment with psychotherapy or medications or both.
symptoms of weight loss heart palpitations stomach pain and respiratory distress. viral or anxiety?
so many conditions can present with those symptoms. your best bet will be to get a thorough evaluation to find out.
whenever i eat anything i get very sleepy. this results in not eating anything early in the day and wait until dinner. why am i still obese?
it is not what you eat it is what is eating you at age 53 stressors of relationships separation divorce parenting menopause work and finances can cause emotional turmoil in the mind affecting eating and sleeping. and causing anxiety and depression. not eating anything in the day is likely due to depression. eating big dinner and lack of exercise can cause obesity. see a psychiatrist.
would adding a diet pill harm me with the meds i'm already on as i had a hysto last year and since then can't lose the weight i gained? i have fibro.
it really depends on what other medications you take. your profile indicates you take xanax (alprazolam) and have a history of heart failure and atrial fibrillation. some of the more common medications and herbals used as 'diet pills" may worsen anxiety and increase heart rate. i think you should consult your cardiologist before adding any "diet pills".
what are the health consequences of eating too much food on a regular basis?
i admire you for your concern about your health! for many people eating is pleasure. some eat due to habit to cope with anxiety depression and loneliness. overeating of high food food could lead to obesity heart disease blood pressure and their complications. lack of control ann lower your self-esteem and may make you depressed. care for yourself. see your physician be fit not fat!
i am on 30mg remeron (mirtazapine). i have gained weight despite dieting and exercising. what can i do to reduce weight. should i give them up thanks?
i have just reviewed some information about remeron (mirtazapine) and am not comfortable that this should be taken regularly. i suggest you don't take any for now and see what happens to your weight. regarding your anxiety and headache i strongly recommend you get an appointment to see a psychologist please keep me informed.
my doctor prescribed effexor (venlafaxine) 37. 5 as an appetite suppressant. can it be used as an appetite suppressant since it's an anti depressant?
i have never used it as an appetite suppressant unless se you eat when you are anxious and he is trying to decrease your anxiety!
which one has fewer side effects profile regarding: weight gain fatigue and sleeping much motivated and erection dysfunction: zoloft or effexor (venlafaxine) xr?
both of these are indicated for same symptoms of anxiety depression etc. etc. they have almost similar side effects. individuals respond differently to each one of them. i know i may not have satisfied your request but this is what is known. best of luck
will low testosterone cause anxiety and weight gain?
is associated w/weight gain especially around the middle. it also triggers mood changes such as irritability and anxiety. see your doc for lab study and treatment. other hormones along the chain to testosterone may be the issue such as dhea but you need testing. diagnostechs lab in washington state has a good saliva test for this and saliva is preferred to blood but blood works. peace.
will low testosterone cause anxiety and weight gain?
low-t may happen to some men but rarely exist and stand alone; it's not directly related with emotion & bw but in conjunction with many healthy tissues such as metabolic syndromes long-term use of cns-effecting drugs such as opiate-related painkillers ssri lifestyle etc. so ask your doc for individual detail.
what's considered yoyo dieting? my weight ranges 3-4 kilos depending on metabolism or anxiety. is that a normal fluctuation?
yoyo dieting implies that someone diets and loses significant amounts of weight (greater than 20 lbs) and then regains that weight and usually more after stopping the diet. the fluctuation of up to 3-4 kilos ( 7-10 lbs) can be normal in a reproductive aged female with normal and predictable cycles. these changes can be a result of stressors hormones etc and are not worrisome.
is it possible to loose 2kg weight per week healthily? will depression or anxiety cause weight gain?
can be a factor in unintentional weight gain or weight loss. some folks are "stress eaters. " slow and steady is the best way to loose weight. please see your doctor to make sure your health is ok for diet and to obtain a good food plan for you. ask about low carb/higher protein food plan. peace and good health.
is a brain aneurysm rare or a brain hemorrhage? i am only 19 years old i do not smoke i am not over weight. living in fear of this happening to me
a person who has anxiety and has fear of brain aneurysms (without any normal reason to be fearing brain aneurysms) doesn't have an aneurysm problem but instead has a phobia. a phobia (excessive irrational fear) can be of one of many kinds and in this case happens to be of brain aneurysms. the problem is a psychological one and so are its exam and treatment. it has nothing to do with aneurysms.
my doctor gave me phentermine for my follow up from my anxiety medication. i'm taking lorazepam 0. 5mg. is there any drug interactions between the two?
one is a cns stimulant and the other is the opposite. there is a risk according to the literature of central nervous system (cns) depression. my advice would be to seek another opinion
my bmi is healthy but i'm always tired weak muscles and constant anxiety. do i need to eat more? i sleep fine.
w/chronic fatigue syndrome and the often related fibromyalgia. these are difficult to treat and disputed diagnoses. see your doc and a mental health professional. don't rely on medication only. peace and good health.
since i found out i have hyperthyroidism i can't get any fat and im looseing more body fat then i already have. weight 95 lb. size 0/1 jeans. been 6 mnth?
you need to see an endocrinologist and should not delay treatment any further! there are many manifestations of hyperthyroidism including weight/hair loss anxiety/irritability palpitations amenorrhea osteoporosis neurological symptoms just to name a few. while the most common cause is graves dz less common causes include thyroiditis/mng/hyperactive adenoma for which you need to be evaluated.
symptoms: chronic bloat fatigue panic attacks constipation inactivity and weight loss. my life revolves around the bathroom. please help me. ?
hard to give you an answer without exam and possible testing. the weight loss and panic attacks may be related and in fact all of this could be related to anxiety/depression and stress. however please make an appointment with a doctor so these important issues can be resolved.
what will happen if i take 4 green tea fat burner pills?
i don't the chemical content of each. too much caffeinated green teacan cause an increase in blood pressure for some people as well as gastrointestinal upset (nausea or vomiting) irritability or insomnia. it can interact with some medications. it could aggravate anxiety disorders diabetes & some bleeding disorders. some teas (especially black tea) contain tannic acid which if which if take
what could an isolated systolic high blood pressure 155max mean in a young adult healthy high hdl low ldl level no family history nor heart condition rhr 48-50 no symp bmi of 22 low salt intake. only a nodule on lung but harmless?
why are you aware of the problem? it could be anxiety from knowing about the bp being high fueling itself especially if you are worried and routinely checking. if doing home checks make sure the cuff is the right size. at your age "secondary causes" of htn have to be checked for and ruled out or treated if found. but need to know more and possibly get some tests. most importantly don't worry.
what is the safest anxiety medicine you can take with adipex. currently on prozac (fluoxetine) what could i take that won't affect each other?
i understand your need to have relief from anxiety. adipex can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia and tremors. taking prozac (fluoxetine) with adipex may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome- confusion hallucination seizure extreme changes in blood pressure coma and death. see psychiatrist for diagnosis medication benefits and side effects dose monitoring and therapy for stress in your life.
what is the safest anxiety medicine you can take with adipex. currently on prozac (fluoxetine) what could i take that won't affect each other?
probably not the greatest combination for someone with chronic anxiety. stimulants can overide the positive effect of most antianxiety agents and lead to potentially dangerous escalation of doses.
my boyfriend cannot get hard. we are very attracted to eachother and he's not too much overweight. any ideas as to why this is?
common reason for issues like this at this age are anxiety (like performance anxiety) related. but it's hard to say without more information. if he's really concerned he should talk to his pediatrician about this.
wbc has risen from 8. 1 to 15. 4 in under 6 months what could cause this? i also have fatigue anxiety depression weight loss and joint pain.
unfortunately the list of possible causes is huge. best to see and discuss with your doctor possible causes have thorough medical history and examination and then systematically attempt to prove/disprove possible causes. sorry this is not more helpful. best of luck with this. dr r
what can cause light period for couple months with recent lifestyle changes: lower fat diet/no sound sleep/traveling/stress/eating at diff time - bad?
emotional stress no sound sleep/traveling/ /eating at diff time and not balanced diet and exhaustion can cause light period. use of caffeine alcohol smoking and lack of exercise can contribute to light period. recent lifestyle changes are causing anxiety. do breathing and music relaxation meditation y and visual imagery. see psychiatrist for therapy for anxiety coping skills for stress.
with a normal cbc could these be anxiety symptoms? weight loss heavy period prolonged fever of 99. 4 diarehha nausea fatigue night sweating?
you deserve relief from these symptoms. nausea fatigue night sweating are likely due to stresses in your life causing anxiety due to which you feel overwhelmed. fatigue and weight loss are likely due to depression. for fatigue weight loss and prolonged fever of 99. 4 see physician for diagnosis. seeing psychiatrist for therapy relaxation and medication for anxiety and depression will help.
with a normal cbc could these be anxiety symptoms? weight loss heavy period prolonged fever of 99. 4 diarehha nausea fatigue night sweating?
that said it is also not unlikely that you suffer anxiety too. the fever while low-grade if not usual for you suggests some illness being fought. the others also require an exam to rule out a treatable illness. start there. also people are usually right when they sense anxiety in their life. pills can only help short term so consider learning good skills for mgmt in cbt therapy. it can help.
i bought garcinia cambogia pills so i may as well try them even though some ppl say it doesnt work. i take 40mg prozac for gad will these 2 interact?
used for weight loss exercise performance joint pain bloody diarrhea to increase bowel movements and for treating worms and parasites. evidence is weak. it may increase serotonin levels and therefore may have interaction with antidepressants such as prozac causing serious side effects including heart problems shivering and anxiety. review with prescriber. best regards.
i suffer with chronic insomnia and sleep apnea. i've taken different medications for depression anxiety and sleep many years. medications aren't work?
asleep is often associated w/anxiety while waking up early and not returning to sleep is associated w/depression. periodic waking is associated w/overall light sleep. a clinical psychologist can help w/stress management. peace and good health. natural treatment includes melatonin supplement but w/professional guidance. stop all stimulants after noon.
is it safe for me to take garcinia cambogia to aid in weight loss if i'm taking 15 mg of paxil daily for anxiety?
do not take any medication herbals over the counter medications or nutritional supplements without talking to your doctor who prescribed paxil. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex if you have sex.
male 43 year old professional no anxiety. playing sports healthy (bit overweight). i wake (for 2 weeks) with daily nausea in the morning. ok by 10?
i guess it's safe to assume you're not pregnant conditions that can cause morning nausea include acid indigestion (reflux) and post nasal drip both of which can be worse when you're lying down for a long time and more noticeable when you wake up. gallbladder dysfunction is also possible as are alcohol & certain medications taken at night. please see your doctor!
male 43 year old professional no anxiety. playing sports healthy (bit overweight). i wake (for 2 weeks) with daily nausea in the morning. ok by 10?
this may be something like gastric reflux but one or two other problems may exist. please see your primary care physician who i am sure will be able to get down to the bottom of your complaint.
no appetite - what is wrong? should i be happy and not eat to lose weight?
losing your appetite may seem like a great way to lose weight but there are possible causes that should be checked out like depression anxiety medications thyroid problems.
overcoming anxiety in the gym from being overweight?
wear bulky clothing at first for a while until you get comfortable. plus remember people are at the gym for themselves and are not really thinking about the way you look.
shortness of breath on mild activity like bathing playing cooking xray 2decho pft blood test ecg are normal? what to do now normal bmi no asthama
ask your doc to check you out for anxiety and vocal cord dysfunction.
started taking slim quick for women drink mix. could this worsen anxiety and chest pain that go along with anxiety? also what are effect of slim quick
they will not disclose contents but there have been known hospitalizations due to dehydration and cardiac issues. i would beware!
started taking slim quick for women drink mix. could this worsen anxiety and chest pain that go along with anxiety? also what are effect of slim quick
difficult to answer without knowing the contents of slim quick.
since i started taking lexapro (escitalopram) i am always hungry. even after eating a full meal i'm still craving more foods. is there any way to reduce this effec?
what happened with prozac (fluoxetine)? it causes weight loss usually. eat healthy foods with low calories and exercise. stop liquid calories in cokes or fruit juices and eat whole fruit instead. low carb diet may be better than low fat. is it helping depression or anxiety?
since i had my baby i have severe weakness anxiety panic feelings of doom irritable sleep apnea is this post partum depression? tests normal
within a year of your baby's birth - you may have post partum depression. there isn't enough info here to know. would encourage comprehensive psychiatric evaluation to know.
sir my cheeks are going inside day by day what should i do to regain my cheeks to normal position and have chubby cheeks.
please see your doctor. you have shared nothing with us not even your age let alone any medical conditions. are you 10 or 70? how are we too respond to you. you may also have anxiety or body dysmorphic syndrome and may benefit from consulting a psychiatrist.
severe sharp pain in ulq area while breathing and some movement. diagnosed with anxiety and small hiatal hernia last year not sure if related or not?
related. have it rechecked by your doctor to make sure. stress and anxiety can do many things!
there is a drug called ( lipo 6 black ultra concentrate ) i heared it helps to lose weight quickly i wanna know wt are the side effects of it?
possible lipo 6 black ultra concentrate side effects include headaches jitteriness nervousness irritability insomnia indigestion nausea dizziness anxiety facial flushing insomnia headache drowsiness dry mouth and an elevated heartbeat. some others also include heart attack stroke renal failure and kidney damage.
think o have sleep apnea. fatigue depression anxiety low oxygen suicide sleep deprivation weakness can't stand laziness light sleeper can't feel legs?
please talk to your physician immediately about this. a sleep study can confirm a diagnosis and treatment is essential.
think o have sleep apnea. fatigue depression anxiety low oxygen suicide sleep deprivation weakness can't stand laziness light sleeper can't feel legs?
and also get psg study done also.
think o have sleep apnea. fatigue depression anxiety low oxygen suicide sleep deprivation weakness can't stand laziness light sleeper can't feel legs?
may affect every aspect of your life. insomnia. suicidal thoughts depression and fatigue are common in people with sleep apnea. this condition can easily be diagnosed at a sleep clinic or by using a testing device worn overnight at home. visit your pcp for consultation.
what are the complications of binge eating disorder?
complications can include lowered self-esteem compromised quality of life loneliness/social isolation impaired social functioning depression anxiety and substance use disorders. medical complications include obesity heart disease type ii diabetes breathing problems during sleep acid reflux and joint problems. please consult a medical or mental health provider as treatments are available
i'm a 48 year old female going through perimenopause with major anxiety. i'm otherwise healthy and not overweight. was prescribed prozac and only to?
recommend you re-submit because the actual question was cut off.
joint pain hair and weight loss fatigue symptoms but all negative blood work. rheumatologist suggests a shrink. any other suggestions?
it depends on what blood work was normal. were thyroid functions tested or was it only rheumatoid serology tested? it may be anxiety or depression but it may be a medical condition as well. make sure you see your internist as well for a full work up.
lump in my throat. constantly drinking water. what could this be. how can i treat it. i have acide reflux hiatal hernia stomach ulcer anxiety.
the sensation of something stuck in the throat is common but poorly understood. it is often referred to as a "globus" sensation. probably not related to your hiatal hernia or gerd. it is not dangerous at all. anxiety could have something to do with it but that can be difficult to control as well. see your pcp for more advice but don't worry it won't hurt you.
lump in my throat. constantly drinking water. what could this be. how can i treat it. i have acide reflux hiatal hernia stomach ulcer anxiety.
i understand your discomfort with so many symptoms. these symptoms specially stomach ulcer are warning signs of not coping with life. stresses of relationships unresolved conflicts stresses of school work and finances may be causing emotional turmoil and anxiety please see a psychiatrist for psychiatric and medical diagnosis; and treatment including psychotherapy medication and meditation.
lump in my throat eyes feel heavy head feels cloudy feeling light headed. taking bp anxiety cholesterol meds smoke overweight sedentary work?
you may be experiencing side effects to your medication. contact your doctor as soon as possible.
low oxygen at night &on oxygen 2 liter at night only. tested for sleep apnea don't have it had a few hypopenas though. could it b heart prob or cancer?
sounds like an anxiety state to me i doubt anything serious have a check up
l renal failure due to reoccurring reflux. dx= crohns sleep apnea copd chronic fatigue anxiety. what could cause all of this? no answers so far!
it's likely that your conditions are not all coming from a single source. a physician would need to know more about your medical history social history and specifics surrounding each complaint in order to give helpful advice. you may want to have a health tap virtual on line consultation. a video/phone consultation or an inbox text consult is best. a real time text consult is not the best for you
lighter stools. not grey or white but light light brown with a tint of yellow. appetite fine no fever no weight loss but have anxiety. mucus too.
for now i strongly recommend you see a psychologist in order to control your anxiety. if the psychologist thinks you should also see a psychiatrist that would be good advice to follow. please let me know how things go.
lighter stools. not grey or white but light light brown with a tint of yellow. appetite fine no fever no weight loss but have anxiety. mucus too.
what you describe is well within normal for a bowel movement. please get some help with anxiety. you can learn to manage tricks your mind plays on you deal with situations and maybe get into a better life situation. do right by yourself
my gp has me on remeron and lyrica for anxiety. i have 4 st in 2 years despite exercising and dieting. what is causing the weight. many thanks?
on the one hand on the other hand. everything in life has its risks and its benefits. the main indication for prescribing remeron is for treatment of depression. it can also cause weight gain. you the patient have to discuss with your doc your concerns about the weight gain. there are other treatments for depression including cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) which does not involve drugs.
need expert advice. what health problems are related with teen obesity?
there are over 20 different medical conditions that have been linked with obesity. the damage is cumulative over time. they range from elevated cholesterol to high blood pressure to heart disease diabetes sleep apnea reflux asthma and arthritis. these over shadow the depression social isolation social dysfunction and anxiety all magnified as a teen and all related to obesity.
nightmares shake &anxiety when see an overweight male. not considered about my weight. nor have i had any attraction with an over. should i be worried?
there's no need to suffer while you try to solve the mystery. nightmares and anxiety can mess up your daily life and will not help figure out the cause. consider talk therapy (if you need rx - they'll refer) to explore possible meanings if you wish. it can have a connection to the past or not and what you want now is to feel less distress. best!
obese-binge eating-anxiety-unbarable hunger pain every 3 hours-gets better eating-ruled out diabetes throyd and gastroscopy was fine-what could it be?
you may have an eating disorder if you answer yes to two or more of the following: 1) do you force yourself to vomit because you're uncomfortably full? 2) do you worry that you've lost control over how much you eat? 3) have you lost >14 lbs in a 3 month period? 4) do you believe you're fat when others think you are too thin? 5) does thinking about food dominate your life? (from aarp magazine)
obese w/ pounding heart and awareness of heartbeat ( sometimes no pain) almost 24/7 for 3 months after course of clarithromycin. hr is normal and can drop to 50 at resting. ekg didn't show abnormal rhythm. what does this be?
with no evidence of abnormally fast heart rhythm or rates the sensation of a forceful heart beat is most likely an increased awareness of normal heart action and some anxiety although you must check to see that your blood pressure is not elevated and it's best to avoid caffeine and alcohol. heart rate of 50 at rest is not unusual. if symptoms persist check a heart holter monitor for 24 hours
pushed a lot every day to feel spleen since have sore & sharp feeling under ribs and left side. how long will that take to go away? had bad anxiety over 13cm spleen 1 mo ago now i think i hurt myself. feel fine otherwise. labs nml no weight loss.
a muscular cause of your discomfort is suspected caused by your continual poking for the spleen. i assume your lab work excluded mononucleosis or hematalogic disorders as a cause of your splenomegaly. if the discomfort persists or worsens get examined by your physician again.
questions regarding generalized anxiety disorder and cognitive behavioral therapy. how helpful is it?
very effective.
questions regarding generalized anxiety disorder and cognitive behavioral therapy. how helpful is it?
cognitive behavioral therapy has been shown to be helpful for a variety of anxiety disorders. you may also find that you get even better benefit using a combination of medication and therapy at least until the anxiety is under better control.
questions regarding generalized anxiety disorder and cognitive behavioral therapy. how helpful is it?
it is important to find a psychologist that provides a structured cognitive behavioral therapy program because some providers just end up chit chatting with you instead of providing the same structured cbt program that the reseach has found to be very helpful.
respected sir i am 34 years old i am doing bodybuilding before competition my trainer advice me to take testostrine injection so i wan know side effe?
of testosterone injection includes breast enlargement headache anxiety increased hair growth numbness tingling in limbs and decreased sexual libido. long term testosterone injections lead to shutting down of testes function (gonadal suppression) which will cause shrinkage of gonads heart attack stroke and blood clots.
reading about garcinia cambogia. wondering if its ok to take with gad. on lexapro (escitalopram) 10mg. will it make my anxiety worse or maybe better?
garcinia cambogia is a small fruit from india. its rind contains hydroxycitric acid (hca) -- it's used as a weight loss aid but the research evidence is mixed. it is probably safe unless you're diabetic on oral hypoglycemic agents or are on statins. i could find no specific interaction with lexapro (escitalopram). there's no information about its effects on anxiety. please discuss with your own physician.
severe gastroparesis throw up everyday. mostly liquid diet. how do i ensure i'm getting theb right nutrients to be as healthy as possible?
your symptoms need better medical management before looking for alternate means of nutrition. how was your gastroparesis diagnosed? is it possible that anxiety/panic plays a significant role in your vomiting spells? would suggest talking to your doc about your symptoms.
slight equilibrium issue - not real dizziness never fainted not really light headed either. 32 yrs old no known fam his non smoker slightly overweight could it be carotid artery/heart issue?
your mild imbalance can be weakness in one of your inner ear. need vestibular testing to rule it out. anxiety and insomnia can also lead to brain fog feelings.
too worried - losing too much weight i'm chemo for metastic colon cancer as no appetite. is 1 stone a lot to lose in 7 weeks?
if your oncologist has not been able to help you improve your appetite with medication you may ask him/her if cannabis(medical marijuana) is appropriate for you. studies show that it increases appetite and thus the pleasure derived from sharing good tasting food with friends and family. it may also calm anxiety and improve sleep and mood. it may not however prevent continued weight loss.
tubal ligation w/ c-section on 06/12/14 failed ablation on 04/30/15. now feeling pregnancy symptoms. severe cramping last 2 months. excessive hair loss. easy bruising. sudden unintentional weight loss. constant migraines. tons of acne. would it be possi
i understand your distress. stresses of relationship separation failed ablation and feeling pregnancy symptoms have led to unresolved feelings of worry fear hurt resentment shame and guilt. anxiety symptoms are- constant migraines and tons of acne; depression symptoms -weight loss and excessive hair loss. see gynecologist for pregnancy. see psychiatrist for therapy for stresses and feelings
unexplained weight loss? losing 30 pounds in a year span with no excerise or diet is that normal? could it be anxiety?
first rule out physical. depression or anxiety both have the shared symptom of unexplained and undesired weight loss or gain. something in your system is working overtime. of course it can certainly be related to other health problems. if the undesired loss of weight is a function of an ongoing low-grade emotional problem an adult may benefit from asking "is something 'eating away' at me? "
visible pulse in jugular (random) heartbeat twitch in legs. i am 24y/o female 230lbs and 5'2. not many other symptoms. cheeks get warm and flushed. ?
anxiety is making you aware of normal processes
wt: 318lbs 5'9". meds: 50mg atenolol-1x/day and 1x olmesartan 40mg. bp normal w/meds but have heart palpitations sometimes even when working out. maybe its atentolol wearing out in evening. happens when eating certain food then causes anxiety. why?
"long acting beta blocker. . however ask your health care professional if you can switch to 25mgm twice a day! (there are 25 mgm pills) hope this helps dr z
could a little hiatus hernia cause prolonged chest pain shortness of breath palpitations diarrea? did a catheterism all was ok but chest pain continues
a hh may cause some chest pain as the small intestine pushes up and "herniates" through your diaphragm near the cardiac area thus causing "heart burn" and chest discomfort. anxiety associated with this can cause many of the other symptoms as well. keep getting evaluated and treated best wishes.
why does my husband not come to my breast biopsy?
it's a mistake to try to second-guess another's thoughts even the person you love the most. you are committed to one another and you'll do well always to assume the best. he knows how private and personal this is for you. he is worried about being an embarrassment. he was concerned about losing control because of his own anxiety. but he isn't indifferent. i'm glad you have each other.
can being on a diet and vigorous exercising affect your chances of trying to conceive?
would be if notnot ovulating due to excess physical or mental stress. in this case you stop ovulating because the brain stops signaling the ovaries to ovaries. it can be seen in marathon runners starvation or in severe anxiety disorder. it appears you are still on the pill. if unable to conceive after 1 year that's an issue 2 examine. pregnancy rates are about 20% a month w/o contraception.
can't lose weight i'm 135 lbs normally 120 lbs. healthy diet. i exercise starved myself thyroids are normal. could it be i am magnesium deficient?
inbility to lose weight means you need to get a resting metabolism rate done to see what you can eat to maintain weight vs lose weight. also subclinical thyroid is important to treat as well as adrenal fatigue which can cause weight gain or difficulty losing weight and vitamins. magnesium can help with insomnia anxiety muscle cramps but not with weight loss. food intolerances r a possiblity.
can a small hiatal hernia cause a feeling of a band of pressure across the top of my stomach and can anxiety cause fatigue? recently diagnosed with barrett's and small hiatal hernia while experiencing ibs-like symptoms i. e. diarrhea loose stool upon
hernia will not give ibs. or a band like feeling.
can a small hiatal hernia cause a feeling of a band of pressure across the top of my stomach and can anxiety cause fatigue? recently diagnosed with barrett's and small hiatal hernia while experiencing ibs-like symptoms i. e. diarrhea loose stool upon
a small hiatal hernia can possibly cause a band-like pressure in the upper abdominal region but is unlikely to do so. you're symptoms are complex in nature and close followup with an expert gastroenterologist is your best course of action. your symptoms of fatigue and anxiety may have many causes and you will be best served by having an attentive primary care physician to help you identify the root cause(s) of your symptoms.
how much sleep do i need per night to manage my weight?
sleeping is so vitally important for good health. it is when we recharge our battery and it enables us to thrive. lack of good consistent sleep can not only be dangerous to our body ( high blood pressure depression anxiety) but to others. good sleeping habits allow your body to function at its peak and burn calories efficiently.
how can we detect binge eating disorder by its signs?
binge eating disorder is extremely common among people who are overweight. patients eat a large amount of food usually until it is gone with a feeling of loss of control. often there is underlying anxiety depression stress and shame and therapy (either analytical or cognitive behavioral) can be very helpful. it is important to see someone with expertise in this area.
how can you stop binge eating and regain health without the extra weight?
counseling with a counselor who is skilled at treating eating disorders is in order. a psychiatric eval may also help to see if there are emotional issues underlying the eating disorder. depression abuse paranoia traumatic losses or injuries severe anxiety marital work or financial issues can all contribute to binge eating. solving that should keep weight off. " non-fattening" meds may help.
how can i lose weight on lexapro (escitalopram)?
lexapro (escitalopram) is not a weight loss medication. it treats anxiety and depression which can aalso be associated with appetite changes. one of the possible side effects of lexapro (escitalopram) is loss of appetite but that doesn't mean you will get that. make sure you exercise at least 30 minutes a day don't skip meals avoid soda juice dairy alcohol and fried foods. eat a healthy well balanced diet!
how does the hcg diet work?
the weight loss is due to the severe caloric restriction. in men with low testosterone and normal testicles it may work better because the hcg will increase the testosterone level. in women hcg may increase progesterone. higher progesterone may lead to less anxiety and therefore less eating. overall smart eating plus increased activity is a better choice.
help please! what drugs are good for anxiety and obsessive compulsive disorders that won't cause weight gain?
bezodiazepines dont cause weight gain work well but can be addicting so use cautiously. hydroxyzine (vistaril) and buspirone (buspar) are minimally effective & don't cause weight gain they deal mostly with anxiety & may help ocd some. the best meds long term are serotonergic or dual acting antidepressants (serotonergic/noradrenergic) for both anxiety and ocd but most can cause some weight gain.
help please! what drugs are good for anxiety and obsessive compulsive disorders that won't cause weight gain?
first there is no free lunch and second weight gain usually depends on what u eat how much u eat and how much u exercise eat fruit vegetable avoid junk food and excersize and most likely. u will be ok. in addition u can talk with u prescribing provider.
help please! what drugs are good for anxiety and obsessive compulsive disorders that won't cause weight gain?
the serotonin reuptake inhibitors are the place to start. it's not a given that they all cause weight gain. i'd recommend lexapro/celexa or prozac to start. i'd avoid paxil (paroxetine) at first.
had partial thyroidectomy in '96. since 2002 have continued to lose weight. diagnosed with hypo but i have all symptoms of hyper tried synthroid but it sped up the weight loss and i never stop losing adds to my severe insomnia. once i stopped taking syn
it sounds like you have had a very complicated course since your thyroidectomy. your symptoms really concern me (high cholesterol anxiety rapid pulse) and i would suggest that you should have a complete endocrinology evaluation but you may also have other issues going on. you can't be both hypo- and hyper-thyroid but there could be co-existing conditions. please notify your doctor and have a complete evaluation of your symptoms.
how to beat binge eating habits?
binge eating has many causes. the link to depression or nerves means you want these treated. sam-e never adds weight for depression. anxiety is common and many eat themselves into "comfort. " make sure you sleep 8 plus hours and have some fun or you will play with food to offset overwork. what does food do for you? know answer and on the right road.
how does behavior therapy help someone with social anxiety?
behavior therapy and cbt can help you better understand and control your social anxiety. the psychologist will typically give you insights and homework assignmetns to practice in between sessions. cbt helps you replace the irrational thoughts creating the social anxiety.
how do i control overeating?
have to be determined the possible(s) causes. depression compulsive behavior hormones abnormalities anxiety disorder abnormal thyroid psychological causes and others. depending of your age you can see a pcp fp ped good medical history physical exam help+ some lab test. one way to control overeating found the problem and receive good advise.
how many times of binging and purging until you are considered a bulimic?
binging and purging deliberately meaning not due to illness or side effect is abnormal and dangerous behavior. it is not like having one drink. exploring the underlying reasons is important. is it to control anxiety depression or weight? there are better and safer ways to address these problems. seek help rather than trying to figuire out what is a safe amount there is none.
how common is weight gain on luvox? how about abilify (aripiprazole)?
luvox is an ssri antidepressant that is used to treat obsessive-compulsive dx social anxiety dx and depression. jazz pharmaceuticals indicates that luvox has a "weight-neutral profile. " abilify (aripiprazole) is an anti-psychotic that is now also used to treat bipolar disorder and depression. abilify (aripiprazole) may work by decreasing dopamine and increasing serotonin. weight gain occurs infrequently.
how is binging related to depression anxiety and / or stress?
binging is an end result in a cycle of painful experience and emotion. it's a way to discharge distress. the distress could be depression anxiety "stress " or whatever is bugging you. one's triggers can be very individual. some people also "purge" after the binges. overall this pathway has many problematic results for health. help is available. <link>
how is binging related to depression anxiety and / or stress?
binge eating is a way of coping with difficult feelings by turning to food. the behavior with food expresses underlying issues conflicts or problems. bingeing feels like “the” problem but it is actually a “symptom” of deeper problems emotions or conflicts such as anxiety depression relationship difficulties etc. when you respond kindly to your feelings you stop using food to cope.
how much alcohol abuse does it take for the onset of liver disease?
some people are resilient and can absorb a lot withut results till late. but mental consequences are disastrous to self and family and to all your loved ones. it is deadly inherited and younger generations suffer much more than the first gen from schizophrenia and severe mental problems along with alcoholism. autism also is a result on kids adhd disabling anxiety. treat now.
can obesity lead to social anxiety?
if a child is self-conscious about his/her size then he/she may decide to avoid contact with peers and to avoid being seen in public.
can obesity lead to social anxiety?
obesity can sometimes be associated with a poor self image and a lack of confidence and either of these will certainly increase the likelihood of developing social anxiety. that said many obese people don't have social anxiety disorder and many people who do have social anxiety disorder are not obese. one does not automatically lead to the other.
can taking time to relax each day help me lose weight?
taking time to relax or meditate every day can help you lose weight in several ways. it can decrease anxiety and anxiety associated eating. it can also increase your general sense of wellbeing and this can help you stay motivated with a weight loss program.
hbp was 186/110 with anxiety & horrid diet(lisinopril/amlodipine) was good b4 diet now a week on labetalol/htz wit strict diet 13<negative_smiley>98? feedback?
you seem a bit better. continue working with your doctor for bp control and diet recommendations.
can someone tell me the best home remedy for ed resulting from type 2 diabetes?
diabetes control. treat hypertension. check testosterone thyroid level. screen for anemia. treat depression/anxiety. in other words always look for possible causes and treat them. then consider options like viagra (sildenafil) cialis etc.
how can cognitive behavior therapy and medication help someone with social anxiety?
cbt can change ways of thinking and dealing with anxiety related symptoms.
how can cognitive behavior therapy and medication help someone with social anxiety?
generally by learning relaxation and visual imagery techniques to replace and combat the physiological arousal and avoidance that is created by anxiety. see: <link> and <link>
can antidepressants and anti anxiety meds cause extreme fatigue and weight gain?
some of these medications are more prone to these side effects than others. consult with your physician to select medications that minimize this risk.
can antidepressants and anti anxiety meds cause extreme fatigue and weight gain?
medications used to treat anxiety and depression (some of the same medications treat both at the same time others do not) have been known to cause weight gain in some patients and weight loss in others - and excessive sleep in some people and insomnia in others. it depends on the specific medication and each person’s unique chemistry and there is no predicting how it will affect each person.
can i take phentermine chantix and celexa (citalopram). i'm healthy and lowestdoseof each?
diet drugs while they work only provide a relatively small benefit that only lasts as long as you take them and insurance does not pay for them. chantix has some very serious side effects including suicide so i would stay away (use the more traditional patches sprays and pills). celexa (citalopram) is a good drug for depression and anxiety but can have side effects. of these 3 this is the best choice.
could this all weight gain be anxiety related?
not uncommon for anxious people to overeating if food brings calming effect. in your case not sure how much weight u put on over how long if u r on medications or have medical issues that contribute to increase appetite so i recommend evaluation by your pcp.
hyperthyroid symptoms w/ normal tsh. weight loss/hunger fatigue/sleep prob puffy face sweat low blood sugar anxiety dizzy if stand dry skin acne
need to talk to your primary care doctor for full workup to rule out other metabolic causes.
hyperthyroid symptoms w/ normal tsh. weight loss/hunger fatigue/sleep prob puffy face sweat low blood sugar anxiety dizzy if stand dry skin acne
that is all true. what is your question question?
have bipolar and take phentermine can the phentermine bring on a manic episode?
phentermine is known to induce mania like symptoms even in people who do not have bipolar disorder. phentermine is to be taken with great caution under the supervision of physician as it is habit forming causes mood changes anxiety irritability hallucinations and aggression.
can a healthy diet and a daily exercise regime help with anxiety?
healthy diet and daily exercise helps keep you grounded in a good way. exercise is both a good distraction from -- and discharge of -- pent-up anxious feelings. it's good also to put in place some kind of daily spiritual or relaxation practice -- this can involve physical activity also such as yoga or tai chi. healthy diet with plenty of omega 3's and antioxidants can help stabilize neurons too.
chronic abdominal pain upper right quadrant cramping pain takes breath away nauseous off solid food no weight loss please help been told its anxiety and i know it's not?
you need to be seen. this likely represents issues with your liver or gallbladder.
chronic abdominal pain upper right quadrant cramping pain takes breath away nauseous off solid food no weight loss please help been told its anxiety and i know it's not?
several things come to mind from liver gall bladder bowels effect of substances or medications etc. best to consult a gastroenterologist for more advice.
how frequent anxiety attacks linked to testosterone levels in a 29 year old physically healthy male? can't build muscle nor lose weight. please advise
get off all the sodas and other sugary and caffeinated beverages to help with the anxiety. exercise an hour a day. talk to your doctor about the rest.
how frequent anxiety attacks linked to testosterone levels in a 29 year old physically healthy male? can't build muscle nor lose weight. please advise
get off all the sugary and caffeinated beverages that you consume. exercise an hour a day. talk to your doctor about the rest.
how frequent anxiety attacks linked to testosterone levels in a 29 year old physically healthy male? can't build muscle nor lose weight. please advise
high testosterone may lead to rages and emotional fluctuations. however this is generally rare unless you are taking supplemental testosterone at higher than recommended doses. if you are concerned about your levels see your internist or endocrinologist who will measure your serum concentrations and provide better answers to your questions following a thorough evaluation.
how can i better deal with my health anxiety? i have taken to incredibly healthy eating and i was alright for a while but now its back.
the most effective treatment for anxiety is relaxation training coupled with cognitive therapy that helps you modify the thoughts perceptions and beliefs that trigger the anxiety. learn to accept uncertainty. talk to a mental health professional who treats anxiety.
how can i better deal with my health anxiety? i have taken to incredibly healthy eating and i was alright for a while but now its back.
excessive anxiety related to physical symptoms or a medical condition sometimes referred to as "health anxiety" or "hypochondriasis" is typically thought of as a type of obsessive compulsive disorder: people are tormented by repeated unwanted thoughts of their health fear: <link> com/lib/ocd-and-health-anxiety/ it responds to exposure and response prevention treatment -a form of cbt
can going off zoloft (sertraline) cause weight gain/bloating? will this side effect go away the longer your off?
zoloft (sertraline) is anti depressant and anti anxiety medication usually among his side effect ; sexual side effect upset stomach and can cause weight gain. u may have stopped it suddenly and u r experiencing withdral symptoms
can your anxiety levels be high and you not actuallly feel tit? im 22 with bouts of shortness of breath i wshould i be concerned that i got heart disease this early? im not obese im thin and don't smoke but exposed to 2nd hand smoke
anxiety may manifest itself in many different ways. high anxiety level may mimic the symptoms of a heart attack and/or respiratory condition. sometimes also physical conditions may trigger anxiety. get first reassured on your physical health by having a physical exam and lab work-up done by your general practitioner to rule out any medical condition before seeing any therapist or psychiatrist.
can your anxiety levels be high and you not actuallly feel tit? im 22 with bouts of shortness of breath i wshould i be concerned that i got heart disease this early? im not obese im thin and don't smoke but exposed to 2nd hand smoke
u seems to be having panic attacks which is sudden on set of chest pain. shortness of breath and diziness. it is very common and about 90 percent of patients who goes to the er for chest pain has it.
can a person be addicted to sugar? when i try to cut out sweets i feel crummy and crave them even more. how can i cut down w/out feeling like that?
yes you can be addicted to sugar. there are chemical neurotransmitters and hormones that make people crave carbohydrates in particular which simples sugars and starches are digested to quite easily. this is particularly common in people that sleep less than 6 hours nightly and under stress/anxiety. small meals heavy in protein and avoidance os simple carbs using more complex carbs can help.
can anxiety cause back and abdomen pain? i also have a hiatal hernia could this cause sharp chest pain? all heart test came back normal.
anxiety can have many effects on the body such as those you have described. best to rule out conditions that can put you at an immediate health risk and then seek a psychiatry referral. <link>
can anxiety cause back and abdomen pain? i also have a hiatal hernia could this cause sharp chest pain? all heart test came back normal.
anxiety tends to aggravate existing pain and your areas of discomfort are typical. see a cardiologist to rule out heart illness.
can anxiety cause back and abdomen pain? i also have a hiatal hernia could this cause sharp chest pain? all heart test came back normal.
hiatal hernia can cause chest pain but so can reflux and esophageal spasm. see a general surgeon with experience treating gerd or a gastroenterologist for a consultation. you may need some tests to figure it out.
causes of low resting hr of 52 in 32yo? bmi of 32 high cholesterol little exercise but healthy bp & 3 normal ekg's. have anxiety & low potassium.
your resting heart rate is likely normal if you are not having any other symptoms.
can creatine (or whey protein) use during an intense weight training regimen cause a hormonal imbalance? if so can this lead to acne breakout?
the stress of a excessive excercise can play a trick on your brain so that you don't stimulate your ovaries. then again if having periods your ovarian hormones are ok. people pin irritability on ovarian hormones when they are not the primary issues. if you are not sleeping well at night anxiety may be creating issues that feel "hormonal".
could loud snoring just be anxiety while sleeping?
snoring is serious and should be evaluated by a physician. various typical reasons could be: decreased airway space enlarged tongue uvula and/or tonsils. plus many other causes. possibly an at home or facility sleep study needs to be performed to evaluate more thoroughly and determine if obstructive sleep apnea is present.
can i take hydroxycut while i'm on levothyroxine?
none of the stimulant weight-loss products on the market are safe. they are known for causing cardiac arrhythmias headaches urinary retention anxiety & depression renal insufficiency sleep disorders and fatigue. there is no such thing as a fat burner. see your doctor for diet and exercise recommendations and do not take any supplements unless under a doctor's management.
can i take xanax (alprazolam) with phentermine?
while not an interaction the combo is a dangerous path. phentermine used to diet causes anxiety taking a tranquilizer xanax (alprazolam) to counter the anxiety is not logical and can lead to escalating patern of drug use. sedatives by calming may reverse any benefit from the diet pills. if the diet pill causes so much anxiety that you need another med to counter it its not worth taking. see a dietician.
why do women get breast implants? is it a man reason in general?
this may be one of the reasons but it is not the best. some women get it for women reasons. the best reason is to achieve realistic expectations and improve one's self confidence and esteem if this is a source of anxiety not accomplished by other non-surgical methods.
will aspirating breast cyst show cancer cells or i'm just being paranoid?
your anxiety to your doctor. they may aspirate the cyst to give you peace of mind. reasonable request on your part.
can you mix zoloft (sertraline) and weight loss pills?
i would not recommend that due to excess stimulation effect (agitation anxiety etc. ).
can anxiety disorder and associated meds aggravate sleep apnea?
in general narcotics or any sedating medications (benzos for anxiety) will worsen sleep apnea as it suppresses breathing. anxiety in general may cause insomnia but should not necessarily influence sleep apnea itself. talk with your physician and sleep specialist if you're having trouble.
can anxiety disorder and associated meds aggravate sleep apnea?
some anti anxiety medications especially the benzodiazepines are also muscle relaxants and depending on their dose may depress the respiratory center hence may have effect on sleep apnea.
can anxiety disorder and associated meds aggravate sleep apnea?
yes sedatives can aggravate sleep apnea. some anxiety medications such as buspar (buspirone) may be an alternative.
can anxiety disorder and associated meds aggravate sleep apnea?
the sedatives taken for the anxiety can worsen the sleep apnea. s. a. itself can cause anxiety and depression.
could excess and anxiety cause unexplained weight loss? i don't now what else it can be because i'm eating normally but keep losing weight.
what you mean by excess. anxiety can cause weight loss but if you were my client and you had a sudden weight loss with no other significant changes i would encourage you to see your physician and check for other reasons. it could be a reaction to the mess or another illness. check it out and let us know what you discover.
could excess and anxiety cause unexplained weight loss? i don't now what else it can be because i'm eating normally but keep losing weight.
consider hyperthyroidism which can cause both weight loss and anxiety.
having anxiety reading posts on net about effects of gallbladder removal. will it cause weight gain change my metabolism vitamin deficiencies ibs?
bloggers and posts indicate the unusual experience of someone who is not satisfied. stick with the larger medically reviewed websites if you are going to seek wisdom from the internet.
having anxiety reading posts on net about effects of gallbladder removal. will it cause weight gain change my metabolism vitamin deficiencies ibs?
you are right to be concerned about the effects of removing gallbladders; i believe this should be the last resort rather than initial treatment. i've had many patients have great success with natural therapies to dissolve gallstones & flush them out of the liver/gallbladder. see <link> & the amazing liver and gallbladder flush by andreas moritz.
how can sleep apnea affect your life?
quality of life changes due to apprehension & anxiety!
what can a 19 year old male do for severe gynecomastia?
is the condition on 1 side only or on both sides? is there redness swelling pain discharge (milky or pus)? do you take any medications like tagamet (cimetidine) anabolic steroids anxiety meds (valium etc) antidepressants like elavil digoxin or calcium channel blockers (heart meds) hiv meds (sustiva) chemotherapy? are you overweight: excess fat has an estrogenic effect. discuss with fp to find cause.
how effectively does zoloft (sertraline) work for anxiety insomnia and does it cause weight loss?
zoloft (sertraline) can be very effective for treating anxiety. insomnia can occur occassionally as a side effect. when that happens i usually recommend that it be taken in the morning. it can cause weight loss or gain (but weight gain is more common).
how do doctors determine if it's nocturnal panic attacks or sleep apnea?
a panic attack is a violent and unreasoning anxiety and fear. sleep apnea is when you stop breathing in your sleep. you may experience daytime sleepiness memory problems and lack of concentration. snoring and high blood pressure are frequently associated with sleep apnea. you will frequently wake up at least 3-4 times per night and may experience insomnia.
what are the pros and cons of getting the brca breast genetic test if you are just curious about your risks?
genetic testing for curiosity should be undertaken with caution. if interested in testing first see a geneticist to understand all of the pros and cons of testing. in general: pros= better understanding of cancer risk which can then be used to make a cancer prevention plan. cons =expensive ($1500-$4000) potential for life insurance discrimination anxiety guilt uncertainty family tension
what is the best way to deal with anxiety after breast cancer?
know that anxiety after breast cancer is very common! interact with other survivors through an exercise group support group or by volunteering. find a doctor who will really listen to your concerns. and be gentle with yourself. you have faced life and death and you will always be changed by the experience. your anxiety is normal and it will lessen with time. peace and healing to you!
what is the best way to deal with anxiety after breast cancer?
to answer this question you will need to know why do you feel anxiety: worried about recurrence or metastasis? did not complete prescribed regimen? high risk factors? new lump? abnormal mammogram? it is normal to have some anxiety after being treated. i recommend you meet with your oncology team to address this. it would be important to meet with a mental health professional to help.
what is the best way to deal with anxiety after breast cancer?
there are several ways to deal with anxiety after breast cancer. supportive psychotherapy and supportive environment are very important. group support therapy. biofeedback relaxation techniques mindfulness are also effective modalities to consider. you may take a look on bmt combination of biofeedback and music to relieve the anxiety: <link>
what is the best way to deal with anxiety after breast cancer?
many of my patient find that there is a huge network of breast cancer supports. look to see if your oncologists program has support groups or survivorship programs. cancer navigators can also help steer you to help. some useful web sites are the komen foundation and living beyond breast cancer. be open to support and let your friends an family help on your journey.
can you take duromine 30 prozac (fluoxetine) and valium?
this is a question best answered by the prescribing physician. anxiety insomnia and depression can all be adversely affected by the combination. habit formation due to underlying depression as well as due to the re-enforcing effects of valium and phenermine may set in. better options are probably available.
can i take phentermine and ritilan at the same time?
both drugs are amphetamine derivatives and stimulants. alone and particularly together they will increase blood pressure cause anxiety and insomnia and can increase the risk of having a stroke. both are also addictive. i would never prescribe them together.
how are anxiety and a hiatus hernia different?
anxiety or sometimes called "globus hystericus" can cause some people to feel a sticking sensation in their throat after eating and even cause trouble swallowing. a hiatus hernia is an anatomical defect at the diaphragm that allows the stomach to rise into the chest. this may or may not cause any symptoms at all. see your doctor for complete history and physical exam and perhaps egd.
hi can anyone tell me if liposlim is safe to take?
liposlim is a diet supplement that contains caffeine green tea green coffee beans ginger etc. if you have anxiety or are sensitive at all to stimulants it will probably make you jittery. also the company makes a lot of claims that are hard to support. so it may be unsafe for your wallet also.
what should be my first steps if i have a painful breast lump?
most painful breast lumps are benign cysts. these can usually be resolved quickly in a simple office aspiration. you physician may choose to order a mammogram first but if it feels like a simple cyst an office aspiration can resolve the issue and your anxiety!
wife had breast cancer 1 yr ago now her blood pressure is running very high. 180/120. dr gave her meds but it has not come down.?
other factors may be involved for inability to control her hypertension first speak to her doctor may change medication or dose it is not unusual to get depressed get anxiety or stress attacks may play a roll have to seek professional help ( psychiatrist ) as part of treatment.
does type 2 diabetes and diabetic retinopathy qualify you for a medical marijuana?
you must be from california. mary jane (that'll date me) is used by many (perhaps 10 million regular users in america) for relaxation pleasure reducing stress and anxiety nausea caused by chemotherapy appetite enhancement in chronically ill people. most 'prescriptions' written for medical marijuana are. simply an unethical way of getting marijuana.
could high blood pressure from obesity and anxiety plus stress be completely cured?
weight loss combined with low salt diet can certainly reduce & even cure high bp if obesity is causing any arterial or arteriolar compression. similarly reucing or removing stress & anxiety from your life can relieve nerye impulses to arerioles which in turn will contract less and bp will be reduced.
does eating magic mushrooms cause you to lose weight?
"magic mushrooms" is what most people call hallucinogenic mushrooms which have psilocybin as their most active component. i believe my colleague is speaking of another kind of mushrooms other than these hallucinogenic ones. used recreationally "magic" mushrooms can produce anxiety panic and even psychosis. psilocybin content is unpredictable in these. they are not a weight loss aid.
does a normal ekg and normal blood test mean my heart is okay? i'm a sixteen year old female over weight. bad anxiety i always think something is wrong with my health. i now think i have a heart problem but the er and the doctor says it's just my anx
given your age a typical work up like the one i assume you have had based on what you have mentioned anxiety is a high likelihood for feeling of increased heart rate or even panic like symptoms that feel like chest pain shortness of breath and makes you feel like you are having a heart attack. however it is important to continue to be cautious and monitor your symptoms.
does a normal ekg and normal blood test mean my heart is okay? i'm a sixteen year old female over weight. bad anxiety i always think something is wrong with my health. i now think i have a heart problem but the er and the doctor says it's just my anx
your anxiety could definitely be causing your heart to race (palpitations) if an ekg was done and the correct blood tests were done then your heart is probably ok. however it might be wise to see your primary care provider because often times the er only does limited testing. for example a thyroid test should have been done and it's possible that it was not done in the er. your doctor will be able to thoroughly go over your symptoms with you and order all the appropriate studies to make sure you are in good health. if in fact the anxiety is the cause of your symptoms there are treatment options that will help you deal with this issue and hopefully result in a decrease in your physical symptoms. on the other hand if any other medical issues are found in addition to your anxiety those will also be addressed. good luck.
do any of those drug store weight lose methods work i want to jump start my diet and drop ten lbs as quick as?
if they didn't work; they wouldn't be on the market for long. unfortunately some of them contain ephedrine-like compounds that can cause rapid heartbeats anxiety sleepless and elevations in blood pressure that could precipitate strokes or heart attacks in people prone to it. check out my website for safe and effective weight loss methods www. medacpc. com.
can u take phentermine with anxiety meds?
if one needs anti-anxiety medications such as ssri's for an anxiety disorder than using phentermine may not be appropriate as anxiety is one of the most common side effects and can cause panic episodes. please discuss with your doctor.
can a combination of metformin topamax (topiramate) phentermine and wellbutrin help you lose weight?
there are several drug interactions between these 4 medications and phentermine and wellbutrin (bupropion) could both increase anxiety significantly. consult your prescriber and discuss this combination thoroughly with her/him.
can you develop heart disease or diabetes type ii from a week or so of lack of sleep and interrupted anxious sleep? <negative_smiley>
not a direct cause of heart disease or diabetes. could worse the disease when establish. you mention you have chest pain and difficulty breathing and insomnia all symptoms of anxiety and/or depression. another possibility is asthma angina (doubt) gerd. see your physician for a better assessment through a physical and history.
can i take prozac (fluoxetine) with a. c. e. diet pills?
there is no problem taking any ssri antidepressant with the diet pills. these appear to contain caffeine and cocoa which can increase anxiety. but they do not react with medicines like prozac (fluoxetine). if you take prozac (fluoxetine) for anxiety though be aware of the amount of caffeine you use.
describe the features of binge eating.?
binge eating involves eating a large amount of food impulsively in one sitting. the binge eater like a binge drinker will eat a lot of food rapidly usually to help deal with an urge or anxiety or bad mood. the binge will usually feel really guilty afterwards as that person does not feel in control of his or her situation.
how to lose weight if i need my anxiety/dep. pills and they cause weight gain? i need to lose but i don't want to lose vitamins/nutrients by dieting.
dr. joel fuhrman's nutritarian diet (<link> ly/1dhw9ht) can help you lose weight while providing good nutrition. i advise all dieters to take a good multivitamin as well. exercise will help lose weight & reduce anxiety. there are many good alternatives to drugs for anxiety/dep: counseling meditation eft 5-htp homeopathy herbs magnesium b complex etc. a holistic practitioner can help.
how to lose weight if i need my anxiety/dep. pills and they cause weight gain? i need to lose but i don't want to lose vitamins/nutrients by dieting.
this a wake up call to re-examine your life style. get a good night sleep make sure you are not deficient in iron zinc magnesium or vit d3. calcium may not be helpful. eat 6 small healthy meals relax and de-stress and move for 10 minutes after each meal to re-gain a healthy weight.
heart disease doesn't run in my fam norm wt bmi of 21. bp 100/60 labs good many normal ekgs normal xrays. still get chest and back pain anxiety?
or could be from reflux or musculoskeletal source or respiratory symptoms (--why are you smoking up to 2 packs a day? ). if your dr. has ruled out heart or endocrine source for symptoms then ask about these other options. once serious and specific-treatment sources eliminated then can relax if / when it shows up.
heart disease doesn't run in my fam norm wt bmi of 21. bp 100/60 labs good many normal ekgs normal xrays. still get chest and back pain anxiety?
you should look into reflux as a cause for chest pain. you doctor can help w that. anxiety can also be a cause of chest pain but there is no specific test to show that.
can being overweight (250lbs nothing crazy like 300 or 400) affect a guys firmness in his erections? and what can be done to help?
weight gain anabolics opiates some other medication tobacco and alcohol plus stress and anxiety and certain medical disorders can all affect erectile function. eat less exercise more lose weight get healthier avoid toxins. you're too young to do this to your body.
can pressing on a hiatus hernia provoke a mini anxiety attack?
generally small hiatal hernias cause no symptoms. you can't really "press" on a hiatal hernia anyway. large hernias also known as paraesophageal hernias can cause chest pain and difficulty swallowing both of which could precipitate an anxiety attack in susceptible individuals.
can pressing on a hiatus hernia provoke a mini anxiety attack?
dependent on individuals. i am not aware of general rule. individuals response to response to various stimuli is different. if you respond that way it is entirely possible. however it does not apply to majority of the people.
can chronic depression/anxiety disorder cause slow digestion overweight and permanent c hemmoroids and now gerd!? !? !
certain very common cases that include almost all of your symptoms share a common cause. sequence of events which your dr can help clarify with some studies (eg: osa or hypothyroidism etc etc might be (at least partially) responsible for fatigue/overweight-gerd/ anxiety depression/resp. obstruction/ insomnia). check with your dr. best wishes.
can lexapro (escitalopram) generally cause weight gain?
yes there are two issues. the family of drugs that lexapro (escitalopram) falls into may cause weight gain. lexapro (escitalopram) perhaps less than the others. the second is the response to the medication of the anxiety or depression which may cause appetite to return to prior levels as the symptoms of those disorders resolve.
does cognitive or behavior therapy work for anxiety?
cbt works well on average but perhaps not for absolutely everyone. other modalities can work too but they are less structured and thus harder to study. anxiety and depression are two areas for which there is very clear evidence that therapy works a good deal. fortunately for talk / behavior therapy a great many difficulties have at least 'some' anxiety or demoralization / depression component.
does cognitive or behavior therapy work for anxiety?
in contrast to other forms of psychotherapy cognitive therapy is usually more focused on the present more time-limited and more problem-solving oriented. in addition patients learn specific skills that they can use for the rest of their lives. these skills involve identifying distorted thinking modifying beliefs relating to others in different ways and changing behaviors.
does prozac (fluoxetine) cause excessive hunger or weight gain in your child?
prozac or fluoxetine is an antidepressant that can also be used to treat anxiety some eating disorders and other illnesseses. it can cause increased or decreased appetite. also the underlying illnesses can increase or decrease appetite. if an appetite change does occur it may change over time.
how to overcome binge eating disorder?
get a complete physical to make sure bed is not compromising your health. seek therapy with a qualified professional. bed is a way of coping with conflicts and emotions. when you identify what you are using food to deal with (ie anxiety fear relationships) then you can find new ways of coping. you also must learn to respond to yourself in words instead of behavior. there is hope.
what are the chances a 4mm thyroid nodule with microcalcifications present is malignant? what are the cure and survival rates for a 29 y. o. male?
obviously u r concerned to reduce u anxiety ask u treating physician that way in the future u can get used to ask any question u may have.
can you tell me is adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) anything like phentermine?
they're both stimulants however phentermine has a longer duration of action. they both share issues with dependency and tolerance. if u are trying medical weight loss please see a provider that specializes in this. there's a nonstimulant appetite suppressant called belviq (lorcaserin) that's worth considering. also both phentermine and adderall may result in anxiety insomnia increased heart rate & htn.
during an endoscopy i was omitting even though i already had a fundoplicatio then a nosebleed is this norml?
during endoscopy (into the stomach) a patient is medicated to prevent pain decrease anxiety and avoid memory of the experience. however one might still remember some moments of the exam. if the endoscope is inside the stomach material might vomit up alongside the endoscope and escape the stomach. the patient is not supposed to eat before the exam so usually there isn't anything to vomit up.
does co-sertraline cause weight gain or any damage by taking 100mg per day for anxiety?
sertraline (zoloft) is probably the least likely of antidepressants to be associated with weight gain -- but it can still happen. people who are both anxious and depressed may also slow down their activity which can lead to weight gain. if you attend to daily exercise and healthy diet you'll be much less likely to experience weight gain with this or any other medication. talk with your doctor.
does co-sertraline cause weight gain or any damage by taking 100mg per day for anxiety?
agree with my colleague but add lexapro and wellbutrin (bupropion) to the list.
hypoglycemia being the most intelligent answer to my issues i see how ritalin (methylphenidate) acting as an appetite suppressant can be more dangerous for me correct?
going on here. using ritalin (methylphenidate) as an appetite suppressant can get you into big trouble with addiction rebound fatigue ; hypoglycemia. it also causes insomnia. get mthfr 677 ; 1298 genotype testing. treatment can help you with your weight loss goals make your anti-depressant work better decrease anxiety and help sleep. also gives energy during the day that is natural instead of not real.
why did i recently get black discoloration on my right nipple but not on the left. lump on the right breast. do mammogram?
i would not start with a mammogram especially at your age. i advise you to see a breast surgeon (ideally one who performs ultrasound). they can assess the significance of this lump & nipple change and decide what if anything needs to be done. in my practice we will see people asap under these circumstances due to the anxiety inherent with this problem.
can i take my phentermine in the morning and xanax (alprazolam) at night? i would never take them at the same time but i was just wondering if this would be safe
on what you are taking the xanax (alprazolam) for. if it is for generalized anxiety disorder unless you are on a time-release preparation alprazolam is a short-acting drug and will not be working for you if you take it at night. if it is for insomnia it is not the best medication for sleep. if it is to combat the effects of the phentermine making you anxious again i would consider a longer acting drug.
having dull ache in groin area where i wear my belt on and off again for about 4-5 days. scale of 1-10 it's about 2. i am overweight and do sit a lot for work. i am also an anxious person by nature.
muscle or groin/ligament strain. ur anxiety may be contributing to ur groin pain and ibs symptoms. try to ease up and relax and find more fun in whatever u do. continue staying active and losing weight. don't worry be happy! <link> <link>
having dull ache in groin area where i wear my belt on and off again for about 4-5 days. scale of 1-10 it's about 2. i am overweight and do sit a lot for work. i am also an anxious person by nature.
please see a doctor. there are a number of reasons why this might be so one of which is a hernia. your doc can examine you and let you know what to do next to fix it. also a mental health professional can teach you ways to deal with your anxiety. peace and good health.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
sleep apnea can cause many of the symptoms you described although it's unlikely to cause all of them. if you have sleep apnea treat it to see which symptoms will improve.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
obstructive sleep apnea or osa causes less oxygen to your brain. the body tries to make up for the lack of oxygen with hypertension diabetes kidney problems acid reflux etc. daytime fatigue causes yo to overeat gain weight and the weight gain makes osa worse. which adds to depression and anxiety. simply sleeping on your side and avoiding gerd may work. see www. grossaninstitute. com.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
sleep disturbances can cause all the issues. get sleep apnea addressed.
does anxiety cause night sweats and weight loss?
unlikely it can cause multiple symptoms feeling dizzy chest pain shortness of breath but not weight loss or night sweat.
deep depression getting worse no appetite welcoming back an eating disorder. weight gain had discharge from eye. extreme anxiety.?
go see your family doctor psychiatrist and/or psychologist. depression isn't something you want to tackle on your own. they can help you if you let them. some respond to psychotherapy (talking) if mild & early. others need assistance of medications. studies show many will benefit from combination of both rather than just one or other. most important know that others care for & about you.
does marijuana harm the liver i have stage 4 liver disease?
marijuana is metabolized by the liver so it will put a stress on the liver. if you have liver disease it's a good idea not to put unnecessary stress on your liver function. it's important to think about what marijuana does for you - does it help with nausea? sleep? appetite? anxiety? if so you might seek a psychiatric or medical consultation to find other means of symptoms control & comfort.
how can i avoid overeating in social situations?
social overeating may be a manifestation of an underlying anxiety disorder. i suggest buying the anxiety and phobia workbook which goes over all options meds /relaxation techniques/homeopathic options. i have seen great benefit with meditation eft(emotional freedom technique ). eft clinic is a great app. emdr which also has a great app hemi-balance
how effective is diet and exercise for anxiety and ocd?
healthful diet and exercise programs are very important and have been shown to be helpful in boosting mood amongst many many other medical benefits. good for you for up these important health routines! despite the great benefits of diet and exercise they are unlikely to fully treat ocd. i would consult with a psychiatrist to discuss the many available treatments & select the best for you <positive_smiley>
how effective is diet and exercise for anxiety and ocd?
avoid alcohol sweets high fat and try to exercise 20-30 mins early in the day to get the full effect of a healthy lifestyle
are there vitamins and minerals that aid in weight loss or appetite suppression?
phenylalanine is an amino acid that tends to stimulate your sympathetic nervous system. this amino acid may be helpful to reduce appetite in people who have high levels of parasympathetic tone. it could casue anxiety in patients that are already too sympathetic. do not take this if you have high blood pressure. also talk to your doctor before using this.
are there people who should not take chemical appetite suppressants?
before prescribing diet pills a complete history and physical is required to added mental cardiovascular and hormone disorders seizures depression and anxiety substance abuse and personal goals and experiance it should be part of a well planned diet and exercise program to avoid failures
can mild obstructive sleep apnea cause rv enlargement in the heart?
you're a 25 year old man and if you're either reasonably athletic or a little bit fat you're perfectly entitled to have a big right ventricle. do everything you can to get that sleep apnea managed. try to make some life / attitude adjustments so that you won't be trapped by anxiety -- your physician's a great guide here. you may never find the cause of the heart block. best wishes.
can i take garcinia cambogia with my anxiety medication?
garcinia cambogia is a plant derived supplement that is used for weight loss and can be safely taken with anti-anxiety medication.
could obesity itself cause constant tachycardia(fast heart rate even resting) heart flutters and palpitations?
other things cause increase in heart rate. obesity alone does not. food that contain caffeine diet supplements stress anxiety all can cause increase in heart rate. hormonal imbalance can also be a cause.
do you believe that diet and exercise can cure anxiety?
they can certainly help depending on the cause of anxiety. some people have methylation problems (test mthfr) some are low in magnesium (test rbc magnesium). and many other things including food sensitivities can contribute to anxiety as well.
d/c remeron (mirtazapine) due weight gain & blood sugars. what med helps digestive issues constant nausea & no appetite. remeron (mirtazapine) didn't help anxiety but 5htp does.
psychosomatic illness responds to ssris better. anxious brain does a lot of things to your body.
have been binging every morning and night. what damage can this do to me?
he consequences of binge eating disorder involve many physical social and emotional difficulties. some of these complications are: affectts if binging : cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes insomnia or sleep apnea hypertension gallbladder disease muscle and/or joint pain gastrointestinal difficulties depression and/or anxiety electtrolyte imbalances
about to start lexapro (escitalopram) for anxiety but worried about weight gain. is the gain typically due to increased appetite or chemical component in lexapro (escitalopram)?
weight gain is associated with almost all antidepressants except bupropion (wellbutrin). the drug company likes to say lexapro (escitalopram) is different in my clinical experience it's not. gain is usually mild (under 10lbs). the mechanisms involved are not well established fluid retention may play a role. solution: stay active watch the carbs and be accepting of a cpl lbs in order to be depression free.
about to start lexapro (escitalopram) for anxiety but worried about weight gain. is the gain typically due to increased appetite or chemical component in lexapro (escitalopram)?
weight gain is not a common side effect of lexapro. medications such as abilify (aripiprazole) tend to cause weight gain.
am i starting to get liver disease? hello. i feel short on breath. my whole chest has stabbing pains which feel like my hearts giving out. every night i take 4 tylenol pm's 2 (200 mg) ibuprofen tablets and a trazadone. is this bad? it hurts. i don't k
i cannot tell you if you have liver disease. however your constellation of shortness of breath and chest pain is not normal. it is very important to find out the source of your symptoms. there is very little history provided. don't know why you are questioning liver disease - if you drink a lot of alcohol that might be a reason. i see you take trazodone (possibly for insomnia) - don't know if you have a history of anxiety conditions like panic attacks. without a thorough history and a physical examination all i am doing is just guessing. recommend that you get a comprehensive evaluation of these symptoms.
can you take fastin with paxil (paroxetine)?
i would not recommended due to increase effects on cardiovascular system more anxiety & mood changes severe headaches & blood pressure changes impotence & changes in libido.
can i take garcinia cambogia while taking tramadol (ultram) and xanax (alprazolam) for anxiety?
and not for anxiety. i am unaware of any interactions between garcinia and any of these medications. however i would strongly suggest using the prescribing physician and/or your pharmacist for information about this issue - they are both good sources.
does tri adalean diet pills show up as meth on a drug test?
triadalean contains multiple stimulants including various phenylethylamines theobromine caffeine and guarana. some of these could show up as initial false positives for amphetamines but more focused testing would be done. triadalean has strong potential to cause jitteriness and anxiety with little support for effectiveness in weight loss.
how can prozac (fluoxetine) cause weight gain?
some patients do gain weight. a lot of patients with depression have significant anxiety and fidget all day long. this can burn 100 -200 calories daily. when they are well treated no longer experiencing anxiety and stop fidgeting they may slowly put on 1 or 2 pounds a month because they are burning fewer calories. it's like no longer walking a mile daily while eating the same amount.
how do i diagnose if i have gerd and possibly hiatal hernia or if it's anxiety causing this? the symptoms are clear but i want to find the root cause.
you must realize that by not sharing your emotions with us it is impossible to answer your question.
had full cardiac work up. heart rate usually 90's but recently 60's and as low as 55. overweight/dieting now. anxiety that my heart may stop. rate to low?
your heart won't stop. check back when you start having 5 second pauses. (it won't stop then either but you'll need a pacemaker). (i've visited your hometown - surprise az-very cool place! )
had full cardiac work up. heart rate usually 90's but recently 60's and as low as 55. overweight/dieting now. anxiety that my heart may stop. rate to low?
are you on meds that may reduce the heart rate?
could i use phentermine without any health problems?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
can you tell me is adipex a bad option?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
does phen375 weight loss pills really work to lose weight fast?
phentermine is a stimulant like methamphetamine. it is addictive cause irritability anxiety sweating tremor insomnia and dry mouth. more importantly it increases blood pressure and heart rate. a similar drug called meridia was withdrawn by the fda after it was shown to cause heart attack and strokes. unfortunately the modest weight loss with phentermine and tenuate is not worth the risks.
do all obese ppl or diabetics or ppl who smoke have erectile dysfunction?
nope. not all. some yes. the inability to get or maintain an erection is generally more about the state of one's mind then body. especially when they are very young. solving the anxiety about this often helps more than anything else.
had vsg surgery 2 weeks ago. labs today showed me pancreas may be inflamed? doc wants to recheck. i have high anxiety. does this commonly end up bad?
actually pancreatitis or the inflammation in your pancreas is not that uncommon. it can be pain and usually resolved with npo for several days and pain medications. rarely you may need antibiotics for more severe cases when infection or necrosis of the pancreas is seen on a cat scan. if you labs are just elevated rest assured that without any other symptoms you likely have just have a mild case.
heart palps heavy like feeling in middle of chest loss of appetite and nausea. no fever. ekg normal at last exam. bp 95/63. not overweight. headach?
chest pain with nausea warrants a cardiac evaluation. see a cardiologist. also rule out anxiety hyperthyroidism and drugs. too much caffeine can give you the same symptoms.
what can i expect during breast augmentation pre op?
there is a lot of information that is transferred during the preoperative visit. some but not all of this information includes a discussion of patient's goals preoperative and postoperative instructions discussion of prescriptions to be filled methods to alleviate anxiety commonly experienced and any other questions/concerns a specific patient may have. best wishes.
does low carb diet affect bun and carbon dioxide levels?
bun=blood urea nitrogen a breakdown product of proteins being cleared. so rates of protein breakdown combined with the amount of h20 it is in determine the bun (a concentration within extracellular water). co2 (aka carbonic acid in water) is primarily determined by rate of breathing (blowing off co2) & is the primary brain driver for breathing rate (along with exercise & anxiety).
does cavemen/paleo diet have benefits in other aspects of lives &amp; what are possible lessons teens could gain from their lifestyles?
many things such as gut issues (like ibs) metabolic advantages (weight loss avoidance of diabetes and the resulting increased risk of heart attack stroke) better sleep improvements in subjective ratings of depression and anxiety. check out "grain brain" "wheat belly" and "why we get fat" for some great resources.
does burn 10 diet pills affect my cycle or chances of me falling pregnant?
all diet pills wether designed for adults for minors are extremely risky. not only can they dysregulate your metabolic system and your stress response system thereby increasing the risk for developing depression & anxiety they can interfere with absorption of nutrients and set up an individual for developing a serious eating disorder which then has a damaging & dangerous course of its own!
how do i overcome overeating?
people overeat for many reasons so the first step is to figure out what is pushing you to the behavior. boredom stress fatigue depression anxiety medications health issues. etc. see link and then talk to your doctor about your concerns to formulate a plan to address your concerns. <link>
hello i need to kno how to loose my weigt i am 24years and weighs 95kg i am on low calorie diet and doing daily workouts but i am not loosing my weigh?
in addition to diet and exercise reduction of chronic worries or generalised anxiety if present restful 8 hours sleep and ruling out any medical condition that can contribute to weight gain is important. appropriate medical management by a bariatrician may be helpful
can i be addicted to the diet pill slimquick pure i've been restricting mostly i can't seem to stop the pills they give me bad moods anxiety and heart rate goes fast and actually stopped for a second but i get shakier and sweaty and weird when i feel i ne
slimquick is giving you these side effects because it is loaded with caffeine. you can wean it over a period of a few days and then i would suggest you consult your doctor for referral to a weight loss specialist.
do fat or overweight people tend to have emotional problems more than normal weight people?
www. clinicalpsychiatrynews. com/views/fink-still-at-large. the association between obesity and severe mental illness is clear. www. ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pubmed/21565594 obesity is associated with an approximately 25% increase in odds of mood and anxiety disorders and an approximately 25% decrease in odds of substance use disorders. www. ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pmc/articles/pmc1913935.
had a miscarriage. obese. bad anxiety attacks. doctor thinks they're not emotional but physically induced. super high testosterone. why? normal thyroi
has the doctor determined the high testosterone via blood testing? if not then you need a "workup" by a 2nd opinion gyn md who can make those determinations rather then guessing about the sources of your anxiety and elevated testosterone.
why do most breast cancer biopsies end up being benign?
biopsies are done for the presence of a mass. most masses are not cancer so the majority of biopsies are going to be negative. the alternative is to do fewer biopsies which leads to more anxiety about the existence of an undiagnosed mass.
worried that my back shoulder neck aches is masking as breast cancer. read story on woman who had those symptoms and had stage 4 mets breast cancer.
it is not difficult to tell the cause of your pain. if you have good insurance then your doctor can order tests besides doing a good examination of your breast by physical exam and mammography. bone scan is a good test to make sure that your bones are free of cancer. please discuss these options with your doctor and get over this anxiety!
would a breast ultrasound detect a tumor that was deep in chest?
but there is no solution for the excessive anxiety like you seem to have.
are there other 18 year olds who deal with sleep apnea major stress high blood pressure low testosterone and more? im so scared for my future
hope u have good internist are on c-pap on strict weight reduction diet if overweight low salt diet antihypertensive possibly anti-anxiety medication in counselling & getting lots of exercise. also trainer at a health club might be a good idea! good luck.
anxiety can cause abdominal pain and weight loss?
still it should be a diagnosis of exclusion. that is exclude other physical causes before you decide your pain and weight loss are axiety related. while this is being worked up you can begin to work on relaxation techniques etc and eventually therapy if needed to help wiith the anxiety. if no physical cause is found you will have already started treating the anxiety. good luck. feel better.
anxiety can cause abdominal pain and weight loss?
common symptoms include stomach aches head aches weight loss insomnia irritability. . if your anxious more than not for an extended period of time you should seek help with a therapist psychiatrist or both. it's a serious mental health concern that's very treatable with or without medication but left untreated can lead to depression and major health issues.
can calcium supplements cause weight gain anxiety depression?
trying to research this - it appears that either too little or too much calcium may be associated with depressive symptoms.
can my vagus nerve be the cause of my anxiety? i had fundoplication and developed anxiety thereafter all heart tests are ok
in medicine that i believe i can say with 100% unequivocal certainty that no- your vagus nerve cannot be the cause of yours or anybody's anxiety. that's because a single cranial nerve is incapable of causing the generation of a sentiment which is the conglomeration and coalescing of multiple intricate and personality specific attributes.
does cymbalta or valtrex cause weight gain? i also take xanax (alprazolam) and ambien any chance of weight gain?
gain with either drug. seen wt loss(but not good type with ambien) xanax (alprazolam) will help with anxiety which makes some pt's overeat!
hi i am 23 years old and i weight 208 and my feet and hands has been tingling i went to the doctor and he said it is from being nervous is that true?
anxiety may be a component and that needs attention. this sounds more like paresthesias which can occur in a variety of settings. they are uncomfortable skin sensations. we see this in a lot of settings like fibromyalgia deconditioning msucle and this is what your physicians needs to evaluate you for this. you need to exercise more and get your muscles into shape. this can be very help
how will obesity affect cognitive and mental health?
obesity tends to lower a person's self esteem which can lead to depression or anxiety both of which can have cognitive effects. no reduction of intelligence is expected but a possible alteration of memory and mood can lead to poor concentration attention and decreased endurance. exercise good nutrition and positive sleep schedule can help reduce the impacts of obesity.
can obstructive sleep apnea make anxiety symptoms worse?
in a word - yes. osa can be devastating and destructive. the repercussions of inadequate oxygen supply to the brain as well as insufficient uninterrupted sleep to allow rem level sleep are numerous. see a specialist get a sleep test (if you haven't) and get help now. this is a life altering and can be a life threatening condition. good luck.
can obstructive sleep apnea make anxiety symptoms worse?
yes. successful treatment of apnea may improve anxiety.
can obstructive sleep apnea make anxiety symptoms worse?
the correlation of anxiety and depression with obstructive sleep apnea is well documented. see a seep specialist for treatment.
can cla supplement heighten anxiety or nervousness?
it shouldn't. . but. unfortunately dietary supplements are regulated as foods (as opposed to drugs). as such they are not required to undergo the same testing (or prove their claims to be true). also since no third party testing of their product is required - the ingredients listed don't even have to match what is in the bottle. wish i had a better answer. good luck!
can a gastric bypass surgery help with fibromyalgia pains?
i do not know of gastric bypass for fibromyalgia. the weight reduction may help to a certain degree but reducing anxiety and treating mood and exercising help fibromyalgia
can you tell me about post gastric bypass depression?
gastric bypass patients are often anxious and depressed about their weight before the procedure. and after the procedure is completed anxiety and depression can still be experienced. what's the reason? the feelings arise from finally attaining what they seek. reworded we careful of what you ask for: you just might get it. then what?
can you tell me about post gastric bypass depression?
some causes might be the very low calorie diet after surgery leading to low carbohydrates in diet which alters serotonin levels ( less carbohydrates leads to less insulin leading to less tryptophan entering the brain hence less serotonin formed hence more depression & anxiety & fatigue).
do people generally lose weight with ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate)?
ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) has way too many side effects and this got it removed from the fda approved drug list so it is not legally available in the us. it increases pulse and blood pressure causes anxiety and insomnia and has been associated with severe problems in small numbers of people (heart attack stroke). studies have shown that stimulants are not good in achieving weight loss keeping it off.
doctors what are the effects of snorting adipex?
my understanding is that it may cause anxiety high blood pressure and rapid heart rate. it is not recommended. don't endanger your health.
how addictive is phentermine and is it safe for me to take metformin while taking it?
i would not recommended due to increase effects on cardiovascular system more anxiety & mood changes severe headaches & blood pressure changes impotence & changes in libido. addiction is very likely with continued use.
severe depression and anxiety. previously prescribed prozac and xanax to cope. no insurance and can't go to my personal doctor. also was diagnosed with breast cancer sarcoidosis and adrenal gland disorder. had a complete mastectomy about 5 years ago.
i don't know what area you are from. but many communities have clinics which are free or sliding fee scale. you can google this for your area.
severe depression and anxiety. previously prescribed prozac and xanax to cope. no insurance and can't go to my personal doctor. also was diagnosed with breast cancer sarcoidosis and adrenal gland disorder. had a complete mastectomy about 5 years ago.
with your medical history it is prudent to check in with your doctor and get follow up visits regularly. it will be important to find out if your cancer has returned. the treatment regimen you choose is up to you. your doctor can let you know the different paths you can take if you are to deal with a recurring cancer. your doctor can recommend treatments that can help your cancer go back into remission and provide you with resources for coping with the disease such as group therapy and medication to diminish pain. or you can choose a path that does not involve treatment and work with your doctor to control pain and stress. the stress you feel is understandable. do see your doctor regularly and especially if you are experiencing loss of appetite and fear. make an appointment and warm regards.
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
if not already done it is worthwhile to check with your doctor and medicaid formulary for the popula drug imitrex (sumatriptan) as an alternative in the meantime while trying otc pain relief. you should also learn to recognize and avoid the triggers for your migraine headaches.
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
primrose oil otc for fibrocystic breasts and supportive bras ice packs. tylenol extra strength 650mg for headache rest ice pack massage. deep breathing relaxation biofeedback techniques. loperimide (immodium) for diarrhea. miralax (polyethylene glycol) for constipation. benadryl for sleep
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
you could take tylenol (acetaminophen) which is one of the ingredients in midrin. this usually helps a little but not always. most of the otc medications effective for migraine contain caffeine so you need to read labels very carefully.
after using a weight control pills i feel fear and anxiety and a chill in my chest? this last for a week and gone and in one month it comes back!
if you are experiencing negative side effects then the weight control pills are not wise.
are there any medications other than antibiotics that affect birth control? cold medications diet pills?
anti seizure medications like topamax (topiramate). phenobarbitol carbamezaprin anti fungal meds likegriseofulvin nystatin anti anxiety meds like benzodiazepines hiv meds antirepressants like prozac. celexa zoloft.
any scientific (or other) basis for thinking splenda can cause anxiety?
no scientific research that im aware of.
as i just drift asleep i wake gasping for air i do have anxiety and don't have sleep apnea what else could be going on?
many folks who are highly anxious have a fear on not getting enough air. when we are between sleeping and waking we can feel quite vulnerable and pull out of the relaxed state with a start. get help from your doc or a clinical psychologist more likely the latter will be the one to help you through this.
drug interactions duromine with mirtazapine can the y be taken together i would only use 1/4 of a 15mg tablet with a duromine 30mg?
phentermine is a stimulant typically prescribed to help with wt loss. it can cause anxiety in some patients. there is no interaction with mirtazapine. i would however ask your prescribing doc as whether or not you should be taking these medications together or what the risks benefits and side effects of adding duramine to your meds could be expected to be in ur case anxiety? insomnia? b well!
does ssri cause weight gain because your appetite increases or because your metabolism changes? i stress eat. could they help curb that?
in which case you may loose weight if there is a component of anxiety that responds to the ssri
how do i stop losing weight being caused by the pain of interstitial cystitis?
chronic intertitial cystitis (ic) itself should not cause weight loss but its commonly related issues such as stress anxiety or depression etc. which are relatively common in ic patients may contribute to your weight loss. to sort the things in the health myth can be done by following the instructions in <link>
allergic reactions. how long does it take to recover from an allergic reaction from a diet pill? it happened this morning and im still miserable.
i suspect what you have described is more like an over-reaction to diet pill in some people. in which case the reaction may be jitteriness shakiness anxiety tremor or palpitation. it may be an allergic reaction if an itchy rash developed after having taken the diet pill. thus the answer depends on what kind of reactions you are having and the life of the drug in your system (usually.
does buspar (buspirone) cause weight gain? i hear most antidepressants are weight neutral but i've gained with most! thanks - agoraphobia/anxiety here
if buspar (buspirone) has help with your depression you could still take it. for your agoraphobia/anxiety you would be best to see a psychiatrist and/or a psychologist. agoraphobia and anxiety can be very troubling.
drank mcdonalds frappe on empty stomach. its heightened my anxiety and gave me slight nausea. is this normal?
on the flavor of mcdonald's frappe it may contain a significant amount of caffeine. if you've already taken caffeine in your diet prior to drinking it it can heighten your sense of jitteriness and hence anxiety as well as worsened reflux and nausea. water is healthier.
drank 6-8 beers a day for 6 months straight with some binges. have tapered this week from 8 to 6 to 4 to 2 to 0. safe? i already take klonipin.
i commend you for letting go of your alcohol dependence. it is likely that you will not have withdrawal symptoms due to tapering in 7 days and use of klonopin (clonazepam). see your psychiatrist to understand reasons for daily use of alcohol for over 6 months with binge drinking possible poor impulse control and craving. klonopin (clonazepam) is a medication for anxiety and can be habit forming. attend aa and na meetings.
hi 20y student have been skipping 2meals a day had exessive stomach rumbles at night in result weight loss insomnia anxiety pressure in left rib. wtodo?
but for starters it may be worthwhile eating once again healthy and regular meals as well as reducing stressors. please discuss the differential diagnosis here with your physician and pursue work-up and treatment as appropriate.
how much water should i drink every day? i have scolosis anxiety chest pain muscle pain and i've bmi 35 181 cm tall and 115 kg
3-4l or up to a gallon (128oz)? but it depends. too much is not good either (hyponatremia) because it dilutes sodium which can be problematic. here's an interesting article: <link>
how much water should i drink every day? i have scolosis anxiety chest pain muscle pain and i've bmi 35 181 cm tall and 115 kg
8 8oz glasses
hello doctor lately i'm experiencing some pretty scary cardiac arrest symptoms after eating too much sugar--chest pain tingles down left arm spasms?
arrest are rapid heart beats dizziness and loss of consciousness. not what you are describing. sounds like you are having a sugar high. chest pain tingles and spasms sounds like anxiety. for reassurance you should see a health care provider and have testing to exclude cardiac issues. then you need to make better life style choices.
how can i shake my health anxiety? i'm convinced i have heart disease though i have no risk factors besides being over weight. palpitations are scary.
i think you should channel your energy into constructively changing your lifestyle to include healthy food and exercise options. if you take control of your life and make healthy decisions you will start to feel much better about your health and wellness. in this way you will understand the power of your own decision making. i believe your anxiety will improve if you do this. think positively.
am not on any medication blood test is all ok. i tend to sleep a lot and feel tired all the time. i exercise and eat healthy. please help.
i agree with dr cattano that your history of low mood and anxiety are very likely relevant to the problem you're describing. however there are several other physical issues that should be considered as well however like thyroid insufficiency anaemia sleep apnea. it would be worth seeing your gp to review whether these have been checked for already.
all heart tests ok. developed anxiety after fundoplication heart racing always after eating. blood work normal. vagus nerve?
anxiety is best managed by a psychologist but i would first see both your primary doctor and your abdominal surgery. if you can let me know what develops.
age 42. my right arm has been twitching above elbow and in forearm on and off for 3 days now. no pain. no injury. normal diet and exercise. ?
a muscle twitch is an small local involuntary contraction of muscle. it's usually not a symptom of a serious illness. sometimes it occurs after muscular exertion. tension or anxiety can cause twitching. magnesium deficiency is another cause. for more information see: http<negative_smiley>bit. ly/1rbtxru
after trying wellbutrin (bupropion) which would you use for binge eating. vyvanse or prozac? which is safer and more effective?
it's unlikely that a medication is going to help with binge eating. your doctor may have decided that there are anxiety or depression issues inclining you to binge eating. in that case have a discussion with him and see what she says about his thinking. my gut reaction is neither but i've not seen you. talk with your doc!
are there any depression/anxiety meds that do not cause weight gain? how about any that can make you lose weight? ! i need to be happy and thin. ha
before you consider any meds please set up a referral to a psychologist who will evaluate you and help you. the psychologist may also refer you to a doctor regarding weight loss.
a few nights a month i wake up feeling like i'm about to faint- never when awake. never actually faint. could this be sleep apnea or anxiety?
you need an evaluation by a doctor who is familiar with sleep disorders
a few nights a month i wake up feeling like i'm about to faint- never when awake. never actually faint. could this be sleep apnea or anxiety?
need more info. discuss with your provider and have them check things for you.
binge eating disorder: how do you deal with emotions and feelings? any tips?
according to the national comorbidity study over 63% of people with bed also have a mood disorder and over 23% have an anxiety disorder so you're not alone. treatment with therapy is cornerstone and an antidepressant/anti-anxiety may prove helpful. in fact bed may be thought of as a way to "self-medicate" feelings and emotions and treatment may reduce or eliminate bed.
can a cyst on my ovarie cause weigh loss i have dropped 18 pounds in 4 weeks without dieting?
losing 18 lbs without dieting is a cause for concern but it is unlikely to be from your ovarian cyst. one needs to know 1st if you have any symptom suggestive of an overactive thyroid (heat intolerance anxiety tremors etc). i urge you to consult your doctor asap.
can anxiety induced palpitations cause a fatal heart attack? 26 years old. no known heart issues. i am an on/off smoker though and slightly overweight
just anxiety alone without any high blood pressure or tachycardia probably will not pus you at risk. however you smoke and are overweight both of these put you at a greater risk.
can terrible anxiety and depression cause weight loss? i've lost around 4-5 kilos (91->86/87) been constantlz under anxiety for 2 months. fear cancer.
both anxiety and depression can lead to rapid weight loss as a result of fear preoccupation and loss of appetite. however you can never be certain about this until you visit you primary care doc and talk about your concerns. be sure to mention any physical issues that may be leading you to fear cancer besides your weight loss. go soon. good luck.
can terrible anxiety and depression cause weight loss? i've lost around 4-5 kilos (91->86/87) been constantlz under anxiety for 2 months. fear cancer.
anxiety and depression can cause weight loss. . i don't think you have cancer unless you have profound weight loss.
can beta blockers cause weight gain?
weight gain can occur as a side effect of some beta blockers especially the older ones such as atenolol (tenormin) and metoprolol (lopressor toprol-xl). the average weight gain is no more than 4 pounds (about 2 kilograms). newer beta blockers such as carvedilol (coreg) don't usually cause weight gain as a side effect. weight may rise in the first weeks of taking the beta blocker and then generally stabilizes. however the beta blockers that can cause weight gain usually aren't prescribed unless other medications haven't worked or if you have a specific heart condition that requires taking those medications. beta blockers are used to treat a host of conditions including high blood pressure heart failure migraines glaucoma and anxiety. doctors aren't sure exactly why some beta blockers cause weight gain. it could be that beta blockers slow your metabolism. also if you switch from taking a water pill (diuretic) to a beta blocker as a treatment for high blood pressure you may gain a few pounds of weight that the diuretic kept off. if you're taking a beta blocker for heart failure tell your doctor immediately if you begin to gain more than 3 to 4 pounds (about 1. 5 to 2 kilograms) particularly if the weight gain continues beyond your first week of taking the drug. this could mean that fluid is building up in your legs abdomen or chest which may signal that your heart failure is worsening.
dear doctor my wife has following symptoms. unexplained weight gain; anxiety; cyclical headaches; lethargic depression; rapid weight gain; mood swing; anxious depression; thinning hair on the head & hair fall; restless legs; sometimes get urinary tracts
it sounds cliche but in your wife her hormones definitely seem out of kilter. of course what's causing that is another question. she really could use a good physical examination followed by appropriate lab and/or diagnostic testing.
diagnosed with polycystic ovarian syndrome. i have a bad pain in my left side that intensifies prior to a bowel movement. also have ibs. never had these issues till i lost 70lbs through strict diet and exercise. what's wrong?
i commend you for your losing 70lbs thus decreasing risk of polycystic ovarian syndrome (pcos) complications. “bad pain in left side that intensifies prior to a bowel movement” is likely due to irritable bowel syndrome(ibs) stress anxiety depression hormones and gastroenteritis can aggravate symptoms of ibs. see gastroenterologist. see gynecologist for pcos. see psychiatrist for therapy.
eat healthy. exercise. avoid smoking. why did i get lactation problems?
there are several causes of "lactation problems" from the lack of prolactin hormone stimulating the milk ducts to inadequate sucking by the child. high anxiety mother's are generally less successful at breast feeding than mother's who are less anxious.
for a diabetic hbp high cholesterol & anxiety patient are there any prescribe or otc diet pills you can recommend.
he knows your situation best and can give any recommendations if he feels it is safe.
for a diabetic hbp high cholesterol & anxiety patient are there any prescribe or otc diet pills you can recommend.
no.
had gastric bypass 3 yrs ago past 2 months been hungry a lot. irregular constipated bloating take probiotic. today pain off /on is it stomach virus?
it seems as if things went ok for three years and now it has changed. without too much delay please discuss this with your primary doctor. perhaps more importantly you must see a psychologist regarding your depression and anxiety. things will get better but not overnight. you will do fine! please keep me posted.
real chance of breast cancer- 32 yo no fam hx hx fibrocystic breast small lump moves no pain - going to doc tomorrow. major anxiety. im a mess!
fibrocystic change is not a risk. any dominant mass does need to be seen. it is very likely it will be benign or resectable for cure. a majority of women go through what you are going through. be tough.
real chance of breast cancer- 32 yo no fam hx hx fibrocystic breast small lump moves no pain - going to doc tomorrow. major anxiety. im a mess!
need investigation like any breast lump see your doctor and follow the advise.
so my r armpit feels like it's bruised checked lymph nodes can't feel anything also checked neck lymph nodes all smaller then a pea happens onceamonth?
the feeling of bruising may be part of anxiety or it is allergic reaction and you happen to scratch that area. as you do not have any enlarged lymph nodes you should be alright. still if it bothers you get it checked by your doctor that will relieve your anxiety.
sorry we were disconnected. did some anxiety reducing activities today. yes i am concerned because no thoughts on what it is so i have cancer concerns since i had breast cancer. appt is tuesday afternoon. ?
pl keep your appointment for a thorough check up and needed work up to rule out any medical complication. and keep up the anxiety reducing activities which should help in your appetite picking up and reducing any ongoing weight loss. good luck!
sorry we were disconnected. did some anxiety reducing activities today. yes i am concerned because no thoughts on what it is so i have cancer concerns since i had breast cancer. appt is tuesday afternoon. ?
your doctors visit will help to clarify your questions. one reason breast can be swollen and become ptotic is prior radiotherapy tio the breast used to treat breast cancer
so worried about low hormones fsh and lh. symptoms; nipple discharge periods more mucus than blood tiredness anxiety light headedness dhiorrhea.
i would recommend having a breast exam and the following labs. . tsh fsh lh prl (prolactin).
should i move up my appointment after feeling a lump in my right breast that is firm but not real hard?
it is always a good idea to get this checked asap- at the least it would reduce your anxiety at the most it may make a big difference on the outcome of the disease.
throbbing headache at night tired feeling trouble sleeping blurry vision at times high bp no interest in anythg. diagnosed with dcis in 2012.
i understand your distress. “throbbing headache tired feeling blurry vision at times” are likely due to high b. p. which can increase further with stress. “trouble sleeping no interest in anything” are likely due to anxiety and depression. see your physician for high b. p and dcis. see psychiatrist for therapy for stresses of relationships separation loneliness insomnia and medical illness.
with differing mammogram guidelines i'm not sure when to begin mammogram screening. what does mayo clinic recommend?
when to begin mammogram screening and how often to repeat it is a personal decision based on your preferences. mayo clinic recommends women and their doctors discuss the benefits risks and limitations of mammograms and decide together what is best. balancing the benefits of screening with the limitations and risks is a key part of deciding when to begin mammograms and how often to repeat them. not all organizations agree on breast cancer screening guidelines but most emphasize working with your doctor to determine what's right for your particular situation. for instance the u. s. preventive services task force mammogram guidelines recommend women begin screening at age 50 and the american cancer society recommends women begin screening at age 45. but both of these organizations acknowledge that beginning screening at 40 may make sense for some women after considering the benefits and limitations of the test. mayo clinic doctors continue to review studies about mammogram guidelines to understand what the studies mean for women's health. changes to mammogram guidelines might or might not be necessary in the future as researchers continue studying this topic. mayo clinic supports screening beginning at age 40 because screening mammograms can detect breast abnormalities early in women in their 40s. findings from randomized trials of women in their 40s and 50s have demonstrated that screening mammograms decrease breast cancer deaths by 15 to 29 percent. but mammogram screening isn't perfect. another study concluded that despite more women being diagnosed with early breast cancer due to mammogram screening the number of women diagnosed with advanced breast cancer hasn't decreased. the study suggested that some women with early breast cancer were diagnosed with cancer that may never have affected their health. unfortunately doctors can't distinguish dangerous breast cancers from those that are non-life-threatening so annual mammograms remain the best option for detecting cancer early and reducing the risk of death from breast cancer. the main concern about mammograms for breast cancer screening is the chance of a false positive result. this means that an abnormality is detected but after additional testing it turns out to not be cancer. this is especially a concern in younger women in their 40s and 50s who may be more likely to have a false positive result. if an abnormality is detected on a mammogram a woman may be asked to have additional mammogram images taken and possibly additional imaging tests such as ultrasound. these tests may determine the abnormality shown on the original mammogram isn't cancer. in some cases it may be necessary for a woman to undergo a biopsy procedure to remove a sample of breast tissue for testing. for many women having a biopsy that confirms there isn't any cancer present is reassuring and doesn't increase anxiety. if you're concerned about when to start breast cancer screening and how often to repeat it work with your doctor to make an informed decision. together you can decide what's best for you based on your personal preferences your medical history and your individual breast cancer risk. talk with your doctor about: your personal risk of breast cancer the benefits risks and limitations of screening mammograms the role of breast self-exams for breast awareness in helping you become more familiar with your breasts which may help you identify abnormalities or changes.
at night will get waken up in a "start" feeling of can't catch breathe heart beats faster. sometimes sweaty. anxiety panic sleep apnea?
dr. fowler's advice about sleep study is good. also i see you have a history of allergies. i have seen similar symptoms result from exposure to off-gassed chemicals from memory foam mattresses. if that's what you're sleeping on try sleeping on the couch for a week to see if symptoms remit.
at night will get waken up in a "start" feeling of can't catch breathe heart beats faster. sometimes sweaty. anxiety panic sleep apnea?
although these symptoms are suspicious for sleep apnea - a sleep study would be needed to diagnose your problems. i would talk with your primary care doctor about a referral to a sleep specialist. take care.
after stopping cymbalta (duloxetine) 60mg my dr gave me 25mg zoloft for anxiety/ocd. says it will not cause weight gain at this dosage. i gained on cymbalta (duloxetine).? tx
i hope this works for you. time will tell. i find my patients seem to eventually gain weight on these medications regardless of the dose. wellbutrin (bupropion) is the only antidepressant that seems not to contribute to weight gain. however this medication might be appropriate for you. i hope you will not be offended by my suggestion: perhaps this could be a good time to increase your activity level.
after stopping cymbalta (duloxetine) 60mg my dr gave me 25mg zoloft for anxiety/ocd. says it will not cause weight gain at this dosage. i gained on cymbalta (duloxetine).? tx
thank you for informing about anxiety and depression which can affect your weight. side effect of zoloft (sertraline) may be weight gain. discuss with psychiatrist: •intensity of symptoms of anxiety/ocd •need for zoloft (sertraline) •benefits and side effects of zoloft (sertraline) •therapy for stresses of relationships separations work and ocd •balanced diet •exercise •breathing relaxation •visual imagery •yoga •tai chi
binge eating and obesity caused by anxiety?
binge eating disorder is a way of coping with difficult feelings by turning to food. the behavior with food expresses an underlying issue conflict or problem. bingeing feels like “the” problem but it is actually a “symptom” of a deeper problem or conflict such as anxiety. obesity is usually a result of eating too much but that may or may not be a result of binge eating.
binge eating and obesity caused by anxiety?
people who compulsively overeat though may use food as their only way of coping with negative emotions. as a result they often feel that their eating is out of control. they think about food all the time and feel guilty ashamed or depressed after eating. <link>
binge eating and obesity caused by anxiety?
see a doctor.
back and abdominal pain craving for food watery mouth jaw pain. this all lasts for about a few minutes. what is this?
variety of things such as gi problem low blood sugar or panic attacks. please see your family doc for a check up. if anxiety a clinical psychologist can be helpful. do you eat regular meals? skip breakfast? get enough sleep? exercise. peace and good health.
big muscley men who weigh similar 2 that of an obese man are they technically obese also and are they likely to develop medical issues like fat people?
measure of weight status is body mass index or bmi. overweight is bmi between 25. 0 and 29. 9; bmi of 30 or higher is considered obese. excess weight is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes mellitus hypertension stroke and osteoarthritis. per your information of anxiety depression and use of fluoxetine see a psychiatrist for therapy for stresses
back of legs have dulll aching and weak feeling/fatigue. have a desk job not overweight but lack of excersice. high stress level and anxiety lately.
i think you should first see a psychologist to help you with stress and anxiety. i am confident the psychologist will really help you. that said she/he may strongly recommend your primary doctor as soon a possible. things should go ok when working with the psychologist and primary doctor. please keep me informed!
besides lexapro and effexor what are the antianxiety meds the least likely to cause weight gain? lexa worked for a while and effexor isn't helping.
studies show ssris and snris are more effective than buspirone and benzodiazepines in treating gad although the latter may cause less weight gain. i would recommend trying lexapro again at a higher dose but if your anxiety symptoms are out of control speak with a psychiatrist to rule out bipolar disease and consider adding a small dose of ability and use strict low fat diet and exercise.
could you please reccomend some drugfor anxiety that does not cause weight gain. remeron has caused considerable weight gain. many thanks?
modalities can be helpful. the docs who do conventional medication can help w/your specific question but beyond that consider things such as clinical hypnosis (www. asch. net) biofeedback psychotherapy w/a pro who specializes in anxiety disorders. peace and good health.
does inflammation from obesity contribute to things like arthritis pain and the development of food allergies?
the causes of obesity are many but i am unaware of any relationship to increased allergies. arthritis is well- proven as a result of the mechanical insults of over-weight and abnormal weight-bearing. lack of exercise is only half the common cause of obesity. overeating the other half may be due to many things including anxiety and stress that could aggravate allergies.
ever since i started taking cipralex(2 years ago) i have gained 25 pounds. how does it cause weight gain and how can i stop the weight gain?
some antidepressant and anti-anxiety drugs may lead to sugar cravings in some people. relora is an over the counter supplement that has been found to improve sugar cravings when taken twice a day. regular exercise also helps both weight gain and depression.
further w/u for 20 yo obese female on fluoxetine 40 mg. am respiridol 1. 5 mg hs cogentin (benztropine) 1 mg. with amenorrhea x 9 months?
i guess you may have some anxiety and depression for which you are taking fluoxetin resperidol and cogent in as your psychiatrist prescribed but for your obesity and amenorrhea you better consult gyn doctor and get investigated to get proper treatment.
high prolactin level since 2000. mri's does not show tumor in pit gland. no period in a year. breast discharges milky color. mammogram was normal. ?
very small pituitary tumors may not be visible on mri but they do tend to eventually enlarge and show up particularly in 13 years. high prolactin can also be due to low thyroid and many medications particularly medications for psychosis depression anxiety and the like. some women just have high prolactin without known cause. cabergoline can be very helpful. ask your doctor.
i have anxiety. does pain in the different bones likeknee ribs or arm bone a possibility of breast canceror only anxiety?
do you already have breast cancer? if you have breast cancer then mets to bones are more likely. if you do not have breast cancer diagnosed yet then other causes are more common (but breast cancer would be in your dictor's differential diagnosis).
i have anxiety. does pain in the different bones likeknee ribs or arm bone a possibility of breast canceror only anxiety?
breast cancer disseminated to the bones can cause painful spots but this is very unlikely in the absence of a dominant breast mass. you have a right to a good physical exam focused on bones and joints (we want to rule out arthritis and skeletal muscle pain) and imaging studies if there is point tenderness. good luck.
i have anxiety. does pain in the different bones likeknee ribs or arm bone a possibility of breast canceror only anxiety?
if you have a history of breast cancer you should alert your physician as to these signs.
i often bite my girlfriends breast and leave bruises i m wondering if that could lead to breast cancer?
but trauma to the breast tissue can lead to damage to the fatty tissue called fat necrosis. this can form lumps to form that can cause a lot of anxiety and concern. if bruises are forming you may want to reconsider the practice.
is there something they will give me for anxiety when i'm doing the mastectomy?
generally done under general anesthesia so you will not be awake. in rare circumstances regional -epidural paravertebral block- or local techniques can be preferable. in this case you will likely receive sedation.
is there something they will give me for anxiety when i'm doing the mastectomy?
under general anaesthesia!
is there something they will give me for anxiety when i'm doing the mastectomy?
in most cases with an anxious patient anti-anxiety medication is routinely given when the patient is cleared for the operating room all necessay preoperative discussions have been completed and surgical consents are signed. these medications are usually given by or on the order of the anesthetist assigned to that patients procedure.
is there something they will give me for anxiety when i'm doing the mastectomy?
differnt patients have different needs. many times they do not need any additional medication to relieve anxiety. but most of the time counselling will be needed by the physician health care staff as well as family anf friends. for your specific needs please discuss with your surgeon and primary care physician.
is there something they will give me for anxiety when i'm doing the mastectomy?
usually once all the legal paperwork is done -such as consent for the procedure -the patient is given medication to help her relax.
i've read about women with breast cancer in one breast choosing to have both removed. why would you do that?
1. to avoid getting a second cancer in the healthy breast down the road 2. because she has a brca1/2 mutation which puts her at higher risk for a second breast cancer 3. to have breast reconstruction done on both breasts at the same time 4. to avoid the anxiety and nuisance of mammograms and biopsies in the future.
i have a lump in my right breast. how can i get help quickly and not wait in a long line for a mammogram?
i would not recommend a mammogram for a 28 yr old women. i advise you to see a breast surgeon (ideally one who performs ultrasound). they can assess the significance of this lump and decide what if anything needs to be done. in my practice we will see people asap under these circumstances due to the anxiety inherent with this problem.
i've been taking adderall for 10 years (30 mg 2xday). what are the long-term effects of central nervous system stimulants? #nqlu i'm 57 & in addition to adderall take zoloft (50 mg) armour thyroid (90 mg) bystolic (10 mg) and tamoxifen (20 mg).
some doctors recommend having "holidays" from stimulants for times when not having the best concentration and focus might not matter as much - like weekends vacations etc. there is little or no evidence that long-term medicinal stimulants taken as prescribed cause any significant damage to the cns although sleep disturbance/anxiety and hopelessness (depression) may be related. talk to your doc.
i am having lumpectomy surgery and need advice abot healing?
while this may be anxiety-provoking the actual operation is quite small(~30 min) with minimal postop pain (non-narcotic pain meds usually sufficient especially after 1-2 days) and a quick return to work(1-3 days) and normal activities(7-10 days). of course your "expert" is your surgeon--he/she will know the specifics of your operation and your overall health and will guide you appropriately.
is it possible to have your breasts enlarged without surgery?
possible so does anxiety while asleep.
i just found lump and think my girl friend has breast cancer?
finding a lump in the breast will always cause anxiety and fear of. cancer. in fact most lumps are benign but it is very important to be evaluated by your dr and get appropriate imaging to be cetain.
if one of my saline breast implants popped could it cause my period to not start?
however the psychological stress and anxiety from experiencing the rupture of the implant may be causing a delay to your period. you may also consider a home pregnancy test if you are sexually active.
is sex less enjoyable when you have a hormone related breast lump?
if you have anxiety about a breast lump it may be difficult to fully enjoy any activity. however there is much variability regarding how individuals cope with breast lumps or other adversities.
i had left chest pain for the last two months. the ultra sound blood test cardiogram and xray shows i'm clear from breast cancer and heart attack.
it is good they cleared you results are normal' no cardiac problem no breast cancer they are very good news did they clear you from anxiety which you have to do work on that you will be fine speak to your doctor again make sure you go for your follow up visits.
is gynecomastia harmful?
while gynecomastia typically causes anxiety regarding ones appearance there is a small possibility of a cancer in a male breast. best to see your local plastic surgeon who can do a thorough history and exam and help determine the cause and potential treatment options for your problem.
how do i choose between saline or silicone implants for my breast augmentation? i am wondering about the bottom line benefits to either silicone or saline implant breast augmentation as a long term solution for my lifestyle. i'm active enjoy sports yoga
saline and silicone are both good choices. saline pros: smaller incision easier to adjust asymmetry in surgery easier to detect implant rupture eliminates possible patient anxiety regarding silicone less cost; cons: heavier more rippling possible less natural feeling. silicone pros: more natural feeling less heavy on tissues more form stable; cons: longer incision rupture less obvious.
i had pulsating pain in both my breast a few days ago and tenderness. lasted 20mins pain was minor but hurt with every breath. what could this be?
and get checked for musculoskeletal condition pleurisy stress anxiety etc. chest pain related to the heart is uncommon among young people. take care and god bless you! <link> <link>
can i work as a firefighter while taking xanax my wife has stage 4 breast cancer and the stress was giving me anxiety. i was prescribe. 05 mg xanax 2x per day i feel it has helped me. however i don't know how my employer will feel about it
hello. i do not know that answer to that question. here is the problem a medication like xanax (alprazolam) is mood altering. it can make you sedated or slow your reaction times. this could make you less responsive and less effective as a fire fighter. you are in a high risk profession so you need to be fully aware and awake. if you were a diver or a pilot in the military being on this type of mediation (benzodiazapine) would render you unsuitable for the job. my guess would be that there are guidelines for health restrictions in your area. the most responsible thing to do is to talk to your employer about it. i am very sorry about your wife's illness. take care.
can i work as a firefighter while taking xanax my wife has stage 4 breast cancer and the stress was giving me anxiety. i was prescribe. 05 mg xanax 2x per day i feel it has helped me. however i don't know how my employer will feel about it
despite the side effects of medications like xanax (alprazolam) such as motor impairment due to its sedation properties you would be surprised at how many people take it and still function; i believe it depends on multiple variables (e. g. how often one takes such medications dose other medications taken with it age of patient type of job). it'll lessen your reaction times due to anti-anxiety effects and being that you are in a high risk job i'd look at other treatments available for your anxiety. there is tolerance phenomena to deal with using these kinds of medications as well.
how long does it take to get the results of a stereoscopic breast biopsy?
there are few things as anxiety-provoking as waiting for a biopsy result to return. if prioritized appropriately there is no reason why the result should take more than 1-2 (working) days. please ask this before the biopsy.
how long does it take for a breast biopsy result to come back?
there are few things as anxiety-provoking as waiting for a biopsy result to return. if prioritized appropriately there is no reason why the result should take more than 1-2 (working) days. please ask this before the biopsy.
can breast cancer cause fainting?
if you just received the news of having breast cancer the anxiety and stress associated with that can make your heart skip a beat and make you faint. also pain medication and chemotherapy regimens that patients with breast cancer sometimes receive can make one weak and dizzy.
can breast cancer cause fainting?
you may be feeling faint because of anxiety which is very common after being diagnosed with breast cancer otherwise you may need a cardiac work up.
cant tell if its breast pain or heart. im also mensturating at the moment. its like when you have ache. really brief. ekg xray normal to. thanks?
at your age with a negative work up it's unlikely to be the heart. the breast should not be so severe it warrants the work up. it might be a muscle strain between your ribs. it could be an esophageal spasm it's hard to say. i don't want to bring in anxiety but this may be making the interpretation worse. insomnia? with a non chest pain and neg workup up in 19 yo anxiety could exacerbate.
could my breast surgeon lower one breast that he admitted to placing too high in his office & without using anesthesia?
whether or not you will be comfortable having the procedure performed under local anesthesia will depend on many factors including exactly what procedure is performed and how you handle anxiety/discomfort. best wishes.
how we feel if u have a sign of breast cancer?
it is normal to have anxiety. but you should take one step at a time and find out the diagnosis with the assistance of your friendly primary at physician.
i am a boy and i have man boobs can i use geynixen? my age is 16
the condition called gynecomastia is quite common in young men. mostly it is a transient hormone related development of a growing male and resolves in 3-4 yrs. drugs like gynixen are not recommended by medical profession as this is not a prescription medication. be careful with positive reviews of such drugs as they may be company-sponsored. talk to your doc re your anxiety about this and f/u
had to redo mammogram because breast tissue wasn't compressed & looked suspicious. caused great anxiety. why not done properly 1st time?
initial mammogram may have not had enough compression an area or the overlapping structures may have caused a summation shadow. the original mammogram may have been performed well but the radiologist saw something and wanted extra views. extra/spot views provide focal compression over the area of concern and spread out the tissues more to make sure there is nothing of concern in that area.
had to redo mammogram because breast tissue wasn't compressed & looked suspicious. caused great anxiety. why not done properly 1st time?
mammograms sometimes don't compress all the tissue the same way because each woman has different anatomy. areas that need extra compression (and sometimes ultrasound) are often found by the radiologist later when the study is read. this requires the patient to return for a diagnostic mammogram to settle any concerns. this two part process screens the largest number of women at the lowest cost.
had to redo mammogram because breast tissue wasn't compressed & looked suspicious. caused great anxiety. why not done properly 1st time?
it is rare that a patient is recalled for a technical error on a mammo but occasionally it happens. much more likely in your case is that the radiologist identified a potential abnormality on the screening study which required special extra views to better evaluate. the "spot" compression on the extra views is much more effective at spreading out the tissue than the general compression of screenin
mammogram showed a suspicious mass 8 mm x 8 mm. what's the next step?
we use a grading system to categorize abnormalities on mammography. "suspicious" means that it is a bi-rads 4 category necessitating (nonsurgical) biopsy for definitive diagnosis. if this was seen on mammography and ultrasound we usually guide the needle by ultrasound. while this is very anxiety-provoking those abnormalities deemed "suspicious” are cancerous less than 30% of the time.
do patients have the option of general or local anesthesia during a breast lift? as i enter my 30s my breast are starting to sag and i would like to have a breast lift. do patients tend to be less nervous or more nervous about going under for general ane
cosmetic breast surgery can be performed under local anesthesia with sedation or general anesthesia. i prefer general anesthesia. it is very safe and allows me to concentrate on the details involved in giving you a superb result. you should be well informed prior to surgery which will help reduce your anxiety. you will also be given medication to help you relax.
does this ever get easier? after 2 lumpectomies and radiation for dcis. (believe me when i say i was in the right place at the right time) and appreciate all that's been done for me! now looking at a complete hysterectomy for persistent hpv with (mi
wow it sounds as though you have been through a lot! many people who have chronic illnesses or have been through serious illnesses can have residual anxiety and/or depression stemming from their experiences. it may be helpful to you to have someone to talk to while you are dealing with all of these very stressful situations. the worry the crying the avoiding other people the pain from clenched muscles make me concerned that you are experiencing either anxiety depression or both. you should call your doctor to let them know how you are feeling. i promise you you are not the first! they may be able to refer you to a psychologist or psychiatrist that may be able to give you the support and tools that you need in order to deal with everything you've been going through in a healthier happier way. this is way more common than many people think so don't hesitate to get help!
do i have to bring someone along or can i drive after the mammogram?
generally after a screening mammogram a woman can resume her usual activities including driving. in case of extreme anxiety it might be better to have another person with you for support.
had breast ultrasound for breast lump and dr said it was a cyst. its been there almost 3 months but getting smaller. could this be cancerous?
benign processes which develop when a duct becomes obstructed. with rare exception breast cancers grow solid; therefore if a breast lump is fluid-filled no further evaluation is needed. cysts require no rx although if it is painful or causing anxiety aspiration can resolve the cyst. if the ultrasound was definitive no follow-up is necessary; if equivocal a 6 month follow-up is advised.
my follow up question is this: i was not accurate in my deacription of nodule. should have said it was on cervical spine. still w/terrible vertigo & ataxia. i am recove from dble mastectomy 6 mos ago. thyroid nodule came out unconclusive ~ supposed to ha
symptoms of vertigo and ataxia can be result of medications especially chemo agents. however inner ear cerebellar or deep brainstem processes can also cause these symptoms. migraine symptoms can develop after severe stress and anxiety. cervical spine nodule is incidental and would not be the cause.
my grandma had breast cancer will gp do a breast exam because of my family history?
breast exam is part of a general physical exam or for symptoms or new history. would not expect a breast exam if went for sinus infection. if you are seeing gp for a specific reason like a sinus infection and want to have a breast exam performed given new family history anxiety re: risk change in self exam etc. then breast exam could be doneas well.
are there some non-hormonal meds that have a probability of producing gynecomastia?
there are a large number of non hormonal medicines that can cause gynecomastia. some chemotherapeutic agents antihypertensive meds anti anxiety and anti seizure meds among a host of others can cause gynecomastia. don't forget marijuana use. go online if you are unsure and research your medicines and conditions to see if they contribute.
i have been feeling a weird pulling feeling over my left breast. it feels like fabric stretching? it happens when i stretch my left arm. is it anxiety
symptoms of anxiety and this is not one of them. here's a reference for researching whether you have anxiety: <link> psychologyproductsandservices. com/page2. html as for stretching sensations? i'm stumped. are you in pain? are there any other symptoms? have you seen an md for a visual inspection?
my mom had breast cancer i'm 39 and i just had a mammogram and breast ultrasound and got called back to my doctor should i be worried?
regardless of your family history it sounds like your doctor simply wants to discuss the results of your tests with you. while this may mean the radiologist saw something on one or both of your tests it does not necessarily mean it is something bad. it is understandably nerve-wracking to have to wait. express your anxiety and ask to see the doctor sooner to ease your mind.
my nipple is sore breast is fine. nipple feels brused but didn't do anything to them been 2 weeks changed of birth control pills missed my period?
often times a period is delayed and women are concerned about being pregnant. with a history of unprotected intercourse the anxiety due to a possible unplanned pregnancy rises. a easy way to determine if you are pregnant is by doing a home pregnancy test. it can be done around the time of your expected period. it can be done safely and with ease within the comfort/privacy of your home. dr m
after breast implants why can some women breastfeed and others not?
even without implants some women have a harder time breast feeding that others. there are maternal and infant factors such as anxiety nipple size and projection hormones amount of milk production and interest on both the part of mom and baby.
diagnosed with breast cancer at 23 and had a double mastectomy at 25. what can i do to prevent my panick attacks?
it is norma to be anxious in this situation you could join breast cancer support groups and discuss your situation with other women who have been in your situation or you could take medication to relieve te anxiety.
i am autistic. i need my first mammogram. i have sensory issues with touch. could i listen to music on my ipod? what other options are there?
things that are calming can certainly help with this. if music calms ou listening to music is a great idea. also short acting anti-anxiety medications like xanax (alprazolam) (there are many others) can also help you handle this experience. discuss your sensory issues with the doctor referring you to your mammogram and they should be able to help.
mammo:ill marginated focal assymetry sono:two lipomas or intramamary lymphs mri:looks benign but birads 4 and recommends biopsy. im confused/scared!
i would advise that you consult a breast cancer surgeon or medical oncologist who has reputation of being a specialist in breast diseases/cancer. based on your history you may need to have a biopsy of the lumps/masses/ shadows that you have mentioned. that is the final solution to any palpable/visible lump in the breast. this will remove your anxiety which is due to the uncertainty you are facin.
after a breast biopsy & diagnosis of fibroadenoma in oct 2012 another lump formed - md said it was a hematoma. still has not gone away. what do i do?
your are 24 young biopst showwd fibroadenona in 2012. . how and where was the biopsy done? any family hs of cancer? in any case it is unlikely to be cancer. just be patient. relax. ultrasound? if you insist. a sceond opinion to relieve your anxiety. i prefer time!
can you tell me if i have breast cancer or if it's my anxiety. would my blood results have shown some abnormality if i had breast cancer?
why do you think you have breast cancer? please discuss this with your doctor. if you have a new breast lump you need an evaluation asap. routine blood work will most likely not lead to a diagnosis of breast cancer. that is why we recommend mammograms (if you have no family history and a normal breast exam we usually start at age 40) and breast exams. best of luck.
could reusing water bottles cause breast cancer?
plastic bottles can contain bpa which are aromatic compounds that can potentially promote dna damage and theoretically raise cancer risk although this is hard to quantify. while any kind of cancer has environmental and genetic components there is no direct evidence that reusing water bottles will cause breast cancer. if you have anxiety about this consider using glass bottles.
finished a breast biopsy waiting on test results going bonkers. help?
there are few medical procedures that are so fraught with anxiety as breast biopsies. typically we get results of breast core biopsies to our clinical colleagues within 1 to 2 days. occasional cases take longer and you should not assume there is a bad result if it takes a longer period of time. sometimes extra studies are needed or a specific case is particularly difficult (benign or malignant.
is there anything i can do to help my grandma who may or may not have breast cancer?
like i hope you always are. if she has a dominant mass it will need to be biopsied. encourage her to comply. offer her what comfort is right knowing her personality. different people deal with the anxiety of a workup in different ways. there is no "one size fits all" to being nice to a family member. some cultures are superstitious about this disease; you're educated and can help here.
my biopsy showed grade 1 invasive ductal carcinoma and i have been feeling short of breath and light-headed. could this be something besides stress?
fortunately you have been diagnosed at an early stage of this malignancy which may be curable with excision and/or xrt. since we dont know anything else about you including your age social habits or medical history its not possible to comment on why you have sob or light-headedness. it is extremely unlikely to be related to your recent diagnosis. you may be experiencing anxiety with panic attack
years ago had episode of fast heartrate unable to move arms and hands clawed inward i had a cold and heavy feeling in my chest. what could it have b?
several possibilities. maybe an episode of hyperventilation or an anxiety attack/.
young female. anxiety disorder victim. cholesrol levels are fine according to blood test. akg is fine. but still have concerns of heart attack. advice?
your anxiety can be helped with cognitive behavioral therapy.
abnormal mammo again. last yr it was "fibrocystic changes" this time letter says "spots detected" i am 51 and peri. dx sched. should i be scared?
majority of the time(at least 75%) someone is called back for extra views(diagnostic mammo) it turns out to be nothing. however based on the limited information you have("spots detected" doesn't mean much other than they recommend extra views) it is impossible to gauge the level of suspicion. it is normal to have some anxiety but again most of the time it turns out to be nothing.
are there any breast enhancement pills that are safe to use?
you describe "bleeding mood swings anxiety". do you have normal periods? on birth control? ever been pregnant? what is your body type? why do you wish to "enhance"? are you flat? most of the pills advertised are worthless. estrogens can stimulate breasts but can have undesirable effects. talk to your dr about it and don't fall for the ads aimed at suckers.
dimple and linear calcifications in breast. mri set for mon. morning. what will the mri show as opposed to mammogram and ultrasound?
breast mri (magnetic resonance imaging) is more sensitive than a mammogram or ultrasound of the breasts in finding small lesions that may be missed otherwise such as in dense breasts. it is performed with administration of iv contrast. a more sensitive test always carries a higher false positive result (finding more abnormalities that are not of real concern but may raise more anxiety).
i had a mammogram 2 days ago. since then i have felt short of breath and chest pain. can a mammogram cause damage to my heart? i must see a cardiologist?
since a lot of pressure is applied to the chest cage during a mammogram you might have sustained some trauma in the process (even more pressure is applied when the breast tissue is cystic or dense). i wonder if your shortness of breath is from anxiety over the chest pain. try heating pad +/- nsaid and see if these helps if your sob persists or worsens best to see your doctor
lump in breast. very stressed. cleared by doc. now i worry i have all sorts of diseases. now weird symptoms: which all point to panic and anxiety diso?
anxiety can cause a wide variety of symptoms. even though you said your doctor 'cleared' you regarding the breast lump it is apparently causing you to worry and become anxious. talk to a surgeon about removing the lump and testing it to alleviate your anxiety.
no period in 2 months neg pregnant test cervix high and closed exstreme mood swings heavy very sore breast?
i understand your distress. it is likely that you have stresses in life causing overwhelming anxiety and mood swings. let wise woman within you guide you to relax- •breathing and music relaxation •visual imagery of national parks •meditation •yoga avoid: • caffeine • alcohol • smoking see gynecologist for missed period. see psychiatrist for therapy for anxiety coping skills for stress.
nervous about my breast biopsy help what should i do?
let the physician know about your concerns. education about the process can often allay fears. to diminish anxiety- breath in deeply through nostrils hold air in lungs for a five count and then slowly exhale through an open mouth.
one of the worst things is having to sit in a room full of women in gowns waiting for mammogram. cant help counting and knowing x will have ca.?
i understand your anxiety but try to imagine how many lives are saved every year by early dictation of breast ca through mammography. years ago in a gyn office you would thinking of how many women would eventually die of breast ca.
oncologist started me on effexor (venlafaxine) xr for the hot flashes from tamoxifen. taking it for 1 week extremely tired & nausea. will benefits outweigh sideeffect?
effexor (venlafaxine) xr is indicated for treatment of depression and anxiety. side effects of effexor (venlafaxine) xr include tiredness and nausea. please see the improvement in your symptoms since taking effexor (venlafaxine) xr and see your oncologist and psychiatrist.
what's a normal heart rate? mine is 108 minute i do take meds and have anxiety and i'm wondering if that is impacting it also.
typically 108 can be considered high if you are clearly in a resting state. highly recommend you take your pulse upon waking up in the am and start there and give that info to your doctor. for those really concerned and willing to use it the fitbit charge hr or similar activity tracker can be an excellent source of feedback and will give you a daily reading of your resting heart rate.
lately i've had a tachycardic heart and sometime dizziness and chest pain what could cause it? i'm an 18 year old girl who keeps herself fit never had to stay in a hospital and never had any kind of procedures.
this is of course too little information to give you a firm answer. posssibilites range from anemia (low blood count) to anxiety or high thyroid function. if these are new symptoms please see your family doctor for a checkup!
sometime i can feel only one strong heartbeat. is this heart palpitations? it only happened about 3-4 times a day.
yes this more likely is a skipped beat. this is usually not serious. can happen if you drink too much caffeine or have anxiety. if it happens more often or if you have symptoms like chest pains or shortness of breath then you should seek the help of your doctor.
when my heart race face and head stings like getting burnt everywhere with anxiety or anything that increase hr. could anxiety be the source? or?
physiological symptoms due to anxiety that do not stem from a medical condition usually get triggered by a preceding thought. try to remember what you were thinking about just before you felt your heart race. try to alter that thought to something that will not bring on the anxiety and subsequent symptoms. also always have a checkup to rule out a medical explanation
shortness of breath off and on for the last 6 hrs not sure if it's my asthma or it's heart related? i have an arrhythmia! not much wheezing either
if you do not have previous history of asthma it is not because of asthma. also lack of wheezing makes it unlikely to be from asthma. so it is either heart related or due to anxiety. either way you need to see your doctor.
panic attacks or heart problems? i suffer from panic attacks which are probably due to drug use which i've stopped. i've had ekg tests done and the results have all come back normal. however i still continue to get racing heart beats chest and even
this sounds like ongoing anxiety or panic attacks especially since you have already been diagnosed with that condition and your other cardiac tests have been normal. anxiety and panic are very common and can mimic all the symptoms of dangerous types of heart disease. heart disease should be excluded by a qualified medical professional. in addition to an ekg you might also need an event monitor to correlate your symptoms to your heart rhythm. you might also benefit from an echocardiogram which is an ultrasound of the heart and perhaps a stress test to exclude coronary artery disease. if your symptoms persist despite a negative cardiac evaluation you should be referred to a mental health expert to help you with your anxiety.
my palps may be caused by anxiety and panic but i'm unsure. i have them daily. now that i have an event monitor and i "want" to have them i can't. ?
if you get anxious about not having your arrhythmia maybe you'll be able to produce it. if it has stopped then in the words of dr. roseannroseannadanna. never mind.
what causes a chest pain near the heart?
causes of chest pain include: angina heart attack gerd costochondritis muscle strain anxiety pleurisy peptic ulcer shingles pulmonary embolism. for more patient information go to > <link>
since i was 11 i have fainting spells. my body gets real hot. heart beats fast. lose sight and hearing and finally ill fall over unconscious. i do not hav anxiety and it's gotten worse with pregnancy.
you need to seek professional evaluation. perhaps a neurologist would be a good start. you may also want to be evaluated for an irregular heartbeat.
since i was 11 i have fainting spells. my body gets real hot. heart beats fast. lose sight and hearing and finally ill fall over unconscious. i do not hav anxiety and it's gotten worse with pregnancy.
you have symptoms that suggest a problem called autonomic insufficiency. this is common in young women. essentially the brain can misread the signals being sent by the heart and blood vessels and cause the pulse to go fast (or slow) and the blood pressure to fall. pregnancy makes this a lot worse. for now drink lots of fluids and lie down at the first sign of symptoms. you should see a heart md.
since i was 11 i have fainting spells. my body gets real hot. heart beats fast. lose sight and hearing and finally ill fall over unconscious. i do not hav anxiety and it's gotten worse with pregnancy.
followed by syncope (fainting). this is due to a chaotic autonomic (automatic) nervous system and is directly due in most cases to vitamin deficiency from a lousy diet particularly all the sweet junk. it is common in the u. s.
somedays whenever i stand up my heart rate elevates and i get real weak and dizzy. doesnt last long but i hate it. i do have anxiety. could it be rela (carisoprodol)?
hypotension would explain your symptoms. increasing fluids significantly & liberalizing salt intake (provided you don't have htn) would be first steps. i'm assuming that you are not taking bp medication. if symptoms don't improve see your physician.
so i was prescribed benicar 20 for blood pressure and ativan 1mg for anxiety. i'm also on synthroid (thyroxine) 50 & omeprazole 20. are these safe to take evryday?
medications will be effective and safe when used in combination.
my heart skips and beat and then beats hard once and shakes my body. does this every thirty seconds for minutes at a time when i lay down.
you are having palpitations which can have many causes. irregular or rapid beating of the heart can cause the sensation you are experiencing. sometimes it is just due to anxiety or too much caffeine but can be other reasons like thyroid disease. it is best to speak with a doctor one on one
why can i feel my pulse behind my eye and face. no pain just a pulse. no anxiety bp good when sitting and standing? only when i lay down
it is not unusual to feel a pulsation in that area when lying down
so i am always tired. and i am always not feeling well along with palpatations. could i be possiably be an anemic?
fatigue and palpitation can be well explained by the presence of anemia. however other causes also need to be ruled out/ruled in- such as thyroid problems chronic disease- such as dm/renal/heart/lung depression/anxiety etc. see your doctor and have your doctor run some blood work to evaluate your condition further and go from there. good luck.
why does adderall work better than vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) for some people. is propanolol appropiate for anxiety? how does nuvigil work? can trazadone be used for sle
1. no one knows why adderal works better than vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) for some patients. 2. yes propanol is appropriate for stage fright or performance anxiety test anxiety etc. any anxiety that is caused by a panic response. 3. the mechanism of action of nuvigil is not known it promotes wakefulness. 4. yes trazodone can be used for sleep in specific circumstances and after consultation with a physician.
my heart rate is slowing down i feel my head heavy and like if i'm runing out of air. im trying to sleep but i can't because i'm scared. what do i do?
the operative word is "scared" and that points toward anxiety disorder/ panic attack if you are a healthy 22yo. please discuss with your pcp and have the doctor look into it. if it is related to panic attacks get help!
what to do if i have numbness/tingling in right hand and arm as well as heart palpitations and dizziness?
palpitations that symptomatic deserve a prompt w/u: exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo andthe discussion of treatment options with your doctor. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety and hyperventilation can cause numbness.
m23. anxiety palpitations(mainly b4 sleep/after meal) mild dyspnea fatigue s-shaped scoliosis. ecg echo blood test/pressure lungs-ok. what can i do?
assuming that your blood work including a thyroid function are normal. i recommend you eat a healthy diet and exercise on a regular basis. avoid simple carbohydrates alcohol and excessive caffeine intake.
my partner is 44yrs old. always complains of feelings of anxiety the shakes headaches muscle pain heart palpitations and generally just unwell?
partner needs a full medic. al evaluation. online could only speculate and that without good data.
heart flutters or thumps once or twice daily. cardiologist says it's normal. this is new seems more after having a beer. can it be afib?
afib is unlikely in a 26 yo unless they either have a congenital heart conduction issue or they are doing drugs like cocaine or meth. its more likely you are having ectopic (extra) sinus beats sinus ventricular tachycardia and/or occasional premature ventricular beats. stress anxiety can cause the above. you could see a cardiologist and wear a halter monitor for 24 hours.
my blood pressure fluncuates between extreamly low to extreamly high as does my pulse. what is a safe normal fluncuating number i know 120/80 is ideal?
older a person is and the more risk factors for stroke and heart disease the more dangerous fluctuations could be. normal to have large fluctuations during exercise extreme anxiety/stress. if at rest something may be wrong. heart rhythm testing checking for medical conditions that could cause this- hyperthyroidism adrenal problems- is needed. bp can feel like it is fluctuating and be normal.
what is the recommend heart beat?
the normal heart rate at rest is 60-100 bpm. it goes faster with exertion anxiety stress and medications or foods like caffeine. it goes slower with rest and is usually the slowest during sleep. athletic conditioning can also naturally lower your resting heart rate sometimes down into the 40's and 50 bpm's. see your doctor if you're concerned your heart rate is too fast or slow.
how do you know if it's anxiety or heart attack?
through a good relationship with a physician that would include an exam-history and physical and some testing that may include an ekg and even possible lab work it would be easy to determine anxiety/panic attacks causing chest pain vs a true cardiac cause. then once properly diagnosed and treated the issue would hopefully be better controlled in the future. best wishes.
how do you know if it's anxiety or heart attack?
at your age group the incidence of heart attack is low unless you have markers of high risk (such as familial hyperlipidemia htn strong family history of coronary disease at early age etc. . ). presentation history and features of the chest pain are also helpful points.
went to er 4 chest pain since yesterday said ekg was normal didn't do bloodwork gave zantac (ranitidine) for heartburn chest still hurting heart skipping 5 wk preg?
heart-attacks are uncommon in 25 year-old women. it looks like you have had an ekg an echo and an exercise stress test. if these were normal its unlikely to be your heart. however even in early pregnancy you can have gastric reflux heart-burn and indigestion. anxiety can also give you chest-pain. however if your symptoms are severe you should still go back to the er. best wishes!
my sister says she has rapid heart rate. are family members more likely to get the same thing?
there are many causes of rapid heart rate such as medications stress anxiety that carry no risk to other members of the family. there are certain metabolic conditions (overactive thyroid) and rare hereditary tachycardias but the family risk of these is usually 1% or less.
what causes resting hr (50-60) to jump to 90-110 today? i went to er they did ekg/blood. sent me home saying anxiety. hr still high at rest. am i ok?
resting heart beat can be elevated for several reasons including dehydration anemia anxiety heart problems. since ekg is normal snd blood work is normal i suspect there is no serious cause. to ease your mind you should fallow up eith your doctor for an evaluation to insure a the proper tests are done. take. care.
what causes resting hr (50-60) to jump to 90-110 today? i went to er they did ekg/blood. sent me home saying anxiety. hr still high at rest. am i ok?
the good news is you had an extensive work up in the ed and nothing serious was found that could be coming form your heart etc. since labs and ekg were all stable you should feel good that you had nothing seriously wrong in your work-up. see your pcp for some anxiety treatments. best wishes.
what can cause resting heart rate to change. it usually is 50-60 but it's 90-122 when standing. er was not concerned but it has been going on 2 days?
causes. dehydration anemia cold medicine asthma medicine anxiety etc. . follow up with your pcp or if become symptomatic return to er.
what can cause resting heart rate to change. it usually is 50-60 but it's 90-122 when standing. er was not concerned but it has been going on 2 days?
usually postural changes in pulse (or blood pressure) like yours are related to dehydration. . in the er environment this change can be related to anxiety. yet if you do not have symptoms such as dizziness when you stand-up this is something that can be corrected by increasing your fluid intake
high heart rate lower chest pain and tingling arms. what's going on?
this could be anything from an anxiety reaction to a serious hear t condition. call your doctor right away or go to the nearest emergency room.
what to do if i am feeling like my heart is racing but it's a normal heart rate?
normal heart rate can vary between 60 and 99. it depends on what your normal is. your heart can feel like its racing if it goes over 90 if normally your rate is around 70. anxiety caffeine stress and exercise all can make your heart go faster
what are the symptoms of chronic anxiety especially the chest area?
physical symptoms of what could be a generalized anxiety disorder include fatigue headaches muscle tension muscle aches can't relax and sleep problems. if you think you have an anxiety disorder the first person you should see is your family doctor. about your symptoms to make sure that another physical problem isn't causing the symptoms. help is available so get it checked out now!
what are the symptoms of chronic anxiety especially the chest area?
can tightness in chest muscles to the point that you don't inhale as deeply. there can also be a sensation of chest pressure and sometimes hyperventilation. other symptoms could include: feeling nervous or irritable muscle tension (especially in neck shoulders ; back) poor quality or minimal sleep lack of concentration easy fatiguability ; lump in throat or butterfly in stomach sensation.
what could be the reason that i have an elevated heart rate. my blood pressure would be normal and my heart rate is in the 90's.
sometimes chronic stress dehydration infection and anxiety can cause rapid heart rate. also if you smoke drink alcohol or caffeinated beverages try to cut down on your use. get evaluated by a dr. to see if you have a heart condition or thyroid problem. make sure you drink plenty of water daily.
why do i feel extreme headache vomiting weak shaky heavy eyes fast heart beat and hungry all of a sudden? i have migraine.
migraines rapid heartbeats stomach symptoms are often associated with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
what can i take for a cold? i am currently taking atenolol for my fast heart rate and paxil (paroxetine) for my anxiety and depression? please advise
there really is no cure for cold except to rest drink plenty of fluids and some supportive treatment like gargle with warm water with salt for sorethroat some people swear by vitamin c. decongestants may increase your heart rate so be careful. watch a funny movie and relax.
what to do if i am dealing with heart palpitations they are so annoying and scary what's a good med for this if any?
we need to know underlying etiology for palpitations (cardiac arrhythmia vs. anxiety disorder). you need full physical work-up (ekg/holter/event monitor). it is followed by subsequent work-up to come up with treatment plan. please consult your physician.
why is it that i wake up and can't breathe and when i try to go to sleep my heart beats fast and i'm always tired but can't sleep. what is it?
make sure you are suffering from increased stress and anxiety disorder. it is important for you to see a primary care physician to rule out asthma avid reflux sleep apnea etc and then focus on anxiety disorder.
wake up with rapid heartbeat in the middle of the night?
given your age this could be as simple as anxiety and depression or as serious as heart attack or even the response to breathing in too much acid if you have reflux disease. i would get to the doctor to make sure it is not a sign of a serious illness.
what if your heart rate is 95 at rest? took gaviscon(antacid)and benedryl earlier for allergy watery eyes. usaully at 64 at rest and when anxiety is low
normal heart rate is between 60 and 100 and will fluctuate during the day and night for a variety of reasons. if your heart rate is 95 and you have no other symptoms i wouldn't be concerned but always check with your provider if you are not feeling normal.
what if your heart rate is 95 at rest? took gaviscon(antacid)and benedryl earlier for allergy watery eyes. usaully at 64 at rest and when anxiety is low
normal. so relax and quit checking it.
why does my heart rate increase around 40 bpm after eating? no diagnosed heat conditions. no symptoms other than anxiety.
depending on how long it is after eating it could be mild dropping of your blood sugar which would cause anxiety and your heart rate to go up. it is called postprandial hypoglycemia. please consult with your family doctor or an endocrinologist for further evaluation. best wishes to you.
woke up mid of night out of blue short of breath &felt like chest was skipping beats for30seconds had bad dream but chest sensation was so scary. had stresstest last week normal. have anxiety. help.
probably you had an anxiety reaction and are fine. you should discuss your status with your doctor.
woke up mid of night out of blue short of breath &felt like chest was skipping beats for30seconds had bad dream but chest sensation was so scary. had stresstest last week normal. have anxiety. help.
the question is what came first the chicken or the egg? i suspect you woke out of the blue from a bad dream or something else - then became aware of your heart beat/breathing which caused additional fear and then the viscious cycle began. it doesn't sound as though something physiological woke you up from sleep. my free videos may help www. thecoachmd. com. if persists a sleep study might help.
was up all night with stomach pain left arm pain chest pain on /off. heart racing short of breath leg pain still don'tfeel well. heart or anxiety?
with arrhythmia be of concern. . further evaluation necessary to differentiate. talk to your physician.
would ecg + xray of chest and blood tests find aorta anyurism. pulsating stomoch. i have anxiety an last night was first time to sleep in a week.
physical exam abdominal ultrasound or ct would define the abdominal aorta or aneurysm. as a young ? thin person aortic pulsation is frequently visible and palpable. .
would ecg + xray of chest and blood tests find aorta anyurism. pulsating stomoch. i have anxiety an last night was first time to sleep in a week.
an abdominal aortic aneurysm is a very uncommon occurrence in a 19yr. old. blood tests a chest xray and an ecg are not the examinations to detect it. if your dr. is truly concerned an ultrasound of the abdomen/aorta may be indicated in the correct clinical situation.
what are natural ways to treat palpitations or just a very fast pulse?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
when i am on bed for sleep i feel my heart beat and i get some strange burps. i do feel sleeplessness and discomfort. what should i do to cure it?
it sounds like u r having anxiety attack see u pcp for evaluation and treatment.
would heart problem show up on ekg blood work or xray had all of them done good results doctors says its anxiety. headaches both legs tingly faint?
first the chance that a 25 y/o would have a heart attack is very small. making a diagnosis is a combination of detailed history physical exam and selected tests. for heart disease family history and risk factor analysis are very important. can these tests be negative and miss something? yes but a 25 y/o with all neg tests the chance is very small. if you are still concerned then get 2nd opinion.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic nervousness and headaches? on bp depression and anxiety meds.
antidepressants to varying degrees can have sympathomimetic properties particularly the snri's (effexor cymbalta (duloxetine) pristiq) and maoi's. the risks and benefits should be weighed.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic nervousness and headaches? on bp depression and anxiety meds.
anxiety is at the top of the list of potential causes here some bp meds especially that dilate arteries strongly can cause reactive fast pulse and jittery/nervous feeling. hyperthyroidism can cause this cluster of findings as well. finally you will find "pheochromocytoma" if you google these symptoms and yes it can mimic the above things but is hardly ever found--speak to your doctor about it.
i took 10mg of inderal (propranolol) for fast heart rate (anxiety) and after 2 hours i feel like a pressure in top of chest near neck (for 20-30 minutes). my bp it'?
without much to go on (e. g. early family history of heart problems history of clotting disorder etc. ) it is vey difficult to pass this off as anxiety. you should seek medical evaluation in-person immediately at urgent care or emergency dept if you have not yet been evaluated. even though your young age is protective you can still be at risk for serious conditions related to chest pain.
what advice would you give to a fairly healthy 32yo female patient who despite reassurance from her doctor re: her health has a heart attack phobia?
you are describing worried thinking (about heart attack) which causes anxiety (emotion) which can result in behavioral avoidance (phobia) of something (eg exercise). how you think leads to how you feel leads to behaviors. what leads to a heart attack is coronary artery disease quite uncommon in a young person. consult a cognitive-behavioral therapist about your worried thinking.
with surgery for hyperthyroidism how soon before the symptoms like rapid heart rate anxiety lack of concentration leave? ( partial thyroidectomy)
thyroid hormone t4 has a half life of about 1 week.
with surgery for hyperthyroidism how soon before the symptoms like rapid heart rate anxiety lack of concentration leave? ( partial thyroidectomy)
thyroid levels tend to take a long time to level out after removing the source of the hyperthyroidism. the thyroid metabolites have a long half life and remain in the system even after a thyroidectomy. the rapid hr and anxiety should get better first followed by the issues of concentration
what's most likely causes of a fast heart rate?
anxiety and stress and fear are most common causes. dehydration can also raise heart rate.
i have been told i have a right bundle branch block am i okay still to be working out and doing cardio. i have anxiety and exercise is how i cope?
a published study has good news for you: <link> ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pubmed/6826977 yes you can exercise. do let your provider know your routine. avoid getting your hr over 180 and consider shorter less intensely rigorous routines - but if you don't overdo it - it's good for you. avoid dizziness exhaustion out of breath causing choices and hydrate well. good for you!
what should i do if my heart flutters uncontrollably?
palpitations/fluuters can come any time and it can be scary for some folks. at times we don't know why but sometimes there are reasons--anxiety/panic attacks thyroid disease medication side effects drug/alcohol use/abuse heart-attacks fever/infections heart-conductions problem excessive caffeine/stimulants etc. if persistent/concerning to you consult doc for an eval. good luck.
when you have a heart attack is it normal to feel palpitations and pressure?
pressure and palpitations are common symptoms of a heart attack. there are many others too such as sweating arm or jaw aching feeling of doom nausea and anxiety.
is it normal if i have anxiety stress and less then sleep last night my heart rate was 100bpm unlike the usual 55-65 in the morning at night its 58?
if you have anxiety and stress you are concentrating on the wrong thing when you measure hr or bp (barking up the wrong tree! ). concentrate and deal with anxiety and stress. seek help as you may not be able to do it by yourself!
what is the? difference between postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome and general anxiety disorder?
increased heart rate from low blood volume when you stand up gad is a inappropriate sense of doom two symptoms can be dizziness rapid heart rate not related to body position.
weird chest pain remains after several normal blood tests ekgs and chest xray?
to consider if you have been ruled out for heart disease include heart burn anxiety costochondritis.
i take lorazepam already for 2 years. its for anxiety and now i feel very nervous. i have fast heart beating. does it have to do with the medication?
long term generalized anxiety may not be what that drug is best for. i'd recommend a therapy where you can learn how to deal with your feelings along with the support of a medication to help you be calm enough to learn well. talk with your doctor for a possible change - don't do it on your own! and ask for a referral to a psychotherapist to work on issues together with. best!
i take lorazepam already for 2 years. its for anxiety and now i feel very nervous. i have fast heart beating. does it have to do with the medication?
anxiety. if you have been taking a lot of lorazepam and miss doses you can have withdrawal symptoms and that will cause anxiety and rapid heart. also it could be just that you are having worsening anxiety symptoms and you need to have your treatment changed. first thing however is to see your doctor to make sure it isn't something else. this experience is common to people with anxiety.
is it safe to take 12. 5mg of atenolol as needed for fast heart rate. some days it's more bothersome than others?
atenolol 12. 5 mg taken episodically can be fine in the right patient. discuss with the prescribing dr. but if your heart rate is due to your anxiety problem situational use of the agent is usually ok.
is it normal to feel your pulse really thumping in your lips ears neck and legs when lying down trying to get to sleep?
thumping pulse can be caused by anxiety. the codiene you are taking can also cause a strong and rapid pulse.
what is wrong if i have heart palpitations?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what is the reasonfor palpitations?
anything from anxiety to abnormal motility problem of the esophagus. . tube leading from mouth to stomach lying right next to heart which is another cause--a heart/rhythm problem. get it checked by a trusted respected pcp. (for those following my answers it should become obvious that the latter should be key to a good state of health). more of this in my upcoming blog. perhaps a non-profit.
what is the connection between heart palpitations and sweating?
if palpitations are caused by anxiety or result in anxiety the adrenaline rush can can sweating. this can be true also if they are due to systemic disease such as hyperthyroidism.
i have very bad heart racing & 2 drs suggest i take a beta blocker (atenolol). i'm so scared. what can you tell me about this pill?
it sounds like you have anxiety disorder. the beta blocker would be advantageous for this condition. atneolol is usually extremely benign and i would have no concern about it.
i have a rapid heart. rate chest pain and dizziness. i took my anxiety medicine klonopin (clonazepam) and my heart wont slow down. do i go to er?
if you have persistent chest pain and tachycardia despite taking your anti anxiety medicine you should seek help.
i have a rapid heart. rate chest pain and dizziness. i took my anxiety medicine klonopin (clonazepam) and my heart wont slow down. do i go to er?
yes please.
i had palpitations today and i take my propranolol hydrochloride 20mg. i found out that my metabolism increase where im sweaty almost all the time.
i'll leave the search for the underlying cause of your palpitations to your physician but did want to share a heads-up. if you have a progressive illness with anxiety palpitations an initial response to propranolol and now a lot of sweating i'm concerned that you have a pheochromocytoma. this often gets considered "emotional" for a while before it's found. just my idea.
i've been having heart palpitations for 2 weeks during night and sometimes in day. also short of breath when running. causes? stress? how to stop it?
get checked for thyroid/ heart condition viral illness autoimmune condition asthma bronchitis emphysema stress anxiety etc. treatment is geared toward the cause of the problem. take care!
i've been to the dr n i've been told that my heart its fine. before i orgasm n after i get missed heart beats. should i b worried? i feel irregular.
that's may be normal. orgasm is like exercising the physiologic response will be similar. are you having any symptoms while doing any exercise? are you irregular all the times? jogging or running cause any problems? i will recommend a stress test just to see how you respond to exercise. but consult a physician to r/o anxiety attacks or overactive thyroid.
i get heart palpitations a lot especially in the cold. i've had my heart checked a few times and they say its healthy. what causes these!? ! help!
are you getting heart palpitation and then getting cold? or are you expose to cold environment and then getting heart palpitation? do you have cold intolerance? what kind of test was done to r/o a heart condition? holter monitoring? ecg can be normal an still have an arrhythmia. anxiety disorders panic attacks thyroid disease nutritional problems etc. consult a physician.
is sinus tachycardia dangerous? is it permanent? blood tests+eco were ok
sinus tach is usually a compensatory reaction to a physiologic stressors. it runs the gamut from appropriate response (examples-physical stress anemia pain shortness of breath fever anxiety excessive thyroid) to inappropriate states (excessive sympathetic tone with no physiologic basis--example pots). a normal set of heart tests suggests that unusual cardiopulmonary stress is not present.
irregular heartbeat. see doc tuesday. blood pressure been 82 over 55 and in the 90's over 62 rarely 102 over 60 around that. is that ok? feel very weak
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified. many people have that blood pressure. discuss with your doc.
i have palpitation stomach pain and acid indigestion. can be palpitation because of stomach problem?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
is it possible for symptoms of a panic/anxiety attack to happen before panicked thoughts? one second fine next dizzy/heart racing then scared.
i suggest that you see someone to help sort this out. some cardiovascular autonomic nervous system problems can cause symptoms that you describe.
insomnia fever rapid heartrate and feeling like i can't get enough air lightheaded dizzy?
it sounds like you may be having anxiety but the presence of fever (if verified) is a more ominous sign and could signify infection with volume depletion or worse; i would see an er doctor or urgent care quickly.
i have hands tremor before taking medicine not severe as is now no anxiety and arrhythmia but more severe in sensitive cases inderal (propranolol) didn't helped.
a neurologist for your tremors since they are be caused by many factors things like drugs neurological disorders etc. . good luck!
i have hands tremor before taking medicine not severe as is now no anxiety and arrhythmia but more severe in sensitive cases inderal (propranolol) didn't helped.
hand tremors are likely a manifestation of benign essential tremors usually more prominent in one hand hereditary worse with caffeine beverages stress and activity. fast frequency low amplitude tremor. may improve with primidone if inderal (propranolol) trial failed. in young patients i suggest evaluation to exclude a demyelinating disorders like multiple sclerosis. gait/ sensory/reflexes exam suggested.
i have severe panic attacks agoraphobia & anxiety for 2 years. can the constant stress give me an irregular heartbeat? (i'm not on caffeine or meds)
yes chronic anxiety can cause rhythm disturbances.
i have severe panic attacks agoraphobia & anxiety for 2 years. can the constant stress give me an irregular heartbeat? (i'm not on caffeine or meds)
have you been evaluated for hyperthyroidism? high levels of stress hormones can trigger a rapid heart beat and high blood pressure. they do not necessarily cause an irregular heart beat. see you physician.
i just got a clear echo and ecg. what else could likely cause my palziness (sleeping on sides) and fatigue? age 21 male anxiety.
palziness is but talk your physician. . anxiety can manifest in a multitude of ways.
i have anxiety experienced the hypertension/tachycardia side effects of valtrex (valacyclovir). if i take it with atenolol will it help what should i look out for?
is this long term or short term. avoid beta blockers unless know what doing. we avoid atenolol as may increase aortic pressure. really need consult physician to determine if you have hypertension and is it tachycardia. lone atrial fibrillation may be culprittreated differently than other forms a. fib. may not know have it. but unless prescribed avoid atenolol. in ur age group beta blockers not.
i have anxiety experienced the hypertension/tachycardia side effects of valtrex (valacyclovir). if i take it with atenolol will it help what should i look out for?
atenolol include fatigue and lightheadedness among others.
i ve had rapid heart beat for months now around 100 or a bit above i am 38 and most of my blood tests were normal any idea what may be the cause?
so what tests were out of range? a high thyroid level might cause your heart rate to accelerate. being anemic (low red blood cell count or low hematocrit) may result in an increased heart rate as your heart beats faster to try to circulate more oxygen to your cells. anxiety can increase your heart rate. btw i'm assuming that your heart is normal but it would be reasonable to get that checked!
i have pvcs and tach. i've had stress tests echo ekgs holters and see a electro. he says benign. how do i get more detailed tests to be sure?
the test you already did are more than enough. i feel that you are over worried and anxious. anxiety is a cause of pvcs. i am sure that you are told to avoid excess coffee smoking stress .
i have had heart palpitaions for years and it happens whenever i am anxious. every emotion i get flutter and i am so sock of it. ?
sounds like generalized anxiety which is repeat episodes of excessive worry that occur more days than not. many symptoms from this condition are generated just by thinking of anticipated events. begin by scheduling a visit with your primary care physician to rule out other causes. if findings are unremarkable follow up with a mental health provider.
i have had heart palpitaions for years and it happens whenever i am anxious. every emotion i get flutter and i am so sock of it. ?
you are probably getting little surges of adrenaline most commonly due to low blood sugar. avoid the simple carbohydrates eat frequently like every 2-3 hours and exercise regularly. have a doctor check a 2 hour insulin resistance blood test. anxiety gives you more adrenaline as well. you probably get shakey irritable or cloudy thinking if you don't eat for awhile right?
i am having severe heart palpitations mostly when i work a lot or do not get to sleep at night. after any physical activity i get drained?
palpitations can be a benign effect of poor conditioning or panic/anxiety worsened by caffeine and other stimulants. they can also be due to an abnormal heart rhythm which needs to be evaluated with an ekg and monitoring a holter monitor or longer term telemetry. a stress test is helpful in the evaluation. see a cardiologist.
i am having troubles sleeping and anxiety. it feels like i can constantly feel my pulse throughout my body. its a nervous feeling. ideas?
are these new symptoms? initially i would suggest talking to your primary care doctor to assess why are you having anxiety insomnia etc. your next steps should be taken based on whether the cause of your sx has been established. meanwhile you can practice relaxation (you can google the script); sleep hygiene stress management to help you decrease tension. good luck!
is it possible to have hyper thyroid symptoms with "normal" test results? on synthroid (thyroxine) for years. sleep problems anxiety tachycardia stomach issues
get re tested soon by endocrinologist.
is it possible to have hyper thyroid symptoms with "normal" test results? on synthroid (thyroxine) for years. sleep problems anxiety tachycardia stomach issues
it is possible to have these symptoms even with normal lab values. it is also just as likely that these symptoms currently have nothing to do with your thyroid function and have a different cause altogether. your primary care doctor and endocrinologist need to put their heads together and decide which it is and then go from there. you may need a sleep study ekg and/or other work-up
i have heart palpitations all the time. their very bothersome. i've had a heart ultra sound. multiple ekgs. and 2- 24 hr. heart monitors. i've also had blood work and all was normal. could it all just be anxiety? i'm scared!
depending on your age and other medical history your physician can rule in or rule out diagnosis. you may need a longer heart monitoring like event monitor and may need electrophysiology consultation to look more deeply into the palpitations. anxiety is a possible diagnosis but after every other possible cause has been eliminated including drugs prescribed or otherwise including otc supplements.
i have the worse anxiety when going to see a doctor. i always except the worse diagnosis. my heart rate is always high like 140 plus and my blood pressure is always up. how can i calm myself enough to go see doctor? this anxiety makes me avoid going
start meditation & relaxation with imagery by closing your eyes & visualizing going thru the visit. practice breathing exercises. keep in mind also that most of us have similar anxiety since we are not sure what the doctor is going to tell us or if we will hear bad news. seeing a therapist for cognitive behavior therapy does help as well.
i have the worse anxiety when going to see a doctor. i always except the worse diagnosis. my heart rate is always high like 140 plus and my blood pressure is always up. how can i calm myself enough to go see doctor? this anxiety makes me avoid going
you may have other anxiety issues as well as fear of physician visits so consider psychological counseling in methods to learn to deal with anxiety issues in general.
i have the worse anxiety when going to see a doctor. i always except the worse diagnosis. my heart rate is always high like 140 plus and my blood pressure is always up. how can i calm myself enough to go see doctor? this anxiety makes me avoid going
you've taken the first step by acknowledging your difficulty. psychologically the next step would be to identify your fears specifically and then confront them rationally careful to remove our tendency to catastrophize. let your doctors know of your fear so they can help. there is a very nice review here: <link>
i have the worse anxiety when going to see a doctor. i always except the worse diagnosis. my heart rate is always high like 140 plus and my blood pressure is always up. how can i calm myself enough to go see doctor? this anxiety makes me avoid going
anticipation can cause the anxiety to build. think of a pot of boiling water. you want to keep it on low so it doesn't boil over. learn to self-assess and don't let anxiety build over a 7 on a scale of 1-10 with 10 being the worst. free smart phone apps: 1) mycalmbeat 2) stresscheck 3) tacticalbreather 4) lifearmor 5) breathe2relax 6) biozen 7) binauralbeats <positive_smiley> instant heartrate.
i have chest and back pain after quiting smoking. ekg clear as was chest xray. is this normal it is quite intense and has lasted over a week.?
your chest and backache need to be investigated. quitting smoking in my humble opinion does not have side effects beyond temporary weight gain and some anxiety? !
is it normal to have your heart racing and waking you while you sleep?
may have anxiety dreams or an arrythmia see your doc.
i have an unusually fast heart rate for long periods of time. what is wrong?
what do you mean by "unusually fast hr"? causes of sinus (normal) tachycardia include:fever pain anxiety fatigue exercise dehydration caffeine asthma inhalers many other medicines and drugs hemorrhage anemia excess thyroid hormone; then there are abnormal rhythms such as atrial fibrillation or flutter pat/svt wpw and vt - there are many other possibilities. you need an ekg!
i am the nervous type. have jaw pain can be a symptom of a heart attack? but what i also have tmj?
a whole lot of worry to me. first you need to make an appointment with your family doc to rule out cardiac problems and perhaps a dentist to evaluate the possibility of tmj. but it would also be very helpful to see a psychiatrist for this type of "worst case scenario" anxiety.
i think i might have heart attack!?
heart attack symptoms can include: chest pressure pain or tightness that can radiate to arms neck jaw or back; nausea shortness of breath sweating lightheadedness dizziness fatigue anxiety or a sense of impending doom. some heart attacks are silent. get evaluation urgently.
im 18 years old female active n good diet but i still have a very high heart rate bp and palpatations that occur often. should i worry or c sum1?
anxiety anemia and hyperthyroid state are other considerations. fast heart rate could be an arrhythmia. sometimes it may look normal on ekg and called inappropriate sinus tachycardia or sinus node reentrant tachycardia which may require treatment with beta blockers. you should see both your internist and a cardiologist.
i have been suffering from severe anxiety lately. i have no appetite and my heart beat goes crazy at random times. is this a reason to seek a doctor?
either it is a psychological or medical disorder- both are important to your well being and this needs to be evaluated by a pcp.
i have been suffering from severe anxiety lately. i have no appetite and my heart beat goes crazy at random times. is this a reason to seek a doctor?
if it's interfering with your life you should have it check out. there might be an organic cause that could be easily treated. your doctor can run labs on you. must rule out thyroid disease at the very least.
is it possible to have a heart attack without any warning signs? symptoms of heart attack (dizziness anxiety cough fainting etc) are very similar to other conditions how can i figure out if those are signs of heart attack?
chest pressure shortness of breath nausea and sweating are the most common symptoms of a heart attack. some people will describe it as feeling like indigestion or may have aching in the arms jaw shoulder or upper back. the likelihood of a heart attack increases as the number of symptoms increase and the probability is also higher in someone over the age of forty. these symptoms are also more worrisome in people who smoke have high blood pressure high cholesterol diabetes or a family history of heart disease. however it is quite possible to have a heart attack with few or mild symptoms and while less common they can occur in people under the age of forty. unfortunately many other conditions can produce symptoms that are similar or identical to a heart attack including heartburn panic attacks collapsed lungs and pulmonary embolism. it may be impossible to distinguish a heart attack from other conditions without testing even for a seasoned physician. for this reason you should seek care immediately if these symptoms occur. unexplained fainting should always be checked out promptly. similarly chest discomfort or difficulty breathing that lasts more than 10-15 minutes is grounds for going to the nearest emergency room.
is it possible to have a heart attack without any warning signs? symptoms of heart attack (dizziness anxiety cough fainting etc) are very similar to other conditions how can i figure out if those are signs of heart attack?
yes it's possible to have a heart attack without any warning signs. in some cases people have them never have a diagnosis and have the old "infarct" found later on a subsequent ekg. go to the er sooner rather than later if you think you are having one. age male status smoking and excessively high lipid levels (including - elevated homocysteine and c-react protein) = other risk factors.
i had a nuclear stress test the other day (because i was having some chest pain/pressure and pain down my left arm). i had a nuclear stress test the other day (because i was having some chest pain/pressure and pain down my left arm). i had a heart attack
thank you for your excellent question. your situation is illustrative of a common dilemma in medicine -- the issue of incidental findings on tests ordered for other reasons. your nuclear stress test involved injecting a radioactive tracer into your blood stream that is emitted by tissues in your body and captured on a detector (camera). the tracer is designed to localize to the heart but can be taken up by other tissues for various reasons. the nuclear stress test is non-specific for other types of lesions and so cannot diagnose your particular lesion. it sounds like the lesion is in your breast or the portion of your lung just below your breast. this may be the same lesion seen on your ct scan. your primary care doctor should be made aware of the finding and consideration given to more definitive testing (e. g. repeat ct scan or tissue biopsy). oftentimes these lesions turn out to be benign but they are an unfortunate "side effect" of medical imaging in that they cause anxiety and require further testing. this issue is precisely why generic "body scans" or "heart scans" advertized on tv and the radio are so controversial.
is rapid heart rate and low blood pressure with the shakes a sign of adrenal insufficiency?
however it can be a cause of literally hundreds of other things including anything that is causing dehydration. when we dont have enough liquid on board the heart speeds up blood pressure goes down and the body makes lots of adrenaline to counteract this causing shakes and anxiety. adrenal insufficiency can also do this. first thing get hydrated! second - call your doctor.
is it possible for prolonged anxiety to cause an enlarged heart and cardiomyopathy in children?
cardiomyopathy is a condition that can be inherited or it can be produced by a virus or it can be caused by an inherited metabolic problem. it is a chronic disease that affects the heart muscle.
is it possible for prolonged anxiety to cause an enlarged heart and cardiomyopathy in children?
anxiety alone and in the abscense of any other clinical or medical condition shouldn't predispose anybody to have an enlarged heart or cardiomyopathy.
i've been having pvcs at night when i lie down to go to sleep. is this related to stress or anxiety?
pvc's frequently occur for no known reason. but stress can cause them or make them worse. you are more likely to notice them if you are lying quietly especially on your left side.
i've been having pvcs at night when i lie down to go to sleep. is this related to stress or anxiety?
but can be related to electrolyte problems.
iam crying a lot have mood swings my face get tight can't sleep 47 year old female what is wrong with me please help i have heart paptation seems like some come over me and i get these feeling i just have to sit down and relax it goes away after 20 mi
a lot of what you are describing sounds like anxiety. however it would not be unreasonable to have a simple evaluation with an echocardiogram as well as a holter monitor.
i experience a lot of stress anxiety and panic. i've been checked out (blood thyroid x ray ekg urine) for palpitations and the doctor says it's anxiety. what should i do?
it is important to determine what these episodes are related to and how long they last. you should check your pulse during the episode to see if it is heart related. use calming techniques such as controlled breathing. eliminate caffeine smoking and any other cardiac stimulants. your primary md may try medication such as ativan or xanax (alprazolam). psychiatric consultation may also be helpful.
i experience a lot of stress anxiety and panic. i've been checked out (blood thyroid x ray ekg urine) for palpitations and the doctor says it's anxiety. what should i do?
if there is no physical cause then this is psychological. make sure you are not using recreational drugs or alcohol as these can cause your symptoms. call your doctor for a referral to psychiatrist that can determine the cause of your problem and treat you properly. no matter what be sure you are living a healthy lifestyle.
i experience a lot of stress anxiety and panic. i've been checked out (blood thyroid x ray ekg urine) for palpitations and the doctor says it's anxiety. what should i do?
anxiety symptoms can overlap with other medical ailments. if your doctor thinks you may be suffering from anxiety and panic attacks please discuss with your doctor the next step in terms of diagnosis and treatment.
i experience a lot of stress anxiety and panic. i've been checked out (blood thyroid x ray ekg urine) for palpitations and the doctor says it's anxiety. what should i do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
i feel erverytime. my heart beating it scares me my ekg is ok?
subjective feeling of heart beating could be due to anxiety. one would feel heart beating when blood pumping is higher per beat like when running or exerting. in anxiety however there is a subjective sense of heart beat even though volume per beat is normal. talk to your pcp he may do tests to rule out medical causes before diagnosing anxiety.
i feel like my heart rate is racing but its not. and at the same time my stomach is nauseated?
without more information racing heart rate maybe anxiety related plus so many other possibilities. when does this occur? the nausea may be secondary to anxiety. if there is pain radiating to a part of your body is another issue as well.
i can't sleep due to palpitations at night what do i do?
while your palpitations may be caused by anxiety only an examination by your physician can rule out other potential causes. when your doctor finds the cause appropriate treatment will make it easier to sleep.
i get heart palpitations from time to time and also get pins and needles in my arms and hands im only 22 what could this be?
heart palpitations are common and often benign. the tingling in your arms and hands may be a result of hyperventilation from anxiety. i would recommend you see your doctor for a checkup.
im 38 yrs old and why do i get heart palpitations?
many reasons. anxiety thyroid disorder medications . abnormal amino / neurotransmitter abnormal adrenal function bad sleep . anemia bad digestion.
im 38 yrs old and why do i get heart palpitations?
could be anxiety too much caffeine. too much alcohol too much smoking decongestants illicit drugs mitral valve prolapse medication electrolyte problems etcetera.
i get heart palps once in a while. it feels like butterflies and i feeel scared. i've had ekgs and they say my heart is normal. what should i do?
at your age you are unlikely to have a serious heart problem. a 24 hour holter monitor may help identify any abnormal heart beats. if the symptoms are very infrequent an event monitor may be able to clarify the issue. if symptoms are present when the monitor reveals normal rhythm anxiety may be the cause. are you using drugs? do you drink excessive caffeinated drinks? a doctor's visit will help.
ii was responding to a drs question. sorry. chedt pain in middle. no pulm embo. my dr said non-cardiac. what else could itbe? ii have tach and pvcs.
if you have had this for 5 years it is more likely to be anxiety than anything else especially if you have already had a cardiac evaluation. if you haven't had a second opinion pursue one to be certain.
i have trouble breathing and my heart rate rises just watching tv sometimes up to 140 beats?
this may represent a heart rhythm problem or somoething as simple as anxiety. when this happens check your pulse to see if it's really fast or just "palpitations". i would suggest having a pcp check it out to get a more definitive answer.
i have 0 motivation to improve my life. heart rate goes up when responsibilty is on me. rarely go out and stay upset for months also gets discouraged.?
depression/anxiety may present itself this way it is a good idea to talk to a psychiatrist for further evaluation.
is it serious if i have very heavy heart palpitations sometimes so hard i can see my entire left chest move through my shirt? i have anxiety problems
in persons with anxiety issues heart palpitations are extremely common. without knowing your complete health history i would have to recommend a complete evaluation before just putting it down to anxiety. if it is determined to be from your anxiety then it is not serious. doing meditation yoga regular exercise avoiding caffeine and decongestants can all help.
is it serious if i have very heavy heart palpitations sometimes so hard i can see my entire left chest move through my shirt? i have anxiety problems
the fact that you can see your shirt moving is not an indication of severe disease. it is more common in someone who is anxious or frightened. if it only occurs when you are anxious then anxiety is likely the cause. avoid caffeine and you may need professional help with your anxiety.
if i have constant heart pomputations and had an ekg and heart ultra sound which were both normal would it just be anxiety?
what other symptoms dizziness numbness tingling shortness of breath palpitation how long it lost be more spexific.
if i have constant heart pomputations and had an ekg and heart ultra sound which were both normal would it just be anxiety?
another study to consider is a holter monitor that might detect intermittent abnormalities.
i have a phobia of needles but need imunisations for my job can my doctor prescribe me something to calm me down? ive tried beta blockers - no success
you could try xanax (alprazolam) or ativan to reduce the anxiety shortly before the injection. both are prescriptions.
i have a phobia of needles but need imunisations for my job can my doctor prescribe me something to calm me down? ive tried beta blockers - no success
seek a cognitive-behavioral therapist who specializes in phobias. one method they use is systematic desensitization which slowly and incrementally brings the person closer and closer to the thing they are afraid of in slow graduated steps that help make the anxiety more tolerable.
i am 18 years old and i have a very rapid heart rate and i know that it it anxiety. should i be concerned and go see someone?
you also might try cutting out caffeinated beverages and getting regular exercise.
i am 18 years old and i have a very rapid heart rate and i know that it it anxiety. should i be concerned and go see someone?
look for a psychologist who provides structured cbt or cognitive behavioral therapy. this approach teaches you how to better understand and control your anxiety. it is so much teaching i have my patients audiotape the sessions and take notes when they listen to the sessions again at home. homework assignments are critical for the development of emotional control skills.
i have asthma i get it from light exercise. i'm taking symbicort which gives me heart racing and anxiety. could i quit symbicort? my asthma is not severe never had it before.
your reaction could be do to many things. one possibility is an adverse reaction to formeterol the long-acting bronchodilator in symbicort (budesonide and formoterol). i recommend contacting the physiician who prescribed it. ask for an inhaled corticosteroid as an alternative. use albuterol if you have acute symptoms of asthma. see a physician in the next 12-24 hours to review symptoms & adjust your controller medications.
i have asthma i get it from light exercise. i'm taking symbicort which gives me heart racing and anxiety. could i quit symbicort? my asthma is not severe never had it before.
there are other inhalers that can be prescribed if you are having uncomfortable side effects. see your doctor and describe these symptoms and alternate inhalers can be tried.
i have asthma i get it from light exercise. i'm taking symbicort which gives me heart racing and anxiety. could i quit symbicort? my asthma is not severe never had it before.
first question to answer is whether you have asthma or do you have exercise induced bronchospasm. these are distinctly different but both cause exercise related symptoms. you should see a board certified allergist or pulmonologist for evaluation and appropriate testing to help determine the cause and level of control needed.
i have asthma i get it from light exercise. i'm taking symbicort which gives me heart racing and anxiety. could i quit symbicort? my asthma is not severe never had it before.
mild/exercise induced asthma usually doesn't need a steroid controller medication. think about underlying food allergens stored toxins in the body as a cause. look at the a4m. com website "doc locator" to find a local functional medicine physician who can do a more thorough evaluation of why you have asthma and help you "fix it" so you won't need meds. start a daily probiotic like florajen to hlp.
i have sporatic heart area pain tightness during stressful situations and as i am engaged in sex for the past 3 weeks. i am 58 years old my brother at 57 just died of a heart attack mio-infarction and my father died of a massive stroke 5 years ago.
hello. chest pain and tightness can occur as a physiologic response to anxiety. however with your strong family history it would be worth it to have a comprehensive evaluation to include an ekg and blood work if you haven't done so. take care.
i've mitral valve prolapse without mitral regurgitation and had panic disord and now i am anxious. i'm noticing extrasystole (fail of one bit)wat2do?
mitral valve prolapse is often associated with anxiety. first try the natural and self-directed ways to relieve anxiety-- (1) exercise; a brisk walk whenever you can; (2) progressive muscle relaxation exercises (you can find these on the internet); they work; (3) meditation or even just sitting still in silence for 10-20 minutes at a time on a regular basis. otherwise you can see an md for med.
i've mitral valve prolapse without mitral regurgitation and had panic disord and now i am anxious. i'm noticing extrasystole (fail of one bit)wat2do?
i assume you have had a though work-up. if all else is benign there is little to fear. the symptoms maybe from anxiety rather than the prolapse. sometimes careful use of a beta-blocker can relieve symptoms related to anxiety including the palpitations. see your doctor to discuss.
is it common for heart attack patients to have personality changes afterwards?
sustaining a heart attack is one of the major health related trauma one may have in one's life time. thanks to modren therapies majority of patients manage to survive with little after effects. it is not uncommon to see some degree of anxiety or depression after heart attacks. scientific research varifies psychological issues after heart attack.
i was hospitalized for slow heart rate what can i do on my own to raise my heart rate?
sometimes theophylline might help but may cause other problems eg. anxiety. diagnosis of the cause of low heart is the first step to treatment. thyroid function may also need to be evaluated. holter may be useful. need to see cardiologist / electrophysiologist.
i have recently been diagnosed with high blood pressure and just woke with a heart rate of 120 should i be concerned? i have been taking lisinopril for 3 days
a heart rate of 120 is not unusual or worrisome per se. it can be a normal response to various things such as exercise pain fever or anxiety. if it resolves on its own within a few minutes then you need not worry about it. however if it persists for hours or if you are having symptoms such as trouble breathing or chest pain etc. then it should be evaluated.
i think i have palpitation. what do i do?
palpitations could result from so many factors including certain foods like caffeine medications anxiety disorders and heart problems. the best way for you to find out what i'd causing your palpitations will be to get evaluated. so call your doctor.
if there's a small risk on doing heavy sports with mvp without regurgitation i should avoid those? i feel anxiety and palpitations. taking diltiazem.
mitral prolapse without regurgitation is not a serious condition and should not deter you from any sports activity you wish to pursue.
i've been feeling this poking on the side where my heart is. i had and ekg a month ago and it was ok. im 23 with anxiety. is it the heart? <negative_smiley>
do consult with your physician about this. wait until then before you react.
i am 282 lbs. i have had pvc's in the past but not for a while now. i smoke. i want to know if i'm ok to start exercising regularly. dr. says im ok.?
your physician should know you the best regarding your medical condition and ability to proceed with an exercise program. you may consider working out with a partner or friend or even a professional trainer if possible. this would diminish any startup anxiety on your part and may make exercising more fun safe and enjoyable.
i started having chest pains and shortness of breath dizziness numbness in my left arm 4 days ago. numbness has lessened but my pulse is 120 at rest?
depending on your age and cardio risk factors anxiety could be your problem. pulse of 120 should be looked into if persists. there are many possibilities. ie pinch nerve in neck heart arrhythmia or coronary artery disease. i would see my pcp.
i had undergone an angioplasty and stent after i had a mild heart attack in aug 2007. why long should i feel low energy level.?
energy level fatigue etc is not usually a symptom of a blocked heart artery. more likely related to depression or anxiety. you should notice symptoms related to activity or exertion if a heart artery is blocked.
i have tachycardia chest pain that radiates between my shoulders nausea could this be angina or symptoms of heartattack?
but given your age it is unlikely a "heartattack" or "angina". your symptoms should be evaluated by an in office visit. certain abnormal heart rhythms are possible or even non-heart related conditions such as gastroesophageal reflux disease and even anxiety and stress may trigger such symptoms. go get checked.
i have a very rapid heart rate what does it mean for the shortrun?
rapid heart rate (tachycardia) means the heart beats at more than 100 per minute. it could just bebenign transient (physical activity anxiety). its persistence can be brought on by shock (profuse blood loss toxic infection) or a disruption of the electrical rhythm of the heart (atrial or ventricular tachycardia). the latter conditions are serious and need immediate evaluation by a cardiologist.
i am 7 weeks pregnant and having heart palpitations skipping beat with lightheaded mess and a bit of anxiety. should i go to the er?
it may be just a panic attack but you need to be evaluated to rule out more serious conditions.
i am 7 weeks pregnant and having heart palpitations skipping beat with lightheaded mess and a bit of anxiety. should i go to the er?
it will be safe to have your symptoms checked out to make sure it is not anything more serious.
is there a difference between postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome and general anxiety?
increased heart rate from low blood volume when you stand up ots gad is a inappropriate sense of doom two symptoms can be dizziness rapid heart rate not related to body position.
i have anexity and i have the following symtoms: dizzy nausea tight head not sure what's wrong with me i had a really bad anexity attack after drinking and working too hard for a month and i thought i was having a heart attack. had the same symptoms
the symptoms you list are consistent with those of a panic attack. during a panic attack many people fear that they are having a heart attack or are dying. after your physician has assured you that your heart is fine and that your symptoms can't be explained by a medical condition you might want to seek treatment for the anxiety symptoms. drinking and working too hard could also be addressed.
i have had my lipids check an ekg chest xray echo lung scan and regular cbc everything is perfect. i am 27 female still having chest pain?
anxiety/panic disorder is often a cause of non cardiac chest "pain". just something to think about in addition to the other potential causes he mentioned.
i am putting all my pulpatitions and anxiety down to use of regaine hair loss treatment which contains minoxidill. it has messed my life up. could this be the cause as i've been of numerous websites with men stating the same thing?
contrary to what you read online side effects from rogaine (minoxidil) are rare. there are many common causes of palpitations. you need to see your family doctor or a cardiologist and find out exactly what is causing them. it could be the rogaine (minoxidil) or just too much coffee - but it could be something more serious. don't assume it's the rogaine (minoxidil).
i am putting all my pulpatitions and anxiety down to use of regaine hair loss treatment which contains minoxidill. it has messed my life up. could this be the cause as i've been of numerous websites with men stating the same thing?
minoxidil can cause palpitations and light headedness in people who are sensitive to it but there are other reasons for the same symptoms. stop the minoxidil and see your doctor if the symptoms don't go away immediately. there are many other choices to help you with your hair loss if you can't use minoxidil.
is it possible for pulse rate go up with illness?
yes any stress fever anemia anxiety and some medicines can raise it.
i am a 29 yr old female i keep on having fast heart beats difficulty breathing and my left neck arm and thigh hurts i don't know what's wrong?
with limited information it is very hard to tell what's wrong. are these symptoms associated w each other do they occur at the same time how frequently how long. are you anxious at time of occurrence? all these answers and many more plus testing (holter event monitor. ) are needed to make an assessment. could be anything from anxiety to potentially serious arrhythmia. best see ur doc.
i am 30 and have had constant chest pain for a few years. my ekg a few years back was fine but it is worse now and my heart beats really hard all the time?
based on your age and the chronic nature of your pain it is unlikely coronary disease. the differential list would include esophageal conditions anxiety disorders mitral valve prolapse inflammation of the chest wall joints and pleurisy. to name a few.
i feel weak and heart is racing at night. i wake up with a startle.?
you may just have anxiety but with heart is racing you need to get evaluate to make sure that your heartb is fine. you also need blood test to check for thyroid problems as well.
im 28 years old and i have anxiety pretty bad but learning to cope with it. i have been having sharp shooting pain above my left breaarmpit. it comes and goes but when i sleep its fine. im worried of having a heartvattack but i had an ekg done about 6
sounds hurtful but not harmful. it is not in the right location of heart pain and your ekg was fine. if it was your heart after 6 months you would have more troubles by now. could you be doing some sort of repetitive exercise or reaching to cause this pain?
im 28 years old and i have anxiety pretty bad but learning to cope with it. i have been having sharp shooting pain above my left breaarmpit. it comes and goes but when i sleep its fine. im worried of having a heartvattack but i had an ekg done about 6
was normal. at 28 heart attack rare. have pcp ck out your shoulder. could be from muscle strain lifting or trauma.
i am a 23 year old woman. i been having chest pains since february. i don't want to consider it being a heart attack. last time i told my doctor this she said i'm too young to have a heart attack? if its not a heart attack than what could it be? i do not
differential diagnosis spans from serious problems like pulmonary embolism pneumothorax cardiomyopathy congenital disorders etc to things such as gastric acid reflux or musculoskeletal pain which are by far the most common. also asthma and anxiety. a thorough physical exam and a few simple tests should help you. and if you have had this pain since feb makes it less likely to be really bad.
i suffer from debilitating (don't leave house) anxiety and depression. all started when i was diagnosed with atrial fib and had a few bad attacks.?
it is natural to have anxiety after being diagnoses with atrial fibrillation especially at such a young age. anxiety symptoms can mimic cardiac and vice versa. so make sure the atrial fibrillation is being treated and then see if you can work on the anxiety with a therapist or psychiatrist. can use deep breathing/relaxation or consider medications.
i suffer from debilitating (don't leave house) anxiety and depression. all started when i was diagnosed with atrial fib and had a few bad attacks.?
it may be possible to find a therapist who will come to you or have someone accompany you to seek professional help as soon as possible. anxiety and depression will exacerbate any underlying medical condition in addition to deteriorating your quality of life - which it sounds like is occurring. the great news is they are both treatable; however putting off treatment will make things worse.
i've been experiencing severe panic attacks right before going to bed. i feel as if i can't breath like i'm having a heart attack and will die. i also have physical symptoms such as a bad pain in my left arm and back tingling in my hand and sweating.
this sounds like a really bad anxiety/panic attack. make sure you get yourself checked and if you don't have any significant medical problems a sedative/anxiolytic will do you a wonder of good!
i started taking pristiq (desvenlafaxine) 2 weeks ago. but now i'm having panick attacks evry day. anxiety level very high. terrified of heart attack. pristiq (desvenlafaxine) doing this?
panic attacks usually respond to drugs that raise serotonin (ssris--prozac zoloft paxil lexapro etc) pristiq (desvenlafaxine) is a dual acting antidepressant that also raises norepinephrine which is stimulating--let your doc know what is going on.
i started taking pristiq (desvenlafaxine) 2 weeks ago. but now i'm having panick attacks evry day. anxiety level very high. terrified of heart attack. pristiq (desvenlafaxine) doing this?
i agree with dr. bey. although antidepressants can be very effective for anxiety sometimes they can increase anxiety in the beginning. pristiq (desvenlafaxine) is a snri meaning that it blocks the reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine in the synapse between nerve cells. another name for norepinephrine is noradrenalin. sometimes the increase in this can initially be activating. please let your doc know.
i get a sensation during onset of sleep where my body seems to freeze and my heart rate falls into the 50s and i rush awake?
likely benign at your age but i'd have u see your internist or a cardiologist. a 14 day event recorder might solve that pulse issue. could anxiety play a part here? that'd need to b worked out. i wonder about your diet: see our website = www. thepmc. org re what that should be. my book might help"maximum healing. ".
i can feel my heart beat ( pulse) when i close my fist. this happens only sometimes and also i can feel i feel if bring my both palms together tightly?
anxiety tension need be ruled out.
i take three glaucoma meds and i try to drink a lot of water. could either of these be the cause of pvcs?
anxiety or excess caffeine need be excluded. need cardiogy evaluation if symptomatic.
i have generalized anxiety disorder and have had a bad week with anxiety. could this cause this sudden onset of palpitations?
changes in heart rate including its getting faster feeling like it's pounding and having palpitations can come from anxiety. if you've never had these before at all see your physician for a checkup.
i have generalized anxiety disorder and have had a bad week with anxiety. could this cause this sudden onset of palpitations?
palpitations (pounding heart) and tachycardia (fast heart rate) are indeed very common with anxiety especially with panic attacks which can be very scary!
is palpitation normal for the age of 40?
no it is not normal. palpitations can be due to excessive coffee anxiety panic attacks drugs usage etc. it can also be due to medical conditions like cardiac arrhythmias heart condition extra beats or serious cardiac rhythm problems. must see physician to see if further work up is needed.
i'm having heart problems i'm 29 year old female healthy and slim my mams cousin has got heart problems and his daughter had heart attack at 30 i'm i at risk?
are you sure these are truly heart problems or just palpitations and anxiety because of too much stress caffeine (and drugs or smoking if you are into that)? your mom's cousin's daughter is a little far removed to count as significant family history. but it is always better to have yourself checked! good luck!
i was just told i have costochondritis separation. will this make me have more heart palpitations then normal?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i checked my moms blood pressure and pulse rate. her pressure was 114 over 74. her rate was103 bpm. what causes a high pulse rate?
medications- antihistamines especially anxiety dehydration anemia elevated thyroid poor oxygenation -- to name a few. the rate is not that high so recheck over the next few hours to see if it goes below 90.
i am 14 weeks pregnant and for the past few days i have been very jittery i've had a fast heart beat and i feel really week most of the time. what could be causing this?
your symptoms you describe could be related to multiple causes. those include hyperthyroid anemia stress anxiety heart arrythmia an others. i would recommend you see your ob to have this further evaluated.
i'm being treated for extreme panic disorder. my pulse sometimes gets up to 185-200 could i die?
thinking you'll die is one of the symptoms of panic disorder and just makes the anxiety worse. you won't die but you clearly need treatment. fortunately there is good treatment available.
is xanax (alprazolam) or ativan safer for long term use? & would either of these have the possibility to cause any cardiac effects like cardiac arrest? i
not recommended for long-term use. if u r already prescribed one or the other keeping the dose therapeutic & as prescribed should not harm your cardiovascular system. i would recommend talking to your prescribing doc. about alternate medications for anxiety if u will be using long-term.
i have pvcs when i am relaxing exercising and even post exercise. i had a stress test(came out perfectly normal) but i still get pvcs? dangerous?
in someone of your age it is unlikely to be of clinical importance. often psychological stress may be a factor. keep track of the frequency (pvc's per 5 minutes) and see if periods of anxiety anger fear or depression correlate with higher frequency. learn deep relaxation/meditative skills (see drmiller. com) stay in good aerobic cardiorespiratory shape and stop worrying.
i'm really afraid i may get sudden cardiac arrest. what can i do to prevent that?
you are 29 year old probably very healthy. you have no reason to think of a heart attack. so just live a healthy life. if you still have these jitters see a doctor for your anxiety.
i have high blood pressure and heart rate. my doc is about to put me on zoloft (sertraline) 50 mg. i read zoloft (sertraline) can cause qt prolongation. will i get this if i start the zoloft (sertraline)? what are the chances?
zoloft (sertraline) is one of the safest medication for depression and anxiety. not everton side effect taht is listed about medication mean will happen to you i have written this medication for many people none of my patient had the side effect that u mentioned.
i haven't got anxiety been unwell since july with fast heart rate of 163bpm at rest had 3 abnormal ecgs and normal ep study but fast heart rate normal echo been so tired sleeping most of time dizziness dull ache in heart area along with squeezing feeli
check your blood test for thyroid function. a lot depends on what exactly you mean by "abnormal" ecg. also you may want to consider getting a sleep study to rule out obstructive sleep apnea.
i have had this chest pain that lasts sometimes all day sometimes mainly happens at night. and my heart rate picks up fast.?
it sounds like anxiety induced neuro- muscular chest pain. check your thyroid. rare congenital anomalous heart conditions need to be ruled out. remember women's heart disease is special!
i've been taking paxil (paroxetine) for 3 weeks. for the past 2 days i have experienced a mild tremor and my heart is racing. even some chest pain. normal?
can be side effects of paxil (paroxetine) especially if you recently increased the dose however chest pain is never normal although can be sometimes associated with anxiety. the best way to be safe in this case is to check with prescribing doctor.
i am 34 y/o and 4 foot 9 inches female i weight 134 lbs history of tricuspid regurgitation and asd repair as a infant. having chest pain heaviness left arm aching pain and heart palpatations. please help!?
you sound very anxious. please see your doctor right away to be sure there is nothing serious going on or to get a proper evaluation. have you suffered anxiety disorder in past? panic attacks? babies who have cardiac surgery have a high incidence of ptsd anxiety and similar disorders.
i am perscribed medical marijuana for nausea insomnia and anxiety. when i medicate it gives me strong heart palpitations. how can i ease these?
if you developed side effect of a "medication" then please stop it and see your doctor.
i am perscribed medical marijuana for nausea insomnia and anxiety. when i medicate it gives me strong heart palpitations. how can i ease these?
i would suggest seeking out better treatment for your conditions. medical marijuana is not a legitimate treatment for anxiety or insomnia.
i have been suffering from chest pain for 15yrs! it began when i was 18 years old. i was told its anxiety/costo. pain is reproducible and no breathlessness but hdl is155. my stress echo was perfect 5 years ago. thoughts?
you may have rotoscoliosis -- an abnormal bend in your backbone causing chest and truncal stress and strain and pain -- if this is so you need to do the best you can but you would need to take ibuprofen for pain as needed -- exercise and keeping your weight down will help.
i have been suffering from chest pain for 15yrs! it began when i was 18 years old. i was told its anxiety/costo. pain is reproducible and no breathlessness but hdl is155. my stress echo was perfect 5 years ago. thoughts?
asthma anxiety fibromyalgia systemic diseases bead through check up.
i have been suffering from chest pain for 15yrs! it began when i was 18 years old. i was told its anxiety/costo. pain is reproducible and no breathlessness but hdl is155. my stress echo was perfect 5 years ago. thoughts?
do you smoke? has the pain changed in any nature. you may benifit from another stress test. talk to your pcp.
is it possible to have anxiety disorder and not know it? have physical symptoms (tachycardia sleep issues) but am mentally clear happy love life.
have you talked to your primary care doctor? before diagnosing any mental illness e. g. anxiety depression physical causes need to be ruled out. i would recommend talking to your primary care doctor first to do a full work up and then move based on findings. meanwhile practice relaxation stress management sleep hygiene. good luck!
is it possible to have anxiety disorder and not know it? have physical symptoms (tachycardia sleep issues) but am mentally clear happy love life.
part of making the diagnosis of anxiety is that you know that you have it. there are other imbalances that cause the syndrome of related symptoms without having anxiety. there are multimple causes of these syndromes. sometimes the same anxiety medication will work on non-anxiety syndromes. but first find out why. check medical issues diet habits stress and other other mental health factors.
i'm taking anxiety or anger having trouble breathing and other problems what should i do blurry vision trouble breathing fast heart beat?
not sure about the first part of the question. you might want to reword it. with respect to the second part of the question -- contact your primary care doctor to rule out anything physical going on and take things from there. good luck!
i have a sharp pain in my chest it comes and go. i once experience something like heart attack but i thought it happened because i slept angry.?
could be anxiety reflux heartburn lung problem irritation of sternum or heart. since your young probably reflux but i don't know your history. would monitor make appt with primary doc to get ekg and see. if you have any worsening symptoms like difficulty breathing or increasing chest pain go to er.
i have chronic gastritis constipation palpitation and unrefreshing sleep. any solutions?
your body is obviously under a lot of stress (emotional and/or physical). i strongly recommend supplementing with magnesium (particularly effective is peter gillham's natural vitality calm) which helps specifically with musculoskeletal tension constipation cardiac arrhythmias & palpitations insomnia and anxiety. consider digestive enzymes and probiotics to aid digestion & melatonin for sleep.
i have chronic gastritis constipation palpitation and unrefreshing sleep. any solutions?
many medications can cause the symptoms you describe so review what you are on and follow the chronolgy of introduction. what was introduced at about the time you developed your symptoms? some of the symptoms - maybe all can be caused by anxiety so cognitive-behavior therapy biofeedback or anti-anxiety medicines (buspirone) may be indicated. nonrestorative sleep can be apnea rls meds depress.
i seen 5 cardiologist for this chest and shoulder pain i do get pvcs that i can feal it but thay say is normal but it is scary thing h cath is clear?
if you have seen 5 cardiologists and they have cleared your heart you are extremely unlikely to have any cardiac disease. continuing to seek additional opinions about your heart and fears about your pvc and heart are not rational and indicate an underlying anxiety disorder. you would do better to see a behavioral health specialist and possibly someone who will treat you shoulder pain.
is heart palpitations part of fibromyalgia? i told my dr. i was having them. he's done 2 or 3 ekgs and all were normal. also have hypothyroid.
poor sleep anxiety teeth clinching at night and hypersensitivity to normal stimuli are related to fibromyalgia. i've gotten pretty good at treating it; 1. clonazepam 1-2 mg at night for insomnia helps if you clinch teeth. 2. tramadol 50 mg work up to 200-300 mg in divided doses( helps mood and pain) 3. gabapentin 600 mg at night and 300 mg 2x per day 4. add morning provigil if still fatigu.
i have had numbness and tingling in my left arm for about 5 hours now and palpitations. ekg cxr and cardiac enzymes normal. suggestions?
if there is swelling in the limb consider a workup to rule out thoracic outlet syndrome in which a blood vessel may be occluded in your arm. if there is no swelling it may be carpal tunnel syndrome. the palpitations may be due to the anxiety of experiencing this condition. it sounds like you are being appropriately worked up for major issues such as heart attack. hand consult also is useful.
is clonidine 0. 1mg tizandine 2mg hydrocodone/acetaminophen clonazepam amlodipine besylate losatan? hctz 100/12. 5 mg dexilant (dexlansoprazole) beta blockers?
if the question was "are these beta blockers" the answer is no. you have quite a list of meds though. it looks like you have blood pressure pain muscles spasms anxiety and reflux covered though.
i have problems like irregular hearbeat weakness heart pulpitation and pain in my chest i had ecg last month and that was normal. i have also anxiety?
the presentation can be due to many causes and needs thorough evaluation even though it sounds like anxiety or panic attack. talk to your pcp who would order labs including thyroid function tests. if already see a psychiatrist for anxiety please bring this up.
i keep getting heart pulpertations and at the same time pressure in my head? is this anything to worry about?
what you are describing could be related to high blood pressure cardiac issues anxiety or endocrine tumors especially one particular adrenal gland tumor. you should definitely seek medical consultation with your primary physician. there are many factors in play here and you should be seen and evaluated.
is it common in anxiety to have shortness of breath chest pain and palpitations anytime no matter if you are relax and keep having it for months?
need to rule out other problems as well--i'd start with your family doc.
is it common in anxiety to have shortness of breath chest pain and palpitations anytime no matter if you are relax and keep having it for months?
anxiety is associated with physical symptoms like the ones you mentioned they can be severe enough that they land people in the er. automatic thoughts (as we call them) can be working in the background behind the curtains in your mind leading to anxiety this happens while you are are not consciously thinking of them. . cbt explores and addresses these thoughts with you. see a professional.
is it common in anxiety to have shortness of breath chest pain and palpitations anytime no matter if you are relax and keep having it for months?
if you are having chest pain and difficulty breathing you should go to emergency department to be evaluated for serious disease. do not dismiss these symptoms.
ihave always negative thinking high heart pulpitation . sometimes think to commit suicide but will not do so as it is prohibited in islam.?
it sounds like you have some symptoms of depression and anxiety. this is very painful. there is help and support for you. you would benefit from getting a consultation from a mental health professional. hope this answer helps.
is pregnenolone supp. safe? i think i am low on progesterone- can't sleep anxiety fast pulse migraines and tender breasts- partial hyster. 2007
do not experiment on yourself. it is not safe without a dr's supervision.
is pregnenolone supp. safe? i think i am low on progesterone- can't sleep anxiety fast pulse migraines and tender breasts- partial hyster. 2007
this type of medication is not fda approved for anything. in fact there is no regulatory oversight for things like this. you really don't know what you'll be taking. additionally pregnenolone is a precursor to androgens which in excess can cause unwanted facial and body hair irregular periods potential weight gain from? cortisol production elevations in bp etc. please see your gyne.
i've been having heart palpatations lately i've been worried bout them i have had stress and aniexty and been taken xanac 0. 25mg i don't take everyday?
this could be breakthrough panic or anxiety. there are medical conditions including hyperthyroidism and many others that can cause this. talk to your md. xanax (alprazolam) is short acting. consider asking about other treatments that would cover your symptoms more effectively on a daily basis if needed. after you check out your physical status
is there a difference between generalised anxiety disorder and mitral valve prolapse. i have had clear ecg/chest x rays but still getting symptoms!?
they are different. gad is a psychiatric condition and mvp is cardiac. there is an association between panic disorder a different anxiety disorder and mvp. some pts. with panic disorder also have mvp. theories have proposed the surges of adrenaline with panic attacks may stretch the cords holding the mitral valve in place in the heart causing prolapse into the ventricle.
is there a difference between generalised anxiety disorder and mitral valve prolapse. i have had clear ecg/chest x rays but still getting symptoms!?
anxiety disorders are a spectrum of issues one of which is panic dosorder. people with anxiety frequently do not filter extraneous signals from the body and feel more. more pain more gi symptoms headaches. often sleep is poor. these patients can also have chest pain. the ability to feel the prolapse in other words is linked to anxiety.
i have connective tissue disease. my chest x-ray showed slightly enlarged pulmonary artery. the symptoms are occasional sob heart palpitations bad dizziness andintermittent chest pain. the symptoms come and go to extreme. i am having tte next. cause?
the options are so big hard to answer. perhaps the symptos are not cardiac but a combination of anxiety and cardiac working together? how's sleep? try prilosec won't hurt see if reflux contributing. is dizziness related to blood pressure? are you tall linky see marfans' syndrome. did u mean tee for the next test? it's complex but treating reflux anxiety and mood during workup may help.
i have an excessive fear of snakes. even looking at the pic i can feel my pulse increasing. why n how can i get rid of this fear?
seek a cognitive-behavioral therapist who specializes in phobias. one method they use is systematic desensitization which slowly and incrementally brings the person closer and closer to the thing they are afraid of in slow graduated steps that help make the anxiety more tolerable.
i am 26 and in a few weeks for the third time i am experiencing numbness in both my hands fast heart beats. what is the cause? what should i do?
sounds like anxiety and hyperventilation given the limited info. what should you do? solve underlying conflict and stop stressing.
i have difficulty belching and swallowing and palpitations in chest/throat but no increasing h. rate. exercise helps. is this likely to be anxiety?
anxiety presents in a variety of ways. exercise is known o be helpful. if exercise helps would keep his up. if this other gets worse in spite of exercise discuss with your doctor.
i just got a clear echo and ecg. what else could likely cause my palpitations dizziness (sleeping on sides) and fatigue. (age 21 male anxiety)?
palpitations in the absence of structural heart disease are benign. if this is just skip heart beat usually extra heat beat is the contributing factor. however if you are experiencing rapid heart beat with a rapid pulse it is possible you may have svt. this could be easly treated with medication or electrophysiologic treatment. you need to see your md for a holter monitor or event monitoring.
i just got a clear echo and ecg. what else could likely cause my palpitations dizziness (sleeping on sides) and fatigue. (age 21 male anxiety)?
one common cause of heart rhythm abnormalities is due to a deficiency of magnesium. there can be other more serious conditions but it sounds like you have ruled those out. sleep and anxiety problems can also be connected to low mag levels. trying a supplement is easy and has no bad effects. try taking 400 mg per day and take less if you get loose bowel movements.
i am43 year old female who just had teeth extracted under oral sedation. dentist said my heart rate was double what it should be (110) is that okay?
oral sedation for oral surgery is usually used to help reduce anxiety. it is still very common to have a slightly elevated heart rate during the procedure as it can be very stressful for the patient. vitals such as heart rate usually return back to normal very shortly after the completion of the procedure. if you are at all concerned follow up with your doctor.
i have dizziness shortness of breath chest pains palpitations & other weird symptoms. i've had an echo multiple ekgs & holters a cta a 30 day event monitor eeg & mri on brain. all normal. why?
given how young you are it is also important to consider anxiety and panic attacks as a possible cause of your symptoms. please consider seeing a psychiatrist or a well-trained pcp for a complete questionnaire and exam.
i have dizziness shortness of breath chest pains palpitations & other weird symptoms. i've had an echo multiple ekgs & holters a cta a 30 day event monitor eeg & mri on brain. all normal. why?
if the cardiac work up is normal and blood work is ok consider anxiety or panic disorder. one less thought of condition is pulmonary embolus speak to your doc.
i stopped smoking cigarettes for 6 days now and i have heart attack like symptoms the pains to my neck. whats going on?
unless you have a terrible family history you are a little too young for a heart attack. stopping smoking can cause anxiety and tension which can lead to your symptoms. obviously if they persist or you are really concerned consult your physician.
i took mdma and had bad anxiety heart rate reached in the 180's. wore a heart monitor for two weeks and was told my heart is normal. is this serious?
yes the effects of mdma are serious -- and it sounds like yours certainly were. when you buy it on the street you have no idea what dose -- or even what drug -- you're getting. mdma is known for increasing heart rate and bp even causing heart attacks. i'm glad you have a "normal" heart which means it should recover as long as you don't put further toxic substances into your system.
i took mdma and had bad anxiety heart rate reached in the 180's. wore a heart monitor for two weeks and was told my heart is normal. is this serious?
you took a cardiac stimulant. one of its myriad effects is cardiac stimulation. as a 20 yo your heart can tolerate 180 bpm. the holter monitor showed that outside of your ecstasy use you had no aberrant tachycardia. had you informed your physician of the mdma use (s)he would have given you a clear bill of health.
i am having heart attack symptoms could it be anxiety or my acid reflux?
yes the symptoms could be medically based and/or have a psychological component; suggest individual see pcp first & if recommended a cardiologist; if not medical see a mental health prof. to evaluate for possible anxiety stress &/or depression.
i am having heart attack symptoms could it be anxiety or my acid reflux?
remember a heart attack is an occlusion of a coronary artery and doesn't mean cardiac arrest. if you develop sudden crushing chest pain not relieved with rest you may be having a heart attack. seek urgent medical attention. chest pain associated with activity could be angina and you should be checked out.
i get heart palpitations all day. it scare me. my dr said not to worry about it ignore them. it's hard to ignore them. i exercise eat health are palps bad?
sometimes palpitations are associated w bad heart rhythms but also occur in healthy people. not uncommon to occur in healthy young women. (personal experience). can be scary. sometimes worse in some positions than others (lying on one side vs the other). caffeine & stress/anxiety can make them worse. sometimes a med like atenolol can help but it can have side effects too. ask your doc.
i feel like i have a racing heart when i get up. 37/no smoke/drink. echo/stress/ecg normal. yoga regularly. anxiety disorder. on paxil (paroxetine). no caffeine?
paxil (paroxetine) has been known to do this because it is the shortest acting ssri-has a short half-life which can lead to dips in the blood level within a 24-hour period that are not tolerated by some individuals. manifestations would be anxiety sweaty hands headache and the like. discuss with your doctor possibility & about a different medication that would target your symptoms the same eg another ssri.
i feel like i have a racing heart when i get up. 37/no smoke/drink. echo/stress/ecg normal. yoga regularly. anxiety disorder. on paxil (paroxetine). no caffeine?
first: are you new to paxil (paroxetine) or on a recently-raised dose? if so this may be a side effect. it should abate unless the dose is high for you. (this may be checked with a blood level). paxil (paroxetine) can produce quirky effects in some people. second: in the am before awakening we tend to have "deep" dreams. these may point to the core of your anxiety. speak with your therapist!
i have got hand tremors and i feel headache and dizzy. sometime i have fast heart beating and my face getting red and my whole body shaking. help me?
before considering anxiety other systems has to be checked like thyroid kidney heart.
i am 21 with a anxiety disorder. i have been having lower chest pains. i had a ekg and holster in november and it said i was fine can anxiety d ths?
yes.
i have a slow heart rate also extra beats which they tell me are benign. stress test ok my thyroid is stable with meds. why do i have these symptom?
learn to relax deeply and let go of stress and especially any anxiety or inner pressure (<link> com/balance-mind-and-emotions/abolish-anxiety-2-cds/28 is a valuable program). sometimes the generalized irritability of the nervous system may have a role to play. if a week of sheer relaxation in a vacation place diminishes the extra beats think stress. more at drmiler. com.
if i walk in to another room or in an awkward situation sometimes my brain goes all weird and waves for one sec. could this be irregular heartbeat?
it's just a little anxiety. take a deep breath and pause. tell your body to relax.
i keep having horrible racing thoughts with rapid heartbeat panic & sweats. it lasts several hours. is this a condition?
you would need to be evaluated to determine if you suffer from an anxiety disorder. it is important to be medically assessed to determine if there is an underlying medical problem. if not a comprehensive eval by a doctoral level psychologist or a psychiatrist is encouraged. take care.
i have mild mvp' so sick and no response for medication hulter shows vpb's i had sinus tachycardia yesterday while doing pysiotherapy what shall i do?
tachycardia and vpc with mild mvp i would suggest to talk back to your doctor and maybe start low dose of b blocker. this could be also anxiety induced. try to decrease your caffeine intake and stay away from energy drinks.
i feel nervous all time. my hands are trembling always. i could feel my heart beat. my palm is sweating. i don't drink or smoke?
the symptoms you described could be due to anxiety. however other medical and dietary factors like excessive caffeine medications and others may also present with similar symptoms. get evaluated to find the cause of your symptoms. good luck.
i'm 26 and i had anxiety for almost a year sometime i feel one very big heart rate in my chest at a time can you please tell me what it is?
have you been evaluated by the primary care doctor? anxiety can be a symptom of many physiological things as well. get evaluated by your primary care doctor to rule out anything physical going on and take your next steps based on the results. it's still worth practicing relaxation finding out triggers and general self-care. good luck!
i just got a clear echo and ecg. what else could likely cause my palpitations dizziness (sleeping on sides) and fatigue. (age 21 male anxiety)?
palpitation that do not show up on an ecg with a normal echo in a 21 yr old are generally quite harmless. a holter monitor or an event recorder would be a way to record all your heart beats over several days or weeks to define exactly what it is you are feeling. try limiting caffeine and energy drinks.
i just got a clear echo and ecg. what else could likely cause my palziness (sleeping on sides) and fatigue. (age 21 male anxiety)?
but further discussion with your physician would be good.
i have been getting strong pulses/palpitations in my heart for 3 weeks. been to doctors and blood pressure normal. have been told anxiety attacks. feel really strange when heart really pulses?
most likely premature ventricualr contractions. best testing would be an outpatient monitor and echo (ultrasound study of heart). this would be only heart testing needed. a thyroid blood test might be useful too.
i have been getting strong pulses/palpitations in my heart for 3 weeks. been to doctors and blood pressure normal. have been told anxiety attacks. feel really strange when heart really pulses?
you should have a holter monitor. this is a 24 hour monitoring of the heart rate and rhythm. it will show any abnormalities at the time of symptom.
i feel anxiety when some new things happen to me and hence making my heart beating faster and my face red. any suggestions.
try deep breathing to relax.
i have had vsd repair and coarctation of aorta am i more susceptible for heart attack. warning signs? how to tell if its a heart attack or anxiety?
patients with coarctation are unfortunately at greater risk of coronary artery disease. the reason is not well understood but there is good evidence to support this. please discuss the warning signs with your doctor; but they include severe chest pain palpitations arm pain sweating fainting difficulty breathing. please seek medical attention immediately if you are concerned.
i have had vsd repair and coarctation of aorta am i more susceptible for heart attack. warning signs? how to tell if its a heart attack or anxiety?
good news! as long as you've had an adequate repair of both edison's you are no more prone to getting a heart attack than anyone in the general public. you may have an anxiety problem.
i have had vsd repair and coarctation of aorta am i more susceptible for heart attack. warning signs? how to tell if its a heart attack or anxiety?
correction of coarctation of the aorta can still leave patients at risk for hypertension and/or arrhythmia. vsd repair patients can also be at risk for arrhythmias later. slow heart rates that might require pacemakers as well as fast heart rates (ventricular or supra ventricular) might develop.
iam having chest pressure can hear my heart beat in my ears and feel like i a lump in my throat. is this anxiety?
those symptoms are consistent with anxiety but you need to see a doc to be evaluated
iam having chest pressure can hear my heart beat in my ears and feel like i a lump in my throat. is this anxiety?
hopefully all this go away and it is anxiety presentation but chest pressure is dangerous sign of possible heart attack. you need to go to er to get checked.
i have occasional fast heart rate what does this mean?
everyone gets fast heart rate sometimes. folks with anxiety or panic disorders have it often. without more information one can only speculate.
ightheaded tingling body sensations went to the dr he is not doing any further testing ekg & blood pressure normal. what tests should i ask for?
you should discuss the situation with the dr. if the dr. feels no further testing is needed from the history and physical and explains it to you should be ok. with those symptoms which usually are due to anxiety no further tests are usually necessary unless the dr. sees a reason to investigate further after seeing the patient.
it's been 24hours since i took a 1mg ativan. can i still take an ambien for sleep? i also take paxil (paroxetine) toprol(svt) and nexium
a total duration in the body of less than 24 hours and an . effective anti-anxiety duration of 6-9 hours for most people. ativan is excreted in the kidney. so if your kidneys are healthy then after the 24 hours the ativan will not provide additive effects to the ambien nor is its metabolism effected by the paxil (paroxetine).
is this normal qt interval 335 and qtc 435 and heart rate 104? ecg showed sinus tachycardia
a hr of 104 at rest (sinus tach) is slightly higher than the normal range of hr's between 60-100 at rest. that said there could be plenty of reasons that this coud happen (like anxiety dehydration caffeine pain etc). also anemia hyperthyroidism breathing or pulmonary problems could result in physiologically appropriate faster hr's. inappropriate sinus tach considered if no cause seen.
i'm just wondering if your heart beats fast and your hands are shaking what is it?
could be anxiety but other things like excess thyroid cortisol some medicines may do it.
is it normal while taking lipitor (atorvastatin) for cholesterol to have anxiety and heart palps or atrial fibrillation?
if you have anxiety and take lipitor (atorvastatin) it is common to have all the symptoms associated with anxiety including palps and afib. it is not common for lipitor (atorvastatin) to cause them.
i am told that having hydrochlorothiazide in combination with ramipril for years together can cause loss of sodium and other problem in body.
combination drugs are used to make therapy easier for the patient. their effects are often additive both the postives and the negatives. if you're getting good results with the drug for your hypertension and have experienced no downsides you shouldn't have anxiety. you do need to be followed by your doctor however. problems can show up late your doctor will be on the lookout.
if my blood pressure is always around 100/60 - 105 / 55 or lower but because my anxiety my heart rate can be 64-124bpm is this healthy been cleared 3x?
you are doing fine your blood pressure is good and unless you meditate away your anxiety or find another way to alleviate it your heart rate will tend to be fast. long term unlikely to hurt.
if my blood pressure is always around 100/60 - 105 / 55 or lower but because my anxiety my heart rate can be 64-124bpm is this healthy been cleared 3x?
your blood pressure is beautiful! your heart rate will get fast during periods of anxiety (normal heart response to anxiety) but should go back to normal heart rate when you are calm.
i have had a recent ekg and everything checked out fine. i'm 21 with bad anxiety. today i'm having chest pains and numbing feeling on my fingers.
see a mental health professional for evaluation and treatment. cognitive behavioral therapy is a good approach for u condition.
i have had a recent ekg and everything checked out fine. i'm 21 with bad anxiety. today i'm having chest pains and numbing feeling on my fingers.
make an appt with your doctor to get a therapist to help teach you with coping mechanisms when under stress. your symptoms sound very similar to a panic attack.
is it safe to take hydroxzine for anxiety for people who have pvcs and lone afib history?
should not be a problem but need to be careful with the other meds if taking all at one time.
i start to feel pounding in my neck. i check my pulse right away and it's skipping beats. i also get c/p once in a while.
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i've suffered pvc's for years but i had just had one with pain as the pvc happened seconds after i had warm flush feeling through out my body. help?
your cardiologist. most young people with arrhythmias have benign conditions unless accompanied by symptoms such as chest pain dizziness passing out vomiting etc. perhaps you may need more work-up like electrophysiologic studies to determine the exact nerve conduction in your heart or it could just be anxiety/panic attack as your history suggests. bless you!
i get frequent pvcs heart dr. said heart is good. i'm bothered by them they can be intense at times like a punch or shock is that normal?
pvcs are often a manifestation of anxiety from excess production of adrenaline. regardless there is no physiological reason why you would feel them at all much less as a punch or shock; it is just your heart contracting before the signal to contract arrives from the higher chambers.
if i have anxiety and ate a lot of dark chocolate can that cause the rise in heart rate to over 100 like 120?
anxiety is a cause of increased heart rate.
i have anxiety and panic disorder and today after working out my heart rate was 180 and 100 at rest. i'm 18 female. is this ok?
should discuss with your doctors. answers here from folks who don't know your specifics could possibly cause more anxiety.
i had an ekg and the cardiologist said i had a slow heart rate. is this a concern? i have been taking xanax (alprazolam) 0. 25 mg for years. can xanax (alprazolam) do this?
it depends "how slow" your heart rate was on the ekg. people who are very physically conditioned may have slower resting heart rates than others. xanax (alprazolam) is not known to cause heart conduction disturbances or slow heart rate unless perhaps anxiety-related tachycardia resolves because xanax (alprazolam) helps your anxiety. please ask the cardiologist what s/he meant and whether the findings are "a concern. ".
is it normal 2 hav palpitations on & off for 3 consec. days? never been diagnosis w/serious cond b4?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i have heart palps that have been going on for almost a year ekg 24 holter monitor showed no results. what could this be? what should i do?
most palpitations turn out to be related to anxiety. however you need to be wearing a monitor while you are having symptoms to establish a diagnosis. an event monitor can be worn for up to 4 weeks. if you were having palpitations during your 24 hr hm you know the diagnosis.
i think i have pots when i stand how much should my heart rate go up and how long until it goes down again? resting is usually 60-70 then stand90-100
further assessment is needed to confirm that diagnosis. that increase in heart rate can be caused by anxiety pots dehydration etc.
i never had heart palpitations till my kid was born and i suffured from stres and anxiety they thought she wasn't gonna make it its ben 3 years?
if physiological causes of the palpitations have been ruled out then it sounds like you need treatment for anxiety. seek a therapist who specializes in treating anxiety disorders.
i have a 16 year son who has autism he had abnormal ekg but refuse to get further testing. he had a big outburst at the hospital snd became violent.
adolescent psychiatrist or developmental/behavioral pediatrician for medications approved by his cardiologist to address his aggressive behaviors which are probably anxiety-based. our pediatric cardiologists do a short-term admission to use ativan (lorazepam) or conscious sedation safely while obtaining an echocardiogram & all other further studies that are needed. his behavior can't preclude medical care.
i feel like i can't take a full breath standing but when i'm laying down i'm fine. i had ekg a few weeks ago was fine and a xray as well fine to.
ask for pulmonary function tests to rule out obstruction or restriction but be aware that the sensation is often caused by stress and anxiety.
i've been to the docs they say my heart is fine but my heart rate is always low and i get shortness of breath and my heart beats sometimes skip why?
it is good you had your heart checked out and found to be healthy. other causes including anxiety can sometimes cause these types of symptoms. keep following up with your dr. and maybe other causes and treatments can be investigated. good luck.
i always stay dizzy and have a pounding heartbeat. numerous headaches all the time what can cause this? . i've had ekg's chest xray's and other test
well anxiety can cause it and perhaps a tranquilizer would help - like xanax (alprazolam) or propranolol (a beta blocker). it would be helpful to record your heart rhythm for 24 hours to rule out a more concerning rhythm disturbance (holter monitor). echocardiogram thyroid function and electrolytes should also be checked.
i always stay dizzy and have a pounding heartbeat. numerous headaches all the time what can cause this? . i've had ekg's chest xray's and other test
anxiety certainly could cause all this but in an individual need to have history exam and other data to make diagnostic conclusions.
if my 24hr ecg is normal and i'm still experiencing palpitations what could it be? also i did thyroid test and it is still good.
psychological stress anxiety or it's real caused by what u drink - too much caffeine from soda or energy drinks etc. get checked for pheochromocytoma. ask your dr if he would consider giving u beta blockers. read our website's tips on anxiety. take care and god bless u<positive_smiley>.
im 26 i have anxiety disorder and some symptoms mimic heart problems. but ekg ecg came bk normal. is a ecg normally accurate?
ecg is an accurate study for what it has high sensitivity and specificity.
i'm 21 and keep getting pain in my left arm chest back and jaw. went to emergency room and they didn't find anything. had severe exercise intolerance since flu. had echo post flu ct 24hr holter.
if u have seen a physician and u have received extensive work up with normal finding most likely u have anxiety with somatic symptoms. u may try to see a mental health professional for med treatment and psychotherapy.
it'd be possible that a new onset of diabetes cause palpitations and or chest pain?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
i suffer from ectopic heart beats i had a 24 ecg and it only counted 7 in that time frame however i'm feeling them worse i also sufferanxiety any help?
i think you mean a 24 hour ecg monitor or a holter monitor. if typical symptoms are felt during monitoring a single digit number of isolated ectopics is very reassuring that a worrisome/life-altering heart rhythm is not seen. this does not mean you are not having symptoms it mean simply that the heart rhythm is ok at the time. occasionally anemia thyroid or anxiety can makes these worse.
i suffer from ectopic heart beats i had a 24 ecg and it only counted 7 in that time frame however i'm feeling them worse i also sufferanxiety any help?
ectopic beats can be trigger by an anxiety/panic attack. most people feel anxious when facing a challenge situation. but if those feeling overwhelm you and interfere with your daily life you may have anxiety disorder. there r 6 major types of anxiety disorder all with their own symptoms. gen anxiety disorder panic attack obsessive compulsive ptsd phobia social anxiety. seek help from ur doc.
im having random right ribcage pain. i had my ekg. abdominal ultrsaound and ct scan all came normal. is it due to my anxiety? thnks.
several things can cause variable right ribcage pain that wouldnt show up on those tests. a costochondritis or a pleural irritation come to mind. a chest ct scan and abdominal ultrasound should have picked up stuff like cancer or pneumonia in lungs or lung fields collapsed lung or liver abnormality. causes depend highly on the timing of the pain how long you've had it other symptoms etc.
i know that i have a gastric & anxiety disorder but wanted to clarify: right now i'm having tremors palpitations stomach feels weird nerve pains?
unfortunately there won't be much clarification with the symptoms you describe. anxiety can cause many gastric symptoms - including pain upset belching diarrhea. however anxiety will not cause fevers or blood in the stool. this can help you differentiate which is which. but otherwise it's very difficult to know.
i'm 27 years old and was diagnosed with an extremely high heart rate in february. i'm a small woman so when is the right time to go to the hospital?
there are many causes of high hr. svt comes out of nowhere results in fast palpitations and usually hr > 140. sinus tachycardia can occur with anxiety or any illness or pregnancy or stimulants such as nicotine and caffeine. if your hr is less than about 100 at rest that is normal. you can find out your average hr with holter monitor (doc orders). if u feel ok go to outpt doc not hospital.
i'm 21 and have had problems with angina-like pain all mylife. more recently i have started getting palpitations and breathlessness. i have had ekgs holter echos bloods and cardiac ct angiogram done. have i left any bases uncovered?
you seem hung up on cardiac causes but you haven't said anything about consultation with a gastroenterologist to look at your esophagus. esophageal spasm can mimic angina and can even get better with nitroglycerin. you should also consider whether or not this is an anxiety or panic attack.
i'm 21 and have had problems with angina-like pain all mylife. more recently i have started getting palpitations and breathlessness. i have had ekgs holter echos bloods and cardiac ct angiogram done. have i left any bases uncovered?
pretext probability given your age was incredibly low for cad & incredibly thorough evaluation safely rules this out. . gi musculoskeletal or anxiety could be other causes.
is my sons untreated reflux triggering svt episodes?
supraventricular tachycardia (svt) can be triggered by emotional stress anxiety physical stress medications and pain or discomfort among other things. reflux may well be such a trigger fr him. treating the reflux won't eliminate the underlying svt of course but it may remove one of the triggers of episodes.
i had some dizzy spells my dr did blood work & ekg. everything was fine. i just can't shake feeling that something is wrong. is it anxiety?
dizziness is a common symptom that can be due to many disorders including anxiety. either a neurologist or ent doctor may be able to help sort it out for you.
i was taken to the hospital necause i jad a rapid heartbeat and was diagnosed with anxiety attack. what causes this and how can i prevent this?
you were having a panic attack see: <link> ly/1sajf5y a breathing meditation called the 4-7-8 technique is excellent for immediate relaxation and easy to do. to see a video demonstrating it see: <link> for good advice on stress see: <link> for a very good app for stress reduction see: <link>
i was taken to the hospital necause i jad a rapid heartbeat and was diagnosed with anxiety attack. what causes this and how can i prevent this?
panic is fueled by oxygen. when panicking u r getting too much! so try 2slow ur breathing! better yet 2keep more carbon dioxide in ur system: cup ur hands & breathe in/out thru them. do learn about panic. some self-help strategies: <link> psychoeducation & cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) can help u learn 2manage & even overcome panic & anxiety. impt: see ur pcp 4physical workup.
i was taken to the hospital necause i jad a rapid heartbeat and was diagnosed with anxiety attack. what causes this and how can i prevent this?
underlying stress can cause anxiety and often attacks as you had can occur. there are no magic pills or remedies but there are some medications that can help if your anxiety becomes problematic. there are breathing techniques you could try or yoga which can help. check with your dr. to get some advice on stress reducing activities or medication if needed. best wishes.
i have anxiety and think i have a brain tumor bc i get dizzy sometimes. would a doctor recommend a brain scan? ekg and bloodwork were fine
depending on the dr you see and the symptoms you have at least some sort of imaging of your brain may be warranted in a dizzy work up if all other tests continue to be negative. without a family history or other symptoms a brain tumor would be very low on a "differential diagnosis" list. there are many more common causes of dizziness most commonly inner ear issues. best wishes.
i am having chest discomfort and palpitations. i am extremely scared of this. is this is common in mvp patients? anything to worry.
discuss status and degree of prolapse and leakage with your pcp or cardiologist. many folks have this condition and no symptoms and a long life-- you need your facts and planning to allow your best life! and anxiety control.
i have sleepless nights and fast heart rate my blood pressure is high i can only sleep in the day?
there are countless factors that impact sleep and wake cycles. you did no mention it but if you are napping during the day. this can contribute to sleepless nights. your fast heart rate could be anxiety. it is impossible to tell from how you feel what your blood pressure is and at 21 it is unusual to have high blood pressure. consulting with a doctor should help you sort things out.
i was sleeping just now and woke up with my heart racing. is that dangerous or harmful for my heart? my echo and ekg's were normal i hav anxiety.
if cardiac workup was normal u should be ok when the attack passes.
i was sleeping just now and woke up with my heart racing. is that dangerous or harmful for my heart? my echo and ekg's were normal i hav anxiety.
recoomend tom see doctor for more daily long term med if your sx not control with above med. it would not be good for your heart or your help if sx continues because it would affect our daily living decision makings and make your heart over stress as well.
is chest discomfort feeling little jabs in the heart racing or skipping heart beats part of anxiety symptoms? and are they dangerous? normal echo.
since you had echo done i assume that you had ekg and blood tests done as well. yes it is possble that anxiety can cause the above symptoms if your listed med do not control your sx you need to see doctor for more daly long term med. yes it could be dangerous if sx is severe it may affect your work productivity and decisions process.
i had palpitation problems for long period now i had tremors at night my full body is shaking and i unable to walk or do anything?
its possible that you have a generalized anxiety disorder that can turn into a panic attack sometimes. your symptoms can also be related to post-traumatic stress disorder. you can see a psychologist or psychiatrist for a full work up. please do .
if a 28yr old female with pots has good recent echo and ekg what is the chance if heart attack? suffering from heart related anxiety due to arm pain.
given your age.
is chest pain a symptom of anxiety (right side) + needling sensation and heart flutters pvcs? <negative_smiley> i have no heart disease but i so have awful anxiety
do not intend to promote anxiety but long known that cvds typically starts childhood yet asymptomatic for decades & docs do no detect; hidden in artery walls not in openings. heart rate & contraction spit-second controlled from brain yet docs can't see this only a few end responses. flutters more commonly heart pvcs (if accurate) are heart & cvds promotes but brain control still dominant.
im on losartan potassim 25 mg 1 a day im on metoprolo25 mg 2 a day and buspirone 15 mg 3 a day and im on alprazolam 05. mg 3 a day. and bayer (aspirin) 1 a day bc anxiety supraventtricular tachycardia much medc?
you treat to desired effect or side-effect. if you're not having side effects and getting a good response its not too much.
im on losartan potassim 25 mg 1 a day im on metoprolo25 mg 2 a day and buspirone 15 mg 3 a day and im on alprazolam 05. mg 3 a day. and bayer (aspirin) 1 a day bc anxiety supraventtricular tachycardia much medc?
it sure appears that you are over medicated. if you are on buspirone a very good drug this should work on preventing anxiety. then on top of that taking round the clock sedatives with three doses of alprazolam? that is not healthy; ;it is not good for your head or your soul; and although it may be hard it is time to cut back and let your brain be free of so much sedation.
i keep thinking i'm going to have a heart attack would a ecg show up a problem as it comes back normal so is blood pressure i'm fed up of anxiety?
stop smoking. check cholesterol get a cardiovascular rehab/ or exercize program going. may need a treadmill first as screening control weight check family history. ekg does not predict but can be helpful if having arrythmia or chest pain. see your pcp and work on the causes of your anxiety! also.
if i have shortness of breath heart palpatations feel weak headachey what's wrong. heart and blood tests normal but somethings not right any thought?
what heart tests? what blood tests? many reasons for shortness of breath palpitations weakness & headaches. avoid stimulants. if not heart lung or thyroid perhaps anxiety? not enough info so open to too much speculation. go see your family doc for more testing.
is it normal to have a rapid heartbeat &shaking unsettled unable to sleep &slight anxiety following a steroid cortisone 500 injection 4 asthma?
those are some side effects from high doses of steroids but can also occur with exacerbations of asthma.
i often wake up with shaking and slowed breathing/feeling of skipped breaths. ekg/blood work fine with a history of anxiety. help?
well you may have anxiety. first off knowing there is nothing wrong with your heart should be encouraging. take a sac and breath into that - that might help. breathing through your nose may eliminate shallow breathing. breathing exercises when you count until certain # and then take a breath may help. if they don't talk to your doc.
i often wake up with shaking and slowed breathing/feeling of skipped breaths. ekg/blood work fine with a history of anxiety. help?
have your doctor refer you to a mental health specialist to help with your anxiety.
i am always dizzy and lightheaded fast heartbeat. (100 bpm). left hand finger pain and feet burning sensation. 24 hrs holter days i have 58 bpm?
shooting straight: you need good relationship with your md a good evaluation by an internist or cardiologist and then likely mild anxiety treatment wi a med like klonopin (clonazepam). get your magnesium checked.
increased palpitations and heart flutters general chest discomfort (no heart disease + normal echo) medication or un noticed subconscious anxiety?
likely due to low blood sugars can cause palpitations anxiety attacks and other symptoms. have your doctor check you for the insulin resistance syndrome eat frequent small meals with a low glycemic index to avoid these. check glycemicindex. com for a list of the glycemic index of various foods.
i woke up this morning with heart palpitations. i am 40 y/o in good health passed a heart stress test about 3-4 months ago. should i be concerned?
palpitations usually refer to rapid heart rate or irregular heart rhythm. there are many causes of both including anxiety sleep apnea caffeine some drugs fever anemia dehydration alcohol withdrawal etc. if this is a recurrent problem it may be helpful to explore this further with your doctor.
i have pots. today i can't get my heart rate to go below 100-120 even if i lie down. my bp is around 100/70 even with my heart rate. i also feel weak. i started taking florinef earlier but it has had no effect yet. is it okay for pots?
low blood pressure in the absence of symptoms like dizziness has no bad effects pots if correctly dx will drop pressure on standing incresed heart. rate can be due to anxiety or lack of fluids drnk a lot of fluids and if not symptomatic donot check your blood pressure if not happy check with md about small doses of b blockers.
it seems for the past couple of weeks i would take little naps and wake up with a rapid heart beat kinda freaking me out what could it be?
this could be psychiatric (eg anxiety) endocrine (eg hyperactive thyroid) cardiac (eg arrhythmia structural heart disease). since its been going on for a couple of weeks its a good idea to see your doctor. good luck and sweat dreams. avoid or minimize caffeinated beverages.
i started getting left arm pain. to the emergency room and had an ekg came back clear. i was having anxiety during would that throw off thevresults?
24 year olds don't have heart attacks unless they use cocaine or have diabetes (and then it's still rare). it sounds like you had non-cardiac pain. many things can cause left arm pain; in your age group the first 3 diagnoses are: muscle ache.
imbalance shortness of breath light headed dizziness rapid heart rate anxiety hypertension neck muscle spasm. these are my symptoms what is it?
these sound serious enough to see a doctor for an exam. i doubt that you can get a valid diagnosis any other way and whatever it is you'll probably need some intervention. so do it soon and start getting better. best wishes!
imbalance shortness of breath light headed dizziness rapid heart rate anxiety hypertension neck muscle spasm. these are my symptoms what is it?
consult your primary care doctor to make sure you are not suffering from any medical issues. if cleared it is possible your symptoms or some of your symptoms are caused by anxiety. consult a clinical psycholgist for help as anxiety is effectively treated by individual and group psychothehrapy. try using the free anti anxiety app featured on the soundmindz. org web site for daily and ongoing support.
i've been on 75mcg of levothyroxine 6 days total now. i'm having heart fluttering and anxiety. can i stop taking until my doc is back from vacation?
if you've never been on thyroid replacement before it's entirely possible that starting on that dose could cause palpitations in susceptible people. in such cases it's recommended that you start at 25 then 50 then 75 with at least 1-2 weeks between dose changes. i'd stop for now and talk further with your doctor.
i am having heart palps and shortness of breath. it gets triggered by physical activity? my past ekg in june was fine blood work normal in july.
anxiety stress strenuous exercise fear anger and social anxiety cause palpitations. it is natural. you are doing behavior therapy keep it up. you may want to check thyroid function. high thyroid can cause palpitations. your ekg is normal so there is no congenital wpw syndrome. also no coffee alcohol or social drugs. . good luck.
is a 2nd degree heart block with no symptoms except a few palpitations easily managed during a c-section? i'm so scared
if its type 1 av block is usually not a problem. if its type 2 a pacer is indicated. you should discuss with your dr. likely you have type 1 and don't need the anxiety.
i've been having heart palpitations occasional skiped beats breathing deeply seems to alleviate them what causes this?
a good history and physical very important to find out the cause. could be just nothing. many people have skipped beats that after the million dollar work up turn to be benign. i have those. but possible causes are anxiety psychosocial stressors caffeine energy drinks hyperthyroid heart disease asthma side effects from medications. talk to your doctor.
i've been having heart palpitations occasional skiped beats breathing deeply seems to alleviate them what causes this?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i've been prescribed levothyroxine. but it gives me bad anxiety panic attacks palpitations. could my heart be bad? what can i do about anxiety?
your thyroid should be retested in case the dose is too high. your heart is likely fine but talk to your doctor about your concerns. there are different forms of thyroid as well. your dr should know how to treat anxiety. see a psychologist for therapy and a psychiatrist if your own doctor prefers to refer you for medication. get good sleep exercise reasonably keep a healthy diet and consider yoga meditation and or acupuncture as alternatives.
i've been prescribed levothyroxine. but it gives me bad anxiety panic attacks palpitations. could my heart be bad? what can i do about anxiety?
you need to check with your medical doctor or endocrinologist as your palpitations may be related to the therapy you may be taking more levothyroxine and may need dose adjustment. that in turn may be giving you panic/anxiety attack you need your tsh t3&free t4 checked and if dose adjustment or blood test is ok you may get treated for panic attacks witth ssris and/or tranquilisers.
is weakness and tachycardia symptoms of dcm?
yes but it's not specific for dcm (dilated cardiomyopathy). bleeding anemia infection dehydration anxiety panic and many other things can cause the same symptoms.
i feeling something unusual jus below my left chest which come and goes and mostly its off and i also have bounding pulse all over the body?
it sounds as though you might be experiencing palpitations. it's very common in young adults. it might be due to skipped or extra heart beats or it might not be related to your heart at all. sometimes palpitations can be exacerbated by anxiety caffeine or thyroid problems. you might want to check with a physician especially if you have chest pain breathing trouble or fainting.
i was diagnosed with anxiety and costochondritis and done 2decho doppler ecg stress test endoscopy all normal means its really anxiety? nothong more?
you certainly have a lot of normal studies this makes anxiiety disorder as a cause of symptoms a probablility.
i was diagnosed with anxiety and costochondritis and done 2decho doppler ecg stress test endoscopy all normal means its really anxiety? nothong more?
"done 2decho doppler ecg stress test endoscopy all normal" - this is more of a work-up than most doctors do before making the diagnosis of anxiety-related chest pain in a young person.
i'm hypothyroid with a tsh of 0. 01 and t4 in mid range i have a slow heart rate i suffer constipation i do have anxiety am i over medicated?
tsh it's to low. normal levels are between 0. 4 -4. 0 may vary between labs. low tsh mean overactive thyroid. if you have anxiety you may be using to much thyroid medication. consult your physician.
i'm hypothyroid with a tsh of 0. 01 and t4 in mid range i have a slow heart rate i suffer constipation i do have anxiety am i over medicated?
your symptoms sound hypothyroid but your tsh indicates that your t4 is normal. however we do not know what your t3 (liothyronine) is especially your free t3 (liothyronine) which could be high causing your tsh to drop. go back to your doctor to have this sorted out with more bloodwork. good luck to you. if necessary see an endocrinologist who treaty's thyroid disease.
is a heart rate 30bpm above resting level bad?
heart rate is variable. . that means it is dynamic and changes depending on your mood anxiety level level of fitness present activity etc. heart rate of 30 beats per minute above baseline could be normal depending on the situation. talk to your doctor about your concerns.
im having mild to severe chest pains for a month now and did the ecg ekg tmt and my doctor sys everything is normal. what can it be?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
i had a panic attack at 3 am which woke me out of my sleep. my heartrate was 167 bpm and my heart felt funny. i was able to calm myself down but the entire day yesterday my heatrate was 120-135 while waitressing. i'm worried. what could it be?
anxiety chest pain and very high heart rate is a very bad combination. if you are still having those symptoms right now this is a medical emergency. call 911 chew up an aspirin and call a neighbor friend to wait with you for the ambulance. if symptoms have passed you should call your doctor's office immediately explain the situation and get advice. unless i'm missing something you're goinger.
i had a panic attack at 3 am which woke me out of my sleep. my heartrate was 167 bpm and my heart felt funny. i was able to calm myself down but the entire day yesterday my heatrate was 120-135 while waitressing. i'm worried. what could it be?
anxiety will do all that.
what are the effects of atrial fibrillation?
the most important effect of atrial fibrillation is the risk of clots arising in the atrium and causing a stroke when the clot leaves the atrium and lands in the brain. patients with atrial fib may have decreased exercise tolerance and shortness of breath due exaggerated heart rate response. patients may have fatigue due to decreased cardiac output. the feeling of palpitations may cause anxiety.
i have gad i suffer most of my symptoms only at night when i'm trying to sleep. is it natural if i can't feel my heartbeat? i've had an ekg ♥was norm.
generalized anxiety disorder can be very disorienting. when you are busy during the day you may not feel the anxiety. however by yourself in a quiet place and time the anxiety may well up inside you. speak to your doctor about suggestions to help manage the anxiety and sleep.
i'm sitting in my car and boom i get flushed my heart rate is up to 125 bpm my heart is also pounding in my chest and throat.
your symptoms could be part of an arrhythmia or some other condition causing your heart to speed up abnormally. these can be picked up by some heart monitors that your primary care provider or a heart doctor could order if deemed appropriate. many other things can cause this this too though including anxiety and panic attacks so i'd speak with a health care professional first in person!
i'm having a weird moderate pain in upper chest towards left side but above the heart. comes & goes. hard to describe ekg normal. heart attack?
you get evaluated? thrombocytosis high blood pressure anxiety for one so young is a lot to deal with. there is not anyway to tell this far away. an educated guess is not what you need. answers will be found be by a prompt evaluation. like now. yes now. go.
if you sleep 5 hours only at night because of anxiety and panic attacks are you risk for much serious problem? normal 2decho ecg stress test endoscopy
about 60 million americans experience chronic sleep deprivation. there are several long term health consequences associated with serious sleep deprivation including increased risk for hypertension diabetes weight gain depression and accidents. have you tried reading literature on diet exercise sleep hygiene meditation etc. for your anxiety and sleep? good luck!
if you sleep 5 hours only at night because of anxiety and panic attacks are you risk for much serious problem? normal 2decho ecg stress test endoscopy
regarding how this can impact you. i would encourage you to address the underlying problem of anxiety and panic attacks. the lack of sleep and ^ anxiety can become a vicious cycle. see you are receiving behavior therapy. talk about feelings ; address problems. don't avoid them. aim for 7. 5 - 8 hours of sleep/ night. daily physical activity is optimal in a green space. eat healthfully. cut out.
if you sleep 5 hours only at night because of anxiety and panic attacks are you risk for much serious problem? normal 2decho ecg stress test endoscopy
7-8 hours of sleep so 5 hours is not enough. please enter a anxiety /panic attack program as this can be a debilitating problem affecting your life and the life of those around you. start exercising too and remember. nobody died from panic attacks! chose a good shrink and psychiatrist.
if you sleep 5 hours only at night because of anxiety and panic attacks are you risk for much serious problem? normal 2decho ecg stress test endoscopy
it's just amazing but when you sleep poorly for awhile you get so tired that you eventually do get a good night's sleep whether you want to or not. people at risk for more serious illness are those who force themselves to be sleep deprived usually due to work constraints.
im suffering from anxiety more than a year now can this lead to a more fatal disease like what? normal 2decho threadmill stress test ecg chest xray
an anxiety disorder can lead to depression illicit drug use and suicidal tendencies seek help from a psycotherapist to help you before your condition deteriorates further.
im suffering from anxiety more than a year now can this lead to a more fatal disease like what? normal 2decho threadmill stress test ecg chest xray
anxiety should not cause permanent damage to your body but psychologically can convince you that something is very wrong with your body. so get checked out.
i have a fast heart and a slower heart beat at the sametime what does that mean?
by at the same time? low follow by fast? any other symptoms? a better history and physical exam needed by your physician. possible causes caffeine energy drinks dehydration hyperthyroid state anxiety/panic attacks or arrhythmias. get an ekg.
i'm on klonopin (clonazepam) for anxiety&pseudoseizures. i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. is it okay to continue the klonopin (clonazepam) with my new med metoprolol?
it is ok to take the metoprolol while continuing the klonopin (clonazepam). there are no interactions known but if you have any problems with either medication you should follow up with your doctor.
i'm on klonopin (clonazepam) for anxiety&pseudoseizures. i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. is it okay to continue the klonopin (clonazepam) with my new med metoprolol?
most likely there will be no problem but always be aware of how you feel when adding a new medicine! beta blockers ( metoprolol) can make you fell blah / slowed down and clonazepam ( klonopin) can also make you tired but no likely bad interactions.
i've had several ecg chest xrays crp blood test and a negative troponin test i do have ectopic beats can this be anxiety related?
mild cardiac abnormalities like this can also be caused by sleep apnea. sounds like a holter monitor and a sleep study would not be bad ideas. thyroid studies should also be done.
i normally have irregular heart beat since i was 10 i did tens of test and all show benign now i have new feeling of heart shivering is it worrying?
"heart shivering" sounds like a description of a palpitation and this could certainly be caused by adrenalin surges from anxiety. other things to watch for relate to sensitivity to caffeine/alcohol. next thing to find out is whether this "shivering" is sustained/regular or is it irregular. then see your doc.
i just had several palpitations haven't slept good the past days and been through much stress. i never had this many palpitations in a row. i took a propranolol 10 mg earlier related? should i worry
propranolol is a beta blocker used to help palpitations so this is not tge cause. stress has been known to cause palpitations. try to avoid caffeine and alcohol as these can be stimulants. if you are having recurrent or more frequent runs of palpitations pls see your dr. you will need to be evaluated for other caused of this such as anxiety hyperactive thyroid may meed ekg or holter monitor.
what can be done to stop heart palpitations?
palpitations usually are a fluttery or pounding feeling in the chest. it can be caused by anything minor like anxiety all the way to life threatening abnormalities of the heart beat. you cannot tell how dangerous it is without a medical evaluation.
im wearing a 24hr. holter monitor. cardiologist says my palpitations are anxiety related. if they don't show up on it this time should i ask 4stress test?
be very clear with your cardioligist and ask all the questions you have if it will ease your mind you can ask for a stress test however if your anxiety is psychological in nature you really do need to address the way you perceive as anxiety is often driven by misperceptions. best.
i been taking incresed dose of venlafaxine 150mg for 4 wks today i feel anxious nausea heart racing no energy. can this be meds or just anxiety?
if these symptoms were present before the increased dose then it is likely that the venlafaxine is just not helping it. you can see these symptoms as a side effect but that would usually start soon after starting it. so i view of the fact that this is happening today a recurrent anxiety episode is most likely. of course talk with your doctor about this.
i been taking incresed dose of venlafaxine 150mg for 4 wks today i feel anxious nausea heart racing no energy. can this be meds or just anxiety?
your medication has another name effexor (venlafaxine) given for depression and anxiety conditions. escalating dose is always done by psychiatrist every 2-4 weeks until they see better effects. chemically it does increase neurotransmitter of serotonin and norepinephrine and elevate your mood. you have either side effect of the medication or you r not responding to meds. consult your psych doc.
i've noticed that i get palpitations when im stressed anxious and after using caffeine sometimes. should i be concerned?
you probably ought to try to abstain from caffeine. if symptoms continue i would check with your doctor to rule out any underlying problems. chances are however that your palpitations are probably just coming from your stress/anxiety.
i've noticed that i get palpitations when im stressed anxious and after using caffeine sometimes. should i be concerned?
the anxiety is causing the flight or fight response and causing adrenalin like hormones to your heart. caffeine would make it worse. my first suggestion would be to cut down on the caffeine and try to go caffeine free.
im a server at a resturant and i have been off work for over an hour now is it normal for my heart rate to still be 130?
assuming you are resting and not exercising during your break that is not normal. you should see a doctor as soon as possible for a full evaluation. it may be partly stress or anxiety but cardiac causes needed to be examined too.
i could feel myheart racing breathing is a difficult took my bp it's 159/70 heart rate 109. often feel like am about to passs out very light headed?
whereas your symptoms and readings could represent a panic attack or anxiety (typically raises your systolic pressure and pulse and make you hyperventilate) it is impossible for us to know without an exam and possibly an ecg. so i suggest you make an appointment with your doctor.
i take ritalin (methylphenidate) (40mg) have occasional pvcs and pacs but all tests (ekg 24h ekg ultrasound etc) were normal. dr says anxiety/panic. what to do?
used for add/adhd narcolepsy. it increases norepinephrine and dopamine concentration in brainstem midbrain and frontal cortex with resultant improvement in daily living skills. cardiovascular side effects: increased heart rate/ bp arrhythmia chest pain. anxiety is one contraindication to use ritalin (methylphenidate). if your pac pvc and anxiety is of resent onset after starting ritalin (methylphenidate) get second opinion.
i take ritalin (methylphenidate) (40mg) have occasional pvcs and pacs but all tests (ekg 24h ekg ultrasound etc) were normal. dr says anxiety/panic. what to do?
psychiatrists are trained to evaluate and treat exactly what you desribed/asked. while there are many reasons you could be having pvcs and pacs the results so far are encouraging. there are a number of treatment options for anxiety and panic.
i take ritalin (methylphenidate) (40mg) have occasional pvcs and pacs but all tests (ekg 24h ekg ultrasound etc) were normal. dr says anxiety/panic. what to do?
try and reduce the dose of ritalin (methylphenidate) by 10 mg at a time. it should reduce some of the anxiety you are experiencing.
i measure my blood pressure 3 times a day. however i get very anxious when reading. does anxiety cause blood pressure to rise? how much? heart rate g
blood pressure can be affected by many things including anxiety dehydration stimulants like caffeine. there is a phenomenon called "white coat hypertension" in which people look like they have high blood pressure but it's really the anxiety of being at the doctors office.
i woke up this morning to a heart rate of over 150. what would cause this?
there are several things that can cause a rapid heart rate ranging from anxiety to more serious cardiac heart rhythm abnormalities. you need to see a cardiologist (heart dr) for an evaluation. best wishes.
i have been feeling dizzy and lightheaded lately checked my pulse has been high lately should i be worried i weight 120 it been as high as 103 - 116?
check your bp and heart rate in lying down and standing posture. check out any orthostatic hypotension? it is defined as a fall in systolic blood pressure of at least 20 mm hg or diastolic blood pressure of at least 10 mm hg when a person assumes a standing position. if your bp drops ; heart rate increases as a compensatory mechanism. drink plenty of fluids. anxiety could increase heart rate.
i don't feel right. like i'm about to die or have a cardiac arrest is it possible to know that or is this anxiety?
lots of possibilities but you need to see a good psychologist. you may be having panic attacks which properly trained psychologists can successfully treat in a few sessions 90% of the time. you're taking celexa (citalopram) which suggests you may be depressed. in any case get thee to a good psychologist. don't suffer for nothing.
i don't feel right. like i'm about to die or have a cardiac arrest is it possible to know that or is this anxiety?
it is hard to be so complacent. the best way is to present to you doctor when you are having the problem and he/she can do at least an ekg and interview you better. reassurance always have to have a basis and the basis is when the right things have been done only then you can sit down with the doctor be reassured so it happens again you know what to do.
what is the difference between postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome and general anxiety disorder?
well. postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome has an origin in the autonomic nervous system and is unrelated to anxiety. a general anxiety disorder is not a cause of orthostatic tachycardia. the two entities while unrelated can theoretically coexist in the same individual.
what is the difference between postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome and general anxiety disorder?
hello general anxiety may be a nidus that may worsen tis particular condition and need further continued treatment. many times people simply forget to breathe in and out when they panic. however this is not my specialty.
what are signs of heart palpitations?
palpitations are an awareness of your heart beating since most of the time we are not aware of our heart. this can be due to a fast heart rate a slow heart rate or an irregular heart rate. this can also happen in times of stress or anxiety. there really isn't a good way to diagnose it but they are usually benign if your heart is structurally normal. would discuss with your primary physician.
i been having heart palpitations for a year now. all blood and heart work up test are normal what else could this be beside anxiety n panic disorder?
persistantly elevated heartrate (tachycardia) and palpitations (irregular heart beat) can be due to various causes: medications anxiety illness with arousal state dysregulation endocrine disorders illegal drugs and various tumors just to name a few. sometimes people have tachycardia and palpitations with the only findings being high normal values (eg of thyroid or adrenal hormones).
i have sudden increase in heart rate around 110 or greater breathlessness slight pain in my chest feel drowsy and weak. what could be the cause?
if your symptoms are very sudden in starting and sudden in stopping this may be a sign of an abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia). you need to see a heart specialist who can order a monitor for you to wear at home during these episodes. that monitor can help identify the problem. if not from your heart then this could be from intense anxiety or panic.
i've been having fast heartbeat for the past hour and a half. my blood preassure is 135/86 and heart rate is 83.
may be little stress/ anxiety. relax.
i've noticed yesterday that i've mitral valve prolapse. can it cause heart palpitation and anxiety? are b complex injection derogatoty for it?
usually it is diagnosed by a physician. there may not be any outward symptoms and palpitations and anxiety can be caused by so many other different ailments. please see your physician for a proper diagnosis and any care if necessary.
i've noticed yesterday that i've mitral valve prolapse. can it cause heart palpitation and anxiety? are b complex injections derogatoty for it?
for the majority of people mitral valve prolapse is a variation of normal. there is a spectrum and some people have a more severe form. when present this leads to mitral regurgitation (leakage) a loud murmur and over many years can lead to heart failure-then the valve must be repaired. b vitamins with neither help nor harm you. palps and anxiety are common and not related.
if the heart feels fluttering without fast heart rate is this most likely anxiety? just felt groups of flutters today my heart wasnt racing though.
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
if the heart feels fluttering without fast heart rate is this most likely anxiety? just felt groups of flutters today my heart wasnt racing though.
please see a cardiologist to make sure you do not have an irregular heart beat that is causing your "flutters". just because your heart's rate is not rapid does not mean that there may be nothing wrong with your heart. see a cardiologist and get a meaningful answer to your question. good luck.
is coreg in any way similar to inderal (propranolol). used inderal (propranolol) years ago in theatre. for stage fright. coreg seems to be helping anxiety better than metropolol?
there is some similarity but they are not indentical. they are both beta blockers but coreg (carvedilol) has other properties.
i have a bad anxiety disorder and notice that when i am stressed that is when my afib acts up and my heart goes crazy. is there an afib/anxiety link?
stress ultimately causes the release of norepinephrine or adrenaline. this can and often does worsen atrial fibrillation. make sure that your cardiologist is aware.
i have a bad anxiety disorder and notice that when i am stressed that is when my afib acts up and my heart goes crazy. is there an afib/anxiety link?
stress and anxiety could produce more catecholamines in the body. it could increase your atrial fibrillation rate. that's why your heart rate is increasing.
i am having problems. i have fast heart rate body aches and the limphnodes in my neck hurt. and i only feel this way around the evening.
see your physician for evaluation. if no physical illness may see a mental health provider for evaluation for anxiety.
is it possible for clonazepam to cause anxiety and heart palpitations and panick at night? anything is possible right?
unless you happen to have untreated sleep apnea and lost significant oxygen from the respiratory suppression of the clonazepam and then awakened with a gasping arousal that then went on to trigger your panic. if this happened to you then you should see your family doc for a referral to a sleep specialist. best wishes.
is it possible for clonazepam to cause anxiety and heart palpitations and panick at night? anything is possible right?
generally clonazepam calms anxiety and panic rather than causing them. however in some people there can be a paradoxical response to benzodiazepines or possibly more gasping if you have sleep apnea. you may be glad to know there are other ways to treat panic attacks -- including talk therapies and other medications. please consider working with a psychiatrist if you aren't already.
what is the morbidity rate for people with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator?
device insertion is very safe with estimated 2% risk of complications (bleeding infection). depending on the person's age and health status they may have the defibrillator for many years. there is a low risk of infection of device in future (rough estimates of this are single digit to 10%) and risk of getting inappropriate shocks from the device (causing anxiety) is in this rough range as well.
why would you feel breathless and have heart palpitations?
there are many reasons for palpitations and breathlessness. a benign reason would include anxiety and panic attack. a more serious reason would include a rapid arrhythmia which can produce identical symptoms. a visit with a cardiologist would be able to sort this out.
what is the relationship between heart rate and anxiety?
typically the heart rate goes up in response to uncontrolled anxiety.
what is the relationship between heart rate and anxiety?
this is an entirely normal response to stress. if you're on certain medications your heart rate may not increase with stress.
i suffer from anxiety but always convinced it's my heart. heart monitor and ekgs all was fine. would these pick up a underlining heart problems?
those devices are relied upon for many decades and have excellent reputations. now get a handle on that anxiety. since you are clearly sensitive to physical symptoms it would be great if you can resolve the anxiety without drugs - or as minimal dosage as possible. i'd try cbt talk therapy and mindfulness meditation training. only add drugs as a last resort. good luck!
i have a pain in my chest. a tight feeling what should i do about it? could this be a heart attack? i am dizzy. feel tired and breathless
unlikely in your age. you could have asthma. or anxiety
i have palpitations or doc says afib for past 5 months iam 39 year old male it's drivin me nuts only thing takes it away is half 0. 5 ativan (lorazepam)? help <negative_smiley>
it sounds like anxiety disorder with panic attacks. the fact that ativan (lorazepam) works makes it even more likely.
i am trying to go to sleep and my heart is pounding ( about 100 times per min. ). it has been going on for over 10 min. what should i do?
if you are feeling well heart rate is regular and you have no other significant signs or symptoms this is likely anxiety. you will be able to tell this for sure if the heart rate gradually slows down.
i have been having random heart palpitations with hot flashes. i'm only 22 what could this be?
it if is not thyroid disease then it is anxiety. we often hold our anxiety in by clenching our chest or breathing tightly when fatigued and stressed.
is there anything that can mimic heart palpitations?
although the cause of palpitations is usually benign if they are occurring frequently you should see a doctor to exclude a cardiac arrhythmia. the differential diagnosis of palpitations involves either cardiac (arrhythmias valvular disease) psychiatric (panic disorder other anxiety disorders) or miscellaneous (stimulants thyrotoxicosis anemia fever stress or exercise).
if otherwise healthy can an anxiety or panic attack lead to a heart attack if your heart is racing extremely fast during that panic?
not lethal. they do not cause heart attacks.
why would my urine test show neg. for xanax (alprazolam) 0. 5mg nightly i have severe depression and panic anxiety attacks i take plavix75mg celexa40mg metoprolol er50mg pravastatin sodium40mg 81mg asprine and prilosec otc
i hope i understand your question. are you saying that you take xanax (alprazolam) every night however it failed to show up on a urine drug screen? xanax is a benzodiazepine which is what will be positive is xanax (alprazolam) is found in the urine. if you take it nightly then the test should have been positive however there are situations where the test comes back negative although xanax (alprazolam) is present this is called a false negative result. it is not an uncommon occurrence.
what should i do if my blood pressure is 152/90 and my pulse is 63 and my chest feels compressed in the center i feel nervous my stomach feels tight like i have a knot in it and i am a 50 year old male what should i do i am not sure weather if its a strok
this is a very important question. if you haven't had a complete medical evaluation for heart disease you should have that done with a primary care physician. it is possible that your symptoms are consistent with an anxiety attack but other causes of your symptoms need to first be investigated. if you have already had a recent careful evaluation by a primary care physician for your symptoms i would suggest that you get an evaluation by a psychiatrist or other mental health provider. best of luck. i hope this answer helps.
when i am close to falling asleep i have what seems like a panic attack my heart beat goes way up and life seems like its going 100 mph. whats happe?
sounds like you have anxiety- would suggest to dsee your pcp of a psychiatrist for treatment.
what does it mean when you have conscious control of your heart rate? i can and have been able to increase my heart rate at will for as long as i can remember.
this is actually a normal phenomenon. we are able to control our heart rates by doing simple things. you just happen to be very aware of the fact that you are doing it whereas most people probably don't even think of it. ways we can consciously and unconsciously control our heart rate for that matter are as follows: think of something fearful anxiety or panic provoking or naturally experience it even thinking thoughts of increasing heart rate can produce the same result. things that reduce the heart rate is doing or thinking anything that provokes relaxation. take care.
what is postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome and how is it diagnosed/treated?
pots is a common orthostatic syndrome. the heart rate increases higher than expected when there is a change in posture. the symptoms can include dizziness weakness anxiety tremors and palpitations. the symptoms can be mild or severe. there is a higher incidence in women. the cause is not clear and possibly multifactorial. there are several treatment options.
what is the sign of a heart attack for men?
chest pain shortness of breath upper abdominal pain and nausea upper back pain arm pain neck and jaw pain sweating profusely uncommon fatigue feeling of doom and sever anxiety are some of the symptoms.
what are the signs for having a heart palputations?
palpitation is a vague subjective term used when people feels the heart is going too fast in their chest. may be normal or abnormal. it may be caused by caffeine stimulants medicines bleeding dehydration real arrhythmias or diseases of the heart fever but it's very common in panic attacks or anxiety.
why do i have heart palpitations?
most of the time we don't find a specific reason for the heart to be beating irregularly which i assume is the reason for your palpitations. things such as an overactive thyroid caffeine anxiety disease of the heart valves and coronary artery disease are associated with an increased incidence of palpitations but once again most of the time we don't find a specific cause.
what can cause a heartrate to zoom to over 225 bpm? i went to the hospital but they released me without running tests because i am uninsured.
i'm sorry you had this experience. your heart rate can go that fast if you have been really pushing exercise and you are young. if you are middle aged or older it could be atrial fibrillation which can be serious. rarely anxiety can cause the heart to beat that fast in a normal pattern. high thyroid function can increase the heart rate too. please get some follow up.
what other options are there for high blood pressure medication besides metoprolol and valum?
first valium is not a bp medicine. but it can improve blood pressure by relieving anxiety. i would not take it for bp. there are many classes and many members of each class of medication that can be used depending on the patient.
what are the causes of sudden increase in pulse rate in teens?
there are several reason for sudden increase in pulse rate in teens most common causes are 1. cardiac arrythmia high fever hyperthyroidism anxiety and certain medication can also cause increased heart rate.
why have i been hyperventilating for months but do not have anxiety; accompanied by palpitations pleurisy and a high pulse rate. im 23 w/ sle?
as you may know sle affects multiple organs. it can cause pleurisy as a result of pericarditis myocarditis endocarditis pleural inflammation pleural effusion interstitial lung diease and even pulmonary embolism. as high pulse rate could possibly mean something potentially life threatening like pulmonary embolism i would consider going to er if you are not followed by your doctors closely.
i'm curious as to what can cause an irregular heart beat/rhythm?
electrolyte imbalance especially low potassium or low magnesium. hypoxia (low oxygen). lack of circulation (ischemia). structural anomalies (like mitral stenosis or by-pass tract. )abnormal cardiac function (like cardiomyopathy). infection (like myocarditis). ph imbalance (acidosis or alkylosis). cardiac stimulation (like nicotine caffeine cocaine adrenalin). fatigue stress anxiety aging.
in what way can i lower my heart rate at the doctors office?
you need to rule out any cardiac arrythmias or is it sinus tachycardia? if it is sinus tachycardia it is most likely from anxiety at doctors' office. if it is happening only during physician visit no need to worry. otherwise you need medical therapy for anxiety disorder.
is it normal during anxiety attack for bp to skyrocket? any concern of this? i suffer from panic disorder. bp was 160/94! but 30 min later bp 102/72
is not that high but it is still abnormal- i have always advised my patients that as high as their bp goes can be an indication of hypertension (this was frequently when they asked about "the white coat syndrome") have your pcp work on your panic disorder!
is it normal during anxiety attack for bp to skyrocket? any concern of this? i suffer from panic disorder. bp was 160/94! but 30 min later bp 102/72
while it is not unusual for someone having an anxiety or panic attack to think they are dying and for their pulse and blood pressure to spike somewhat i have never known or heard of anyone having a heart attack and dying due to a panic attack or due to a brief rise in blood pressure to 160/94 (high but not dangerous unless sustained over months and years). recommend hands-over-heart breathing.
is jaw pain alone a symptom of heart attack or does it have to be accompanied by other symptoms?
heart attack symptoms include tightness or pain in the chest neck back or arms as well as fatigue lightheadedness abnormal heartbeat and anxiety. you may have jaw pain jaw pain is rarely the only symptom. jaw pain can also be a symptom of a tmj disorder.
i get flashes of pressure in my neck and increased heart rate. i am going to see a cardiologist next week. what might cause this?
is a good idea. may be anxiety but please be sure your heart and blood pressure are stable.
i have constant heart palpitation for 12 months. it started one day after celebrating new year. i am 22 years. what could cause constant palpitation?
you have anxiety and taking lorazepam. second sinus problem and hope you are not taking sudafed or sinus meds. third there are many other problems such as heavy caffeine intake recreational drug use thyroid disease heart ; valvular disease. please see cardiologist and have history exam 24 hour holter monitor ; 2 d echo of heart for dysrrhythmia. please read http<negative_smiley>/ doctorrajput. com.
i have pots and for the past two days i've gotten horrible weird ectopic beats. i am also experiencing weird visual stuff nausea and weakness. they take away my breath stay for a second or two and sort of hurt. is it normal?
remember to get up really slowly. sit on edge of the bed before standing. did your cardiologist give you anything to help increase your bp? drink lots of water. use salt liberally. many times they will recommend low dose amphetamines to help keep pressure up. at least you've got a diagnosis--many family docs have never heard of pots--people get labeled as "anxiety" and tx gets put off for years!
im a well nourished healthy 20 y/o this month i gotten 3 periods of nausea rapid heartbeat cold hands & feet yet feel very well after; is it anxiety?
all anxiety may be a possibility there may be something else going on. it's hard to be certain that there may be a gastrointestinal issues that need to be evaluated. it would be best to discuss this with your physician.
im a well nourished healthy 20 y/o this month i gotten 3 periods of nausea rapid heartbeat cold hands & feet yet feel very well after; is it anxiety?
the history could be due to anxiety however an evaluation is needed to rule out medical causes.
i took concerta 54mg durring new years and drank on it(alcohol) next day chest tightness/shortness of breath. ekg normal. chest ticklish. 1 week past.
not sure why a 21 year old would go to the er for alcohol and drug related anxiety problems. but you did and it proved that it was not your heart. it is the flu season. i would think that the medications and alcohol are out of your system by now. it is very normal this season to have respiratory illness.
i have dizziness tachycardia and arrhythmias associated with anxiety of my body. my conscious mind is perfectly calm though. what to do? what take?
evaluation by your primary care provider to rule out underlying medical conditions. once med issues are ruled out or addressed-talking therapy ranks really high. cognitive behavioral therapy can be quite effective. aim for daily exercise 8 hours of sleep per night ; good nutrition with 5 servings of veggies ; 4 of fruit per day. try tai chi yoga qi gong progressive muscle relaxation deep.
i have dizziness tachycardia and arrhythmias associated with anxiety of my body. my conscious mind is perfectly calm though. what to do? what take?
there is medical treatments available to control anxiety. but you need to see your family doctor or ask for a pschiatric consultation and counseling to help control your anxiety.
which treatment works the best and fastest for tachycardia?
it depends on the type & cause. an ekg will determine the type of tachycardia. if it's occurs with normal conduction treatment is directed at reducing factors like fever pain infection anxiety dehydration etc. if it is an abnormal tachycardia originating in the atria or ventricles treatment varies depending on the specifics.
what would cause your pulse to remain over 100bpm at rest with no history of heart disease?
dehydration caffeine anxiety anemia high thyroid hormone levels are a few. meds like albuterol can also. amphetamines can cause tachycardia for over a day. it sounds like you might be most concerned with arrythmias like atrial fibrillation flutter or others. your physician will evaluate possible causes and treat or refer you to a specialist.
what would cause your pulse to remain over 100bpm at rest with no history of heart disease?
hi nikki tachycardia or an elevated heart rate can be caused by multiple different factors including thyroid problems anxiety/stress and heart disease even without a history of heart disease. if your heart rate remains elevated for several minutes it is vital that you visit an emergency department quickly.
what would be the cause of pvcs only with heart rates over 100?
tachycardia needs to be evaluated by your pcp and cardiologist. it could be hyperthyroidism severe anemia stimulants/cocaine use anxiety heart disturbances (atrail fibrillation/flutter & other) fever heart disease/coronary artery ds . need ekg labs and further testing depending on the results.
why might i have rapid heart rate and my blood pressure goes up i experiece rapid heart beat uncontrollable shaking dry mouth dehydration tired and chills and cold feeling and fear and anxiety
i'm a dds but you need to visit your md about your symptoms. you could be developing symptoms of acute or chronic anxiety disorder. all of the symptoms can be side effects of your body producing adreniline at times that aren't natural or when you dont need it. tell your md about possible recent new stresses in your life. good luck and there are meds that can help you immeditely. good luck.
why might i have rapid heart rate and my blood pressure goes up i experiece rapid heart beat uncontrollable shaking dry mouth dehydration tired and chills and cold feeling and fear and anxiety
you may be dealing with low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) medication/drugs side effects and/or a panic or anxiety attacks. you should visit your primary care provider for a complete work up diagnosis and treatment. all the best.
i am 9 weeks pregnant i had an anxiety attack and my heart beat extremely fast i was able to get calm but i am so worried this will harm the baby?
i don't think it's likely that an anxiety attack will hurt your baby but it certainly can affect the quality of your life. i would recommend seeing a mental health professional who can help you get your anxiety under control as well as learn coping strategies. i would want them to assess if it was just anxiety or a panic attack. i also think you should mention it to your treating ob-gyne.
i am seth a 25-year-old man. i recently noticed that i have a high pulse of about 112 per minute. my heart is racing but no pain so far. is it wrong?
first be sure you measure it at complete rest - it's supposed to race if you're busy. if it continues to race common causes can include: infection anemia pain anxiety thyroid excess caffeine (from coffee or cocoa) and many rare causes.
i have anxiety plus having irregular heart beat what to do?
need to undergo ekg holter or event monitor to identify your arrhythmia. it should be treated. anxiety could increase ventricular rate especially in the setting of irregular heart beat. then you need to get antianxiety medications. consult your physician to get systematic work-up. also you need to check your thyroid harmone levels.
i have chest pains shortness of breath and bad indigestion. i had a ekg blood test and chest x-ray but it was normal. is this my anxiety disorder?
it could be but i would more likely think tha it is gerd or gastro esophageal reflux or heartburn. i would try prilosec once or twice a day before eals.
i have chest pains shortness of breath and bad indigestion. i had a ekg blood test and chest x-ray but it was normal. is this my anxiety disorder?
have been adequately evaluated ; ruled out - then your anxiety disorder may be causative.
i have afib and anxiety bp normally 116/70 on meds hr65to75. woke up today and bp has been 150/99 hr 99 to 110 all day any cause for concern?
if you have atrial fibrillation and your pulse and bp have been high all day you should see your physician today. if it's now too late for that call the doctor on call -- who may want you to go to an urgent care center to be checked.
i have afib and anxiety bp normally 116/70 on meds hr65to75. woke up today and bp has been 150/99 hr 99 to 110 all day any cause for concern?
it's concerning that your blood pressure has been at a steady state and today it spiked and along with that your heart rate has sped up. you should call your doctor today and get some advice. good luck.
i have high heart rate and normal blood pressure what to do?
need to know what is your heart rate? if it is more than normal range then need any ekg to see any arrhythmias. if it is sinus tachycardia it could be from anxiety or pain or hyperthyroidism or hypovolemia or fever etc. consult your physician.
i've had 4 ekgs and one eco gram on my heart in the past year every one of them was fine i might be overexagerating with my chest pain? aniexty?
you are a 22 year old male. very unlikely to have coronary artery disease at this age (if there is no family history of premature heart disease). it could an anxiety disorder. there are other causes of chest pain like pleuritis pericarditis pleuropericarditis myocarditis musculoskeletal pain etc. consult your physician.
i've had 4 ekgs and one eco gram on my heart in the past year every one of them was fine i might be overexagerating with my chest pain? aniexty?
it sounds like you probably have anxiety disorder but without knowing more about you than the normal tests you list can only speculate.
i don't feel anxious but my resting heart rate is at about 116 and that's concerning me dearly. is v-tach a cause?
the normal resting heart rate is considered to be from 55 to90 with most people in the 60to 80 range. your rate is elevated in the absence of fever. some causes include caffeine alcohol overactive thyroid anemia certain stimulant medications or drugs. of course excitement and anxiety can elevated the heart rate. i recommend an examination by your physician.
i've already had one echogram and 4 ekgs of my heart within a year and a half is there a reason to get another this year i think i'm a hypochondriac?
sounds like anxiety disorder. maybe you should seek professional psychological help.
i have been prescribed propranolol for anxiety and hypertension. can this medication make my heart rate and pulse too low when i am not anxious? my pulse at rest is between 60-75bpm and bp13<negative_smiley>88 est.
your doc will monitor your hr ; bp but not being anxious shouldn't b a problem.
i have been prescribed propranolol for anxiety and hypertension. can this medication make my heart rate and pulse too low when i am not anxious? my pulse at rest is between 60-75bpm and bp13<negative_smiley>88 est.
propranolol is a "beta blocker" and used for hypertension and in some cases anxiety. one effect of this class is to slow heart rate. from the little info you supplied it looks like it is working fine. however if you are concerned talk it over with your physician and if necessary there may be alternatives available. good luck.
i have cut cigs down from 40- 3 now when i have one of my 3 a day it gives me terrible heart palpatations. had ecg today came back fine.?
probably having withdrawal anxiety but you need a 24 hour holter heart recording so you can mark when you're feeling the palpitations and the doctor and determine what's actually happening when you feel them. be aware: quitting smoking is generally a very good treatment for people who have real heart skipping!
i had an ekg test 6 months ago due to a panic attack. it came back normal. i still have chest sensations/feelings that do not cause pain. is itanxiety?
anxiety causes many types of physical sensations and many people fear that these mean heart disease. so it's a good idea to check that out with your physician. however you're 24 and had a normal ekg. what did your doctor say to you about this? hoping s/he spoke with you about how the mind and body are interwoven sometimes inflaming worry -- and how working with a psychotherapist can help!
i had an ekg test 6 months ago due to a panic attack. it came back normal. i still have chest sensations/feelings that do not cause pain. is itanxiety?
an innocent arrhythmia can also give you weird chest sensations. you may want to repeat your ekg if you are uncomfortable.
i had an ekg test 6 months ago due to a panic attack. it came back normal. i still have chest sensations/feelings that do not cause pain. is itanxiety?
that's very likely.
i'm sixteen no health problems have anxiety don't drink any caffiene what's the likeliness of me having a heart attack? i'm terrified of having one
heart attacks in healthy teens are almost non-existent. usually anxiety is the cause of their chest discomfort unless there are some inborn abnormalities.
i'm sixteen no health problems have anxiety don't drink any caffiene what's the likeliness of me having a heart attack? i'm terrified of having one
you have just answered your own question--you are young and healthy thus your risk is almost none. it might be even less if you stopped smoking entirely. it sounds like you are describing an obsessional worry an anxiety symptom. cognitive behavioral therapy could be helpful as could medication. go get some help and stop worrying!
i have generalized anxiety. never had much luck with antidepressants and i don't want to take benzos everyday. are beta blockers a good option to try?
beta blockers can help episodic anxiety affecting physical symptoms such as pounding heart shaking hands sweating etc. not so good for long-term anxiety though. mindfulness-based cognitive behavioral therapy is extremely helpful and provides you practices you can do yourself for the rest of your life. it's habit forming but the good kind. <positive_smiley> best wishes.
why does my mind go blank and my heart skip a beat frequently?
an anxiety issue is most likelym although somre more serious issues can be in play. see your doctor to discuss!
what would a pulse rate of 130 mean for someone of a healthy weight & active life when all they did was go from sitting to standing?
pulse rate of 130 in sitting to standing position is considered tachycardia and it is abnormal. if it is one time event it can be due to many causes includind anxiety or caffeine consumption. but if it is persistent then it needs to be evaluated and blood test and ekg needs to be done to see the rhythm. it may be benign tachy or due to overactive thyroid or some other cause. if itis so see ur doctor.
what can cause dizziness and lightheadedness and chest pains but ekg is fine as well as blood pressure? have totally passed out and couldn't see
this could be an intermittent dysrythmia/arrythmia and could also be a heart valve issue (less likley). it could also be dehydration anxiety and some other more obscure diagnosis. get over to your doctor or emergency room and get checked out. if this occurs again go to the er or call 911.
what type side effects are from comming off effexor? i was taking effexor for 6 years 37. 5mg daily. i was told i could quit. i tappored off medication and have not taken any for six weeks. i have parkinson's for 12 years i have a pacemaker for almost 2 ye
any time you discontinue antidepressant especially after a long period of time side effects or recurrence of symptoms can occur. effexor (venlafaxine) appears to have worse withdrawal effects that other classes of antidepressants and takes up to four weeks of a slow taper to prevent withdraw side effects such as dizziness flu-like symptoms and anxiety. you took effexor (venlafaxine) for a rather prolonged period of time and i can't be sure how you tapered the medication. if your symptoms are withdrawal your doctor may tell you to restart the medication and taper for a rather extended period of time. it is not uncommon to experience symptoms of depression after stopping an antidepressant and may indicate that you truly need to take some type of anti-depressant. in your case you have an underlying disorder that actually causes depression. depression and anxiety are physiologic symptoms of parkinsonâ€™s disease that occur in up to 60 to 80 percent of patients that suffer with parkinsonâ€™s. in other words people are not depressed because they have parkinsonâ€™s but rather it is a part of the disease process itself. your symptoms may me depressive symptoms associated with parkinsonâ€™s. you may have unmasked your depression by stopping effexor (venlafaxine) but this is something you and your doctor should discuss. if that is the case your symptoms may not improve without some type of anti-depressant. although effexor (venlafaxine) appears to be a good choice in parkinsonâ€™s patients it may not be the best medication for those that have issues with arrhythmias. six weeks of suffering like you are deserves an evaluation by your doctor or neurologist to ensure your symptoms are not due to withdrawal another medical issue or from depression. i would not self-treat without discussing this with your doctor. although many claim that supplements and natural compounds are effective in the symptoms of depression and parkinsonâ€™s there is not good evidence that it does. i would urge you to see your doctor for further evaluation of your symptoms.
what do i do to get my heart palpitations under control?
what's causing the palpitation? that is the key to your symptoms. do you have hyperthyroidism anxiety atrial fibrillation ohter heart dysrythmias severe anemia fever excess alcohol use (binge) energy drinks etc.
what are side effets of metorolol tratrate 25 mg after surgery i went into a-fib and was put on this medicine. feeling a lot of anxiety that i didn't have before. could this be caused by this medicine?
anxiety is one of the side effects of metoprolol tartrate. here is a list of central nervous system side effects listed on the package insert: headache dizziness mental depression lightheadedness concentration impaired anxiety weakness fatigue sedation somnolence or insomnia vivid dreams/nightmares vertigo paresthesia hallucination nervousness impotence/sexual dysfunction amnesia/memory impairment confusion. a link to the complete package insert with all side effects is attached below.
what actually causes long term tachycardia?
tachycardia is caused by many factors and there is sinus tachycardia which can be caused due to anxiety panic attacks exercising of any kind certain medications overactive thyroid. then there is supraventricular or atrial tachycardia due to defect in the rhythm process of heart for which you need to find the cause and treatment through cardiologist. i f you have long term tachycardia see your md.
i am 52 female with dcm & chf. had a partial hysterectomy at 42. i have a warmth that comes over me with anxiety. lasts less than minute. hotflash?
could be hot flash.
i suffer a lot from anxiety. my heart rate always seems fast but regular. iv been suffering with sharp chest pain on and off what could it be?
you should consult your doctor to rule out medical issues if cleared you could benefit from seeing a mental health specialist who treats anxiety. best.
i suffer a lot from anxiety. my heart rate always seems fast but regular. iv been suffering with sharp chest pain on and off what could it be?
anxiety can be one of the causes of chest pain of a sharp type. please find out why you are anxious and get to the bottom of this with a good doctor.
i suffer a lot from anxiety. my heart rate always seems fast but regular. iv been suffering with sharp chest pain on and off what could it be?
may or may not be associated with your anxiety. the most prudent course of action would be medical evaluation for your chest pain. do you only experience chest pain when you are anxious? good anxiety control is important.
i've been getting a deep pulse in my heart it feels like a lump in my throat for a sec and my heart beat is weird feel for a few seconds the fine?
description you may have palpitations which are common episodes of heart fluttering skipping beats or racing. can sometimes be related to caffeine intake certain medications anxiety. for the most part the tend to be benign but should be evaluated if persistent or if accompanied by chest pain dizziness or other symptoms to rule out other diseases. good luck!
is it possible 2get a bit of increased anxiety & agitation after first 4weeks on zoloft (sertraline)? i've had a few heart palps too does that mean its dangerous?
it can cause an initial increase in anxiety but after 4 weeks that should go away and anxiety should decrease. some people have paradoxical responses and become more anxious which may mean it is not the best drug for you. worst case the drug could precipitate a manic episode in someone with undiagnosed bipolar disorder. have a discussion with your doctor to discuss your treatment options.
is it possible 2get a bit of increased anxiety & agitation after first 4weeks on zoloft (sertraline)? i've had a few heart palps too does that mean its dangerous?
if you have been on only 12. 5 mg of zoloft (sertraline) for 4 weeks you have not been dosed correctly. also with cold sensitivity has your thyroid been checked? even if the tsh is normal take your axial temp morn afternoon even and hs for 7-14 days. if the temp if.
irreg an high resting hrt rate can it cause exhaustion low enenergy wt loss an get strange feelin in head/eyes? tachycardia not sure cause!
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid and salt intake try magnesium supplements.
is it normal to have chest pain after palpitations? all heart tests were normal. dr thinks it might be anxiety.
most likely your doctor is right.
i have panic attacks and faint every time i'm hurt (sprained ankle thrown out back etc) (vasovagal syncope? ) 50mgzoloft helped; what else can i do?
zoloft (sertraline) is a very appropriate medication to help with panic attacks. since you have received benefit from 50mg consider talking with your prescribing provider about increasing the dose to get more help as long as you are tolerating the medication. in addition it would be helpful to start seeing a therapist to discuss better ways of coping with your anxiety. monitor your overall health as well.
i have panic attacks and faint every time i'm hurt (sprained ankle thrown out back etc) (vasovagal syncope? ) 50mgzoloft helped; what else can i do?
panic attacks are an extreme form of anxiety and can happen for multiple reasons. the dose of zoloft (sertraline) is not that effective for the symptoms you described and not sure about intensity or frequency. ideal treatment should minimizer the attacks therapy needs to be combined with meds there are a lot of new meds also available discuss with your doc a lot of good options possible all the best.
is heart pain a sign of anxiety? i sometimes have dull and achey pain sometimes sharp localized in the heart area. i'm 18 female. ekg is 'normal'
people often take their anxiety out on their body. for 1 person it leads 2 headaches or backaches 4 others it could involve stomach disorders. having a "heart aches" is another common complaint. sometimes it is a metaphor 4 the issues that r bothering u relationships. speakwith a therapist about stressful aspects of your life and 2 learn some relaxation techniques. get massages; take warm baths.
i've had a heavy chest left arm pain and a tight jaw for 4 months. my forehead is cold. cholesterol is 6. 3 and ecg is normal. help!
you are describing classic symptoms of cardiac event. and any one with these symptoms definitely should be takenseriuosly and worked up thoroughly to rule out cardiac problems. you say you had these symptom for four months so it is difficult for me explain. anxiety disorders or even peptic ulcer or gerd can mimic the symptoms of heart attack also acute coronary artery spasm.
i have internal tremors chest pain and palpitations. previous gerd(3 yrs ago)and cfs. could there be a link? full blood count and resting ecg fine. anxiety?
sometimes if it is bad enough gerd can cause chest pain. sounds more like anxiety however which can also make gerd worse. at age 26 it is very unlikely to be something life threatening. if you don;t already have one consider seeing a primary care provider for a more complete evaluation. hope this helps!
i have internal tremors chest pain and palpitations. previous gerd(3 yrs ago)and cfs. could there be a link? full blood count and resting ecg fine. anxiety?
what you describe can be very stressful and if you have been checked out with ecg and tests then the probable cause is an anxiety reaction or panic attacks. try to see doctor about anxiety attacks to get help. decrease alcohol an cigarettes. try meditation (google it to learn how). try to reduce stress in your life. if you have religeous beliefs then pray for healing. healing groups are good.
i take an arb (losartan) for hypertension but still notice occasional spikes due to anxiety. hr rate increases also. is a beta blocker better for this?
yes but i would not add an antihypertensive medication when maybe you should be treated for anxiety? think about it and good luck!
i take an arb (losartan) for hypertension but still notice occasional spikes due to anxiety. hr rate increases also. is a beta blocker better for this?
addition of a betablocker will help to control spikes due to anxiety.
i have palpitations cause of something touching/pressing against my heart. what would be ur recomendations for testing and screening this problem?
it seems you are feeling pounding sensation during palpitations. you need an ekgg 48 hour holter monitor. if yoru have palpitation not on daily basis then you need event monitor for 30 days. from this we can diagnose underlying etiology for palpitations. if there are no arrhythmias and it is only from sinus tachycardia then anxiety disorder should be excluded by treatment. get ur tsh checked.
what are the main signs of a heart attack in a woman im 47 years old and i have been having some pain in the left side of my neck and upperback
i will list some of the symptoms of a mycocardial infarction (heart attack). chest pain tightness squeezing or fullness is the most common presentation. however the pain can also present in the upper back the upper middle abdomen jaw head teeth or in the arms (left more than right). one could have nausea vomiting or it could feel like indigestion or heartburn. feeling short of breath sweating and just feeling out of sorts can also occur. about a fourth of people have no significant symptoms during a heart attack. you asked specifically about symptoms in women. the following statistics are from a national institute of health study. 43% of women had no chest pain. 58% were short of breath; 55% had marked weakness; 43% experienced fatigue with cold sweats in 39% & dizziness in 39%. according to the study preceding their heart attacks women experienced the following symptoms: unusual fatigue - 70%; sleep disturbance - 48%; shortness of breath - 42%; indigestion - 39% and anxiety - 35%. i hope this helps. take care.
what is cause of supraventricular tachycardia?
with no simple answer. there are many triggers like caffeine nicotine alcohol excess thyroid hormone anxiety stress decongestants eg pseudoephedrine direct stimulants eg cocaine etc. but you also have to have potential electrical connections in your heart that you're born with or acquire eg from rheumatic fever.
i do have good bp ( 105-75 but my pulse is often high - 95. what does it mean?
a high pulse rate can be a sign of anxiety or fever or high metabolic rate (exercise) or elevated thyroid levels among other causes.
i don't know if im having a heart palpitations or not because im constantly aware of my heartbeat. i also have anxiety so anxiety symptoms mimic hd?
attack can sometimes mimic heart disease. the best way to differentiate anxiety / panic from medical causes is through a medical evaluation. take care.
i had a ekg done blood tests all is good but it feels like my heart is thumping louder than it should my rhr is around 70 bpm is this from anxiety?
depends on when this is occurring. make sure you tell your doctor - you might need a holter monitor to make sure you don't have weird rhythms at times other than the ekg.
i see an specialist in 2 weeks. my heart skips have been worse but brief so no point going to er. how would i know if they are dangerous otherwise?
skips in heartbeats may be associated with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
i got superventiculer tychardia before 6 years but now also i have anxiety about svt means while traveling i feel heart beat will be increased?
you may want to ask about ablation which can be curative in up to 98% of some svt's.
if i pay attention to my heartbeat/heart rate because of anxiety it seems as though i notice the beating more and it can feel harder is this normal?
yes- heart rate may be more rapid and heart beat can feel harder when anxious or panicked. insure that medical causes for your symptoms are ruled out. take care.
what effects do beta-blocker drugs have on a big presentation?
performance anxiety or colloquially stage fright or fear of public performances may be mitigated by small doses of beta-blockers. should only be used under you doctor's supervision since there are adverse effects possible for which your doctor can screen you.
i hve breathlessness on very mild activity x-ray and pft are normal echo ecg normal i am worrying for pulmonary fibrosis or copd can lpr cause breat?
if your pft and cxr are normal copd and pf have been ruled out. other tests to consider are: cbc tsh and bnp. if all normal consider a fitness program. anxiety can also cause marked breathlessness if this applies to you.
i went to the er with chest pains an ecg showed no abnormalities. a doctor listened to my lungs with a stethascope would this exam have highlighted pneumothorax? the pain is now in my mid back.
you have anxiety panic stress or all of the above. you did not need to go to the er. heart troubles have a myriad of symptoms in a male. yes the exam and vitals would have also ruled out a pneumothorax. now. lets deal with the underlying real problem which is that at 28 you are not managing your stress well. you are carrying it all in your chest and your chest muslces are tired or fatigued.
i sometimes get a rapid heart beat that causes a pressure in my neck followed by brief dizziness and sweating. i do not have anxiety or panic attacks?
as soon as possible. this may be a cardiac disorder requiring treatment.
i was having a lot of strong heart palpatiations at work but now im home they are not nearly as bad what could b causing this? i do have clinical anxity
i believe that work causes anxiety and is a source of stress for you. it is stressful for a lot of people even if they don't have clinical anxiety. home is a sanctuary for most. i do recommend going to your doctor who can prescribe some medication for it and also refer you to a therapist who can help you deal with this problem.
i'm 23 my heart is racing at over 100bpm i'm short of breath and have a headache. what could be happening to me?
tough to say without an exam but an anxiety condition can cause these symptoms along with several other possibilities. get an exam and be diagnosed. get well soon.
i'm 23 my heart is racing at over 100bpm i'm short of breath and have a headache. what could be happening to me?
control of anxiety may help symptoms. work with a counsellor and your psychiatrist on optimal medication and behavioral interventions.
i have bad chest pain and left arm pain when i have bad palpitations. i have had all tests to rule out heart. please tell me it's anxiety symptoms.
causes have been rule out - the next step is a psychiatric evaluation to rule in or rule out an anxiety disorder. take care.
i have bad chest pain and left arm pain when i have bad palpitations. i have had all tests to rule out heart. please tell me it's anxiety symptoms.
to know we would have to know much more information about you and what studies you've had. if you've had what most of us would consider an adequate work up for your symptoms then anxiety would be a short list probability. with the information here can't tell.
i have bad chest pain and left arm pain when i have bad palpitations. i have had all tests to rule out heart. please tell me it's anxiety symptoms.
i am not sure i would ignore these symptoms i had a patient who had all these symptoms saw his primary on monday all tests were negative on saturday five days later he was in icu witha heart attack he was treated immediately did well.
i have bad chest pain and left arm pain when i have bad palpitations. i have had all tests to rule out heart. please tell me it's anxiety symptoms.
this situation is the very reason one should have a good and healthy relationship with a family doctor. you and your family doctor now should sit down and go over all of the tests and develop a plan to make sure you are managing your anxiety better; that your heart is absolutely not the problem; reviewing your history in your profile makes me want to remind you that you can overcome anxiety.
i've been feeling odd lately lightheaded spells where its difficult to speak my heart races and i lose my balance. i've never had this before.
there are so may things that can cause this kind of symptoms. it could be due to heart related issues thyroid or just anxiety/stress. it will be wise to see a doctor.
what are the warning signs of a heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
why do i sometimes feel like my heart is racing?
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations etc.
why do i wake up with my heart racing after hot dream?
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations dreams etc.
what are emotional or mental effects after a heart attack?
i think survivor of a heart attack is greatly blessed -- for this is the most dangerous killer in medicine more than cancer or any other ailments and trauma. the emotional and mental effects are significant -- many become depressed or suffer anxiety for quite some time after and yet others are very grateful having been saved from a certain mortal event.
i experience sometimes tightness in my chest accompanied by dizziness and palpatations sometimes. what could it be?
the most common cause in a young female with no cardiac history is anxiety or panic attacks. the most dangerous would be coronary artery disease. go see you primary care doctor and get a check up.
is it dangerous to have a heart that reacts to everything too sensitive & extreme? hr goes up and down all the time switching side in bed hr up 35 bpm
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
i can see my heart beat by my left coller bone is that normal? neck looks swollen kinda tightness in neck nd sholders nd some pain! i have anxiety
it is not unusual to see the pulsations of the great vessels as the heart beats particularly in thin people.
is rapid heart beat hyperventillation and headache be due to anxiety? very anxious since few months. (19 yrs male)
mention can be from anxiety or they can be from other things such as thyroid heart issues etc. please see your doc to get a diagnosis and you can go from there. anxiety can bee treated by a mental health professional. the relaxation response book by cardiologist herbert benson may also be helpful. peace and good health.
in which ways can a lack or too much of serotonine effect heart or heart rate?
sometimes when you have a lot of anxiety you can experience chest pain and palpitations. many people think they really have something wrong w/ their heart when in reality it is a temporary phenomenon that will go away when you anxiety decreases. meds that increase serotonin in your brain such as ssris can decrease anxiety.
i am a 32 yr old woman & i wake up extremely hot in the morning with rapid heart beat?
it may be just due to bad dreams or anxiety. it could also be due to abnormal thyroid hormone level. please your thyroid hormone level.
i drink caffeine and have anxiety. i've had a few normal ekg but sometimes i feel my heart flutter a little. is this normal?
caffeine can cause palpitations -- it's part of its pharmacological profile. it can also worsen anxiety especially if you have an anxiety disorder. you could stop the caffeine and see what happens. . . you might feel a whole lot better.
is it normal to ectopic heart beat then nothing for say a few months then thay return again and can worry or anxiety be a reason thanks?
typically stress/anxiety causes the heart to race by activating the "adrenaline" part of the nervous system. this may also cause the frequency of ectopic beats to increase.
i've worn 2 holters-30 days other 24hrs/had a stress test/echo/ekgs/sonogram of the heart/chest xrays/bloodwork all normal. whats best test for palps?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified. it sounds like you've had a good workup and don't need to worry.
in the last month i experience irregular&pounding heart beats along with gasping for air episodes. dull constant pain in arm/legs. ekg&blood test good?
could be simple anxiety but you may also want ot inquire about a holter monitor for 24 hr ekg reading.
if i'm otherwise healthy and bp usually normal at rest but pulse and bp get very high during anxiety or stress can it cause stroke or heart attack?
in an otherwise healthy guy w/out bp problems i think it would be unlikely to result in stroke or heart attack but not guaranteed so. . why not talk to a therapist to discover ways to deal w/ or avoid stress? it can really help. but find one you like and trust. i'd think it may be more helpful than pills in mild or moderate conditions. meditation is also great to reduce stress. best!
i have constantly been feeling tightness in my abdomen throughout the day also tightness in both sides chest. ekg blood ct all normal!
if your test are normal and still feel tight then it could be due to stress or anxiety please discuss with your doctor.
i have panic/anxiety disorder and am consistently obsessed with my heart rate i get angry if its not 69 or below. what can help me besides medication?
cognitive behavioral therapy; yoga; meditation; mindfulness training (being in the here and now). massage from partner can be inexpensive and relaxing. if obsessiveness persists seek professional help. good luck stay healthy.
i have panic/anxiety disorder and am consistently obsessed with my heart rate i get angry if its not 69 or below. what can help me besides medication?
and control your anxiety/panic disorder. discuss with your psychiatrist (or get one) and forget about taking your pulse. you are barking up the wrong tree! panic attack is a serious disorder and if you do not control it it will take over your life. get help.
when i first wake in the morning i'm breathing fast and have fast heart rate. what does this mean? bad dream?
there is a circadian rhythm in your adrenaline output. adrenaline rises in the morning and helps us get our day started. it is possible that you are recognizing this adrenaline release or that it is provoking some anxiety causing hyperventilation. keep a diary and see your physician if your heart rate is consistently over 100 bpm are respiration above 20 per minute.
what are early signs or symptoms of myocardial infarction? rapid respiration and heart rate?
these may include: pain pressure or a tightness in the chest with or without radiation to arm or jaw. others include shortness of breath sweats fatigue nausea and or vomiting fast heart rate. anxiety and a feeling of impending doom to list a few.
whenever i take my adhd meds i have a feeling of anxiety and my heart beats fast. why?
please let the prescribing doctor know this is happening. it could be from the medication or from using caffeine or chocolate with the medication. or from a comorbid disorder like anxiety disorder. or from using other medications such as decongestants. if none of these are present then you may need a dose adjustment or change.
whenever i take my adhd meds i have a feeling of anxiety and my heart beats fast. why?
stimulants activate the fight-or-flight system elevating both hr & bp. either that or some other effect can cause some people to feel anxious. usually dose related & sometimes gets better with time but the anxiety can be bad enough to merit switching to a different med class. sometimes one stimulant class will do it and not the other; nonstimulant adhd meds much less likely to cause anxiety.
i was sitting on my bed talking and all of a sudden my heart started beating irregularly too quickly and hard. i could feel the contractions. are random palpitations normal? should i be worried?
if this is isolated in someone of your age it's most likely a benign condition due to some kind of stressor such as stress anxiety or even increase caffeine intake. unless this is something that is common in your family or something that reoccurs often you probably do not need to worry. if you aren't anxious person or consume a lot of caffeine a good start would be to control those causes.
i have anxiety and panic disorder. i recently had ekgs. both say non specific st changes and at junctional changes. i just need to know if this is ok?
if rhythm is normal & you are symptom free & your anxiety is controlled you are ok.
i have anxiety and panic disorder. i recently had ekgs. both say non specific st changes and at junctional changes. i just need to know if this is ok?
non specific ekg changes without symptoms or clinical suspecion should not lead to further investigations.
in getting this strong heartbeats like my heart wants to come out of my chest? is this mean i will get a heart attack
it is unlikely if you are taking your blood thinner medication for your pe. it sounds like you are having an anxiety attack. go see your doctor for an evaluation and ekg.
is high blood pressure and fast pulse from anxiety dangerous?
high blood pressure is a behavior ; the more chronic the more the rate of cardiovascular events ; decline in kidney function? es. it does not matter if people "think" they know the basis or not; same behavior. the impact of increased heart rates is less clear though some (minority) "believe" we may have some unclear limit on available heart beats. best strategy . confront the bases of the fears!
i am going through a tuff phase and experience high level of stress anxiety and heart palpitations. situation getting worse what to do.
stress and anxiety can cause many physiologic changes in the body and can result in panic attacks which are uncomfortable and concerning. you need to see a physician or specialist to determine the cause of your anxiety/stress and to determine if you require medication to control these stressful episodes. they will not resolve on their own so please seek medical help.
i do have anxiety/panic disorder. my doctor told me today but can your anxiety symptoms such as heart racing and chills last for days on end.
sometimes.
i'm 18 and have pvc's structural normal heart they typically happen isolated. sometime's i get a flipflop feeling the worst one lasted ~30 second. bad?
palpitations are usually not important in 18yo people with normal hearts except that they cause anxiety that you need to control. avoid caffeine stimulants decongestants (with the letter d as they have pseudoephedrine) and if you can avoid stress. healthy diet and exercise will help. do not worry.
is it natural for hr to increase after a meal? and if so how much of an increase is appropriate and for how long?
you shouldn't get a change in heart rate just from eating. perhaps something else is going on. it could be cardiac or from your stomach or just your anxiety acting up. check in with your provider.
i have palpitations and sometimes a pounding heart i also have anxiety how can i tell if this is wolf parkinson white or just anxiety?
wps is quite rare. conversely anxiety with palpitations pounding is common in teens and young adults. but if this syndrome runs in your family best to check with a cardiologist. he/she will take a detailed history and perhaps put you on a 24 hr holter (portable) heart monitor. good luck.
i have palpitations that dr. says are anxiety/stress related. ekg / holter ok. is it normal for palps to be so strong entire torso seems to flutter?
yes since all exams and tests were normal and if no family history of heart problems at a young age then you can try to eliminate caffeine increase fluid intake eat health and slowly increase activity as tolerated. try yoga as they can help as well. changing environment for few days might help as well. good luck.
if i take clonazepam once a week at most (0. 5 mg) for sleep will i have any problems stopping? cardiologist prescribed tachycardia causes insomnia
physical dependence. the research on benzodiazepines shows the window of opportunity is around 6 months. after this time anxiety rebound effect is likely when trying to stop clonazepam. however from my experience not likely you will become addicted or dependent with o 0. 5 mg/week. rec. : if concerned talk to your prescribing physician for more information
i had a stress echo at queens ny hospital and a normal stress test at the mayo clinic. could two stress test in two years miss a blocked artery?
25 yo with anxiety and two negative stress tests should concentrate on anxiety and not chest pain.
what does it mean when i feel my heart fluttering?
palpitations/fluuters can come any time and it can be scary for some folks. at times we don't know why but sometimes there are reasons--anxiety/panic attacks thyroid disease medication side effects drug/alcohol use/abuse heart-attacks fever/infections heart-conductions problem excessive caffeine/stimulants etc. if persistent/concerning to you consult doc for an eval. good luck.
when your heart beats fast does that count as cardio exercise?
to get the benefits of exercise a person has to do the physical activity. fear and anxiety can raise a person's heart rate but they don't do anything to make the heart and muscles stronger.
what will happen to a teenager if heart-rate increases and there is a lack of oxygen?
the body is a finely tuned machine that adapts to meet changing needs. to meet body/muscle demands during exercise the heart rate increases. anxiety often increases the heart rate too. breathing will increase deeper & faster. even at normal heart rates lack of oxygen is not a good thing but a teen has stronger heart cells can tolerate less oxygen for a longer period than a much older person.
i have oily skin acne weight loss anger fits dizziness palpitations reynaud's syndrome extreme anxiety what can it be?
try to rule out hypermetabolic states like hyperthyroidism aside from anxiety neurosis. pls. see md.
i have a hard time breathing pft ct scan bronchoscopy ekg are good. i have gerd fatty liver & mthfr 677 tt docs don't think it's anxiety. ideas?
problem with breathing may be caused by factors such as not being in shape to pulmonary hypertension. you need to see a pulmonologist given that the basic tests are normal. an exercise tolerance test may be worthwhile as well.
i am having a irregular heartbeat & throbbing/cramp pain near the left side of my chest. doesn't hurt but feels weird cuz it's near the heart anxiety?
do you drink "energy drinks"? if so it is the taurine causing this. these dangerous products are very hard on your heart. or this is your chest telling you that it is exhausted carrying the stress and anxiety without relief. either way get some rest. don't drink caffeine or other "energy" products.
i am having a irregular heartbeat & throbbing/cramp pain near the left side of my chest. doesn't hurt but feels weird cuz it's near the heart anxiety?
has this been going on for awhile or is it sudden? are you under a lot of stress? have you had palpitations before? an ekg should probably be done at your doctor's office to make sure the cause is not your heart. if you feel a heaviness on your chest have shortness of breath pain in the arm or jaw please go to er. those can be common anxiety symptoms as well. see your doc to be sure.
i've been to er for ecg and doctor. 6 weeks after intravascular inject of lido/epi at dentist i still have shortness of breath. what could this be?
it could be many things such as anxiety asthma heart failure silent mi etc. the lidocaine and epinephrine is very safe when injected properly. if you still have sob you should definitely see a cardiologist rather than going to er.
i've been to er for ecg and doctor. 6 weeks after intravascular inject of lido/epi at dentist i still have shortness of breath. what could this be?
this is a diagnosis by exclusion 1-see cardiologist 2-see pulmonary doc for testing 3-if all else negative could be anxiety based.
if my chest pains and palpitations while sleeping are because of something wrong with my heart would ativan (lorazepam) make them go away? i take. 5mg twice a day
chest pain if cardiac related should not respond to anti-anxiety meds unless your anxiety is very high to cause cardiovascular problems. would still have your heart evaluated to get a definitive diagnosis
i had a dream about an earthquake and shortly after that i woke up with my heart beating fast out of nervousness. is this normal?
you wake up with your heart pounding and maybe even with a shout. isolated nightmares are normal but when dreams resulting in extreme terror or anxiety recur often they can become a debilitating sleep disorder. <link>
i get hbp say 140/95 with panic attacks and anxiety heart rate in the 115 and up range at morning and bed it's 90/55 heart rate 50s is this bad?
it all depends on how often these panic attacks occur and wether they are interfering with your life and how you function. there are medications you can take on a regular basis and some to take on an as needed basis. you should also consider counseling to get to the root of what is causing the panic attacks snd how to deal eith them.
is it possible for triazolam to cause heart rate to be 180bpm?
unless you are in withdrawal from it. that would be caused by something else or anxiety that is severe like a panic attack. get evaluated asap.
i have low potassium could that make me have panic attacks or anxiety problems. my doctor did a ekg and chest xray and my heart is good?
it sounds like the lo potassium was an incidental finding. after nl tests it was determined it wasn't having clinical affects. your sxs resemble those of panic disorder (arm pain cp shortness of breath) extreme anxiety and fear of serious medical causes (like your continued concern that maybe k is the cause). meet with your psych md to discuss anxiety and treatments so you can be panic free
i have low potassium could that make me have panic attacks or anxiety problems. my doctor did a ekg and chest xray and my heart is good?
panic attacks and anxiety are unlikely to be caused by low potassium although i wish it were since that would be easily treated with oral potassium! unfortunately the cause of panic/anxiety is usually more complicated than that. sometimes low levels of neurotransmitters are associated with anxiety disorders and/or underlying stress/fears/trauma may be a factor. i would discuss this with your md
i could feel my heart throbbing very fast. after that i felt like my throat "closed up". ?
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. symptoms of severe anxiety: insomnia chest pain nausea palpitations tremors and parasthesia. see your pcp for evaluation.
i have an anxiety disorder. last night i started to feel my pulse in my hands and fingers. they also feel swollen but are not. should i worry?
worry is a painful mental activity that accomplishes little more than misery. it's thoughts running around in your mind. practice dropping thoughts by gently whispering sch. and then focusing on your breath.
i am a severe anxiety i worry about the what ifs all the time. i am healthy. far as i know. but is it true by stressing i can have a heart attack?
i you don't learn ways to manage this anxiety through therapy and/or medication you may feel like you are having one. see your provider for solid reassurance about your cardiac health then ask for a referral to a psychotherapist who can work w/ you on this. it possible to find relief. best wishes!
will anxiety lead to a heart attack?
while anxiety and high levels of stress can increase the risk of heart attack - far more important is family history blood cholesterol/fat smoking high blood pressure and other illnesses like diabetes.
will anxiety lead to a heart attack?
people having anxiety attacks may experience pounding heartbeats chest discomfort and shallow rapid breathing -- to the point they fear they're having a heart attack. when these symptoms are evaluated their hearts are healthy -- but they do need treatment for their anxiety (which helps the physical symptoms too). still overwhelming life stress can be a factor in developing heart disease.
what could be causing my elevated heartbeat?
elevated heart rate may be due to various causes including: fever pain anxiety drugs medications anemia dehydration & infection. there also may be intrinsic disorders of the heart rhythm called arrhythmias. if the condition persists an evaluation would be prudent.
what phenomenon causes a patient to develop hypertensive tachycardia & tachypnea when told he must have surgery?
many people will get anxiety or nervous when they were told the need for surgery. when anxious there will be increase in sympathetic nervous system discharge. which in tu;rn causes release of adrenalin like activities in the body and cause hypertensive tachycardia tachypnea etc.
what causes heart palpitations?
stimulants such as caffiene energy drinks decongestants such as psuedophedrine. thyroid disease anxiety hormone imbalance are just a few causes.
wake up 1-2 times every night about an hour after falling asleep with my heart racing 140 and feeling panicked. ekg-echo-sleepstudy normal. ideas?
well -- only you would know if this still could be panic attacks -- but if you are sure that anxiety or panic attacks are not the chicken then you have an arrhythmia. you need to see a cardiologist and have a further testing done.
what are some things that i can do to overcome extrasystole?
sometimes they are the beginning of atrail fib. in general caffeine alcohol and food allergies can trigger them as can insomnia anxiety and rushing around. atrial wxtrasystoles are not considered as serious as ventricular ones. almost everyone has a rare or occasional extrasystole and it should be ignored.
i have wolff parkinson white syndrome and i'm on propranolol. 20 mg 2 x daily. i was recently perscribed xanax (alprazolam) 1mg er (24hr). do these contradict?
propranolol is a beta-blocker which primarily slows down the heart rate. xanax (alprazolam) is an anti-anxiety medication. both medications do help reduce the stress response in the body (anxious sweating nervousness heart racing).
is a blood pressure of 127/34 as my second reading was 114/70. heart rate is 60 to 70 resting when waking up over 50 under 60?
why are you measuring your bp? did a doctor advised to do so or you are just curious? at age 24 without symptoms (according to your profile) you have better things to do with your time than creating anxiety by measuring bp frequently.
i'm currently feeling dizziness body swaying head moving on its own hands shaking increased heartbeat. what is wrong?
multiple possibilities from anxiety through endocrine disorders and other kinds of problem. you need to see your doctor to be evaluated.
i am 30. should i ignore the chest pain if stress test and 2decho test and ecg r negative and normal? test done in last 5 months. please advise
it is never a good idea to ignore an ongoing problem. you could speak with your doc about what else it could be. chest pains are common signs of anxiety or stress. instead of worrying you feel it in your body. if this is the case talking or stress management would be more helpful than anything. also ask your pcp for alternative explanations for your pain. it may help you to figure it out.
intake 40mg betapace twice daily. all antidepressants cause side effects for me. i have severe anxiety. dr. wants to try lexapro (escitalopram). interactions?
it can prolong the qt interval and lead to a potentially lethal arrhythmia (torsades de pointe ventricular tachycardia) - if there is no alternative at least have your doctor monitor your ekg periodically. if your qtc exceeds 500 ms you must stop one of the drugs.
i'm a 21 yr old female who was perscribed metotoprolol for a high hr due to panic attacks. now my hr can be high 40's low 50's at rest. is this ok?
i might suggest you talk to your doc about lowering the dose of the metoprolol to see if that puts your heart rate in a more normal range (60-100). or even do a trial off the medication and see if just the occasional xanax (alprazolam) can control your anxiety symptoms.
if t4&t3 is slightly above normal levels in pregnancy no history before the patient has attacks of palpitations. . does she needs treatment? thanks.
thryoid tests t4 & t3 (liothyronine) rise in pregnancy(1. 5 times normal) normally while free t4 & t3 (liothyronine) are normal. you need to check your tsh free t4. if free t4 is high & tsh very low--think overactive thyroid gland or hyperthyroidism. if normal look for other causes of palpitations such too much caffeine anxiety other medications
why do people take beta-blocker's?
angina coronary artery disease high blood pressure chf atrial fibrillation and other heart rhythm disorders palpitations public speaking anxiety tremor and migraines all can see some benefit from beta blockers. cad chf af and bp are the most common reasons.
wole up in middle of night struggling to breathe. couldnt catch my breath for a min or so. what could it be? i habe a history of pvcs.
could be obstructive sleep apnea anxiety ( you seem to have a history of pvc's) or heart failure. really need more symptoms to figure this out.
what could cause anxiety and fast heart beat in the days before i start my period?
hormonal changes at the time of menses can effect your heart. prostaglandins also rise and these coumponds can irritate your heart.
why does it feel like my heart is racing but its not? my pulse is within normal range but it feels like a rush of adrenaline in my chest. anxiety?
there are a number of different types of anxiety disorders. a common type of anxiety reaction is a panic attack. these typically occur suddenly and can have a variety of symptoms such as anxiety sweating feeling hot short of breath shaky chest discomfort etc. panic attacks sometimes occur in response to specific triggers but often are completely random events with no identifiable cause.
why does it feel like my heart is racing but its not? my pulse is within normal range but it feels like a rush of adrenaline in my chest. anxiety?
you could have anxiety or you could also have a heart arrhythmia. this can be detected using an ekg. there are a few other conditions that may also cause this feeling. in any case you should see your doctor.
i was on metoprolol for anxiety but stopped because my hr was too low. am i at risk for a heart attack now that i stopped?
the heart rate should be back to its baseline. being of the metoprolol does not put you at an increased risk of heart issues. talk to your doctor to help with your anxiety
i can always feel my heart beating in my stomach and cheat even when it's a low heart rate is it cause i'm focused on it due to anxiety? all i think
these are symptoms of anxiety. at age 24 stresses of relationships separation education work finances and unresolved conflicts contribute to anxiety. anxiety is treatable with very good success. please see a therapist.
is it normal to feel your heart "flutter" when lying down? the heart rate is steady. i am otherwise healthy and not experiencing anxiety.
all adults feel this sometime. it isn't a disease. if it happens frequently enough to disturb you testing can be done to reassure you.
i am on betapace (sotalol) for a - tachycardia. not very good at keeping bp controlled or spike in bp from anxiety. switch b-blocker? i also take cozaar
betapace=sotalol is used for arrythmias insead of bp. i suggest cognitive behavioral therapy along with with mindfulness training for the anxiety. there are beta blockers that are more effective for bp and can help with atrial tachycardia but ultimately you should have this discussion with your cardiologist. cozaar (losartan) max dose is 100mg daily so this could be adjusted if you are on lower dose.
i've had ekg echo monitor etc. docs say nothing wrong. just wired this way. 98 heart rate my pulse seems erractic. sometimes i feel a click? ?
if you have had a full evaluation and normal blood work than your heart rate is probably ok. certainly a heart rate of 98 is above average but this can be a normal variant for some. sometimes things such as dietary supplements anxiety and caffeine can cause an elevated heart rate.
i've suffered with high stress and anxiety for a year. in the morning i experience warm rashes on my abdomen constant rib pain with fast heart rate.
are very treatable by a mental health professional. please do what your doctor says and take any medicine he/she provides but do not limit your help to that. peace and good health.
i have difficulty breathing and i can always feel my heart beat it shakes my chest and i saw a cardiologist but he said im fine i dont feel fine.
let your doctor know you continue to feel poorly. did you have a prolonged recording of your heart rhythm that correlated your symptoms with your rhythm? have you been checked for asthma? impossible to say what's wrong without knowing test results but even if "everything is alright" your doc can help with your symptoms. are you stressed? (anxiety can cause marked breathlessness).
i am taking losartan 50mg bid metoprolol 25 mg daily and norvasc (amlodipine) 5 mg daily. i am prescribed hydroxyzine 10mg prn for anxiety. concern?
hydroxyzine may have some drowsiness effect which you may look out for.
i've been feeling irregular heartbeats and dizziness but i'm not sure if that's due to new medication or my anxiety panic attacks. what should i do?
before assuming the symptoms are that of anxiety/panic disorder other possible medical causes (especially new medications) should be evaluated. please see your primary care provider or present to an urgent care clinic. soon you will be able to use healthtap and see a provider online!
i have daily panic attacks where my heart rate can rise to 140bpm. my md said its anxiety. i feel a need for a ekg. should i worry about this?
medical workup for your symptoms - that is important.
is a blood pressure 141/86 with a pulse of 76 bad? i'm diabetic and feeling palpitations also. how can i differentiate heart vs. anxiety?
pressure reading (systolic) is a little bit elevated. pulse if fine. medical evaluation is used to differentiate anxiety vs medical cause. see you suffer from anxiety disorder and take xanax (alprazolam).
is a blood pressure 141/86 with a pulse of 76 bad? i'm diabetic and feeling palpitations also. how can i differentiate heart vs. anxiety?
diabetics have stricter bp control parameters and your bp would be at goal under 130/80. it can be tough to differentiate between heart and anxiety and we deal with this issue on a daily basis. all i can tell you is see the dr. get evaluated get your bp a little better under control get your heart checked regularly eat well be well stay well. god bless!
is a blood pressure 141/86 with a pulse of 76 bad? i'm diabetic and feeling palpitations also. how can i differentiate heart vs. anxiety?
i am not very worried about your present blood pressure and pulse. the new recommendations for bp parameters for diabetics are 140/80 so you are not that far from that. however i am more concern about having palpitations. you should get checked asap to evaluate for possible heart issues especially being a diabetic. if you have those symptoms and chest pain don't hesitate to go to the ed.
is a blood pressure 141/86 with a pulse of 76 bad? i'm diabetic and feeling palpitations also. how can i differentiate heart vs. anxiety?
hi. unless you have kidney disease or heart failure i wouldn't let my diabetic patients run that bp. was that a bp at rest? when you're exercising it's fine but not at rest. is your kidney function normal? if kidney function ok i'd treat first with an ace inhibitor or an angiotensin ii receptor-type 1 blocker. many diabetics require more than one bp med to achieve control.
is a blood pressure 141/86 with a pulse of 76 bad? i'm diabetic and feeling palpitations also. how can i differentiate heart vs. anxiety?
pulse ok but pressure bit high. see your doc.
i am constantly aware of my heart beat. it's not necessarily fast but i can always feel it in my chest. i have severe anxiety. could this cause it?
normal events can preoccupy us when we have high anxiety. if you have the patience for non-prescription treatment of anxiety you are an excellent candidate for stress reduction techniques most notably meditation and/or yoga.
why do i have extreme dizziness and heart palpitations!?
you are very young but need more histiry like do u have any shortness of breath dizziness is associate with nausea/vomiting head ache any chest apin in addn. to palpitations and dizziness. need to r/o anemia extreme anxiety chornically low bp when heart beats faxt to compensate r/o thyroid problems. also need to r/o cardiac codn. for which you need to be examined by ur dr for ekg echo etc.
what could cause irregular heartbeats and chest pains in a 20 y. o.?
irregular heartbeats can be common. they can be single or persistent and related to anxiety caffeine stress medications etc. sinus arrhythmia (a normal variation in heart rate) is common. chest pain is very common in growing teens/young adults especially if they are active typcially reflecting muscle/bone changes. discuss symptoms with your doctor to decide if any workup is needed.
what the difference between my anxiety symptoms and angina? the left side of my body goes numb after eating. i've been examined in the er and the doctors said i have no signs of heart attack stroke or cancer. i didn't notice i was depressed. could i be
angina means heart pain which is much much more likely to occur in older people and during physical exertion while panic attacks are often random or due to some specific trigger such as supermarket/closed space likely elevator etc. . during a panic attack the symptoms are quite like angina. being 24 and had work-up without cardiac involvement panic is likely. consult doc for treatment. good luck.
what are the symptoms of a heart attack in women?
symptoms include chest pain of different types the pain can radiate to the neck or the back or the arms bad indigestion can also be a sign heart palpitation associated sweating or feeling of doom associated anxiety feeling very weak and short of breath. there are other symptoms. if you are having chest pain and worried call 911 now before it is too late.
why i am belching chest pains after i am walking but normal ecg 2dechoe stress test i feel so nervous is this related to anxiety disorder?
during a panic attacks you are likely to experience symptoms similar to a heart attack--shortness of breath pounding/rapid heart beat sweating dizziness chest pain nausea and some even passes out. this tends to get worse because every time it happens you get scared and worry about when the next one will come. it is very treatable--many effective options. please consult doc. good luck.
what is the drug of joice for sinus tackycardia and hypertention?
if there were no contraindications and the pain and anxiety were well treated i would probably use labetelol but there are a lot if choices. we tailor our decisions to the individual case.
what is a heart attack like if woman?
may be the same as everything described for mostly male populations or slightly different with less pain and more anxiety or trying to minimize the pain because the woman needs to care for children family etc. on the other end of the spectrum doctors sometimes disregard women's heart attack symptoms and attribute them to hysteria. take yourself seriously!
whenever i feel short of breath i panic. i have been tested for asthma and have had lots of ekgs. but am almost constantly sob. what could it be?
there are many conditions that are associated with a sensation of shortness of breath. it is best to continue to work through your physician to clarify other etiologies besides anxiety. for a list you can go here: <link>
i felt breathless and sinus. tachy ecg abnormal septal motion on echo scoliosis on x-ray im scared to have brain mri in case of another abnorm. causes?
it's well-known that abnormal test results often lead to anxiety. that is one hazard of excessive testing. it's expensive & often turns up unimportant abnormalities that lead to worry. no one has a perfect body. sinus tachycardia just means body is stressed physiologically or psychologically. breathlessness can be psychologic too. talk to dr about how much testing is truly needed vs relaxation.
i have ocd and heart palpitations often. i plan for a baby but am worried although i've had heart monitors and ecg all normal. i'm still scared. help.
a therapist. learn some relaxation techniques hypnosis can be used to help you prepare for natural childbirth as well. take care of yourself since you will soon be responsible for an infant. learning ways to calm yourself and your anxiety will help you be better able to calm your baby. feel free to ask additional questions.
ive had ekg and echo done both normal! i have anxiety but not on meds! i'm 12 wks preg! chest pains on both sides n shoulder blades! heart problems?
27 years old normal ekg and echo unlikely to be heart related.
i mentioned earlier about chest pains and got answer as anxiety! i also har pains n left arm and down left side of neck! ekg and e go normal. ideas?
real sensations of pain are caused by effects of stress hormones and chronic inflammation from an anxiety disorder. that's a reason to deal w/ it asap. over time actual tissue/organ damage occurs. don't feel dismissed when a provider says it's not your heart - it's anxiety. this is good! so far your heart has not been damaged. do deal w/ anxiety. a cbt therapist can teach skills and add rx prn.
i was dealing with anxiety and my bp raised also my heart rate. i was prescribed metoprolol but my bp is back to normal. less anxie should i stop meds?
discussing this with your prescribing doctor. the medicines helped you they are keeping your symptoms in check. so whether you can manage your symptoms now without the meds is a topic of discussion for you and your doctor.
is it possible to have anxiety/panic attacks without an increased heart rate? so the heart rate remains the same as when resting during the attacks?
panic disorder is an illness that causes the sufferer to have unprovoked panic attacks and to fear further panic attacks. most panic attacks are accompanied by increased heart rate. it is always possible that your heart rate doesn't go up during a panic attack but this would be slightly less common. talk to your doc about proper treatment!
i had a hyst and was tachycardic last nite at 130. still hospitalizes. had another episode today my hr was 145. how's this fixed. ddon't feel anxious but dr said it is. bp upas well o2 normal?
many things can cause your heart rate to be elevated. common causes are pain and anxiety. it is impossible to give an opinion of the cause over the internet. ask your doctor in the hospital.
i had a hyst and was tachycardic last nite at 130. still hospitalizes. had another episode today my hr was 145. how's this fixed. ddon't feel anxious but dr said it is. bp upas well o2 normal?
it helps to know what your ecg shows and what kind of tachycardia you have. but if i want to guess you most likely have sinus tachycardia causes of sinus tachycardia are fever anemia anxiety caffein some drugs electrolyte imbalance thyroid problem recreational drugs smoking alcohol and etc. to treat sinus tachycardia you should treat the underline cause.
i take propranolol for anxiety. when resting my heart rate can get into the 50's. is this ok?
as long as it's not bothering you.
i am experiencing impotence since being diag with angina and arrythmia no problems b4 tking asprin simvastatin nicorandil bisoprolol fumatate help.
erectile dysfunction (ed) that occurs with a more sudden onset is often due to new medications. bisoprolol is just one of many that can cause this. depending on the arrhthymia your have there may be alternative meds that have less effect on you in this area. also consider any new stress/anxiety perhaps related to your new diagnoses that can also induce ed.
what are the signs when you get a heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what can cause heart palpitations?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
is this anxiety or something else? i've been laying in bed unable to sleep cause i can feel my heart beating fast in chest. i also awaken with fast hr
diagnosis of exclusion meaning that medical causes for rapid hr first need to be ruled out. if an underlying cause is identified it must be treated. if after evaluation for underlying medical problem is negative then ur doctor may find that ur rapid hr is a symptom of your anxiety disorder & may recommend adjustments to your treatment. contact ur doc to discuss ur new symptom & feel btr soon!
is this anxiety or something else? i've been laying in bed unable to sleep cause i can feel my heart beating fast in chest. i also awaken with fast hr
it could be cardiac. any history of heart problems? probably not though. still you have to make sure it is not a problem like that before assuming it is emotional in origin. however that is a symptom of anxiety or panic. it looks like you already take medications so it sounds like you've been diagnosed with anxiety or depression. meds can also cause a racing heart.
is this anxiety or something else? i've been laying in bed unable to sleep cause i can feel my heart beating fast in chest. i also awaken with fast hr
you need to go see a doctor immediately. a proper history including the duration quality intensity etc of your symptoms as well as a physical exam needs to be done and/ or lab investigations. palpitations for example could indicate something ranging from an arrhythmia( problems with the heartbeat rhythm ) to a panic attack to a variety of other conditions.
if my chestpain/palps/leftarmpain and jaw pain are caused by stress & anxiety like the cardiologists say. why do i get it when i'm relaxed?
if it is really anxiety then it could be outside of your full awareness. doctor sometimes call this a "somatic" symptom psychogenic or stress-related etc. there is some neuroscience e. g. with fibromyalgia and other pain syndromes which shows changes the brain. it may also be related to a physical activity like jaw clenching. talk with the cardiologist more.
i have heart rate hi in bed time and sintoms of heart?
the normal heart rate at rest is 60-100 bpm. it goes faster with exertion anxiety stress and medications or foods like caffeine. speak with your doctor about the frequency of your atenolol. it may begin wearing off after 12-15 hours of taking it. if so it can increase your heart rate at night. see a heart doctor (cardiologist) for evaluation.
is a sudden raise of the heart beat for like 66 bpm to 95 bpm during 10 seconds at rest and for no reason considered an arrithmia and dangerous?
an abrupt change in rate below 100 beats/minute may indicate nothing at all but it can indicate presence of anxiety or something that triggers an adrenaline rush (position change breathing caffeine supplement medication). see if it is related to one of these things or change in position. if it continues without explanation please see your doctor for further evaluation.
i take setraline 50mg for anxiety and metoprolol 25mg for blood pressure. is it safe to take valerium root 500mg at night? male 38 non-drinker
valerian root will not interact with those two medications.
i take setraline 50mg for anxiety and metoprolol 25mg for blood pressure. is it safe to take valerium root 500mg at night? male 38 non-drinker
taking an herbal medication without knowing the purity and all the possible side effects can make you worse. sertraline should work well but if not consult with your physician to either change the dose or change the medication.
i have heart palpitations and memory problems is there any one disease or deficiency that's limked to these?
heart palpitations and memory problems are symptoms that could be related to anxiety panic or other problems. if these symptoms persist or cause a great deal of distress please see our doctor.
i honestly cannot distinguish the difference between anxiety attack heart attack and my allergic reaction. help please?
first off if you think you area having a heart attack or allergic reaction then go to the hospital! after you are medically stable then you can work on identification of possible triggers of your anxiety attacks and how to manage them.
i get anxiety attacks and heart palputations and my chest hurts after i drink caffiene. <negative_smiley> is it safe for me to take the advocare 10 day cleanse?
why do you think you won't get anxiety attacks when you start 'cleansing'? these things basically are diarrhea inducing agents so when you start this you may trigger off anxiety or palpitations or both. it likely won't be dangerous but you are likely to react with anxiety. another point is there is no solid evidence that these 'cleanses' do anything really positive for you health wise.
i feel like my heart is racing but my heart rate and bp are normal. results from heart monitor and echo were fine. could this be vagus nerve related?
if you feel like your heart is racing and all of those tests are normal then it is safe to say it is not your heart or the vagus nerve. you and your doctor should pursue other diagnoses including anxiety.
i am having headaches and heart palpatations what this caused from?
most likely you have anxiety or stress-related palpitations. we would need more details of what exactly you feel to give you better definition of condition and how it should be treated.
i had an 24 hr ecg and at a time i was walking at a normal pace my heart rate was 180bpm and i was feeling breathless it was in sinus rhythm causes?
many reason for rapid heart rate: i. e. atrial fibrilation flutter psvt sinus tachycardia. if it is sinus tachycardia asyou mentioned the causes are as below: hyperthyroidism fever volume depletion anxiety pheochromocytoma sepsis anemia hypotension and shock pulmonary embolism heart failure low oxygen copd nicotine or caffeine etc.
ive had palpitations before. lately they've becom more frequent. maybe 2 times a week. feels like im out of breath when it happens. is that normal?
palpitations can make you feel short of breath for sure. sometimes because blood flow is interrupted and sometimes because it just feels scary and induces anxiety. however since you've had it for two weeks you should see your doctor and describe it. you need at least an ekg (heart tracing) and possibly some other tests; like a chest xray and/or echocardiogram and labs.
ive had palpitations before. lately they've becom more frequent. maybe 2 times a week. feels like im out of breath when it happens. is that normal?
palpitations can be a rapid heart rate of no consequence or a potentially serious rhythm disturbance. it can be due to anxiety extra heart beasts or even potentially serious heart rhythm disturbances. a heart monitor can help sort this out. palpitations due to an arrhythmia can cause shortness of breath but breathing issues may be due to a related heart problem or anxiety. get checked out.
i have insomnia can you have heart attack or stroke from insomnia in young age?
heart attack and stroke are very rare in someone so young and there is no direct relationship between heart attack & stroke and insomnia. however chronic insomnia can have many unpleasant effects. speak with your health care providers about your insomnia. perhaps improved sleep habits and better control of your anxiety will help you get a better night's sleep.
i have insomnia can you have heart attack or stroke from insomnia in young age?
insomnia often results from anxiety. it is highly unlikely that you will have a heart attack or stroke. however it is important for you to have good sleep. avoid caffeine avoid chocolate relax at night and talk to your doctor about these symptoms.
i have anxiety & during times of extra stress i can feel palpitations where my heart feels like it flutters. is this dangerous? can it cause damage?
make sure you dont have medical condition such as mitral valve prolapse (mvp) or hyperthyroidism. an electrocardiogram and blood test will able to identify these issues. consider talking to your pcp. wish you a good luck
i'm 16 years old. i just took my heart rate and it was 113 at rest. is that bad?
heart rate varies with many things including anxiety. if you are not experienced you may get a false reading. be sure you are counting actual heart beats. be sure to count while watching a clock for a full minute. if your pulse is always over 90 see a dr. if you feel ill or heart is pounding see a dr today.
i'm 16 years old. i just took my heart rate and it was 113 at rest. is that bad?
not necessarily bad but not normal. if you are not having symptoms of shortness of breath swelling pain then it is not worrisome. likely it is due to caffeinated beverages or energy drinks. it also could be due to anxiety. if you are having any symptoms or it is like this with none of the things i mentioned then get evaluated.
what causes tingly feelings in the inside of the arms and knees following palpatations feels like im outside of my body?
anxiety comes to mind with these symptoms -- they could come from physiological changes that happen with sympathetic simulation leading to hyperventilation palpitations etc. feelings of dissociation are common along with dizziness. see your family doctor for a workup first -- thorough exam plus ekg and other diagnostic tests. there are good treatments for anxiety; psychiatrists can help you.
what is heart attack arm pain like and where exactly does it hurt?
usual sub-sternal crushing severe durable sustained anxiety producing with clammy skin pallor and radiation to left upper arm with a squeeze. much variability!
i get heart flutters when lying down then burping right after? why? normal ekg/echo/holter/stress. occasional pvc's/pac's with anxiety.
make sure you have a better control of your stress and anxiety even if you have to take medicine for it make sure you do not have any digestive problems that could imitate heart problem since you were cleared by cardiologist from any heart problem you might need to see a specialist on cardiac electrical system to make sure these arrhythmia are not from faulty heart wiring good luck
ive already been 2 the hospital for chest pain twice. both times normal ekg chest xray. what could be causing my chest pain. it comes and goes. im 17?
there are many reasons for this and the best thing is to get a full workup by your doctor. causes when ekg and cxr normal: drug use anxiety recent lung infection like pneumonia or bronchitis smoking (anything) reflux disease coronary vasospasm subtle cardiac rhythm abnormality not caught on ekg and others.
i am extremely tired. my resting hr is 108 and will not go below 90. it has been four hours after i was active and i am still tired. causes?
something is keeping you in a hyperactive or agitated state and it needs to be addressed via labwork ekg and physical examination. possibilities include anemia dehydration hyperthyroidism hypoglycemia (after exercise) anxiety and/or malnourishment. please get medical attention to address this as soon as you can. take care.
i am 28 f rapid heart rate sharp chest pain (shoulders and neck pain also) and hard to swallow. i am concerned. ?
right now we have insufficient data. we need to know other information such as your temperature your blood pressure your weight nature of your pain and how your breathing. the information presented could be almost anything from anxiety to a pulmonary embolus.
i have anxiety and ocd with heart health. i am always checking my pulse and bp. i tend to have bp 100/60 or lower. is this good stress management?
sounds like you are needlessly obsessing on numbers. are you taking an ssri? perhaps the dose can be increased. consider the book: "stop obsessing" by foa. get in counseling. reduce stress with exercise and lifestyle changes. do breathing exercises. try yoga. but don't keep taking your blood pressure - theres little utility in that. make a f/u appt with your doctor and share this info. be well.
if you have anxiety and depression but not at the moment could that still cause heart flutters? ive had many many heart tests and it's "healthy"?
cannot answer on your particular case and. . the heart flutter and the anxiety and hyperventilation and other issues can occur somewhat independently in many. also mitral valve prolapse causes both. the connection is unclear.
if you have anxiety and depression but not at the moment could that still cause heart flutters? ive had many many heart tests and it's "healthy"?
heart flutter can mean something like a cardiac arrhythmia or irregularity or nothing like feeling your own normal beats. regardless the fact that your doctors have not found anything wrong with your heart is comforting enough.
is it normal to feel like you cant breathe and your heart rate slows down by the minute? can you die? i have small chest presures. i have anxiety.
mention are not normal. please see you doc to rule out any medical conditions and then get help from a mental health professional for your anxiety. please do not rely on medication alone. good psychotherapy and learning stress management can help greatly. peace and good health.
is it safe to take 50 mg of metoprolol daily for my anxiety and rapid heart beat if i have a normal blood pressure?
that said did you discuss the pros and cons of this medication with your doctor? if you are sexually active or if you are into sports you may suffer decreased sexual function and decreased exercise tolerance. if you only have an anxiety disorder and aren't using illegal drugs or too much caffeine there are other anxiolytic medications that might be more suitable for a 21 year old. talk w/ ur md
is it safe to take 50 mg of metoprolol daily for my anxiety and rapid heart beat if i have a normal blood pressure?
propranolol may be even better. is this a trial or you just wonder about increasing the dose. if prescribed otherwise please let your prescriber know.
in the morning when i stand up my heart rate is higher than usual 100+bpm then levels out. this also happens if i been laying down for awhile. normal?
hi lisa. is normal that your hr. will be around 80. at rest. look your diet caffeine anxiety. if everything is normal made thyroid lab with your physician. but no worry a lot of. have a great day.
i have a tightness in my chest and neck and i feel like i'm going to have a heart attack. but the tests came back fine 3 weeks ago. what could be wron?
although you have had one normal work up there still does not mean you do not have a heart problem. other possibilities include lung problems like asthma infection or blood clot. you are young coronary disease less likely but other reasons for chest pain from your heart. anxiety and panic attacks can cause chest pain too.
i have anxiety but for the past 2 months i have had shaky weak arms and legs. i have had ekg cbc cmp ct scan thyroid checked nuero exam all normal?
have had physical exams and nothing shows up . next look at what creates anxiety. sounds like you might have chronic anxiety which would explain your symptoms continuing beyond a day or two. try going to the gym (if you are in good health) doing something aerobic and powering up on protein. sleeping ok? read about anxiety: <link>
i take paxil (paroxetine) and ativan for anxiety. lately my legs are weak with alot of tiny bruises in inner thighs. cbc cmp ct scan thyroid ekg all normal?
it is not feasible to comment on the bruises without examining those. however you weakness is likely a part of your depression/anxiety. it will sound counter-intuitive but exercising will relieve both depression and weakness. start with walking and increase the distance and rigor as tolerated.
i've recently been having palpitations when im stressed. what can i do 2 help stop them. never had it before.
palpitations can have many causes. many times they are caused by conditions that are not dangerous such as stress anxiety or caffeine use. however there are some dangerous causes of palpitations such as an abnormal hearth rhythm. new palpitations require an evaluation in the office with a physician.
i hardly ever feel my heart beat but atm i'm laying down and it's beating faster then usual i feel anxious scared lost. my stomach feels ill as wel?
you are having classic anxiety symptoms. they are real and not to be dismissed casually. take some deep breaths for now try and go to sleep your heart is fine. see your doctor soon for some help with your symptoms.
i have panic/anxiety when im panicking insted of fast heart rate my pulse feels really faint and i feel drained why is this?
faint or weak pulses along with other other clinical symptoms may be indicative of significant medical condition other than anxiety or panic attack. conditions such as cardiac tamponade paroxysmal atrial tachycardia reentry multifocal atrial tachycardia which can manifest as palpitation fainting and fatigued. consult your physician for further evaluation to prevent future complication.
i have been treating my anxiety and ocd. this morning i checked my pulse it was 66 then 105 out of no where. should i let this discourage me? thanks!
treating anxiety & ocd heart rate was 65-105. causes:mitral valve prolapse anxiety neurosis ocd cad hypertension cardiomyopathy. pulse variation should not discourage you. treatment of anxiety ocd with drugs like xanax (alprazolam)ativan.
i have been treating my anxiety and ocd. this morning i checked my pulse it was 66 then 105 out of no where. should i let this discourage me? thanks!
don't be discouraged but do think about finding expert help - a therapist can be something like a coach for guiding your efforts in the most efficient and effective way. so since ocd is one of the most challenging things to treat don't feel bad that you need help. don't let pulse rate trick you into feeling bad. staying 105 over time would be a problem but a jump is just that. find ocd help!
i had a normal stress echo. having palpitations and premature beats. what causes this?
anxiety caffeine low potassium low magnesium too much synthroid (thyroxine).
i have no health issues other than anxiety. adrenaline is unbearable all day. should i usebetablocker? would it help? best betablocker for adrenaline? help
if you suffer from frequent bouts of anxiety you may benefit from other treatments. beta blockers are more commonly used for the treatment of high blood pressure. they must be monitored as they can lower your blood pressure and your heart rate. anxiety like depression is regulated by chemicals in your brain (neurotransmitters) besides some symptoms may be due to other medical problems
i have no health issues other than anxiety. adrenaline is unbearable all day. should i usebetablocker? would it help? best betablocker for adrenaline? help
no you need to address the roots of your anxiety. a beta blocker will not help and will give you side effects. i encourage you to seek therapy for anxiety. that is the root of your high heart rate.
is bradycardia ever a symptom of anxiety? i have been very inactive for the last few weeks due to depression.
bradycardia is not usually associated with anxiety or depression. the zoloft (sertraline) can exacerbate your anxiety. the bradycardia would be very rare. even though you have been less active the pulse rate should not be that slow. you did not mention the heart rate. if you having a slow pulse see your doctor.
i'm at the er now and the ecg and ekg and xray came back fine. so why does my chest and left arm hurt?
panic attack or anxiety can some times provoke chest pain similar to a heart attack. given your age. it is low likelihood that you are suffering from premature cad unless you have multiple risks (smoking cocaine obesity etc. )
i get pvcs now and again all heart tests normal. was meeting girlfriends parents today and was nervous i got 2 pvcs is this due to nerves?
yes stress and anxiety is capable of precipitating pvc's. on the other hand pvc's also occur in healthy individuals without any sign of cardiac or other disease and probably most cases of pvc's occur without any cause ever being discovered.
is it possible to have anxiety/panic attacks without heart rate increasing?
some panic attacks occur with no changes in heart rate or rhythm at all.
what will bring my heart rate down? resting rate about 100. blood pressure is good. possible thyroid issue. waiting for results. can't sleep.
wait for the test result. anxiety doesn't help your heart rate either. high thyroid is easily treatable.
what med is best for anxiety and insomnia. not depressed. heart rate always high. remeron (mirtazapine) makes me fat. ?
yes it can make u fat but this depend on how much u eat what u eat and how much u exersize. in addition weight gain is very common for psychiatric medication.
what med is best for anxiety and insomnia. not depressed. heart rate always high. remeron (mirtazapine) makes me fat. ?
you should have a general medical exam if you haven't already as certain medical conditions can cause the symptoms you describe. the doctor can also advise you about meds. ssri antidepressants (prozac zoloft celexa lexapro (escitalopram) paxil) are often used for anxiety even without depression and there are many kinds of meds for insomnia. both problems can be treated without meds too.
what causes sudden body chilling and shivering followed by heart palpitations.?
could be an adrenaline rush from anxiety. or could be a thyroid imbalance or hormone related. sometimes the medications for palpitations can do it.
i have been having periods of anxiety where my chest hurts and heart beats fast. what can i do to stop this?
first be evaluated by your primary care physician. there are causes of chest pain tachycardia and anxiety that are not panic attacks for example pheochromocytoma hyperthyroidism cardiac arrhythmia. after other diagnoses ruled out ssri-type medications like lexapro (escitalopram) and zoloft are very effective for panic disorder. sometimes mitral valve prolapse may contribute. a beta blocker may also help.
i was healthy prier to two months. all of a sudden it decreased. my blood suger level 112 now blood pressure 110 pulse rate/s 115. want healthy energeti?
these are sign of anxiety hence ur high h rate
i've had chest pain on the left side for awhile now. i've had blood work ekg echocardiogram and everything is normal. heart related? i'm 26.
i would not go on an exhaustive expensive shot gun approach to the many many different causes of chest pain. more history can help differentiate most of them. if it has been "awhile" it is not likely a life threatening issue like pe dissection heart attack etc. doing unnecessary testing gives people more stress and anxiety sometimes not saying ignore but be prudent. given age reassuring.
if pristiq (desvenlafaxine) 50 is causing rapid heart beat and anxiety. how possible would pristiq (desvenlafaxine) 75 help? that. doesnt make sense at all.
perhaps a change in dose was recommended to address other symptoms? you are correct that increasing the dose would probably not reduce your heart beat.
is a cold a sign of an impending heart attack in a 23 yo female. dont smoke or drink and dont do drugs?
heart attacks are very uncommon in people of your age unless there is a personal history of heart disease or cocaine use. cold symptoms are typically much milder than those of a heart attack - they should improve with symptom control. also focus on controlling your anxiety triggers. although rare sertraline can cause problems with the heart rhythm so your should contact your prescribing doctor.
i was prescribed celexa&metoprolol to help my depression&anxiety. i've been trying to stay off crystal meth&what would happen if i mixed these drugs?
its fine to take the two just take them as prescribed. if you haven't already started the citalopram then you could have some side effects the first week or so but they shouldn't be bad maybe a little headache upset stomach or just feeling off for a few days. you need to watch the opiate use are you taking all those at the same time?
i had a stress echo a 3d echo and a cardiac mri/mra at the mayo clinic would this not rule out blockage? i have chest pain but they say from gerd&pots
i'm curious why the folks at mayo would indulge a 26-year-old with all those expensive tests when the chances of "blockage" are so remote. sounds like "blockage" was ruled out and you want to believe it but don't. anxiety is strictly defined as irrational worry. my advice: find something else to worry about or better yet seek treatment to help you overcome your anxiety (or maybe it's ocd? ).
is it normal for a 20 y/o to have an abnormal ekg but be completely fine? strss test and echo all fine. mild pressure in chest area that comes/goes.
there is a wide range of unusual findings on an ekg. most of them do not mean you have a serious problem. if you have a normal echo that is very reassuring. the echo is a much better test to determine whether your heart is functioning well. an ekg just looks at electrical activity. on the echo you also see muscle and valves. do you have anxiety? indigestion? sounds like your heart is fine!
i have anxiety and ocd about my heart rate and blood pressure. can your heart beat go so fast you die? often when i see it higher this the worst fear.
anxiety and stress will elevate the heart rate and blood pressure. have you gotten your heart and blood pressure checked out by your doc? to allay your worries why not get a check up to ensure all is ok. take care variations in heart rate through the day are common even in healthy ppl.
i have anxiety and ocd about my heart rate and blood pressure. can your heart beat go so fast you die? often when i see it higher this the worst fear.
if sufficient tachycardia continues over time it is possible to cause heart failure and eventually die. it would have to be significantly above sinus tachycardia >120 for hours or days. people with paroxysmal atrial tachycardia can have heart rates around 150-250bpm. atrial flutter around 300bpm. of course ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation leads to death quickly within minutes.
i've been having constant chest pains for months on left side of chest. multiple er visits normal ekg's and blood work. what should i do i'm worried?
the fact of your age and recurrent wu negative tales me to dx anxiety /panic attack. the medication for that need to be adjusted. have a good visit with pmd>
i've been having constant chest pains for months on left side of chest. multiple er visits normal ekg's and blood work. what should i do i'm worried?
many variables can give us clues to the cause of chest pain: location intensity characterization associated symptoms. . all questions i'm sure you've been asked. and answered. you have had negative work-up. what are you worried about? that it is your heart? why. do you smoke? at your age i believe you can be reassured that it is not life-threatening and work on your anxiety. breathe deeply<positive_smiley>
i have been getting heart palpitations. 21 active. stress test ekg xray and enzymes were all good! should i be worried?
medications for breathing can do it such as astma medications. also stress and anxiety can do it and try to avoid it if they are applicable to you.
if i get upset or stressed i experience tachycardia profuse sweating and what feels like too much adrenaline. it's like physical anxiety not mental?
tachycardia result of generalized anxiety disorder is not a sign of heart disease. accelerated heartbeat can continue for extended period of time without damage. tachycardia high resting heart rate (commonly 100+ bpm) this can occur when anxiety. anxiety is often accompanied by tachycardia and excessive sweating. anxiety disorders are twice as common in females as males. see dr. for exam and rx.
if i get upset or stressed i experience tachycardia profuse sweating and what feels like too much adrenaline. it's like physical anxiety not mental?
see a dr. behavior therapy will help. beta blocker meds are very effective to reduce symptoms. there are several meds to take the edge off this.
is it normal for my heart rate to go from 50-60 bpm when laying down to 90-110 bpm upon standing? how can you differentiate between pots and anxiety?
see your physician to be evaluated. your orthostatic vital signs will be measured to help determine whether you have reproducible orthostasis. in the meantime stay well hydrated and take your time shifting positions. use relaxation techniques for anxiety. keep a long of the frequency of these events and take them when you see your physician. <link>
i'm 21 years old non smoker and history of panic attacks. chest has been hurting for a week now could this be a heart attack?
could be peicarditis or chest wall pain unless you have strong family history of heart attacks. your chest wall muscles can go into spasms with stress or anxiety and makes you feel chest pain. other causes of chest wall pain are costochondritis and intercostal neuritis. see your doctor for may be couple tests and pain medication.
i'm 21 years old non smoker and history of panic attacks. chest has been hurting for a week now could this be a heart attack?
symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include chest pains parasthesia dry mouth aphasia tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can recommend appropriate treatment.
what is a good beta blocker to take for anxiety to stop heart palpitations?
there are many older cheaper effective beta blockers that will work for both problems: atenolol metoprolol propranolol. the newer brand-name meds like bystolic (nebivolol) are "selective" regarding beta-1 and beta-2 receptors and so may not be as effective as the older tried and true meds.
what is a good beta blocker to take for anxiety to stop heart palpitations?
please see my responses to your other questions. the problem is not the palpitations but what is causing them. any beta blocker will do atenolol metoprolol etc. but pindolol will not do as much for sinus tachycardia.
why does i'm experience palpitaion? sometimes it leads to difficulty of breathing. can you please help me?
could be anything from anxiety to an abnormal heart rhythm. i would go see your primary care doctor for additional evaluation such as an ekg to better evaluate the problem.
why does i'm experience palpitaion? sometimes it leads to difficulty of breathing. can you please help me?
heart palpitations can be a minimal issue more noticed by those under high stress; the ensuing anxiety then cascades into shortness of breath. there are also conditions where the heart beats irregularly for a long period of time do to a faulty electrical system in the heart. you need a 24 hour holter monitor. your physician may recommend a cardiac echo. go in to see your doc.
what's causes palpitations?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what's causes palpitations?
palpitations a unpleasant sensationof irregular and/or forceful beating of the heart. it can be due to several reason caffeine tobacco alcohol use illicit drugs like coccaine amphetamines pcp and marijuana stress and anxiety some prescription meds overactive thyroid gland anemia changes in hormone level in women before or after menopause gall stones gerd cardiac arrythmias other heart diseases.
what are heart attack symptoms in women?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
why does innapropriate sinus tachycardia occur? i'm ill with mine on bisoprolol 10mg highest dose just want a cure so i can be normal and go to work!
inapproriate sinus tachycardia typically signals in imbalance in the sympathetic nervous signals --the "fight or flight" reflex. it is a sinus rate that is excessive without provocation. it is important to make sure that reversible causes of sympathetic nerve stimulation are ruled out--such as dehydration anmia excessive thyroid hormone anxiety. beta blockers first. clonidine might help too.
i am taking cipro (ciprofloxacin) and flagyl for colitis. i have anxiety and take cymbalta and ativan prn. could either antibiotics cause strong fast heartrate?
cymbalta (duloxetine) and ativan pm ordinarily ease anxiety you need to ask your prescribing doctor about this
i am taking cipro (ciprofloxacin) and flagyl for colitis. i have anxiety and take cymbalta and ativan prn. could either antibiotics cause strong fast heartrate?
yes. cipro (ciprofloxacin) and flagyl both cause tachycardia in some patients so does cymbalta. ativan is associated with both fast heart rate and a slowed heart rate. talk with you gastroenterologist.
i am 21 non smoker and i've had chest pain for 2 weeks now. history of anxiety. if this was heart attack symptoms would i have known by now?
that said any pain in the chest or abdomin lasting greater than one hr. and recurring needs medical workup. write it off to psychological only after the physiologic is excluded
i am 21 non smoker and i've had chest pain for 2 weeks now. history of anxiety. if this was heart attack symptoms would i have known by now?
this is the sort of thinking you need to do to help diffuse health anxiety. nice start! also - you have none of the risk factors and do have the hx. you'd be a pretty good dective! that's what helps. if you want to get even more skills - start a few sessions w/ a cbt therapist. you'd probably be an a+ learner.
i'm a otherwise healthy 21 year old and i've had chest pain for 2 weeks now. i've never smoked. if this was a heart attack would i have known by now?
chest pain is really an umbrella term and all of us are scarred. chest pain can be due to many reasons. in young patients less likely heart attack. to diagnose heart attack you need at least ecg then blood work and echo. please talk with your dic and get base line ecg. do you have anxiety disorder? panic attack? reflex disease? muscular pain or mvp can cause chest pain too. hope this help. thanks.
im 24 im worried abt my heart always check my pulse anxiety of 2yrs now on smoke withdrawal gas stomach cramps head hurts muscle tremble allover huh?
william osler father of moderne medicine said if you want to be healthy get yourself a chronic illness and take care of it! ---your fear of heart disease may push you into a healthy lifestyle!
i get heart palpitations occasionally and last night i experienced chest pressure. could this be from my anxiety?
yes. anxiety could cause palpitations sweating shaking and chest tightness as well as some other physical symptoms.
i take metoprolol 25 mg for anxiety. dr. says propranolol may be more affective. what is the difference?
the effectiveness of a beta blocking drug for helping anxiety is related to its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier which in turn is related to it's lipophilic vs hydrophilic properties. both drugs cross but propranolol does it better so may be more effective in some people.
i experienced a lot of palpitations and was diagnosed after echo &ecg without the monitor that it's anxiety now i hv a vibration form! shall i go dr?
generally something like this is nothing to worry about if your pulse is regular ( or maybe misses a beat every once in a while) and if this vibration is not associated with your breathing - i assume that it is not as you would likely have mentioned it. sometimes nerves can get a bit irritated and cause this sensation.
i have a pulse rate that varies between 108 and 120 while resting in bed. is this normal? help?
normal pr is 60 - 100. but if ur pr is high lying in bed it must have a reason e. g. : anxiety dehydration anemia or less likely chf. so check with a cardiologist.
if all my heart tests are normal(ekgs echo stress and blood work) and i had them done a year ago. should i still worry about my heart? high anxiety? !
worry. heart disease does not come back that fast after normal tests done a year ago for a person at age 30. heart disease in general a disease of elderly.
i've checked with my gp er and ekg holter monitor blood pressure bloods were normal. i get very anxious/stressed. left shoulder pain/palpatations?
you've had many reassuring tests ruling out a heart condition. it's time to see a mental health professional to help deal with your anxiety. talk therapy can be very helpful.
i have many palpitations in a row then nothing for sometimes hours. if it's anxiety shouldn't it only cause the odd palpitation here and there?
sounds like you may have paroxysmal atrial tachycardia but a rhythm recording over 24 or 48 hour (up to 30 days if needed) is the way to find out.
is it in anyway possible to have a heart rate of 47 bpm and an anxiety attack at the same time? i was out of breath and i called gp and she waveditoff
i've always said that people who are anxious are allowed to have medical things happen to them as well. get the low heart rate checked out especially if it varies over time.
i am constantly stressed manually breathing holding my breath to feel my pulse it's a psychological thing what can i do about it?
natural stress reducer. i would recommend a yoga class several times a week. yoga has been proven to reduce stress pain anxiety. see a psychiatrist to work on understanding where and why this stress is coming from and how to better deal with it. good luck.
i have normally low hr at rest (55 to 65) im not athletic. since yesterday my hr at rest is 105 to 120. what should that mean? 4days before ekg ok. txs
something's up. if your hr remains >100 an ekg should be done to confirm normal mechanism. if nl then a search for non-cardiac causes is indicated: fever pain anxiety infection hemorrhage stress dehydration etc. if your hr has returned to normal i wouldn't pursue it.
i have anxiety/panic attacks and get a lot of physiological symptom(fast heart throat tightness chest pain)recently i have a sinking feel in heart.
obtain an ambulatory 24 hour ekg monitor and be sure your symptoms are not due to a cardiac arrhythmia or inappropriate sinus tachycardia most of which are treatable. obtain a thyroid test as well. if your symptoms are due to anxiety listen to them and use biofeedback to begin to control your heart rate and contraction force.
what can i do about severe heart palpitation?
need to diffrentiate underlying etiology. need to diagnose whether it is from anxiety disorder or cardiac arrythmias. you will get benefit from ekg holter monitor and/or event monitor. you should see a pcp and eventually a cardiologist.
what antidepressant is safe in an 85 year old patient with a history of paroxysmal afib currently taking 0. 5mg ativan (lorazepam) qhs?
depends on the other symptoms. if sleeping issues loss of appetite mirtazapine is a good start. i would stop the ativan (lorazepam) altogether. if person has anxiety i would assess an underlying cognitive impairment and probably has dementia.
what can cause feelings of passing out? haven't felt right in 5 months now. had different tests all negative. including ekg's
this can be metabolic neurological medication related cardiad absence seizures blood pressure related not eating enough . . too much to list. perhaps a more comprehensive multi-disciplinary evaluation may be helpful - try mass general lahey clinic or a university based medical center if doctors are stuck - a psychiatric or psychological consult can also help if its anxiety.
what should be the resting heart rate for a 31 yr old?
normal resting heart rates are designated as being 60-100. deviations from this can occur under various physiologic states however and might not indicate any cardiac abnormality (example increased vagal tone as seen in episodes of nausea might slow hr below 60). anxiety dehydration anemia fever and pain might make a resting heart rate >100. thyroid issues (hypo w slow hr hyper w fast hr).
why would my pulse be 127. per dr records it has been running like 110 the last ten months. my blood pressure is fine. i do believe i have bad anxiety?
pulse rate above 100 is tachycardia. you should consult your doctor and test your thyroid. t3 (liothyronine) t4 and tsh rwst should be done. if thyroid is normal a short course of minor tranquilzer ( valium 10 mg. one tablet at night for 2 months) will help.
why would my pulse be 127. per dr records it has been running like 110 the last ten months. my blood pressure is fine. i do believe i have bad anxiety?
your pulse can respond to exercise anxiety medications dehydration thyroid problems heart arrhythmias and many other things. you could also be anxious in the doctor's office where you got the 110 pulse rate multiple times. if it's now sustained at 127 at home and you have not been using medications or exercising please contact your physician for a fuller evaluation.
will i still be able to travel since i've been diagnosed with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia?
there would typically be no travel restrictions. of course the anxiety associated with the prospect of having an episode while on the road is one of the many factors that make patients more interested in ablation for their svt.
what could cause a peripheral bounding pulse?
a bounding pulse is a strong and forceful heart rate. a bounding pulse can occur in a few conditions such as hypertension anemia anxiety abnormal heart rhythm heavy exercise fever aortic regurgitation overactive thyroid pregnancy heart failure and chronic kidney disease.
what could cause a peripheral bounding pulse?
bounding pulse is normal under certain condition including heavy exercise and high anxiety. it can also be associated with many pathological conditions including: hardening of the arteries chronic kidney failure anemia and high blood pressure.
was hospitalized for irregular heart beat. after i was given atavan and feel asleep my heart went back to normal. could it of been caused by anxiety?
anxiety can surely cause feelings of palpitations and may even provoke premature beats. it does not typically cause true arrhythmias. it depends somewhat on what you meant by "irregular heart beat. " your doctor can probably give you a more accurate diagnosis after looking at the recorded heart rhythm.
was hospitalized for irregular heart beat. after i was given atavan and feel asleep my heart went back to normal. could it of been caused by anxiety?
yes anxiety or stress could be a factor; if an individual has a number of stressors (health concerns relationship-work-financial) a physical health problem could occur; contact the pcp first describe the situation & ask for a referral to a mental health professional.
what other medicines are there for panic attacks n anxiety i'm using citalopram but causing palpitations and irregular heart beat. thanx!
palpitations are a more common sign of anxiety than they are a side effect of the medicines used to treat anxiety. a heart monitor could be useful to help diagnose the source of your palpitations. thatch go a long way in making you feel better. knowing what is happening can be empowering.
what other medicines are there for panic attacks n anxiety i'm using citalopram but causing palpitations and irregular heart beat. thanx!
its often a trial and error but maybe paxil (paroxetine) ( paroxitine) may be useful. taken every day to prevent the attacks instead of treating them after they occur. chk with your dr.
i was diagnosed with benign pvcs stress echo negative. took my first dose of lexapro (escitalopram) 10 mg today and note a big increase in pvcs today. related?
usually lexapro (escitalopram) is not the first medicine that comes to mind that increases pvcs and it could be very good to control anxiety that worsens pvcs. give it a longer try. having said that we learned long ago that any medication may cause any side effect. discuss it with the doctor that prescribed it.
i have chest tightness at least 2x a week ive had ekgs stress test echo blood tests done everything normal can it be anxiety or gerd?
anxiety related depending on when do you feel the chest tightness? when you get up or all day or at night? also do you have someone to work with you regarding your stress levels and help you overcome this feeling? cognitive behavioral therapy may be helpful. also does omeprazole reduce chest pressure when treating gerd? speak to your pcp about this. that is best.
i have chest tightness at least 2x a week ive had ekgs stress test echo blood tests done everything normal can it be anxiety or gerd?
you already take a drug for gerd - does your provider have other recommendations for it? also it was good to have those tests but you need to respect the results. really. a health psychologist can teach you how to understand and handle your body's reactions - using them as guides not being punished by them. it can take time to find a therapist fit but try. cbt really help w/ anxiety too.
is it ok to have a resting heart rate of 70-80 bpm? when i go out of bed heart rate is sometimes 100. blood pressure is normal no smoking normal weight.
normal heart rate is 60-100. well trained athletes often have lower resting heart rates. the heart rate goes up with activity fear anxiety exercise pain and talking.
i have pots. todaywhen i got up heart rate was fast and didn't slow down all the way when i laid down. then had to go potty. normal 20min later. worry?
the tachycardia on standing is obviously expected given your diagnosis. i dont know how long it normally takes for your hear rate to normalize after standing but if this was longer than usual it may be due to anxiety as well. bowel movement stimulates the vagal response which normally lowers heart rate. if the prolonged tachycardia upon standing continues or worsens see your cardiologist.
i check my heart ecg echo holter and stress test all say that my heart is fine but i still have a chest pain and left arm pain. what should i do?
risk of non congenital non viral cardiomyopathies is low. hence negative predictive value of negative echo holter and stress test will be near 100%. simply put cardiac disease is unlikely. may f/u with detailed description of the pain(type duration and aggravating and relieving factors) weightlifting or any strenous sports? then also anxiety!
is buspar (buspirone) and propranolol safe together? pro is great for my bp and panic and buspar (buspirone) works for my anxiety. is the combo safe?
hi brad very good question. it is always a good idea to check med interactions before starting a new med. these two medications are safe to take together and do not have any documented interactions.
is buspar (buspirone) and propranolol safe together? pro is great for my bp and panic and buspar (buspirone) works for my anxiety. is the combo safe?
the biggest risk is buspar (buspirone) and sertraline for serotonin syndrome. the others all have at least a warning to watch for effects of dizziness drowsiness lowering blood pressure too much - fainting etc. don't mix too many medications - it's hard to tell what's happening and can really mess you up. consider a therapist to talk about your needs with and to do it scientifically so you'll know results.
im 23 i have gad depression and anxiety i've had 13 ekgs an echocardiogram chest xray all fine but i still think something is wrong with my heart?
given you age as well as your gad it is unlikely that your chest discomfort is due to your heart. you have also had a pretty extensive work up for such a young person. please seek help with cognitive behavioral therapy as well as maybe medication. wish you the best.
im 23 i have gad depression and anxiety i've had 13 ekgs an echocardiogram chest xray all fine but i still think something is wrong with my heart?
your gut feeling should not be ignored. keep a journal about the symptoms that you feel indicate a heart problem. perhaps it is a sense you get when waking up at night related to a sleep disorder or autonomic instability for example. ou may notice a pattern that will help your doctor to determine the need for further testing or to be able to effectively reassure you
i am suffering increased heart rate heat flushes sweating and speaking problem each time i speak in public. i feel so embarrassed?
or stage fright. it is a very common problem that is very treatable. make an appt with your local doctor. they can give you medications like lose dose beta blockers propranolol or an anti anxiety medication. often behavior therapy can be very helpful and you may not need meds.
iam 41 female taking bp med press good take thyro med also good dr said heart is fine i smoke noother risk factors but have heart attack anxiety. ?
i think that we have addressed your concerns previously. it is great that your blood pressure and thyroid condition are well controlled but the #1 thing you must do to decrease your risk for heart disease is to stop smoking. if you are obese have a family history of heart disease high cholesterol or have diabetes your risk increases further. there are many smoking cessation programs available.
iam 41 female taking bp med press good take thyro med also good dr said heart is fine i smoke noother risk factors but have heart attack anxiety. ?
if you are this worried then the single best method to lower your risk of heart disease is to quit smoking. time and time again tobacco use is associated with a myriad of health problems including heart disease cancer stroke etc.
i have panic dis/sometimes when im sitting i get sinking feeling in chest like my heart stopped. have had ekg and is normal. is this anxiety related?
though panic disorder can cause chest symptoms any new occurrences should be evaluated an extended ecg monitor such as 24-48 hr holter ecg or a 30 day event monitoring device should help clarify matters. if not recently performed a few basic lab values should be checked. anxiety as a cause is a diagnosis of exclusion so see a physician
i get early beats when i have caffeine or when i don't get enough sleep. i run a lot and don't feel them then. but they are often. is this dangerous?
isolated early beats or pvcs can occur under a number of circumstances; caffeine low blood potassium anxiety stress etc. . if the symptoms occur more frequently or if you have dizziness weakness shortness of breath you should be evaluated immediate. avoid caffeine if you are having early beats. caffeine is often added to sodas and energy drink and some medication so read labels carefully.
why do i have stomach ache and heart palpitations with tylenol (acetaminophen) with codeine 3?
tylenol (acetaminophen) with codiene can have side effects. codiene is usually the culpret the codiene can cause nausea and constipation. theres no stimulant in the rxso the palps may be anxiety over the other side effects. stop taking it. try alternative pain med. theres plenty of others out there.
what is cold hands and fast pulse from? had for months. not anemic. do have anxiety tho!
could be anxiety or other metabolic processes such as thyroid disease liver electrolyte imbalance etc. best to have those checked first by your pcp.
what can be the cause of middle chest pain and difficulty of breathing with upper backpain? my ecg result is normal im 25 female hav highblood pressure
it could be a lot of things either benign or life-threatening. so you will need to get evaluated. it could for example range from anxiety attacks to heart burn to blood clots in the lung to vascular problems like aneurysms of the aorta or aortic dissection. so as you can see there are various serious issues that could cause similar symptoms even with normal ecg. get yourself checked out.
what causes palpitations at night? only when i lie down
palpitation usually means rapid regular or irregular heartbeat. you maybe just having awareness of your heartbeat in the quiet atmosphere night lying down. another possibility is that you may be suffering from anxiety or irregular heart rhythm if that is the case you should consult a physician. if you're having a rapid heartbeat you should cut back on caffeine and smoking if you do
why am i so sensitive to my heart skipping beats even after cardiologist states my heart looks good with ekg and echo? could anxiety be the culprit?
normal ekg and echo are not enough to dismiss your symptoms. you need to explore further. a session of multifunction cardiogram may help! <link>
why am i so sensitive to my heart skipping beats even after cardiologist states my heart looks good with ekg and echo? could anxiety be the culprit?
when the heart skips a beat or gets an extra beat it is similar to sparkplug backfiring in a car. you perceive this abnormal beat as a flip flop or an abnormal pulse going up your neck. quite harmless. too much caffine can increase thissymptoms. sometimes taking otc potassium and magnisium may help but first clear this with your doctor.
why am i so sensitive to my heart skipping beats even after cardiologist states my heart looks good with ekg and echo? could anxiety be the culprit?
increases adrenaline release but a holter or event monitor may be useful for further characterization.
why am i so sensitive to my heart skipping beats even after cardiologist states my heart looks good with ekg and echo? could anxiety be the culprit?
some forms of anxiety involve people being hypersensitive to normal bodily or physiological changes. the anxiety about the symptom causes more anxiety which pushes heart rate muscle tension etc. it is good to start with ruling out medical cause - then psychological treatments for anxiety are very effective see anxiety disorder basics: <link>
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic and nervousness?
this can be either due to heart or non-heart reasons. of heart causes would consider a tachyarrhythmia (e. g. svt atrial fibrillation atrial flutter) - would need an event monitor to check this. also consider some other causes (not a comprehensive list due to space limitations for answers but more commonly tested): hyperthyroidism anemia illness pheochromocytoma or panic/anxiety attack .
i had an appendectomy almost 3 weeks ago and now i'm having diarrhea. i have also been having trouble with a racing heart beat.
diarrhea after any abdominal operation can result from many reasons medication side effects residual infection in abdominal cavity (abscess leak etc) secondary infections like cdiff and more. racing heart beat can result from pain anxiety infection ( leak abscess etc) dehydration electrolyte abnormalities etc amongst others. combination of two is worrisome. talk to your surgeon asap.
i'm 17 & have chest pains shortness of breath rapid heart beat from simple tasks extreme dizziness and fatigue. ekg was normal. is this normal?
of course not. how could all these symptoms in a 17 year old be "normal"? you need a complete physical exam including serology and hormone levels as well as pregnancy test and mental health eval for anxiety and depression. if you take drugs (mj) or smoke drink alcohol or are obese or inactive you will be negatively effected and may develop symptoms as you've described.
i have autonomic dysfunction and i been under a lot of stress with work can stress cause your heart rate to go 110 per min my dr to busy call back?
anxiety and stress can cause pulse to rise to 110 bpm. if the fast heart beat persists when you are more relaxed then you should check with your physician. if you need help relaxing the 4-7-8 breathing exercise can give quick relief even when at work see video here:<link>
i've been having palpations in my chest for over a week. my dr says it anxiety i don't think it is i have no stress?
ask a doctor to put a monitor on you for a day or so. they'll be able to tell you whether it is something that needs treatment.
i took a half of a 10 mg norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) now im having increased anxiety and im supper tired fat heart rate is thst normal?
a half tablet of norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) should not in of of itself cause an anxiety state or increase your heart rate. the hydrocodone could conceiveably cause some fatigue or down feeling however. i would think that your anxiety and some stress cause your described symptoms. discuss this with your psychiatrist who could best evaluate and advise you.
i took a half of a 10 mg norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) now im having increased anxiety and im supper tired fat heart rate is thst normal?
if you have been taking pain medication routinely and have tried to cut down you may be going through withdrawal symptoms. if you are able to get in touch with your prescribing doctor let her know. if you have not taken your clonazapam today now would be a good time. try to avoid going through this in the future with pain medications and alert your doctor to try prescribing physical therapy.
i took a half of a 10 mg norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) now im having increased anxiety and im supper tired fat heart rate is thst normal?
if anything norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) would calm you down 1/2 norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) is a very small dose. however if this is the first time you have taken norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) it could be an adverse reaction.
i took a half of a 10 mg norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) now im having increased anxiety and im supper tired fat heart rate is thst normal?
hi norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) shouldn't cause anxiety attack or increase in heart rate but that could make you feel tired why did you take norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen)? it seems you have an anxiety attack and you just need to focus on your breathing and breathe as deep as you can and release slowly put on a relaxing music if not better go to ed.
i took a half of a 10 mg norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) now im having increased anxiety and im supper tired fat heart rate is thst normal?
norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) contains a combination of acetaminophen and hydrocodone and is often prescribed to treat moderate to severe pain. questions about side effects or medication reaction should be directed to your prescribing doctor or pharmacist. this is the safest way to be sure that the medication you are taking is appropriate for you and the fastest way to alleviate any anxiety.
i have a burning sensation in the middle of my chest. when i get that my heart beats faster. what could it be?
hi does this pain become worse with activity? do you have any anxiety? do you have any acid reflux? please see your md for further evaluation.
i am always having the intense fear and anxiety about carcinophobia. can this anxiety lead to a sudden cardiac arrest?
it is very unlikely that only anxiety would lead to a heart attack. anxiety can increase blood pressure heart rate and breathing but in over 15 years of practice i have never met or heard of someone who died from a panic attack. if anxiety is interfering in daily functioning consider professional help. one strategy: identify what you can control and focus on an action plan & practice relaxing.
i am always having the intense fear and anxiety about carcinophobia. can this anxiety lead to a sudden cardiac arrest?
extreme degree of stress can cause arrhythmias chf and cardiac arrest.
is there any disease that can cause very slow heart rate in the evening hours that doesn't respond to anxiety? but during the day it does. it looks like my whole body goes on lock down in the evening hours.
normally this is a good physiologic response so you can rest -- unless you were high?
i am 23 and been having chest pain for a while now i was told it is inflammation. yet my heart rate increases from 75bpm to 135bpm? is that normal?
yes that is an entirely normal range of heart rate. stop checking it as it serves no purpose to do so other than seemingly cause anxiety.
i was diagnosed with pvcs i usually get 1 a day and gives me sob but heart is normal other than heart murmur could i get abnormal heart rhythm?
pvc's can happen in people with normal healthy hearts. not often a concern. avoid stress/anxiety alcohol caffeine and chocolate and often they get better on their own. you should also have your thyroid tested by blood work. an over active thyroid can cause this too.
i'm constantly shaking my legs. i keep getting chest pain on my left side and shortness of breath. my heart rate and blood pressure are normal. i've been to the emergency twice now and both times they have said it's anxiety. my question is how do i contro
find good psychiatrist. you may need behavior therapy. try to avoid which causes you anxiety. deep inhalation and talk with family member or friend in anxiety.
i stopped taking 60 mg which i had been on for a month (fluxoteine) because i began experiencing serotonin syndrome such as unusual sweating diarrhea muscle cramping irregular heartbeat increased anxiety. a professional on healthtap suggested i lower
prozac (fluoxetine) is one of the ssri meds that you can stop w/o worrying about withdrawal b/c the levels gradually decrease over 2 weeks. if it was helpful for reducing anxiety and depression then you can start it at a lower dose such as 10 or 20 mg a day to avoid experiencing side effects of serotonin syndrome again. please consult with your prescribing provider about restarting treatment.
i stopped taking 60 mg which i had been on for a month (fluxoteine) because i began experiencing serotonin syndrome such as unusual sweating diarrhea muscle cramping irregular heartbeat increased anxiety. a professional on healthtap suggested i lower
lowering the dose of the ssri can reduce or prevent the side effects that are being experienced. take care.
i get flutters in my throat when i'm excited or nervous hr fast no other symptoms. disappears when i'm calm again. ecg & echo normal. anxiety?
it's a great point in time to do some postpartum depression pervention. i'd advise you to find a good cbt therapist w/ that experience who you can grow to trust. you'd learn skills to deal w/ anxiety and to nip any problems after the birth. it's not uncommon to have such a reaction to the changes and you'll be one step ahead of it. you'll be able to avoid possible baby harm from medications too.
i don't have a medical condition i have been experiencing my heart rate standing out of bed or when anxious to be 100-145. why? doc isn't cocerned.
what you are describing sounds like palpitations. that is great you have already been assessed by your own physician. sometimes anxiety or a panic attack can cause your heart to speed up - in those cases it is best to treat the underlying anxiety. other times a fast heart rate can be indicative of an arrhythmia. your primary doctor should perform an ekg and simple blood tests for a workup.
what could be causing dry mouth dizziness rapid heartbeat gas bowel movements off and on. one minute your fine next all these things hit?
anxiety & anticholinergic effects of some meds can cause these sx.
what causes strong bounding palpitations? ekg came back normal. doc ordered chest 1v.
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what causes strong bounding palpitations? ekg came back normal. doc ordered chest 1v.
i like to distinguish between a strong heart beat vs. fast or irregular heart beat. the second often requires monitoring which a doctor can order to see exactly what's going on. if it is a strong heart beat but normal pulse then sometimes it can be from excess adrenaline (catecholamines). this can be from coffee anxiety dehydration. i usually check thyroid function too.
why does certain skipped heart beats (pvc's) take your breath away for a split second sometimes?
anxiety.
what can be the cause of heart palpitations and weird veins spasms?
r the palpitations associated with rapid hear rate or not does it happen during exercise or not do you feel dizzy and clammy and short of breath? the best would be to be examined especially during a similar episode by a an md. it can be from anxiety to what is called svt or supra ventricular tachycardia or sinus tachycardia due to anemia o excessive thyroid function. see an md!
what makes pulmonary embolism cause increased heart rate?
possibilities. pulmonary embolism can be associated with chest pain decreased ability of the lungs to transport oxygen to the blood and can generate a sense of anxiety. all of these can increase the heart rate.
why am i having a twitch above the right ear? i also had a fluttering heart beat the other day but always have good heart rate and blood pressure @ dr
with relatively little information it's only speculation that is possible. the ear twitch and palpitations aren't necessarily related but a viral process might tie them together. anxiety would be another possibility.
why when i drink even a small amount of alcohol at night would i wake up early in the morning with anxiety and a fast heart rate?
early morning free-floating anxiety is an entity from which many people suffer and isn't necessarily related to alcohol use. we're all different & obviously you know your own reaction to alcohol best but i suspect you have ffa and can deal with it in a variety of ways from exercise meditation self-hypnosis praying yoga tai-chi or professional help and psychotherapy +/- drugs.
what could lead to arrhythmia even on healthy beating hearts?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i have high blood pressure and heart palpitations n paradoxical vocal cord disorder. i wk full time. everything plays up. what can i do?
gerd testing: many vcd issues can be related to gerd as well as stress tension anxiety panic or thyroid dysfunction. please get checked for these disorders.
i have high blood pressure and heart palpitations n paradoxical vocal cord disorder. i wk full time. everything plays up. what can i do?
if you take the proper doses of the appropriate antihypertensive medications your blood pressure should be controlled. in addition to taking beta blocker medications which also treat hypertension it's important to abstain from caffeine and alcohol and minimize stress and anxiety in order to control palpitations. your physician who knows your case the best is most qualified to advise and treat you.
is bisoprolol advisable in treatmentof palpitations high puls due to neurosis? other heart conditions excluded. r there better medicine in that case?
will reduce palpitations assuming that you don't have any other underlying heart issues. anti anxiety medication can also be quite beneficial in these cases.
i notice i get palpitations when i feel the pressure from costochondritis. can that cause heart palpitations?
heart palpitation is the symptom of an acute awareness of your heart beating. this can be described as beating hard fast or abnormally. many things can cause this from abnormalities in the conduction system anxiety irritation on/around the heart or problems with delivering oxygen to heart tissue. anytime it is coupled with chest pressure you should have it evaluated by a doctor.
i notice i get palpitations when i feel the pressure from costochondritis. can that cause heart palpitations?
the increased anxiety from experiencing the pain can cause your heart to beat faster or for you to feel the heart beating stronger.
in mornings 9/6 bp and 55 heart rate. bf to go in bed i have 12/8 80. during the day i feel palpitations 120 heart rate sitting. heart problems?
your morning bp is borderline normal but not unusual for a young person and the heart rate is within normal limits. your palpitations with a heart rate of 120 may not be due to primary heart problems but may reflect anxiety and stress. it's important to avoid alcohol and caffeine and if you feel anxious or stressed your physician can refer you for stress management therapy.
im 42 pressure is good 122. 84 but pulse is 114 and im laying down all day just watching tv is my pulse very highi think its not normal?
that is abnormal especially for being at rest. we don't know anything about you not even your age let alone your medical history medications or why you are laying down all day so we can't provide you with a relevant response. you may be dealing with anxiety but your heart rate is abnormally high. you should be seen by your doctor soon.
i wake up with a rapid heart beat sometimes and throw up about 3 times a month after u wake up that way. my feet hurt all the time at work whatisthis?
it would help to know your age however if you do not suffer from anxiety or panic attacks you may need a cardiac workup from your doctor or a cardiologist including ekg tress test and/or holter monitor and echocardiogram. if you are standing most of the time you could be suffering from plantar fasciitis. i think a visit to your doctor for both soon would be helpful.
i have anxiety all the time. my heart beats very fast while at duty time especially seeing my boss. and i have anger too on silly matters
you could benefit from psychotherapy. don't let depression and anxiety stop you from living a full life. speak to a psychologist and start taking control and feeling better.
i started my first dose of 10 mg cipralex a few hours ago for anxiety however i am feeling unpleasant side effect such as upset stomach increased heart rate and i woke up in the middle of my sleep. i am wondering would it be advisable for me to stop my
i'd hold off until you discuss this with the prescribing doctor. you certainly don't want the treatment to be worse than the disease. lexapro (escitalopram) is used for depression ocd and generalized anxiety. some people don't tolerate it well at first.
i started my first dose of 10 mg cipralex a few hours ago for anxiety however i am feeling unpleasant side effect such as upset stomach increased heart rate and i woke up in the middle of my sleep. i am wondering would it be advisable for me to stop my
prescriber and discuss your symptoms and he or she will guide you.
i did echocardio i have mvp & extrasystole. i take magnesium. small effort my heart beating 120 min and 2-3 extrasystole. can i do sport? dangerous?
mvp is generally not dangerous. relatively increased heart rate with very mild exertion can be signs of dehydration anemia (low blood count) or thyroid issues and a high adrenalin state related to stress and anxiety. also could be a sign of being out of shape. would address above issues with your doctor. hydrate start exercise slowly and add stress reduction eg breathing yoga meditation.
i'm 17 and i have panick attacks and anxiety disorder i have been prescribed 20 mg propanolol twice daily is this med safe for me?
discuss it w/ your doctor. if you don't have any condition that they warn against ie - asthma etc. then it is used for your conditions listed. these are not the primary purpose but that's common now. discuss why they chose this over other drugs for you - it's good to be informed about such choices by the doctor. best!
i'm 17 and i have panick attacks and anxiety disorder i have been prescribed 20 mg propanolol twice daily is this med safe for me?
that dose should be fine
i've been waking up with a rapid heart beat recently. i have anxiety so is it related to that or a physical condition?
any anxiety symptoms including rapid heart beat and panic attacks must have a full medical work-up before being labeled "anxiety". special attention should be paid to cardiac pulmonary and thyroid issues but all systems should be examined. excessive caffeine and tobacco are often problems. you are young so anxiety is most likely but a full eval is necessary. best!
i've been waking up with a rapid heart beat recently. i have anxiety so is it related to that or a physical condition?
have to have a medical work up to be positive. sometimes when pts take anxiolytic meds in the pm the drugs are out of their systems in the am and they are anxious when they awaken
i've been waking up with a rapid heart beat recently. i have anxiety so is it related to that or a physical condition?
abnormalities need to be excluded before you can ascribe rapid heart beat to anxiety alone. you will need to have ekg monitoring during these attacks which usually requires 24 hour ambulatory monitoring. certain electrical conduction abnormalities could predispose you to cardiac arrest so you need to see a doctor for accurate diagnosis.
i've been waking up with a rapid heart beat recently. i have anxiety so is it related to that or a physical condition?
that with the available info. medical causes would need to be ruled out before it could be attributed to anxiety.
i've been having chest pain. my heart beats really fast before i sleep. i usually feel needles in my head. and tingling in my face.
hi you possibly have an anxiety attack try to relax do some meditation prior to go to bed listen to a calming music during the attack try to focus on ur breathing also plz see a provider for further evaluation.
what is a good way to determine if i'm having heart palpitations?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
why would i take citalopram when i have read the side effects fast hr palpitations etc that would make my anxiety worse? useless medicines?
ssris are very good therapy for anxiety. the side effects are fairly rare but are noted so that if you notice worsening symptoms you should let your doctor know. don't freak yourself out before starting therapy.
why would i take citalopram when i have read the side effects fast hr palpitations etc that would make my anxiety worse? useless medicines?
if you are treated for depression or anxiety. express your concerns with the prescribing physician. before start!
what are the symptoms of atrial flutter?
sometimes it can be asymptotic or regular palpitations until the heart rate is controlled. people with heart disease or poor exercise tolerance may develop symptoms such as dyspnea chest pains dizziness nausea or anxiety. prolonged fast flutter can lead to tacchycardia induced congestive heart failure!
when i have angina pain in ribs rt arm tingling pain and short of breath when exercising. should i go to the er? hbp minimal atelectasis tachy
the er. although you're still young to have serious heart condition still go to the er for worsening chest pain and sob. i presume u had previous ekg's ct/mri/xrays of chest based on the history you've given. ask the er dr and your physician for the cause of your symptoms. if heart condition is ruled out possibly you may have anxiety/panic attack thyroid condition white coat syndrome arrythmia etc.
what are the symptoms of svt?
supraventricular tachycardia is a rapid heart rate (tachycardia or a heart rate above 100 beats per minute) that is caused by electrical impulses that originate above the heart's ventricles. symptoms can come on suddenly and may go away by themselves; they can last a few minutes or as long as 1-2 days. symptoms include- palpitation dizziness shortness of breath anxiety chest pain or fainting.
what could cause a feeling that the heart has stopped briefly then a rush feeling through body. it doesn't feel the same as a pvc. had normal echo.
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
iv had ecg holter monitor i suffer aniexty and panic attacks chances of sudden cardiac arrest due to palpatations?
its always easy to blame signs and symptoms on anxiety. if a holter is the only work up thus far an echo to assess your heart function and structure labs and a 30 day event recorder to assess intermittent symptoms would be appropriate. electrolytes calcium magnesium thyroid function hormone levels etc as indicated. stop all caffeine or natural supplements. if all neg then anxiolytics and psych rx
iv had ecg holter monitor i suffer aniexty and panic attacks chances of sudden cardiac arrest due to palpatations?
very little chance of sudden cardiac death. get help for your anxiety and panic disorder
i am having pvc's(pre ventricular contractions). my cardio doc says it's no biggie. i'm worried to death. what should i do? all tests ekg echo are ok
isolated pvcs with benign characteristics require no treatment. in healthy individuals pvcs can often be resolved by restoring the balance of magnesium calcium and potassium within the body. the most effective treatment is the elimination of triggers (particularly the cessation of the use of substances such as caffeine and certain drugs. ) anxiety can also play a role so stress less. good luck
i was prescribed propranolol 10mg twice daily for anxiety. i don't get panic attacks or other anxiety symptoms daily can i take it only when needed?
typically the beta blocker helps prevent full blown panic/anxiety symptoms. if you wait till the symptoms are fully developed the drug takes time to begin to work and then build up. generally it is more useful taken daily.
is it rare for a 23yo female to have a heart attack?
unless you have congenital heart disease a heart attack would be extremely rare. if you are a young lady with anxiety you may have "panic attacks" which produce rapid heart rate chest pain and/or trouble breathing - all of which imitate heart trouble but are not and can be scary nonetheless. if you are worried about your heart you can always see the doc who rx sertraline to check it out.
im from the uk age 16 im currently taking 1/2 beta blocker 3 times a day to stop me from taking a panic attack etc w could i overdose on this much and what times. should. i take these at?
beta blockers may be considered an off label "anxiolytic" (anti-anxiety drug) but the reality is that doctors appear to have no idea how it works. that should be a fairly clear warning sign as to why beta blockers should not be your first choice when it comes to your anxiety treatment. scientists have no idea why beta blockers appear to reduce anxiety. pl consult your gp re optimal dosing.
im from the uk age 16 im currently taking 1/2 beta blocker 3 times a day to stop me from taking a panic attack etc w could i overdose on this much and what times. should. i take these at?
beta blockers are many but propranolol is the most commonly used in anxiety it suppresses some of the physical symptoms of anxiety and in people where the cardiac component is a trigger for their panic b blockers are very helpful. however they don't affect the cognitive component of anxiety. to judge whether you may overdose on the dosage we have to know what strength and which beta blocker?
i have a heart rate of 146 and a blood pressure of 131 87. i am a bit light headed and weak with some chest pains. i would like to know what's wrong?
multiple causes- very important to find out the cause. heart rate of 146 is high. could try reversible causes like total avoidance of caffeine anxiety relieving yoga & meditation etc commonest cause is supra ventricular tachycardia- mostly benign & can be relieved by simple measures of bearing down ( like pushing pregnant woman) applying pressure over one carotid artery for a few seconds.
i'm 25 and fit. for a month i have tingling sensation in my head and left chest trouble sleeping heart palpitations throat heavy what's wrong?
you should try to examine your own life to see if there have been any recent changes in diet stress level supplements medications. next please see your doctor for a thorough exam and blood tests. my greatest suspicion is thyroid dysfunction but other concerns such as anemia or liver disease or exposure to some toxins might be considered. if it all checks out okay consider anxiety.
it's said that anxiety can develop heart diseases. in both the anxiety and exercise heart beats go up but why can anxiety cause disease?
with chronic anger/hostility along with life changes both bad (& less so) good ones. anxiety/fear associations have not held up. primary documented physiologic drivers are lipoproteins (not cholesterol) blood sugar >low normal chronic resting systolic bps >120 smoking & other less freq issues. ds progresses over decades &? ed pulse pressure (exercise & anger)? es incidence of plaque ruptures.
it's said that anxiety can develop heart diseases. in both the anxiety and exercise heart beats go up but why can anxiety cause disease?
the interaction between stress anxiety and heart disease has never been entirely certain. i'm sure on some level anxiety and stress can cause deviations in healthy lifestyles and perhaps in this way heart disease can be fueled or triggered.
i have a dull ache in the center of my back that hasn't gone away for over an hour along with anxiety and diarrhea. could it be a heart attack?
though arterial ds typically begins in childhood it is in the wall of arteries not opening arteries enlarge <link> gl/arhou2 & plaque ruptures >clots in the openings rarely occur until decades later. the rate of progression is typically slower in women pre-menopausal. optimize nmr lipoproteins hba1c sbp don't smoke & lifetime arterial ds problems are largely eliminated. study my answers.
is feeling a pvc(premature ventricular contraction) any more dangerous than not feeling them? mine are benign but they are killing my anxiety
one the great mysteries in my practice is why some patients feel pvcs and why some do not. there is no correlation between severity frequency or risk. the main issue regarding pvcs is excluding structural heart disease and ischemic heart disease. ischemic heart disease (heart vessel blockages) is quite unlikely in your age group. an exercise stress echocardiogram will clarify all those issues
is feeling a pvc(premature ventricular contraction) any more dangerous than not feeling them? mine are benign but they are killing my anxiety
whether a person feels a pvc or not is not necessarily related to how benign or dangerous a pvc might be. if you are very anxious about your pvcs this is not good for your overall well being. there are medications that help control the pvcs (make them less likely to occur). perhaps you should discuss this with a physician and perhaps try taking a medication to see if that helps.
i have palpitations every night after dinner. no manner what i eat i also feel my heart beat like in my esophagus or in my stomach. what can it be?
hi how old are you? what other medical illnesses do u have? what medications are you taking? do you have anxiety disorder? how much caffeinated drinks are you drinking a day? have you seen a doctor for evaluation and obtaining an ecg?
i started taking a multi vitamin and i feel like this has helped reduce my pvcs drastically. is this possible?
sometimes different vitamins and even small alterations in electrolytes may be responsible for abnormal heart beats and as well anxiety can cause them so by taking the vitamin you may feel less stressed and also be replacing possible deficiencies in your body. i am glad you feel better be sure to tell your doctor all the meds you take even the over the counter one.
i get like 3 or 4 sev not pvcs a day like i thought according to the monitor. problem is i feel them. i hate it! what can i do? it scares me.
treating palpitations that are absolutely benign with medicines is much worse than leaving them alone. if you feel them and get anxious about it treat the anxiety. also to try to diminish the frequency avoid all stimulants like caffeine chocolate (sorry) decongestants with the letter "d" (pseudoeffedrine) alcohol and stress. doing exercise and getting in shape may also help. good luck!
why did my dr give me lexapro/escitalopram for my tachycardia?
lexapro (escitalopram) is used to treat anxiety and depression. if your doctor thinks your tachycardia may be because of anxiety they might treat you with lexapro (escitalopram). it is important to have a frank conversation with your dr. and ask for the symptoms or anxiety. anxiety and hyperventilation syndrome are very common and are just as real as a sore throat. if you are under new stress etc. this can be a result.
why has my doctor not checked for coronary artery anomolies excercise chest pain. had echo ecg stress ecg 24h ecg bloods. 21 male.
at 21 y/o with the above negative studies i can say with certainty that you do not have coronary artery disease. i will look for chest wall pain/costochondritis asthma induce exercise acid reflux that can mimic pressure chest pain like from the heart anxiety disorders. trust your doctor stay in shape do not smoke or drink eat healthy.
i'm a 20 year old female. i was examined by my cardiologist a few months ago and all was good. but sometimes my heart beats really lound but not fast?
anxiety caffine stress nictine otc cough cold medication can cause it.
i tried to quit marijuana before and had anxiety panic attacks insomnia heart palpitions for a month them i started again what can i take to help?
where you doing any other drugs at the same time? not typical for pt to have those symptoms aftrer stopping marijuana. i would contact substance abuse program and see what resources they may have. it may be worth considering some sorl of therapy
i am having a lot of tachycardia with severe gastritis and head pain. can't sleep?
gastritis can be caused by the meds used to treat tachycardia are you on any? also can be caused by obesity alcohol and the bacteria h. pylori. the tachycardia could also be anxiety from feeling ill. both of them can cause difficult sleeping. simple acid reflux and gastritis responds well to otc acid blockers (nexium prevacid (lansoprazole) etc) if no better need to see an specialist to look for the cause.
i have severe migrains chronic insomnia & chronic anxiety an leg pain bp normal pulse runs from 118-120 resting associated? & cant find meds that work
i would strongly suggest (if not already done) to have your doctor relook at you. the resting hr is a clue that your sympathetic nervous system is in overdrive possibly. could explain rest too. as far as meds should be tried on beta blocker which likely you have. thyroid (tsh)must be checked. this is a start. good luck to you hope this helps.
i have severe migrains chronic insomnia & chronic anxiety an leg pain bp normal pulse runs from 118-120 resting associated? & cant find meds that work
lots of problems with complex mechanisms. i would see your family doctor to begin a methodical work up and trials of medications.
is palpitations and oedema and anxiety a symptom of thyroid problems?
yes all of the above are possible but there could be any number of problems found by your doctor. please make an appointment with your primary doctor. if that does not work out well enough for you - unlikely - ask your friends who they might recommend as another doctor they like. if you can let me know what develops.
is it safe to switch from sodas and energy drinks to coffee?
what would be safest is to limit your caffeine to 1-2 servings per day (about 100 mg of caffeine). above that whether from coffee colas/sodas or energy drinks caffeine can increase anxiety insomnia elevate pulse and blood pressure and complicate high blood pressure etc. if you don't guess right on the equivalency you may get headaches with the switch.
i was put on atenolol(25mg daily) to control my anxiety related heart rate. i developed benign pvcs. is it possible the drug can cause this?
are you asking if atenolol can cause pvcs? it thats your question then the answer is no. atenolol is a beta blocker that is it blocks adrenalines irritating effect on the heart. thus it is actually used to treat symptomatic pvcs. caffeine insomnia stress can all precipitate pvcs.
is there anything over-the-counter that can be taken to prevent anxiety and very fast heart rate during a speech?
propanolol is used for performance anxiety. ask your doctor.
i felt little dizzied like passing out during my stress echo test. however all my results came normal and o2 saturation were 98-99. is that normal?
many people are a little anxious doing a stress echo test. between the anxiety and the exercise some people actually hyperventilate a little during the test and this can result in the sensation of lightheadedness.
i have electric shocks going thru my chest & neck every hour heart palpitations fatigue cold sweats & unexplained crying outbursts lately?
more history is need for better evaluation but sounds like an anxiety related attacks. due to their severity and frequency i would recommend that you consult your primary physician at the earliest for a thorough assessment some needed tests (mainly to rule out remotely possible medical conditions) and medication help as deemed appropriate to relieve symptoms and make you functional.
i was diagnosed w anxiety and prescribed zoloft (sertraline) but still having resting hr of approx 90 and pacs and pvcs on holter with no other issues. ?
sorry but there isn't enough information about you to advise you other than to consult your doctor who prescribed your zoloft (sertraline). you may be ok or you may need adjustment of your treatment these judgments can't be made properly without lots more information and seeing the patient.
i'm having a problem it the bedroom. my fiancé does everything to get my going but i feel i am not focusing and my heart beats fast.
usually these problems are psychological. anxiety is often the culprit. approaching something as important as marriage can certainly cause anxiety. often people aren't even aware of anxiety. talking out what's going through your mind might help by identifying what might be troubling you. your fiancee best friend pastor or a counselor might be able to help you talk.
i suffer from severe anxiety and panic attacks. my biggest triggers are heart palpitations. i have had a stress test ekg and two echocardiograms?
the trigger would be the initial circumstance that you react to - like public contact being alone taking school test or medical exam etc. etc. your heart is a symptom site. consider a cbt therapist to learn skills to manage and avoid anxiety. as a young man you'll get a lifetime of benefit!
i suffer from severe anxiety and panic attacks. my biggest triggers are heart palpitations. i have had a stress test ekg and two echocardiograms?
anxiety disorders are very common and often associated with "palpitations". the palpitations are not life threatening and should be ignored as best as possible. don't create a vicious cycle by becoming more stressed/anxious by the "extra beats".
i suffer from severe anxiety and panic attacks. my biggest triggers are heart palpitations. i have had a stress test ekg and two echocardiograms?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
i have severe anxiety. if my ekg stress test and 2 echocardiograms came back normal is there a chance at all that my palpitations could be serious?
the starting point is a 24 hour holter monitor and some blood work (thyroid profile electrolytes). often times palpitations are benign and may be seen in the setting of caffeine or other stimulant use or withdrawal from short acting benzodiazepines. i hope this is helpful information.
is it normal to feel your heartbeat in your chest all the time? it doesn't hurt but it's always there and distracting.
heart beat in the chest is a good thing. most people are not distracted by it. awareness of heartbeat is generally more an anxiety issue than physiologic. might want to have someone listen to it to make sure there is not something else going on. you should worry when it stops.
what would be a typical medication for high normal heart rate without any other complications (already do exercise/watch diet)?
"high normal" is still considered "normal". therefore medical therapy is not generally recommended. sometimes a more rapid heart rate is related to other possible causes e. g. anxiety or hormonal. discuss further with your physician.
why would it be that my pulse is so high constantly?
high pulse typically occurs in response to physiologic stressors. some of these can be apparent (pain anemia dehydration excessive thyroid anxiety) and some can be inapparent (excessive sympathetic tone arrhythmia inappropriate sinus tachycardia). an ecg or an event monitor might help along w a doc to review all the data.
while in a hospital for something i began to have chest pain. my heart rate was 130 ecg which showed sinus tachycardia. over next 3 days troponin levels went from <0. 01 0. 02 <0. 04. did i have a mi?
not by enzymatic criteria. sinus tachycardia is indicative that you were distressed - either by pain anxiety or both. it is the reaction not the cause of your pain. your doctors possibly with additional testing can decide if you have acute coronary syndrome or non-cardiac chest pain.
how do you prevent palpitations?
palpitations are not organic and are related to things such as anxiety & panic attacks then i would first recommend conservative measures such as yoga meditation regular exercise and therapy. if the underlying anxiety and panic attacks are not controlled the next step i would consider is medication management to stop this cycle.
i take 12. 5mg of atenolol for anxiety. if i take naproxen 375mg for back pain will it raise my heart rate and bp?
naproxen is an nsaid which exerts is benefits by reducing the amount of inflammatory mediators in your body. taking this medication over long periods of time can cause a gradual increase in blood pressure. it should not interfere with atenolol.
is it normal to have a resting heart beat of 99-121 with normal bp an don't have heart murmur or anything an if it is norm why is my doc worried abot?
a number of metabolic conditions most notable an overactive thyroid can cause an elevated pulse. anxiety can also cause this. your primary care should rule out other causes before investigating the heart itself as the cause. thanks for trusting healthtap!
is it normal to feel your heartbeat even when it's at 68 bpm and i've had all tests holter monitor stress test and echo and bloods and all was normal i also get sob so what could it be? .
not so common yet does not mean a problem. people commonly ignore their heart beat consciously. yet given intensity of the muscle contraction including resting rates & heart outputs becoming aware not that difficult with practice & focus. study: <link> for some basics of heart function. better able to monitor than oblivious. sob c/w anxiety ? asthma etc. stress tests=zero value
i can feel my heart bulging when i put my finger on ribs while lying on left side. ive been stressed lately. what is this? so afraid
this is the normal pulsation of your heart. be sure to follow up regarding your prior kidney pronlems. anxiety may also cause you to more easily sense your heartbeat. relaxation techniques may help!
is carvedilol a generic of xanax (alprazolam)?
this medication is for heart and blood pressure problems. an off label use may be for anxiety.
i have tachycardia before and during menstruation. all the tests i have made were normal. what can i do to stop tachycardia?
pain and anxiety of menstruation can cause mild tachycardia especially with heavy blood loss. need to know extent of heart rates
i have ridges or bumpy fingernails on my right hand. i've been diagnosed with hypothyroidism interstitial cystitis fibro tachycardia anxiety. i have bumps that stay on my arms (rash) and thighs. they will also pop up behind my ears and down my nec
with your history of multible medical conditions and you have to on few medications and the rash you described it is very difficult to say what is causing the bumps on your arms and thighs i will suggest you consult a dematologist to find what these bumps are due to
i have ridges or bumpy fingernails on my right hand. i've been diagnosed with hypothyroidism interstitial cystitis fibro tachycardia anxiety. i have bumps that stay on my arms (rash) and thighs. they will also pop up behind my ears and down my nec
pilaris
i'm having way too many heart palpitations (heart thumps really hard every 2 minutes) i'm only 22 years old. never had a history of heart problems.
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i was in the er a few days ago with bad chest pain and they did a full work up with labs ekg and x-ray and all was normal. still having pain. advice?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
why do i get palpitations when i wake up even when there's no alarm ringing? what can i do to just wake up calmly?
if you first wake up and have palpitations that is different from being awakened by palpitations. first check your heart rate. if it below 100 that is reassuring. if there are no other times that you get the palpitations have no exercise intolerance or chest pain with exercise then anxiety is a likely cause. caffeine illicit drugs and prescribed meds may contribute.
would it be unusual or concerning for heart palpitations to run together for a few seconds?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what could cause hypotension randomly and chest pains with irregular heart beat daily. doc says i should be fine but i don't feel fine?
holter or event monitoring may be indicated. . anxiety should not cause hypotension.
what does it mean when ativan (lorazepam) stops pvc's and restores heart rhythm when consumed? stress echo & 24hr holter okay 1 yr ago new exercise intolerance.
pvc's are common and exacerbated by adrenaline. anxiety is a hyperadrenergic state. calming anxiety reduces adrenaline levels and thus may results in less palpitations and pvc's.
what does it mean when ativan (lorazepam) stops pvc's and restores heart rhythm when consumed? stress echo & 24hr holter okay 1 yr ago new exercise intolerance.
generally ativan (lorazepam) would work best on anxiety related cardiac arrhythmias. there is a very mild direct antiarrhythmic effect but we don't use the drug this way. with your study history you should be ok but no guarantees can be given from out here.
what to do if i get heart palpitations when i'm stressed. please please help!?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
what could be causing my symptoms? frequent chest pain pounding heart constant palpitations. especially after i eat my heart pounds and palpitates.
there are many reasons why you could be having these symptoms for sure you need to be evaluated cardiac arrhythmia thyroid problems diabetes anxiety heart valve problems among others could the cause. do not ignore your symptoms get help.
when i wake up from a short nap (2-5 min. ) it feels like my heart is pounding. but my heart rate is norm. feels like a spasming muscle though. why?
vague here:? anxiety. see you internist & www. thepmc. org.
when i put my hand on my chest i noticed my heart beats harder than usual. it's been like this for about 3 days. past ekg was normal. what to do?
the most common cause of rapid heart besting in your case could be anxiety attacks drug induced like caffeine beverages or medications malnutrition arrhythmias of the heart due to conduction heart problems. my advise is to see your physician for further history and physical exam.
how do you treat rapid heartbeat from cocaine or ecstasy?
although the effect of cocaine and ecstasy are different on the body when used the mainstay is sedatives and medications to slow the heart rate generally we avoid beta blockers as they can cause vasoconstriction so we may use a medication like diltiazem for rate control and sedatives for the anxiety caused by both of these treatment is based on symptoms.
heart valve mv repair cath test on friday / no blockages in arteries no stents used! heart beat was atrial fibrillation. on friday after. / need to get pradaxa. ! have not sense was discharged on saturday. am i in any danger! blood clots / platelets
it is normal to have feelings of anxiety prior to having a major surgey like mv repair. a minimally invasive heart surgery has not been created. a mitral valve repair requires the surgeon to work within the chambers of the heart so opening the chest cavity is essential to access these valves. during the surgery the heart must be stopped and blood is bypassed to an external medical device so that blood can be delivered to the body. pradaxa is a medication that is used to control the presence of and formation of blood clots. being on a blood thinner is essential as you are in atrial fibrillation which can precipitate blood clots. talk to your doctor about your concerns. you will learn that the pros of undergoing this surgery will out weigh the cons and improve the quality of your life. your concerns are normal and anxiety is to be expected. talk to your doctor and feel free to check on his background perhaps using avvo. com.
i'm 19 and i have been breathless for the past yr & its gotten worse. the end of each breath is shallow and hurts at rest & exercise. ecg shows pointed & tall p wave & upper left heart murmur causes?
apparently a physician checked you out with an ekg: you will need a stress echo and evalaution for thyroid disease and anxiety. direct questions to the the physician who originally treated you for therapy.
in my last stress test qrs interval has been recorded as 143ms at 1. 5 km/h 109ms at 4. 5 km/h. is it normal? does anxiety trigger it?
if your cardiologist evaluated this and found it to be within normal limits i would believe them the values you gave are not by themselves severely abnormal. if your are concerned about your heart ask your cardiologist fir more answers maybe you need to work on your cholesterol and blood pressure first
i've been short of breath for the last 6 hours. chest feels heavier in a sense that its taking way more effort to breathe and i'm definitely not getting the full breaths in. resting heart rate is 103 but that may be because i'm an anxious person or beca
something doesn't sound quite right. anxiety could explain this but there are also other serious and/or life threatening conditions that could be responsible.
i've been short of breath for the last 6 hours. chest feels heavier in a sense that its taking way more effort to breathe and i'm definitely not getting the full breaths in. resting heart rate is 103 but that may be because i'm an anxious person or beca
1st thing should be a physical exam to be sure that you are ok physically. the symptoms described can very well be due to anxiety. a psychiatric evaluation can help you consider this possibility. depending on the situation a plan for psychotherapy which may include relaxation techniques cbt or insight oriented therapy could be set up. medication may be helpful very often just for short term.
i've been short of breath for the last 6 hours. chest feels heavier in a sense that its taking way more effort to breathe and i'm definitely not getting the full breaths in. resting heart rate is 103 but that may be because i'm an anxious person or beca
it is possible that you are experiencing an anxiety or panic attack. you can try breathing into a paper bag held over your mouth so you are rebreathing exhaled air. this can stop hyperventilation. elevated heart rate can be due to panic attack also. but if this has been going on for hours you should talk to your doctor local er or call 911. it may be something more serious.
i'm currently taking xanax (alprazolam) for pts and anxiety. my doc prescribed a beta blocker for rapid hr due to mitral valve profusion. contraindications?
take the two together without any concerning issues. you might feel fatigued with the mixture of the two. but you may also get better anxiety control as betablockers can help with anxiety too.
i keep having heart papltions like every couple minutes sometimes not even a minute is going by! is there something wrong with my heart?
most healthy young adults who experience palpitations have perfectly normal hearts. certain stimuli to the heart's rhythm center like adrenalin anxiety caffeine and decongestants can triggers an arhythmia. also while almost everyone experiences a "skipped beat" or palpitation now & then some people are more aware of it than others. however if it's bothersome please get medical help.
i keep having heart papltions like every couple minutes sometimes not even a minute is going by! is there something wrong with my heart?
at your age less likely unless you have some heart condition by birth or acquired later. most likely anxiety related. but it is always better to be seen by a md and a proper evaluation will make it clear if it is simple anxiety related or you have a base line heart condition responsible for it or any other related cause like thyroid disorder etc.
i'm taking now magnesium taurate because i read is good for fast heartbeats cause by anxiety but i'm not sure if it's safe to take 250mg a day? thanks
unless you have a medical condition magnesium is a safe supplement to take. literature suggests it is a calming agent.
i check my heart done a lot's of tests egc echo holter stress test all say my heart is fine but today i feel a heavy pain in my chest and it'?
finding out where the pain is not coming from is more important to find out exactly why you have the pain. in other words: if you know it is not the heart (and you do since at age 23 they have tested the heart thoroughly) you should be at ease. there are many other reasons for pain including anxiety but it should be a relief to know it is not going to kill or handicap you.
is yohimbine safe to use while on fluoxetine abilify (aripiprazole) buproprion and a very low dose of propranolol? meds for anxiety. klonopin as needed.
between all the others you list! some are very risky! be sure your provider is watching you closely and try to stop some. ed is not your biggest worry and yohimbine has side effects. be careful - if your provider is not a psych specialist - you might want a consult when multi-pharma issues arise. add cbt tx for best outcome and less risks. you're too young for so many meds. best!
i get bizarre unexplainable abstract dreams that are very vivid and tiring me out i never feel rested. they're not nightmares. would prazosin help?
self-diagnosis can be risky but self-prescribing even more so. find yourself a psychologist to do a real neuro-psych eval on the area of your vivid dreaming and include the anxiety and your other conditions - this may lead to further evaluations and treatment recommendations ad tat could include a drug like prazosin. it is for hypertension - so your safety regarding that is crucial. best!
i think i accidentally doubled my dose of propranolol 20mg and neurontin (gabapentin) 300mg for anxiety. anything i should watch for? thanks!
by doubling the dose of your propanolol your heart rate and blood pressure may become low and you may feel dizzy and lightheaded.
why do i have heart palpatations?
i don't have your full history and exam so can't say why you have palpitations. however common reasons are situational anxiety fear anger. smoking or doing illicit drugs prescribed meds. caffeine. there may be thyroid. cad. chf. post cabg. and many more. please see a cardiologist. wish you good health.
will my side effect of a pounding heart fade away in time 'been on trazodone 2 days.
early in treatment with ssri anti-depressants an early side effect can be an increased arousal state (which can present like anxiety or insomnia or elevated heart rate). this is due to the change in neurotransmitter level in the brain and will go away usually within 1-2 weeks on a given dose. every dose increase the side effect will return&then resolve. if it is not tolerable call your doctor!
why is my breathing really slow almost to the point where i feel like i am skipping breaths and my heart rate really fast when i take my pulse?
it sounds like your anxiety problem is involved. you should consult your anxiety therapy folks so they can help.
why is my breathing really slow almost to the point where i feel like i am skipping breaths and my heart rate really fast when i take my pulse?
slow breathing normally is not a symptom that anyone notices. i worry that your anxiety is causing excessive illness concern + making you pay too much attention to normal body functions. please tell your therapist if you are precoccupied. can't tell whether your heart rate is "really fast" unless you give us a number but adrenaline from anxiety can make heart race to 100 even 110.
which of my meds could be giving me heart palpitations? mostly in the morning and at night <negative_smiley>
any more information from all the drugs you are using isotretinoin will be one that could give you palpitations. an echocardiogram was done and possibly an ekg. if those were negative the other possibility is anxiety attacks and then drug induced. you need talk to your primary care physician for further evaluation and decision making.
what do you call the type of heart arrithmia where your heart rate jumps from resting 50-60 to 130 just by its self no physical activity?
spontaneous transient tachycardia that could be sinus and or supraventricular. are you having symptoms when it happen? a 24 holter monitor test could be diagnostic. ecg to r/o conduction abnormalities. and possibly stress test. i like stress 2d echocardiogram. good history and physical by your doctor very important too to r/o conditions like hyperthyroidism anxiety attacks coffee etc.
how do high blood pressure medications (beta blockers) affect the course of glaucoma treatment with eye drops? my medication regimen consists of beta blockers for high blood pressure and anxiety-related chest pains. recently i have been diagnosed with mi
beta blocker lowers eye pressure. some glaucoma medications contain beta blockers.
how do high blood pressure medications (beta blockers) affect the course of glaucoma treatment with eye drops? my medication regimen consists of beta blockers for high blood pressure and anxiety-related chest pains. recently i have been diagnosed with mi
your beta blocker medication will not interfere with your glaucoma treatment it may actually help lower your eye pressure. glaucoma is sometimes treated with a beta blocker eye drop which in your case might be less effective since you are already taking a systemic beta blocker. fortunately your ophthalmologist has other choices of glaucoma eye drops if needed.
how serious is a heart palpitation? is it worth getting checked?
heart palpitations can be a reflection of a benign condition such as anxiety or can be symptomatic of a serious condition such as a heart rhythm abnormality. with a history physical examination and cardiac monitor your physician should be able to determine the reason for your symptoms.
hello i was wondering if you could tell me what is going on with my body im only 19 yrs old i have been having sever chest pain headaches heat flashes sweaty palms tired ness fast heart beat lower pain in the back and stomach numbness in the arms a
you have a lot going on and should be concerned. the foundation of these symptoms can be anxiety/panic attacks stress a cardiac issue an infectious process. the numbness and chest pain you are feeling should prompt a visit to the emergency room. go to the er.
how can my anxiety cause me to have a heart murmur? lately i have really noticed my heart beat goes into groups of three or more. i haven't really been experiencing anything out of the ordinary because of this. i am just really worried and i know my pare
when you feel your heart beating in groups of three you may have a minor arrhythmia called trigeminy. with this condition every third heart beat is a premature beat. after the skipped beat there is typically a brief pause and then the normal heart beats begin again. most of the time these heart beats are benign and are not a marker of anything serious. factors that might increase these irregular heart beats include stress caffeine alcohol lack of sleep cold/viruses or any other physical or emotional stress. if your heart were to start racing for an extended period of time or if the irregular heart beats were associated with difficulty breathing lightheadedness or chest discomfort i would recommend you contact your doctor. otherwise it sounds like no further evaluation or treatment is needed.
how can i cure palpitation and fast beating pulse at age of 20 unmarried female?
have to know exactly what type of heart rhythm you have to be able to say how to fix it. if its just fast but regular common causes include anxiety hyperthyroidism and dehydration. if it comes only in discrete episodes common causes include panic attack and less commonly genetic heart rhythm problems or rumors that make adrenaline. rule out the common causes first with your pcp.
how long after a heart attack do you stop thinking every chest pain is another attack?
it is common to have a certain amount of anxiety after a heart attack. discussing this with your doctor including how cardiac chest pain is different from other kinds of chest pain may help. some patients also need therapy for anxiety or depression directly and some will improve with cardiac rehab.
had an echo for palpitations and murmur that was normal with an av excursion of 2. 8cm & ef of 70%. what else can i do to address these symptoms?
i believe echo did not reveal mitral valve prolapse since no mention was made of it. get thyroid function tests. avoid stimulants suh as coffe caffein containing tea pseudoephedrine which is contained in many over the counter cold and "flu" remedies. please be aware that many over the counter supplements and energy drinks are laden with caffein. finally consider evaluation for anxiety.
high blood pressure and heart rate nausea anxiety feeling of dying. please help my friend has been ill and no doctor can diagnose her condition. her symptoms are as follows; raise in blood pressure and heart rate nausea and loss of appetite. not able
these symptoms are suggestive of a physical condition or an anxiety disorder or both ( anxiety disorders are also biologically based). if symptoms are acute (hours to days) then seek help at the er. if they have been happening for weeks or months then call your pcp and explain your condition so you can secure an asap appointment for more thorough evaluation. good luck and feel better.
high blood pressure and heart rate nausea anxiety feeling of dying. please help my friend has been ill and no doctor can diagnose her condition. her symptoms are as follows; raise in blood pressure and heart rate nausea and loss of appetite. not able
i am so sorry that this is happening to your friend. please tell her not to be frustrated and to see out a second opinion. i am glad that she has already seen specialists but as she has ongoing symptoms please have her see a second opinion and see what they think. if she has worsening symptoms vomiting fever increased blood pressure or cannot eat then she will have to go to the er.
is it normal if you have anxiety to have hard beating of the heart all day even though they are not nervous? an ecg and ultrasound came back normal.
it's good your heart trest results are normal - and at your age it would not a known condition if you did have cardiac issues. you may have an idea of 'nervous' that differs from your body's sense of it. let a well trained expert clin psych do a good psych eval. expect that cbt therapy will teach you skills toward a better life. it's a great investment w/ or w/out meds. best!
i'm 21 yr old female. i have low blood pressure night sweats palpitations headaches nausea and tiredness. any ideas on possible causes?
could be a variety of things including but not limited to anxiety anemia hypothyroid hyperthyroid leukemia or lymphoma migraine the list goes on. be sure and see your family physician or internist soon. this will require a careful history physical exam and blood work to figure out.
is it normal to have increased anxiety and heart palpitations a couple of days before your period? i'm 18 and i get this every time. taking depakote
late teenage female experiences ongoing anxiety & panic attacks on days of menses; she might study hypermobitity syndrome & dysautonomia. at each menses female body releases relaxin an hormone causal of cartilage & joint ligament tissue laxities. mitral valve prolapse w. floppy cartilaginous valve is "signature" panic-attack symptom. p. o. t. s. is an extraordinary panic attack w. fainting etc.
is it safe to take atenolol with lexapro (escitalopram)? i take the lexapro (escitalopram) currently and dr has prescribed the beta blocker to help with anxiety based hbp
atenolol seems to be compatible with lexapro (escitalopram).
i have severe panic attacks&anxiety i had cardio workup holter echo all came back good my heart races up to 180 during the attacks i've never had svt can one go into svt from panic attack?
an electrophysiologist. you suffer from svt
i obsessively check my pulse. i take atenolol 25mg to calm fast hr. i know this causes me to have more anxiety. what can i do?
i think you should see a psychiatrist and a therapist to figure out a decent drug plan and calming techniques to get your symptoms under control.
i keep feeling like i'm having heart palpitations and shortness of breath and dizziness what should i do?
for a 21 year old my impression your symptoms are likely from anxiety. please see your primary care doctor.
i have severe panic anxiety and i have palpitations. single ones and runs. ekg stress and echo have all come back normal. could i have a condition?
i know its very distressful experiencing such symptoms and and waiting for the results of all the tests and finding out there is nothing i would recommend getting an evaluation with a psychiatrist or at least a therapist to address the anxiety that is leading to these anxiety symptoms there are a lot better ways to address these issues so relax you will be fine but don't ignore it.
i obsessively check my heart rate all day long. i have some mild anxiety. can checking it so often actually raise your hr?
because you're worried about it so that will increase your heart rate. stop checking it.
i have heart palpitations that are very bothersome. heart will beat fast and then slow blood work for any heart condition was fine. any suggestions?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i occasionally experience heart palpitations as well as twitches under my eyes when i am concentrating and relaxing what could be the cause?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i suffer from panic attacks with history of high heart rate. last night i had shakiness dry mouth and arm pain along with it. is that normal?
anxiety symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include nausea sob insomnia dry mouth aphasia tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can adjust your medication.
if i have social anxiety and i am about to do a presentation my heart is beating fast. is this what heart palpitations feel like?
if you have to handle this soon ask your doctor for a rx to help for the day of the event. don't rely on it for more than very rare events - rather start some cbt therapy to learn skills to deal w/ the anxiety. a pill is fine to help in a tight spot - but knowledge will serve you thru life!
if you bp is lower than average normally what night cause a sudden drop resulting in feeling faint weak or dizzy. or could anxiety be the cause?
there are various reasons for your bp to drop below a normal range (dehydration anemia infection orthostatic). i am not sure how low your bp was or if you actually checked it during this episode that you described. anxiety would not lower your blood pressure. hope this helps.
is a heart rate of 180bpm without exercise dangerous? it's sinus rythmn. no anxiety happens multiple times a night and 1 or 2 times during the day.
this needs to be investigated further likely by a cardiologist and/or endocrinologist. in the meantime you should taper off caffeine any drug like sudafed/claritin-d/actifed. no illegals of any kind avoid sugar/colas. learn general information about health and well-being by going to my website: put my full name in google and click on the link. hrs md facc
is a heart rate of 180bpm without exercise dangerous? it's sinus rythmn. no anxiety happens multiple times a night and 1 or 2 times during the day.
you may have what's called inappropriate sinus tachycardia. i would recommend a cardiac electrophysiology testing asap and ask your doctor to refer you to a cardiac electrophysiologist -
is it normal to be able to see your chest and shirt move with your heartbeat? my doctor diagnosed me with anxiety disorder recently.
you may be experiencing palpitations which is very common with anxiety. you can always get a heart work-up done in which your doctor may order some tests. these include an ekg cardiac echo and a stress test. most of these tests are normal in patients with anxiety. your thyroid should also be checked. some patients are prescribed a low dose beta blocker such as tenormin (atenolol) or metoprolol. best wishes!
i take metoprolol 25mg every night for bp and palpations for a week now. i also take xanax (alprazolam) 12. 5 mg as needed for anxiety. is this safe to take?
if accurate seems like a very high dose of xanax (alprazolam). otherwise we use these medications together often without problems as long ass they are taken for the reasons at the prescribed doses.
i take metoprolol 25mg every night for bp and palps for a week now. was prescribed xanax (alprazolam) 25mg but only take half as needed for anxiety. is this safe?
i think you meant xanax (alprazolam) 0. 25mg as the dose. you said it was prescribed. yes it is safe for you to take. talk with your doctor about your treatment options. be sure to follow your doctor's advice about the use of xanax (alprazolam). it does have a risk for addiction. do not combine it with alcohol or sedating medicine. be careful about driving while on the medication. best wishes!
whenever i get heart palpitations i take xanax (alprazolam) and they stop. i have no other symptoms with them. is there a good chancethat they are anxiety related?
chance that they may be caused by a medical and/or other conditions. some medical and psychological conditions present with palpitations/anxiety therefore will recommend you check it out with your pcp. good luck.
whenever i get heart palpitations i take xanax (alprazolam) and they stop. i have no other symptoms with them. is there a good chancethat they are anxiety related?
palpitations are a common effect of anxiety. of course i would recommend you discuss this with your pcp to be sure they are aware of these symptoms and may consider if any further testing is necessary.
whenever i get heart palpitations i take xanax (alprazolam) and they stop. i have no other symptoms with them. is there a good chancethat they are anxiety related?
if you are taking a medicine for anxiety such as xanax (alprazolam) and your symptoms are relieved when taking the medication it is likely that your symptoms are those of anxiety. xanax (alprazolam) and similar medications are specific for anxiety and do not tend to mask or relieve other symptoms. it makes sense to get your heart thoroughly checked to be sure.
whenever i get heart palpitations i take xanax (alprazolam) and they stop. i have no other symptoms with them. is there a good chancethat they are anxiety related?
yes. you should check out some of my work as i have helped many people with depression and anxiety. my free videos www. thecoachmd. com; my book brain drain (hardcover kindle audio); my pulse of life system www. liveyoureverydayextraordinary. com.
why does my heart rate rise to 110 beats per minute when i eat gluten it's normally 60?
this is a classic sign of food allergy in fact arthur coca md wrote a classic book "the pulse test " describing a fast pulse after eating a food as one of the best ways to diagnose food allergies. gluten sensitivity is an extremely common problem that can cause fatigue insomnia asthma depression anxiety etc. see <link> consider a trial of gluten avoidance for several weeks.
whats a broken heart syndrome?
broken heart syndrome is a form of stress cardiomyopathy and is technically called takotsubo cardiomyopathy. that means that the heart can actually have problems pumping blood due to weakening of the heart muscle. this can result from emotional stress brought upon by constant anxiety stress or loss of a loved one. although it is rare it is important to address our mental health at all times.
when you look up mri risks and it says breathing difficulties sweating numbness or heart palpitations is that risk from contrast or mri?
not known side effect of mri scan. symptoms you refered could be contrast induced or a claustrophobic/anxiety attack. not all mri need contrast. metal devices can go in the scanner. piercing or medical devices.
when you look up mri risks and it says breathing difficulties sweating numbness or heart palpitations is that risk from contrast or mri?
there are no medical problems or side effects from getting an mri. you are describing symptoms that come from either claustrophobia or anxiety. it is rare that 'contrast' is used during mris.
went to er with chestpain & chest heat flashes 6mnths that come &go. x-ray ekg normal dr said it isn't heart. he said maybe nerves on chest or anxiety?
sometimes panic attacks can feel like heart attacks. the symptoms are real but originate from the nervous system rather than the heart.
went to er with chestpain & chest heat flashes 6mnths that come &go. x-ray ekg normal dr said it isn't heart. he said maybe nerves on chest or anxiety?
if no risk factors for heart disease like diabetes blood-pressure smoking peripheral arterial diseases it could be from panic attacks.
what would cause my irregular heart beats to be worse and more often when laying down on my back?
first we need to know what you mean by irregular hr. most common cause at your age will be extra beats in the form of premature atrial or ventricular contractions. due to caffeine energy drinks dehydration drugs like otc cold meds or streets drugs like marihuana hyperthyroid state anxiety/panic attacks. how was ur ana test? doubt heart problem but ekg stress test indicated. see a doctor.
what would cause a very fast heart rate when standing or walking even at a slow pace? it doesn't happen every day but when it does my pulse is 120+
other symptoms associated like chest pain dizziness sweating tremors headaches fear sensation? possible causes at your age are: coffee and energy drink dehydration cold medicines street drugs like marihuana hyperthyroidism arrhythmias anxiety attacks and etc. please see a physician or write back to talk more.
what heart conditions can cause ectopic heart beats?
conditions can cause it. like coffee and energy drinks dehydration alcohol smoking cold medicine street drugs like marihuana lack of physical conditioning/ obesity hyperthyroidism anxiety attacks to mention few. heart conditions like angina hypertension conduction delays etc. or just can be normal for a person. i get pvc's after exercise. normal echo and stress test. see your physician.
heart racing i have been having strange heart sensations. after i eat my heart starts pounding and i can feel/hear it a lot. for example this evening i ate about 500 calories worth of chicken rice and some indian sauce with it (it wasn't hot or anythin
heart palpitations can be caused by a number of things. it depends on your age low long it lasts whether you get dizzy or chest pain with it along with your other risk factors. it can be related to anxiety heart disease thyroid disease vasal vagal reaction or other metabolic conditions. i think it may be wise to see your family doctor especially since it's bothersome to you.
how do the symptoms differ in anxiety vs long qt syndrome?
prolonged qt is a rare but very serious medical disorder. symptoms can be dizziness lightheadedness and passing out. anxiety symptoms can be similar but increased heart rate sweating shortness of breath etc. anyone having symptoms like these should see their doctor for a full evaluation.
how do the symptoms differ in anxiety vs long qt syndrome?
long qt syndrome usually doesn't have symptoms. if you have chest pain palpitations or especially if you faint see your regular doctor first. if you're ok then see a psychiatrist as palpitations and chest pressure can be symptoms of panic. but heart health always comes first.
how do you know if you have broken heart syndrome?
actually streesfull anxiety which relases harmful stress hormones so anxiety and stress of death of a loved one or breakup or long term stress i the cause and not affect of bhs. if you suspect you have this syndrome see a cardiologist and he/she can do an exam ekg and echocardiogram to make a diagnose.
had an echo stress tst done 1 yr ago great results take bp meds do not smoke 130lbs/f. have anxiety could that of caused my original abnormal ekg?
usually anxiety doesn't cause an abnormal ekg. anxiety can make your heart rate faster but shouldn't affect the electrical conduction of the heart. the cardiologist who did your original ekg would be a great person to get a second opinion on this. good luck!
had an echo stress tst done 1 yr ago great results take bp meds do not smoke 130lbs/f. have anxiety could that of caused my original abnormal ekg?
anxiety can cause a rapid heart rate and sometimes skipped beats but is not associated with other ekg abnormalities.
have chronic gastritis constipation palpitation and unrefreshing sleep. what could be the solution?
these symptoms could be due to stress anxiety and possibly reflux. without a full physical you also need to consider a cardiac issue and a gi issue. consider and evaluation by a cardiologist gastoenterologist and your family physician.
had stress echo and ekg tests done about a year ago with normal results except the occasional tachy bouts. hard painful pvcs of late dangerous?
pvcs are a common occurrence. avoid caffeine smoking alcohol and anxiety. if they persist and cause disabling paplpitaions see your doctor.
in the past 3 years experienced dizzyness tachycardia short term memort loss headaches apathy i stare alot muscle twitches. all tests negative?
39 fem w. chronic "apathy dizziness headaches tachycardia anxiety memory loss muscle twitches" has multiple births unrevealing studies uses nsaids. symptoms suggest fibromyalgia. women w. hypermobile joints & multiple childbirths loosen pelvic ligaments; leading to body tilt muscle spasm restless sleep; begetting depression & fibro-fog. chronic neck tilt w. muscle spasm causes headaches.
is 40mg of atenolol daily a high dose? i constantly check my pulse. anxiety makes it go high.
40mg daily is not a high dose of atenolol
is it normal for buspar (buspirone) to give you extreme heart palpitations? been on it for years and has been increased recently. it wakes me from sleep sometimes
buspar - buspirone - can cause insomnia including waking up during the night. but causing palpitations is unusual. i wonder if the palpitations are part of the anxiety that you are probably being treated with buspar? if anxiety is not managed it may seem like buspar is perhaps causing it?
infrequent symptoms of an arrhythmia that have yet to be picked up by conventional monitors. would something like the 1-lead alivecor be useful?
you do not state the nature of your arrhythmia ( inc hr palpatations heart pounding etc. ) at your age it could be intermittent fast heart rate referred to as psvt. this is common in people in their mid teens to mid thirties. caffeine can cause premature/irregular heart beats as well. do you have other associated symptoms: 1) shortness of breath 2) chest pain 3) anxiety 4) feel faint.
i live with anxiety. is it normal for these to fluctuate? blood pressure 120/80 - 102/56 is my normal. 60-100 heart rate changes minute to minute.
what you describe is very typical for anxiety disorder.
i have extreme anxiety that has increased over time. i always have a tight feeling in my chest and an increased heart rate. what can i do to help it?
you should see your doctor for an evaluation to rule out medical problems such as thyroid disease. your doctor may prescribe an ssri to help reduce your symptoms. psychotherapy with a therapist may also help. your doctor may help you with a referral.
i taste sweetness in my mouth and lately i've been having short breath weird pain in my chest as well as my neck and fast or slow heart beats! ?
your symptoms are nondiagnostic without more information. they could reflect a cardiac problem but anxiety can also be a cause. i recommend that you have an evaluation by your physician who will take a thorough history and perform a physical examination in order to make a diagnosis. appropriate tests will be ordered and will probably include a chest x-ray ekg and even an outpatient monitoring
i get attacks of tachycardia and other symptoms including sob tingling in hands. . daily/nightly. what causes the tingling in hands and sob?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
i have a tightness in the middle of my chest when i laugh sometimes. i have seasonal asthma and recently has perfect ekg. is this my asthma? anxiety?
pain in the chest with inspiration or cough is usually a pulmonary issue. see your md to make sure
i have health anxiety and ocd. i feel i need to check my blood pressure and heart rate anytime something bad is on my mind. 120/80 unless panic attack?
dealing with this alone isn't working. a psychiatrist should be able to help. toughingg it out doesn't get you points - only pain. you've been trying. time to bring in an ally.
i have health anxiety and ocd. i feel i need to check my blood pressure and heart rate anytime something bad is on my mind. 120/80 unless panic attack?
your question? checking and body scanning are typical signs and symptoms of ocd that is health related and hypochondriasis. however 120/80 is normal blood pressure but may change after exercise stress and yes panic. it should recover to these levels soon after.
i see my heart beat more then just feel it. i quit drinking alcohol completely about two months ago and have had very bad anxiety almost constantly as?
this phenomenon of being able to see your chest rise & fall with your heart's beating is not uncommon. it can be particularly noticeable with you are lying on your back. withdrawal from alcohol can result in physical symptoms such as more rapid & forceful heart beats. by now it should be improving. see your doctor for help with your anxiety. resist temptation to return to alcohol to help it!
i see my heart beat more then just feel it. i quit drinking alcohol completely about two months ago and have had very bad anxiety almost constantly as?
withdrawal symptoms and they will pass. just stick with it.
i take. 25 xanax (alprazolam) for anxiety when needed i play a lot of softball and i always get anxiety checking my pulse and everything is it ok to take xanax (alprazolam)?
there are psychological ways of decreasing anxiety and/or dealing with its causes. while xanax (alprazolam) can alleviate it it can be addicting. learning to manage these feeling by consulting with a psychotherapist would probably be the healthiest way to go.
i'm on my 5th day of sertraline and also on propanolol. i've woke up shaking/trembling inside and feeling anxious. what can i do to calm this? <negative_smiley>
discuss your symptoms with your doctor. you may have to reduce the dose of your sertraline (start low and go slow). in some cases short-term (2-8 weeks) use of an anxiolytic agent is needed to alleviate the symptoms of anxiety until the ssri starts to work. discuss your options with your doctor who knows you and your history.
i was diagnosed with anxiety 5 yrs ago for a bout a mth i have been having flutters again but no chest pain no breathing problems just flutters?
it's probably a recurrence of your anxiety. however it is always best to rule out medical conditions such as svt (supra ventricular tachycardia) or thyroid disease. need to also check electrolytes esp. the potassium. proper diagnosis requires appropriate treatment. your doctor will need to see you to evaluate your symptoms. anxiety can be treated after medical causes are ruled out. best wishes!
i have a lot of palps. i am totally aware of my heart and have severe anxiety and panic attacks. could the palps be atrial fib or bc of the anxiety?
palps (palpitations) are defined as skipped heart beats and may indicate a rhythm disorder without specifically identifying which one. at your age without any apparent heart disease (i assume) it is highly unlikely to be afib. your symptoms could well be due to anxiety and panic attacks. your doctor has the means to determine exactly if you truly have a rhythm disorder or "just" anxiety.
worried about heart and sca? ! . normal ekg. normal echo. normal stress test and chest xray. blood work good too. very nervous and high anxiety? !
treadmill stress testing with good exercise tolerance has a very good predictive value when normal. it is great that all your tests are normal. why would you be worried? any other history or experience?
worried and scared about sca and or heart attack. normal ekgs. normal echo. normal stress test. normal chest xray. good blood work. should i be worried? !
however if you remain worried please get help for your anxiety by seeing a psychiatrist and an initial diagnostic examination and treatment recommendations followed by psychotherapy evaluation. living with anxiety can be miserable. it is generally very treatable. please seek help. you are worth it and you deserve it as do those you love since it undoubtedly impacts them as well. best wishes.
what causes pressure on your chest like you can't breathe? ekg and blood work is fine.
assuming all other findings are negative including no mass effects around the heart and evaluated my mri and no recent history of chest trauma the anxiety disorders and some forms of depression may manifest these symptoms. however one has to be carefull as some types of cardic disease may appear in posterior wall and requires special types of diagnostic procedure.
what causes increased heart rate/pounding heart and nausea? i do have panic attacks mayb icaught a 24 hour tummy bug. i had a mild virus 2days ago.
try removing caffeine from your diet. if you already have anxiety then it might be best to avoid stimulants. hope this helps.
woke up hot and heart rate was in the 130s blood pressure was high too what's wrong with me? it's not anxiety.
this can be caused by a variety of medical conditions including thyroid problems medications and many other ailments beyond anxiety. get thee to your primary care doctor as soon as possible.
what do u do if u have nighttime tachycardia? i'm wearing a heart monitor again. no blood clots clear x-ray and ct. labs god too.
nighttime tachycardia= several reasons. just lying down increases the amount of blood your heart has to distribute and will cause it to speed up some. certain nighttime meds can cause the heart rate to speed up. anxiety and panic attacks could also be the cause also eating right before bed. i am glad you are wearing a heart monitor the more serious reasons will be easier to isolate that way.
how long after a heart attack do you stop thinking every chest pain is another?
general rule of thumb: chest pain which is severe lasting more than 30 min considered a heart attack. pain mostly localized retro- sternally. associated with tachycardia sweating anxiety. having said all these symptomsmay not be present severity of pain differs in perception so when in doubt go to the er.
how can i stop having heart palpitations?
primary care holter monitor cardiologist identify rhythm treat if appropriate reduce anxiety stress caffeine.
how can anxiety cause heart arrhythmias?
this is the kind of heart arrhythmia that anxiety can cause and is a normal heart beat that happens to be irregular in timing. the high rate is similar to when you exercise. since heart is pumping normally during sinus arrhythmia it is harmless (other than causing more anxiety). also they tend to be short and self-limited especially if anxiety is relieved.
how can anxiety cause heart arrhythmias?
not cause but possible effect of irregular heart beats.
how to lower my pulse before i see dentist?
it sounds like you may have dental anxiety. i would recommend early morning appointments so you don't dread it all day. i also like to prescribe mild anxiolytics such as ativan or xanax (alprazolam) for my patients with dental anxiety. it really helps them a lot. you also just need to relax and know the dentist does not want to cause you any discomfort at all. listen to calming music control your breathing.
how to get a fast heart beat besides exercising and drinking caffeine?
fever anemia pain anxiety panic/fright asthma inhalers amphetamines cocaine hemorrhage excess thyroid hormone infection epinephrine dehydration congestive heart failure carbon monoxide poisoning - there are many more: i can't think of them all!
i have a health anxiety disorder and ocd. when i eat sugar my heart rate rises into the 80's-90's range and today had a panic attack. bp 12<negative_smiley>81. ?
it is not uncommon for anxiety to cause health problems. many people with panic disorder incorrectly believe they are having a heart attack. i am unsure if there is a correlation between sugar heart rate and panic. if you have high bp you need to lower your stress and get bp medication. if your panic continues see a mh professional.
i have bad anxiety/panic my #1 worry is my heart&i'm aware of my heartbeat. i have at least 20 palp flutters a day. normal ekg stress & echo. heart prob?
you are describing classic panic/ anxiety disorder symptoms. with a normal heart work up ask your doctor about starting you on an ssri.
i have bad anxiety/panic my #1 worry is my heart&i'm aware of my heartbeat. i have at least 20 palp flutters a day. normal ekg stress & echo. heart prob?
breathing exercises work also self-talk & reassurance until the attack subsides. gaining control is the goal. schedule appointment with a therapist to work on cognitive behavior modification. also yoga & meditation help. try imagery (visualizing what scares you with your eyes closed then open your eyes when you feel tense then go back & repeat until you are calm).
i've had chest pain for the last 2-3 years. i am going to the cardiologist this upcoming monday and get an ekg. i'd like an idea of what this is. thx!
given your age and how long this has been happening the likely cause is asthma related. you will certainly need a complete work up to rule out anything dangerous. anxiety can also cause chest pain as well.
i'm a university athlete my heart starts beating very fast light headed short of breathe happens when active and when i'm doing nothing?
supraventricular tachycardia (svt) usually has over 150 beats per minute and may go up even faster. a person may feel she has a pounding heart (while resting not exercising). she may also be short of breath breathing fast feeling dizzy and sometimes faint. if a person is anxious or gets anxious and then her heart rate increases that may be anxiety. svt turns on suddenly without anxiousness.
i hadn't felt a palpitation before my first noticed one. since then i've had bad anxiety/panic. now i have palps a lot. heart problem or just anxiety?
given your age i am thinking your symptoms are anxiety. avoid the use of caffeine or energy drinks. if you smoke quit. see your doctor for a check up. once medical causes of your symptoms are ruled out your anxiety can be treated with a combination of psychotherapy and medication. best wishes!
i had this strange feeling in my chest with shaking and ever scince my heart rate has been a lil high resting is 113 should i be worried?
that is exactly you should stop doing. when u start monitoring ur vs all the time it is sign of anxiety.
i'm a 43 year old female who has been having chest area pain/pressure that comes in waves lasting seconds at a time. ekg and bloodwork has been fine.
as long as cardiac-related cause has sufficiently been ruled out; common causes of chest pain such as this can be related to esophageal muscle spasm acid reflux anxiety or chest wall pain. a one-on-one discussion with a physician is necessary to further narrow the possibilities and recommend treatment.
intense palpitations. heart rate ct scan ekg w/pvc blood work normal only slightly raised d dimer also been sick with virus. any ideas o/than anxiety?
left wrist on thumb' s side. get a rate count over 1 minute or half a minute. also feel if regular/ irregular. your symptoms suggest mild dehydration if you had a recent viral illness. tachycardia or a fast heart rate is expected in febrile states and/or dehydration. anxiety will make it worse. stay well hydrated talk to your doctor about your symptoms have numbers for your pulse.
i keep feeling dizzy and have vertigo every day with heart palpitations. did echo and head mri; came out fine. what's happening? i have gerd btw.
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements and cardiamins (google and use code cmc for discount). stop using otc vitamins.
is it normal to worry about death every day? each day i get up wonder if today is the day me of my husband or daughter will have a heart attack etc
sounds like you may be suffering from generalized anxiety disorder. this condition is characterized by excessive persistent worrying which is hard to control. anxiety can be so severe that it can cause significant distress and impairment of everyday functioning. see a specialist in order to determine the correct diagnosis and treatment course. depressive symptoms can have a similar presentation.
i've had heart palpitations twice when i was sitting at home when i went to the cardiologist i had only one home episode and i when i walk up stairs?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
is dextromethorphan safe? i have anxiety disorder hypertension pre-diabetic and history of heart attack.
yes it is safe and is a very commonly prescribed cough medicine. it is not a decongestant which can cause several potential side affects.
what can be causing my palpitations and how should i deal?
it could be from anxiety disorder or cardiac arrhythmia. you need to see a physician to get ekg holter or event monitor to get correct diagnosis. your thyroid function also could be checked.
why is it that beta blockers can possibly cause anxiety? inderal (propranolol) was used years ago in the theatre to treat anxiety.
first you are correct. propranolol a beta blocker at an extremely low dose is the most commonly prescribed medication for 'performance' anxiety. it blunts the heart from the emotional response when one is nervous and has to keep a clear head when performing. regular doses of beta blockers can at times increase depression and anxiety as a side effect. the difference is the dose taken regular.
what could cause 1 to 2 episodes of lightheadedness dizziness heart palpitations sweaty palms numb hands and headache?
if you go long periods of time without eating you can have all of these symptoms. you can also get these due to anxiety. try to have small frequent meals and stay away from sugar and caffeine. f/u with your dr. for annual check up and labs if you haven't done so already.
woke up middle of night with what felt like all 4 chambers of heart fluttering alt. atflutter? have had plenty of tests and family has no disease.
this is in no way heart disease. it is you holding on to your stress or anxiety or panic in your chest. thousands of people go through this every day and waste millions of dollars on heart or emergency room tests just to be told you have to come to grips with your worries panic or stress.
why when i get a pvc i feel a quick instant loss in breath and sometimes cough? this is so scary and starts my worry and anxiety
actually the underlying lung issue (copd asthma bronchitis or emphysema) can be one of the causes of premature ventricular contraction which is the result of the left ventricle of the heart contracting too early before receiving the expected signal from the sino-atrial node. hypoxia or a lack of oxygen in the blood can lead to this issue.
will taking celexa affect my lbbb? my diagnosis of lbbb has given me pretty good anxiety and my doc prescribed 10 mg once a day of citalopram.
i admit to an anti-ssri bias so my opinion is humble but it is educated. since heart disease is so serious a threat even at a conservative dose i'd try to deal with the anxiety in cbt therapy and with mindfullness meditation before using drugs that are known to have side effects damaging to the heart. do not stop ssris without doctors management if you've begun but do consider alternatives.
weakness and rapid heart rate over 100 after eating. doctors find everything fine. could this be anxiety? it doesn't make sense.
yes. of course. anxiety can cause significant fatigue of both your physical self but your mental self as well. you may do very well to get help outside of traditional medicine and begin to learn natural ways to live with less stress. you do not have to have a full life of suffering from anxiety and taking sedatives just to survive.
weak hr goes up to 125 when just doing little things. laying down my hr is like 85. doctors don't find anything wrong. could this really be anxiety?
this question has been asked and answered several times. can you please explain why you continue to ask the same question?
why and how can beta blockers increase depression and anxiety in some people?
depression is known to be in the top 3 side effects but how? is unknown. beta-blockers 'sit' on beta-adrenergic receptors and stop them from being stimulated. so perhaps some need not to be stopped to maintain good mood. they are actually used to treat symptoms of anxiety! work hard w/ your dr to avoid piling up side effects. if non-drug alternatives exist try them!
what dose it means when your pulse is running high and your sitting down?
your heart rate varies at times. it could mean nothing or such things as a cardiac problem anxiety or others.
how do you know the difference between a heart attack and anxiety?
this is why a good medical workup is important.
how do you know the difference between a heart attack and anxiety?
sometimes a panic attack will look just like a heart attack. sometimes chest pain will put you into a panic attack because it was an underlying heart attack. the best advice that i can give you is that if you are worried it is a heart attack then you should be seen by a physician. if it turns out to be a panic attack then this will relieve your mind and anxiety. if not you did the right thing.
how do you know if you're having a heart attack if you have no pain and just have elevated hr?
tachycardia can heralds a heart attack as a lone symptom but is rare. usually shortness of breath confusion fatigue nausea dizziness weakness sweats or other symptoms accompany it. rapid heart rate is more likely to mean one of several other diagnosis if encountered alone (hyperthyroid infection atrial fibrillation anxiety etc). if you have a rapid heart rate get seen in an er today.
how can i tell if my heart is racing or just high hr?
if your hr is high due to exercise fever excitement or anxiety it may be simply a high hr. if you are at rest and have a high hr almost too fast to count it is likely "racing" or abnormal. if you have concerns it is best to ask your doctor and appropriate testing can be done as indicated.
how can panic attack cause heart attack/arrest?
panic attacks do not cause heart attacks. according to the nimh panic disorder is one of the most treatable of the anxiety disorders responding in most cases to medication or cognitive psychotherapy. people often ask if panic attacks cause death. no they do not.
how come my heart skips beats sometimes?
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations etc.
hi i have been taking 10mg of propranolol daily for several years to help with anxiety related increased heart rate. are there longterm sideffects?
at this low dose there should not be any long term consequence. however i would suggest to you other eastern modalities. see my website drcynthia. com for tips on meditation hypnosis exercise etc.
hi i have been taking 10mg of propranolol daily for several years to help with anxiety related increased heart rate. are there longterm sideffects?
but as you age it may slow it down too much.
how does ingesting caffeine affect the activity of a pacemaker?
if the pacer is set properly and one is pacer dependent the heart rate is set. different settings may be set up so that if the heart rate increases or decreases the pacer will start up and take over at a predetermined rate. other symptoms of anxiety or nervousness or cramps may occur.
hi i am a 27 year old female i weigh 320 and am 5 6 i have had ekgs blood work and chest xrays but yet i still have chest pain and break out in sweat?
having done most of cardiac work up and is negative you need to look for other causes of chest pain such as esophageal spasm gerd pulmonary embolus gallbladder disease etc. also there may be an element of anxiety which needs to be addressed.
help with myocardial infarction history needed. can i travel now that i am retired?
retirement and traveling should be fine if you have stable coronary artery disease and are compliant with therapy. many people survive heart attacks and return to active lifestyles. concerns about medical care when traveling even out of the country should not be a major source of anxiety.
how can i avoid panic attacks and heart fluttering?
the two treatments for panic disorder are medication & cbt. cbt involves exposure to the fear and not responding once the anxiety occurs. it involves facing fears head on. if you fall off a horse you get back on. one needs to allow the anxiety to wash over them cuz it will set you free. this is known as systematic desensitization. or you may need a medication. i would choose a nonaddictive one.
i'm having palpitations for over 3 days. my bp is 136/78 pulse while walking/standing is 85 while relaxing is 74. wt-90kgs. age23. sometimes they go away.
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i have head heaviness palpitations for 5 years. head heaviness is not relieved by anti allergy meds. is head heaviness due to anxiety. what i use?
head heaviness is such a vague symptom that it is difficult to assess it without a detailed history. however palpitation is not a symptom of allergy except when you have a life-threatening reaction (anaphylaxis). i urge you to consult your doctor re. these symptoms.
i have anxiety i hate that i can feel my heart beating while laying down. not racing or pounding hard but just beating. what can i do?
if you can find a quiet place - do so. breath in slowly & deeply through your nostrils. fill your lungs with air (but not to the point of discomfort). hold for a count of five then slowly begin to exhale through an open mouth. repeat at least 12 times longer if you need to. if you haven't been assessed for your panic/ anxiety - that would be prudent. take care.
i'm 39 weeks pregnant pregnancy has been mostly complication free but i suffer from svt and can't stop fearing death during labour?
arrythmia like svt can be seen during prrgnancy due to the high volume and high output state. it is usually managed very effectively. followup with your intetnist and cardiologist to get sx managed. stay well hydrated & limit caffeine ingestion. discuss maginex supplement with your docs. to relieve anxiety get the anxiety & phobia workbook. eft(eft clinic app)& emdr(hemibalance app) will help.
i'm confused because i keep being told panic attacks and anxiety can't do anything to me but other doctors say that it can cause broken heart syndrome?
neither causes broken heart syndrome because there is no such clinical diagnosis. panic attacks and general anxiety are both miserable to experience and often respond well to medications and therapy.
i'm confused because i keep being told panic attacks and anxiety can't do anything to me but other doctors say that it can cause stress cardiomyopathy?
after you have been cleared of having any current cardiac or cardiovascular disease beware: fear of having a heart attack when you are only having a panic attack can lead to you spending many thousands of dollars needlessly and expose yourself to unnecessary dangers such as catheterization for exploratory diagnosis--which can be deadly. read what nimh says about panic disorder.
i'm confused because i keep being told panic attacks and anxiety can't do anything to me but other doctors say that it can cause stress cardiomyopathy?
you need to rule out any heart disease before thinking it comes from your anxiety.
i have been suffering from anxiety disorder. i get fast heart beats and i burp a lot during an anxiety attack. can you help me how to resolve this?
it may uncover underlying medical problems that need to be addressed. cognitive behavioral therapy can be effective. psych meds may be indicated. aim for daily exercise 8 hrs sleep /night & good nutrition w 5 servings of veggies & 4 of fruit per day. try tai chi yoga qi gong progressive muscle relaxation deep breathing exercises or meditation. take care.
i have vertigo&i feel dizzy&sometimes my heartbeats fast &sometimes i feel like fainting but i never faint! my doc suggested betaserc. what u think?
a last resort take it only if all other reasons have been ruled out and natural and general measures eg: biofeedback hydration anti anxiety med if needed does not work. it has some minor side effects and some serious like live and headaches. call again.
i've had horrible heart palpitations for the last few days. not anxiety related. healthy 33 yr female. could it be related to ovulation?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i have constant anxiety. i get hot easily pvc's insomnia indigestion and just feel panic all of the time. could this be generalized anxiety?
anxiety can come from chemical imbalances a side effect of medications external stressors too much change in too short a period of time and other areas. i would say go to a reputable psychotherapist immediately and talk about what anxiety means to you.
i have constant anxiety. i get hot easily pvc's insomnia indigestion and just feel panic all of the time. could this be generalized anxiety?
generalized anxiety panic attacks. need to check with physician to make sure these symptoms are not due to other metabolic problems (thyroid etc)
with carcinoid syndrome is flushing constant and is diarrhea and pain present. i have facial flushing +palpitations menopause 9 yrs ago?
carcinoid syndrome causes episodic flushing diarrhea and palpitations. other things can cause these symptoms and you mention one of them-- menopause. i notice you have asthma and if you use albuterol inhalers they can definitely cause those symptoms. steroids like prednisone can also cause this as can anxiety dumping syndrome and a host of other things. see a doc to get this sorted out!
would i be able to tell if i was having a heart attack vs anxiety?
many times an anxiety attack can feel like a heart attack: chest pain/pressure difficulty breathing a "sense of doom. " if you get these symptoms you should definitely seek medical attention.
would i be able to tell if i was having a heart attack vs anxiety?
at 31 you are far more likely to be having an anxiety attack.
what can help my irregular heart beats? acting up bad today. i had no caffeine. only meds i take when needed is xanex. its like an extra beat flutter.
a 24 hour holter monitor will determine what type of irregular heart rhythm you have. thyroid check is advisable. avoiding caffeine alcohol nicotine stress and anxiety are important. see a cardiologist to check for heart valve abnormalities and for diagnosis and specific treatment.
health anxiety dizziness ear pressure shortness of breath constipated rapid heart rate had ct mri scan bw ekg chest stomach xray all normal. anxiety?
i agree with dr. block about the need to fully evaluate your complaints looking for possible "medical" causes. however anxiety disorders are medical causes also -- having physical emotional and cognitive symptoms and effects. with "health anxiety" [your words] you're likely to interpret any physical sensation as a sign of serious physical illness -- when the anxiety itself needs treatment.
health anxiety dizziness ear pressure shortness of breath constipated rapid heart rate had ct mri scan bw ekg chest stomach xray all normal. anxiety?
there could still be a medical cause for the symptoms. find a doctor who will take the time to try to find it. allergies low magnesium may be contributors. psychiatric diagnoes should not be made unless all medical causes have been ruled out. there are many more medical tests to do.
health anxiety dizziness ear pressure shortness of breath constipated rapid heart rate had ct mri scan bw ekg chest stomach xray all normal. anxiety?
you need comprehensive blood panel to rule out other medical factors.
how do you stop heart palps for good after you been to the doctor over and over and they told you everything was normal but i still get them help?
beside thyroid problem(hyperthyroidism) arrythmia (abnormal heart beat) anxiety can cause palpitation also drinking toomuch coffee can do that also( caffeine).
hi i'm suffering from anxiety and gerd are palpitations normal with these.?
these are caused by many things. stress excitement irritants both physical and chemical pressure like a hiatal hernia or esophageal push or pull and primary heart things the causes are very many in number.
hi i'm suffering from anxiety and gerd are palpitations normal with these.?
it is better to have a detailed work up by u pcp to r/o other reasons good luck.
i have a nervous feeling in the pit of my stomach hr 115 sweating off/on tingling in left side of arm/neck amd bloating--possible heart attack?
a heart attack is always possible but given your age medical history and symptoms is highly unlikely. alternate conditions such as panic attack given your history of anxiety or hypoglycemia for example in the right clinical context are much more likely. talk to your doc about your symptoms.
i'm a 32 yr old female. labs showed <0. 005 tsh with normal t3 (liothyronine)t4. i've lost a lot of weight anxiety palpitations nervousness nausea. help?
need to be evaluated and there are several meds to help with symptoms til an etiology can be found. i hope you feel better soon.
i get quick bouts of anxiety for like 1 minute. heart beats fast then calms down. is this normal? i think its stress.
possibility. please see your doc. he/she can diagnose or rule out medical conditions. they you can get some counseling to deal w/anxiety. peace and good health.
i went through an eeg test today and since i've felt really off anxiety dizziness rapid heart rate fatigue can eeg trigger a migrane or something?
an eeg is just a measurement. in some tests a strobe is used to evoke some responses which in a reactive person can lead to a headache but also worry brought on by the act of having the test itself can trigger a stress response resulting in a headache. if you do not feel calm after resting for a while call the doctor who requested the test and let them know your concerns.
i will speak @ sentencing daughter was victim. anxiety crying palpitations n chest pressure n meds r not helping. any better options for this time?
i'm sorry to hear about your daughter's victimization. tell your family doc what you've noted above. your antidepressant/anxiolytic ssri may not be enough. beta blockers are useful for performance anxiety. while i try to avoid benzodiazepines like the plague they may be useful for a specific goal eg speaking out in court. to be safe test out smallest dose before sentencing as it may affect mind
i will speak @ sentencing daughter was victim. anxiety crying palpitations n chest pressure n meds r not helping. any better options for this time?
try a betablocker
i have extreme ongoing anxiety even after fine ekg & blood tests i think its my heart. armpits sides of neck under nipples & wrists all hurt why?
your symptoms are not cardiac you need to get help dealing with anxiety and discuss your symptoms with your doc
i am a 45 year old female i sometimes wake in the middle of the night with a heart rate of 125-139. is this worrying?
this may be simple anxiety but check with your doc to see if a holter monitor or sleep study may be helpful.
i am 19 weeks pregnant and took one benadryl (diphenhydramine) tablet for sinus infection. about 2 hours later i almost had two anxiety attacks along rapid heartbeat?
take any medication in the first 3 months of pregnancy with out checking with your ob doctor. call your doctor
i am 19 weeks pregnant and took one benadryl (diphenhydramine) tablet for sinus infection. about 2 hours later i almost had two anxiety attacks along rapid heartbeat?
benadryl (diphenhydramine) usually causes drowsiness but may rarely cause a stimulant effect especially in very young children. it may also induce rapid heart beats due to its anticholinergic effect which is not found in newer generation antihistamine. however these two events may be unrelated if you had taken benadryl (diphenhydramine) before without problem. benadryl (diphenhydramine) does nothing for sinus infection. see doc if lasting>10 days.
i hv severe gerd. can a beer some olives and garlic bread with empty stomac cause smkind of strange feeling sudden bp raise and heart rate raise?
alcohol and oily foods can certainly cause reflux but it would take more than one beer to elevate the blood pressure and heart rate although severe discomfort and/or anxiety could. i assume you take a medication like prilosec or nexium (esomeprazole) to control your gerd.
i have been stressed. i have experienced an overheating like sensation in my chest. my heart rate is also faster during this. is my stress the cause?
it may be stress but get it checked from your doctor to be sure and you may need some medicine to control the anxiety
i have one patch on my chest which aches mildly i've had for a few days anxiety is extremely high. could this be causing this? heart attack? help
given limited information you forgot to mention what type of patch- medicated/ non- medicated it is ok to remove the patch if there is concern for local and general side effects after letting your prescriber know. if anxiety persists a follow up visit is recommended.
when i wake up in am and roll over get an anxious feeling in chest and feels like organs move. lasts15min. clear holter echo. hist of gerd and anxiety?
anxiety causes lots of symptoms. you may need to work with a psychology professional to make progress.
went to emergency room for heart palpitations all blood work and ecg said i was fine and should continue taking my buspar (buspirone) as directed should i continu?
anxiety can cause many physical symptoms including palpitations. it sounds like the er doctors examined you and did not find anything alarming. buspar (buspirone) is a medication which can help with anxiety. you haven't shared what dose you're on but i hope you'll tell the physician you've been seeing about this er trip. please maintain your buspar (buspirone) in the meantime. psychotherapy can be helpful too.
well went to the hospital again for chest pains he did ekg that everything'sperfect fitals and everything sent me home five minutes! im guessing aniexty?
it sounds as if your anxiety causes you to be a regular visitor and are known to the folks at your hospital. you should likely seek professional psychologic or psychiatric aid for your anxiety syndrome. ask the drs. what they believe to be wrong and what you can do to ameliorate the problem.
what to do if i heard that its not normal to get palpitations over a guy/girl you are heart condition is that true?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
would a holter stress test and echo rule out heart disease in 40 year old female with chest pain and arm pain. when im stressed i get pain from lft shoulder down to my elbow. low to norm bp.
if you have chest pain and shoulder pain whenever you experience stress or anxiety it could be vasospastic angina. it may not show up in regular stress test. it need special tests. consult your physician.
what to do if i am having severe heart palpitations- but hospital can't find anything wrong?
you need to discuss this with your doctor. depending on what workup you've had you could have many things going on. if you've had the appropriate cardiac workup and nothing is documented you may have anxiety or else are calling something palpitations that is not a heart palpitation. people use words that may be understood differently by other people.
when can sinus tachycardia affect you?
sinus tachycardia always due to "something else". it's the "something else" that can affect you. examples of "something else": pain fever anxiety exercise thyroid excess deconditioning and congestive heart failure. there are many other causes as well.
what could be the cause of heart palpitations if all of these test have been normal for me?
you need to get an ekg holter event monitor and loop recorder in sequence to diagnose cause of your palpitations. if everything is normal then it simply anxiety disorder. consult your physician.
what is the best medicine for anxiety? i'm on celexa (citalopram) and it doesn't work. i have a constant fear of having a heart attack like my father.
be cautious with anxiolytics. they can help but are best used short-term as they can be very addictive. perhaps a better long term strategy would be to understand why you are so afraid the same thing will happen to you as happened to your father. your risk factors may be entirely different and you may really not be at risk. also consider an increase in the celexa (citalopram) if you are under 20 g a day.
what is the best medicine for anxiety? i'm on celexa (citalopram) and it doesn't work. i have a constant fear of having a heart attack like my father.
try anti-anxiety meds (anxiolytics) such as xanax (alprazolam) klonopin diazapam valium.
what is the best medicine for anxiety? i'm on celexa (citalopram) and it doesn't work. i have a constant fear of having a heart attack like my father.
you shoudl see a primary care. dont worry about heart attacks. eat right dont smoke and control your bp if elevated.
what is the prognosis for cardiomyopathy from hypothyroidism? im not sure i have either could be my anxiety but i get chest pains often winded quickly
and cardiac involvement (myxedema) does improve very well with correction of hypothyroidism. it usually does not cause cp but it does cause decreased tolerance to activity and effusion.
waking up every night with short of breath papatations pressure in diaphram. chest xray & ecg clear. abnormal lft. on omeprazole for acid. ideas?
this is a sleep disorder or an anxiety disorder. both can get evaluated at any good sleep clinic.
what do you recommend if i am feeling like my heart is racing but it's a normal heart rate?
the sensation of fast heart rate when the heart rate is actually normal is a common complaint from people with symptoms of anxiety depression and other psychiatric complaints. it is unlikely that there is cardiac disease. discuss with your primary care practitioner.
how do i stop anxiety about my health? every time i get the slightest chest pain or feel nauseous i think i'm having a heart attack.
generalized anxiety do is common & can be helped thru therapy & medications if warranted following evaluation by a mental health professional.
how would i know if i am perimenopausal? i am 32 had partial hysterec. in 2007. have anxiety fast pulse major sleeping problems some night sweats.
such symptoms may reflect early menopause but could also reflect other hormonal problems that need to be treated. a physical exam history and a lab tests should help clarify your situation.
how would i know if i am perimenopausal? i am 32 had partial hysterec. in 2007. have anxiety fast pulse major sleeping problems some night sweats.
consultation with your pcp or gynecologist for hormonal studies might be suggested.
hi i have been suffering with what seems like anxiety for 12 months the symptoms are:shaking legs nausea loose stools and fast heart rate? anxiety?
the physical manifestations of anxiety include symtpms such as nausea cramps butterflies diarrhea. symptoms dizziness and lightheadedness shakes or tremors blurred vision dry mouth sweating hot falshes chills wobbly weak legs chest tightness ans shortness of breath tingly sensations and vomiting. one has to be medically evaluted by psychiatrist to rule out other medical issues.
hi i have been suffering with what seems like anxiety for 12 months the symptoms are:shaking legs nausea loose stools and fast heart rate? anxiety?
possible but first need to rule out medical causes for the symptoms thru thorough physical exam & labs.
how do palpitations affect you?
palpitations could be normal responses or abnormal from pathological condns. it is unpleasant awareness of your own hear beats. pregnancy pain fever fright fear anxiety are physiological condns. but extreme anxiety -panic attacks medication side effect with palp. cardiac conditions anemia throid excess low bp blood loss with shock dehydration -extreme are common conditions with fast hear rate.
hi i've been having anxiety for about 3 years no the palputation its bothering me it come in anytime any minute im so worried about it?
could be a number of things. a good medical work up should check cardio grams labs esp thyroid which is very common in women. hyperthyroidism can look like anxiety or panic. goes with sweating tremors diarrhea weight loss hair and skin changes etc. there are other things like caffeine nicotine or stimulant effects. beta blockers help palpitations benzodiazepines +/- ssris help anxiety.
how can i know if my raised heart beat and tingly legs are caused by anxiety attacks. did ekg blood work good xrays of chest good.?
your symptoms can be from anxiety. if your primary care doctor is sure that your symptoms are not caused by a medical problem try to treat the symptoms as if they are anxiety attacks and see if they will improve: exercise meditation and an evaluation by a mental health professional are all good starts. hope this answer helps.
how can i know if my raised heart beat and tingly legs are caused by anxiety attacks. did ekg blood work good xrays of chest good.?
having paresthesias (tingling) in the legs without involvement of the hands and mouth plus rapid breathing would be an atypical presentation for an anxiety attack. i would advise seeking a consultation with a neurologist as there is likely another explanation for your symptoms. good luck and i hope this helps.
i have severe anxiety. i take 50mg of atenolol because anxiety makes my heart go into tachycardia. i always check my pulse. i want to stop doing this?
if the atenolol does not stop the arrhythmia (that seems benign anyway) seek treatment for your anxiety disorder. checking your pulse increases anxiety and accomplishes nothing!
i believe i have myocarditis. i have been known to suffer from anxiety but i have had palpitations that reccur every so often also coughing because i feel mucus. i have periods of being fatigued and am not willing to get up from bed every morning.
to assess for myocarditis you need an echocardiogram to see if there is inflammation around the heart muscles. palpitations are not really specific and you should get an ekg to assess the underlying electrical activity of the heart. if palpitations are more spaced out i suggest wearing a holter monitor which can detect underlying atrial fibrillation pvcs which cause palpitations.
i believe i have myocarditis. i have been known to suffer from anxiety but i have had palpitations that reccur every so often also coughing because i feel mucus. i have periods of being fatigued and am not willing to get up from bed every morning.
your symptoms are all bothersome but not specific for myocarditis. to diagnose myocarditis you must have specific abnormal blood tests and echocardiogram.
i believe i have myocarditis. i have been known to suffer from anxiety but i have had palpitations that reccur every so often also coughing because i feel mucus. i have periods of being fatigued and am not willing to get up from bed every morning.
your symptoms are more likely to be due to other things than myocarditis. see your doctor to be evaluated and be sure to get an explanation of what the doc believes the problem is and how to treat it.
i'm having very bad anxiety attacks what can i do my heart is racing?
the 2 treatment are behavioral or medical. behavioral would include things like seeing a counselor studying cognitive therapy or biofeedback/self-relaxation. try your library or contact a psychologist for help there. medicine might be prescribed by a physician to help lessen or prevent anxiety and panic attacks. some of the meds actually help keep the heart from racing. discuss with your doctor.
is ibuprofen ok with zpack? i read they can both cause heart side effects ( i get anxiety related palpitations)
yes they can be taken together. can always start with the lowest ibuprofen dose and work your way up.
i am 43 and experiencing palpitations especially when i lay down. they wake me out of sleep. i have anxiety and take prozac (fluoxetine) for that but it isn't help?
palpitations can be a sign of all different types of heart arrhythmias. the greater majority are safe & are common to most people at one point or another. there are some palpitations that are more frequent with body position at night or during the onset/offset of some medications/foods but people also tend to notice them more when they go to bed. see your pcp for evaluation & possible test.
i have strained eyes head pressure at front headaches heart palpitations dizziness nerve pains in joints and pompholyx. what could this be?
could all be related to stress from you life work and anxiety disorder or some combination. best to see your primary care provider for a more complete evaluation. hope this helps!
is bisopine a beta blocker used for anxiety. it is also called zebeta (bisoprolol). thanks?
yea it's a beta blocker although i wouldn't consider it a first line treatment for anxiety.
i cant sleep at nights my heart palpitates fastly at nights and it feels like i will die just now.
excercise reduce chronic worries eat nutritious dinner avoid daytime naps take warm showers before bedtime and only lay in bed when ready to sleep and consider evaluation for anxiety depression and panic disorders
i get extreme anxiety that is highly interfering whenever i start a new job almost like an adjustment disorder. would propranolol be reasonable?
propranolol is a useful adjunct to the treatment of panic attacks but there are many useful medications and desensitization psychotherapy would be helpful with the medication so i urge you (because you describe this as disabling and uncomfortable) to seek counseling.
i'm being feeling shortness of breath. no cough no wheezing no increased heart rate no fever.
see your doctor. may need medication for anxiety.
i am always checking my pulse can checking it so often actually create anxiety and make you nervous? i take 50mg of atenolol heart rate usually 65-78
blood pressure is always changing. the number is reflective of many biological processes. watching your own blood pressure and getting anxious over the number will change the numbers. just as having pain walking running and sleeping.
i have a calcium deposite on my occipital bone. i have blurred vision confusion vertigo heart palpitations horrible joint pain constipation plz help?
this can be caused by multiple issues but you should have this looked at by a physician to rule out more worrisome processes like multiple myeloma or to just let you know it is simply anxiety. these symptoms together can be a multitude of different things and you should be worked up and examined.
why sometimes my heart beat fast?
could be anxiety and or stress.
when i press on back of neck/upper spine i get throbbing pressure in throat heart palps dizzy weakness &shortness of breath. dangerous? just nerves?
serious and ur anxiety and panic attack may be the main cause. get checked for thyroid and heart condition. take care and god bless u!
what can cause pressure in chest other than an heart attack? went to er chest x-ray & ekg was normal has been going on for weeks off and on! no pain
could be muscular skeletal gerd esophagitis pulmonary anxiety. .
what is my risk of a heart attack? my father died suddenly and i am anxious this will happen at any moment.
may be more of an issue than cardiac risk. please have your doc check you out and when cleared a clinical psychologist can help w/anxiety management. please remember than many people who have relatives who died of cardiac disease live long and health lives i'm one of them.
why do i keep freaking out about my pulse being 64 to 74 when resting afraid of it dropping to low i check it on my phone all day long?
that is anxiety and worrying about things that are not possible and that won't happen. why do you let your mind get to this repeated tape in your head? why are you not learning how to breathe better manage your stress in useful ways? or not spending your time working to make your life better through education or helping others?
was having sever heart palpitation's yesterday at wok once home they subsisted n today they r completely gone cud this be my anxiety?
hi it's quite possible that this is related to anxiety. it's prudent though to rule out other possible causes of palpitations. please consult your pcp to get a work up for heart rhythm irregularities (atrial flutter/fib etc) endocrine( hyperthyroidism etc) or medication related side effects( though i don't see any obvious meds listed). cut down on caffeine intake if possible. hope this helps.
was having sever heart palpitation's yesterday at wok once home they subsisted n today they r completely gone cud this be my anxiety?
it you have nerve problem attacks of palpitations can occur any time you get anxious
was having sever heart palpitation's yesterday at wok once home they subsisted n today they r completely gone cud this be my anxiety?
if in case you checked your pulse and it was fast irregular or irregular it may be concerning. anxiety sometime causes palpitations too. i would suggest you to get evaluated by a cardiologist.
what can cause chronic spiking hypertension that is not caused by issue with kidneys hormones or heart? had normal. sono echo ekg and bloodwork.
keep getting the work up. anxiety of course can cause this or rarely a pheocromocytoma. get your urine checked for metanephrines and catecholamines as part of the continuing work up best wishes.
what can cause chronic spiking hypertension that is not caused by issue with kidneys hormones or heart? had normal. sono echo ekg and bloodwork.
extreme spikes in blood pressure with headache and tachcardia occurs in pheochromocytoma and anxiety situations and in poorly controlled htn.
when anxious i get a red blotchy rash on my chest. my mum gets the same & she has high bp and supra ventricular tachycardia. could i have the same?
you just get hives from anxiety.
what to do if heart rate increasing what's wrong?
rapid heart rate is not a cardiac condition by itself. it usually is a sign of something else. common causes include fever pain anxiety infection anemia overactive thyroid use of stimulants (caffeine decongestants) or certain medications. if you cannot identify a cause you may want to discuss with your local physician about getting an ekg or a 24-hour holter monitor.
i suffer from anxiety ad get chest pains and heart flutters as my heart is shaking lasts only a few seconds? thanks
anxiety can cause chest pain and palpitations but a complete exam is in order to rule out serious causes and so that you can be reassured. (the vast majority of 26 year olds will not have a serious cause).
hi i have anxiety wen i exercise i sumtimes feel vibration type feeling in chest as heart rate gos up but goes away wen i start running? dangerous?
well no individual advice can be given here but if one is concerned about the dangerousness of a cardiac symptom it would appear prudent to actually have a physician listen to your heart or do other examinations. increased heart rate and even chest pain are common with anxiety but before concluding it is anxiety an examination is always wise.
how can i overcome anxiety of having afib?
first make sure you investigate the possibility of converting to normal rhhythm with electrical procedure. next realize that you can live a long and healthy life even if afib is not correctable. learn to relax deeply and use guided imagery - <link> and try: <link> you can!
having tense feeling in heart fear of death left arm pulling heart burn sensation in chest back ibs. diag. with vit d b12 def. ecg tmt fine?
it would be very helpful (if the symptoms last long enough) for you to see your doctor while having them or if after hours to be seen in er or urgent care center. if this has happened several times with no explanation it may be helpful to talk w/ your doctor about panic disorder or anxiety attacks. at least once screening for an adrenaline-secreting tumor should be done as well.
hello my heart feels like it pauses sometimes then i feel as if i have pressure all around my face as if strangled for a few minutes.
you need a home heart monitor while your symptoms may be related to anxiety the organic causes such as arrhythmias need to be investigated.
had ekg echo &blood tests normal. any reason to fear cardiac arrest? severe anxiety & hypochondria. nauseous and sweaty. 18 years old
your age and the normal tests which i assume were part of a normal physical evaluation appear to make you anextremely low risk for cardiac arrest. so now you have to figure out why you are so anxious about getting sick and dying. seeing a therapist would be the next step to help you get over this uncomfortable feeling.
had ekg echo &blood tests normal. any reason to fear cardiac arrest? severe anxiety & hypochondria. nauseous and sweaty. 18 years old
in setting of a normal ekg and echo sudden cardiac death and arrest is minimal. there are cirmustances where undetected electrical abnormalities can precipitate arrhythmias but those are rare. seek help for your anxiety.
i went to the er fri for neck spasms and the gave me a steriod and diazepam and toradal and my heart rate been up since wat should i do?
i understand your discomfort. prednisone ( steroid) may cause low potassium level and changes in heart rate it can cause anxiety and restlessness which may increase heart rate. toradol is anti –inflammatory medication. it may cause increased heart rate diazepam relieves spasm and anxiety. see your physician or go to urgent care for diagnosis medication effects and treatment
i have daily heart palps especially when waking up or rolling over to one side in the morning. they are very brief but worry me. should i worry?
be a bad idea to wear a holter monitor for 48 hours to see what kind of arrythmia are you having. it may be due to anxiety related premature atrial contractions. see your doctor.
i am taking citalopram 10mg daily and propanolol 10mg as needed (for anxiety) is it safe to take co-codomol for back pain when i need to?
yes the acetominophen and codeine combination if taken responsibly is safe in that it doesn't negatively interact with either of those medicies at the doses you say.
i am taking citalopram 10mg daily and propanolol 10mg as needed (for anxiety) is it safe to take co-codomol for back pain when i need to?
decreased effectiveness of the codeine but there is no reason you can not take these medications together.
i am taking citalopram 10mg daily and propanolol 10mg as needed (for anxiety) is it safe to take co-codomol for back pain when i need to?
not aware of a medication called co-codomol. it is ok to take ibuprofen with both propranolol and citalopram though.
i have had an abnormal ecg recently and it said probably plural infraction should i be worried? i also suffer from high anxiety.
i have been reading these studies for 45 years and never seen the reading plural(? pleural) infarction. i would suggest you not get anxious and get either another opinion of the reading or at least discuss with your doctor.
i have had an abnormal ecg recently and it said probably plural infraction should i be worried? i also suffer from high anxiety.
sorry-there's no such thing as a "plural infraction". perhaps you meant pleural effusion? but this is not detectable on ekg. or myocardial infarction? this is detectable on ekg. or pericardial effusion? this is suggested by certain changes on ekg. or pulmonary infarction? but this is not detectable by ekg. please give it another try!
i'm having palpitations it wakes me up and then i can't sleep. any suggestions?
this could be anxiety. i would get your md to rule out hyperthyroidism and electrolyte disturbances and then discuss any underlying anxiety.
i have heart beat in my stomach for more than 6months. i'm 17 yrs old. i also have beating in my neck.
palpitations that symptomatic deserve a prompt w/u: exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo andthe discussion of treatment options with your doctor. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety and hyperventilation can cause numbness.
is it safe to take 1mg of lorazepam for anxiety while on 80mg of propranolol hcl?
minor interactions could occur: <link> drugs. com/interactions-check. php? drug_list=1488-0 1956-0
i felt like a skip beat then i got tingly in my chest and arms. went to er and all tests normal. i'm scared i'm going to have a heart attack. help! ?
a heart attack it may possibly be anxiety. make a healthtap appointment to go into more detail about your siutation.
i felt like a skip beat then i got tingly in my chest and arms. went to er and all tests normal. i'm scared i'm going to have a heart attack. help! ?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified. as a 32y/o you are highly unlikely to have a heart attack
i have been taking 50mg of atenolol on a split dose for sinus tachycardia stemming from anxiety. sometimes it makes me very tired and sleepy. ?
check your bp and pulse during these episodes. . if low your medication need to be adjusted low.
i'm responsible for my own anxiety. i'm always checking my heart rate. it's usually 67-78bpm. i take 50mg of atenolol daily. what should i do?
professional can teach you ways to manage your stress. please don't use medication alone. there is so much more that you can do to help. peace and good health. mindfulness meditation clinical hypnosis etc. all can help
i'm responsible for my own anxiety. i'm always checking my heart rate. it's usually 67-78bpm. i take 50mg of atenolol daily. what should i do?
this recurrent question is worth a consult with a health tap psychologist or other mental health provider who offers cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt). this will help answer questions like: what is the function behind checking your pulse so frequently? is there a valid reason? or is it a obsessive/anxiety based behavior? cbt skills can help you manage anxiety more effectively and modify behavior.
i take atenolol for tachycardia caused by anxiety. 50mg per day split dose. is this medication helpful for my heart or it may harm it in the long run?
helpful. any medication can cause harm in the long run but you are on this medication not for ever until your anxiety taken under control with antianxiety medications or cognitive behavioral therapy or both.
i take atenolol for tachycardia caused by anxiety. 50mg per day split dose. is this medication helpful for my heart or it may harm it in the long run?
the drug has been around a long time no long term problems identified
i take certraline and doing nothing for severe phobia as shake when eating at table with anyone so avoid it unless i had alcohol beta blockers no good?
seek a cognitive-behavioral therapist who specializes in phobias. one method they use is systematic desensitization which slowly and incrementally brings the person closer and closer to the thing they are afraid of in slow graduated steps that help make the anxiety more tolerable.
i take certraline and doing nothing for severe phobia as shake when eating at table with anyone so avoid it unless i had alcohol beta blockers no good?
anxiety and depression are treated with ssris (selective serotonin release inhibitors)e. g. celexa zoloft prozac lexapro etc together with anxiolytics e. g. valium ativan xanax (alprazolam) etc. the effects of the drugs vary so the type and quantity of drug needs to be adjusted. adding omega fish oils (www. cardiamin. com use code cmc for a discount) magnesium & vitamin d supplementation helps.
i took 10mg of propranolol 4 hours ago and i take 25mg of zoloft (sertraline) everyday. is this combination okay? would sleeping after taking the propranolol be okay or would my heart rate decrease too much?
do you have any pre - existing medical problems such as increased or decreased blood pressure? do you take any other medications? in general the combination of zoloft (sertraline) and propranolol are considered to be safe and effective for management of anxiety.
i have intense anxiety. my chest feels very tight and achy. i feel shaky. am i having a heart attack? have had ecgs and echocardiogram.
get an evaluation from a psychiatrist to help identify what panic means to you and whatever else may be bothering you. consider recommendations for medication if any are given. get a referral for a reputable psychotherapist to speak with. meds and therapy combined are most optimal; no just one or the other.
i have intense anxiety. my chest feels very tight and achy. i feel shaky. am i having a heart attack? have had ecgs and echocardiogram.
sorry when you list cad as a diagnosis you actually have then while you may actually be all anxiety driven we can't give you reassurance. you need to discuss your status with your own physician and get your situation clarified.
why does my bp and heart rate drop from 160 to 115 when i'm happy? is happiness really an effective way of lowering blood pressure and pulse?
stress anger and anxiety may cause increased heart rate and hypertension.
would a 3-lead ecg show the t-wave different if potassium was low enough?
why is your physician allowing you to obsess about your heart when this is not your heart. you do not have heart disease at age 22. please respond to this answer with a question where you honestly include all of your symptoms and your mental health history. in a young male these symptoms almost universally represent stress reactions to chronic anxiety.
why is it i cannot get my heart rate lower then 85 usually during the day until bedtime when i am tired or early in the morning when its 50-69 bpm?
heart rate increase with activities and gets lower with rest. are you having any symptoms? if you are not: you should not be taking your pulse and create unnecessary anxiety. none of the supplements you are taking are doing you any good. exercise eat well and maybe a multivitamin are all you need.
woke up to five sec. squeezing pain center of chest directly above breast line. no other symptoms. ecg/holter in oct. ok. severe cardiac anxiety.
the cause could be a kind of tendonitis at the juncture of the ribs with the chest bone. pressure a this juncture should produce an increase in sharp pain. it could also be acid reflux. the former could be treated with ice and nsaids. the latter with agents to reduce acid in the stomach such as prilosec.
what is the safest ssri for health anxiety! sertraline states heart attack as a side effect and at prolongation how is this safe i need some help?
your apprehension may cause problems with you getting the benefit from your ssri. if you take your pill ; then wait for something bad to happen you're likely to get anxious/panic ; think you're having a reaction--they all work ; they all take a couple weeks to start working. zoloft/sertralinec is as good as any.
what causes 5 second ache/fullness/like a balloon inflated in left chest/breast. no other symptoms. 1 burp. gas later. ecg ok in march. severe anxiety.
sounds like a gastrointestinal malady of some sort. think about inflammation of the esophagus ("food pipe") or the stomach itself. less likely would be the irritable bowel syndrome. i'd begin by trying over the counter zantac (ranitidine) or omeprazole for say 2-3weeks. if not substantially better then time to seek out a gi specialist.
why woukd my pulse be 120 in the morning time when i haven't done any heavy activity? have had normal ekg and echogram in last year. anxiety?
possibility but there are lots of others. please continue to visit your doc until you are both satisfied. cardiologist herbert benson wrote a little book called the relaxation response. it's a simple mental technique to reduce the fight-flight response which can account for high bp and rapid heart beat. i'll try to refer your question to another expert here on healthtap also if it works. peace.
had a normal stress test and echo a few months ago and was normal. still having palps and chest pain. could something been missed or my anxiety?
these tests are inadequate for women. you need to explore further. a better option is having a session of multifunction cardiogram. good luck! <link>
had a normal stress test and echo a few months ago and was normal. still having palps and chest pain. could something been missed or my anxiety?
if all your tests were normal at your age this is most likely anxiety. you can take magnesium about 200 mg per day which can help and avoid caffeine and alcohol get lots of sleep meditate and exercise. if these don't work then you may need anti-anxiety medication. but try those first.
had multiple ekgs chest xrays and blood work chest still hurting back pains feel like something is major wrong could this be anxiety?
symptoms like that can be as simple as vitamin deficiency an extremely common problem in u. s. because of the low standards of diet particularly the sweet "junk".
had multiple ekgs chest xrays and blood work chest still hurting back pains feel like something is major wrong could this be anxiety?
perhaps but you need to dig deeper. this could be serious!
heart has been skipping beats for a week straight and just started all of a sudden out of no where. happens atleast 5 or more times a day.
hi! palpitations can be caused by excess caffeine nicotine stress and anxiety electrolyte problems hyperthyroidism as well as underlying cardiac problems with the conduction system of the heart or often seen in valve problems like mitral valve prolapse. to know for sure what is going on you should see your primary care physician to get some blood tests and ecg.
have shortness of breath and lightheaded. blood work 2 ekg and chest x-ray all normal. cause? high blood pressure a possibility? on. 25 of xanax (alprazolam)
the xanax (alprazolam) suggests a doc gave it to you for anxiety or panic attacks. getting online info without seeing the doc likely not a great idea for you. suggest you see your doc or another so more stress isn't triggered.
how rare is sca (sudden cardiac arrest) in people with anxiety/depression taking setraline 50 mg?
about 2% of 21000 pts on sertraline had sudden death. can reference this: <link>
how likely is it that ''anxiety tachycardia palpitations'' can cause a heart attack?
especially in the presence of coronary artery disease.
hi! sometimes i feel like short of breadthe but my blood pressure 102/62 and heart rate was 66. is this normal? thanks!
shorness of breath can come from asthma anxiety indigestion as well as cardiac reasons. your vitals are good but see your doctor and find out why you are getting out of breath.
how many beta blockers should i take and how long before my oral presentation?
it takes little to help with performance anxiety. a 5 or 10mg dose of propranolol is generally quite enough.
how much can i trust a pulse/oxy meter from the store my pulse and sp02 level comes out fine but the line seems to skip a beat always?
you seem to have an obsession with your health and a lot of anxiety. your heart is beating and your oxygenation is normal you'll do better to put the device in a drawer and get some exercise.
help my heart rate is 100bpm for no apparent reason i have no pain or palpitations but a history of health anxiety. using an iphone app to measure?
for a 20 y/o male a resting hr of 100 is unusual. many possibilities most are benign. the phone app may be erroneous you're checking only at times when you are anxious or you are deconditioned (out of shape). i'd suggest regular daily aerobic exercise and if still fast after 3 or 4 weeks then see a doctor. a 24 hour holter monitor would be appropriate as an initial step.
how to tell if i have a heart attack cause i got anxiety tachycardia palpitations?
your young age unless there were other major comirbidities.
how to tell if i have a heart attack cause i got anxiety tachycardia palpitations?
superimposed on other risks anxiety may lead to some increased pulse rate but not usually irregularities look at american heart " simple seven" and get yourself a plan! to be healthy.
heartburn in my heart fast heart beat and numbness and chills on cheast then hard to breath like no air or i can't breath?
the symptoms sound like anxiety but with sickle cell you should get checked.
i was prescribed bisoprolol 1. 25mg for palpitation and ectopic beats. can i change to inderal (propranolol) to treat my anxiety as well. thank you.
you probably can but ask your doctor
i have anxiety would this cause adrenaline rush in throat and skipped heartbeat at the same time?
both the rush and changed heartbeats can be products of anxiety - certainly want a good physical evaluation clarifying cardiac pulmonary and gastrointestinal status.
i have anxiety would this cause adrenaline rush in throat and skipped heartbeat at the same time?
symptoms of functional (psychological) anxiety and these two are among them. its important to understand the dynamics of anxiety and its many manifestations. here's a place to start: <link>
i exercise quite regularly but i get heart palpitations and experience anxiety and stress on a regular basis. is this bad for my heart?
it can be. have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
i have experienced anxiety i was taking lexapro (escitalopram) but it caused rapid heart rate and now am on zoloft 25 and still same problem any good med for anxiety?
cbt or other specific psychotherapy is an essential component of successful management of anxiety. sometimes it can be effective w/out regular daily medication - sometimes a term of daily meds are helpful. but you'd be wise to use therapy to learn skills that let you avoid minimize ad manage that symptom. best!
i have experienced anxiety i was taking lexapro (escitalopram) but it caused rapid heart rate and now am on zoloft 25 and still same problem any good med for anxiety?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
i feel breathless even when oxygen levels are ok [97 to 99%] pls advice of other possible causes of breathlessness [iron level and ecg was normal ]?
anxiety can make you feel breathless. heart failure can do it. pulmonary vascular narrowing can make you feel breathless -- that gets missed. glad you're not anemic. the question is going to be "how is your exercise tolerance? " and "do you need to have spirometry? " hope you find a treatable cause.
i had one pair of ventricular ectopic beats on my holter monitor. their were also 37 isolated. is this normal? echo & stress test were fine.
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations etc.
i stopped taking my trazadone 25mg two nights ago because of the low heart rate i only took it for a month what's a safer alternative like sominex ok?
are you sure trazadone lowered your heart rate? you are also taking a beta-blocker (inderal) which can lower hr. you are taking klonopin (clonazepam) (long-acting benzodiazepine) which can help sleep. i would not add otc drugs without checking with your md. consider non-drug treatment for insomnia: cbt psychotherapy which could also help you with your anxiety. consult a psychologist who treats sleep prob
i have mobitz type 1 due to high vagal tone. sometimes it feels like my heart is jumping around. is that all part of it. i'm so scared of dying?
dysautonomia syndrome causes different anxiety producing symptoms which are alleviated by avoidance of stimulants ensuring hydration using magnesium vitamin d & omega fish oils (www. cardiamin. com use code: cmc) and ssris e. g. citalopram 5 to 10mg daily. read dr. ronald hoffman’s mvp book (www. amazon. com) and visit www. dysautonomiainternational. com.
i got a little anxious today blood pressure went to 120/62 normally 95/50 - 105/55 heart rate 80-100+ now it's 99/52 heart rate 68! damage done now?
anxiety can trigger chemicals that can increase bp and hr. your numbers higher when compared to your base line are still not that high. the key is was the anxiety an appropriate response to a situation or not. we all get anxiety and often is appropriate it becomes an issues when anxiety prevails for no reason. key to get help there. your number are back to baseline
is it normal for a healthy 25 yr old who suffers from anxiety to occasionally get a few heart flutters during or right after playing soccer?
increased heart rate is a common symptom of anxiety but when you are playing sports it is important to not assume that increased heart rate is a bad thing. a good therapist can help you develop thought and behavior skills to calm down your heart and to deal well with the thoughts.
is it normal for a healthy 25 yr old who suffers from anxiety to occasionally get a few heart flutters during or right after playing soccer?
it may or may not be normal best to be checked by a doctor
is it normal for a healthy 25 yr old who suffers from anxiety to occasionally get a few heart flutters during or right after playing soccer?
it would be a good idea to have a ecg done to tell what the heart is doing. . stress test
i am a 20 yr old male. suffer from anxiety. occasionally i have heart flutter feelings. they most common during /after sport game. had ekg. is it ok?
flutter needs to be evaluated by your doc. it sounds like you've done that. next stop is to see a mental health professional to learn techniques to manage your anxiety. please don't use medicine only but make sure to get therapy. see www. relaxationresponse. org for a self-help technique.
i am a 20 yr old male. suffer from anxiety. occasionally i have heart flutter feelings. they most common during /after sport game. had ekg. is it ok?
see a psychiatrist for diagnosis and treatment of anxiety treatment of anxiety with therapy medication breathing relaxation visual imagery tai chi yoga and meditation is very beneficial
i am a 20 yr old male. suffer from anxiety. occasionally i have heart flutter feelings. they most common during /after sport game. had ekg. is it ok?
the heart rate increase is a normal part of our fight or flight response. part of your training for sports can be the positive self-talk about success. you may want to develop some specific motivational thoughts to use such as "i can do this" "we're the best" or something that makes you feel motivated!
i have difficulty breathing comes suddenly last for 1-2 hours sometimes disappear for a period and come back make me sigh a loty my ecg excellent.
without examining you it's impossible to say what is going on in your case. however a normal ecg does make it more likely that the symptoms are caused by anxiety or stress. however blood clots to the lung are also able to cause such symptoms. if you smoke take birth control pills or have had long periods of immobility (or airplane travel) see your doctor.
i'm having heart palpitations. anxiety is acting up i'm on busprione. no previous heart conditions. is there a way to stop them?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i'm having heart palpitations. anxiety is acting up i'm on busprione. no previous heart conditions. is there a way to stop them?
buspar (buspirone) may not be an effective enough med for significant anxiety. recommend you talk to you doctor and explain what effect and side effects you are getting. buspar (buspirone) is not a popular med because it's effects may be too subtle if you have serious anxiety. please also remember the long term answer for most anxiety is to see a psychologist expert in treating anxiety and trauma--look for someone emdr
i can feel heartbeat in wrist sometimes while sitting down. and when i look at it you can see it pulsing. please help is this a serious prob?
it is normal but ignore it otherwise u will anxiety
is it possible to develop tolerance to propranolol? if i use it for performance anxiety may i need to step up my dosage over time?
intermittent use should not cause this. there is a lot of room to move with dosing on propranolol. you may develop an increased need for meds over time but may just as well be related to increased anxiety!
i get a strange tingling sensation in my lips like the feeling when you come around after passing out. also reoccurring palpitations. what is this?
often seen with anxiety.
will xanex lower your heart rate?
yes if your increased heart rate is due to anxiety.
what to do if i do not know what's wrong with me high resting heart rate anxiety?
medical causes before assuming that an emotional issue is the cause for physical symptoms. deconditioning can be another reason for this. anxiety might be a contributing factor but rule out med issues first.
weakness chest pain lightheadedness muscle pain chills tingling limbs headaches nausea lightheaded rapid heartbeat on movement palps. cause?
your symptoms may be related to a heart issue but due to your age and unknown other medical history this is less likely. there are also many other causes that may produce these symptoms like stress reaction or anxiety. however the latter causes are not serious thus it is important that if these symptoms persist that you seek out medical attention to further identify the cause.
went to doc and discuses executive burnout and presentation anxiety to try beta blocker was prescribed lorazapam up to 2 mgs is this better?
it depends on the assessment that your doctor made. propranolol is a beta blocker that can slow your heart rate and has a proven efficacy in combating presentation anxiety. lorazepam is a benzodiazepine medication that also relieves anxiety via a different mechanism. benzodiazepines may sometimes cause sedation and tolerance over time. either medication may help you tolerate!
what amount stress and anxiety can the body take before it suffers from a heart attack or a stroke?
it is known that stress and anxiety can definitely increase your risk for heart attack and stroke. the body adapts to a certain amount of stress and anxiety. even more dangerous than chronic stress and anxiety is a huge spike in one of these. some people have more organ reserve than others so that affects your risk too.
wat could having history of sharp left sided chest pain and heart palpatations allong with an ecg showing tachycardia and eptopic complexes mean?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
why is it when i lay on my stomach it cause me to have chest pains and sometimes palpitations is this a result of my anxiety is my mind fooling me?
caused need to be ruled out before the symptoms can attributed to your panic disorder.
will ativan (lorazepam) mask any other medical symptoms? md said anxiety causing palpitations and such. its helped but is it just hiding more serious symptoms?
only if other medical conditions cause anxiety. you need to tell your doctor your fears concerns and what medical conditions you think you suffer from. if you don't tell your doctor the full extent of your fears and questions he/she will not be able to give you the right treatment.
will ativan (lorazepam) mask any other medical symptoms? md said anxiety causing palpitations and such. its helped but is it just hiding more serious symptoms?
mask is maybe wrong word. it can treat things so you don't know you have them. like you could have high blood pressure and not know it if you take ativan (lorazepam) all day every day b/c it lowers bp. so then when you stop taking it for anxiety you all of a sudden see the high bp. it will not cure an arrhythmia which is what your md is talking about i think. normal ekg echo? ativan (lorazepam)'s ok therapys better.
what to do if i have beta-blockers worked for anyone with social anxiety on this site?
beta blockers tend to work well with anxiety symptoms related to public speaking. they would not be my first choice if you have a broader social anxiety.
why does even 1-2 units of alcohol give me palpitations racing heart and insomnia when trying to sleep? i used to be able to drink up to 10 units.
but why are you trying to drink alcohol when you are taking fluoxetine? generally alcohol will make depression and anxiety worse. you may want to discuss with your doctor first before drinking alcohol.
why do bronchodilating drugs (such as albuterol) cause rapid pulse nervousness and anxiety even when used as directed?
the medications you mention do that as part of their intended action. that's how dilation works. it's not an asthma cure but rather symptom relief. it mimics the release of adrenaline effects on our body that increase heart rate and breathing capacity to allow us to fight or flee is what it does. the tightness opens but our heart also races and it's like we're being threatened. ok?
why do bronchodilating drugs (such as albuterol) cause rapid pulse nervousness and anxiety even when used as directed?
this type of medication stimulates beta-2 adrenergic receptors. this type of stimulation causes beneficial effects such as bronchodilation but it also effects many other areas of the body and causes the side effects you describe.
why do bronchodilating drugs (such as albuterol) cause rapid pulse nervousness and anxiety even when used as directed?
the name of bronchodilators is beta2agonists. the common side effect is a palpitation also common tremor sweating and agitation. the medicine dilates vessels and stimulates the heart. if you use it too often the side effect is more prominent.
woke up this am with a heart rate of 160bpm shaky weak couldnt walk. what can cause this? atial fib? wpw syndrome? mi?
unsure but afib is an irregularly irregular pulse. have you considered anxiety attack?
hi i have been having numbness in my arms high heart rate (140) over periods of about 5 minutes shortness of breath at times low energy any ideas?
could be as serious as a thyroid or heart problem or it could be as nondangerous as anxiety and panic attacks. what does your doctor say?
having dentistry work done. he said i will only need shots for numbing. i have pvcs and tachy. should i b worried?
i would say not to worry. as long as the dentist does not inject into a blood vessel (esp for lower injections) which he/she will confirm by aspirating the syringe during the injection. natural anxiety can do worse thing for you tachycardia.
having dentistry work done. he said i will only need shots for numbing. i have pvcs and tachy. should i b worried?
discuss your cardiac issues with your dentist. dentists can use a variety of dental anesthetics. 3% carbocaine without any vasoconstrictor may be the best one for you based on your heart related issues but it only provides profound anesthesia for 30-45 minutes so you may want to keep your appts short. anti-anxiety meds may also be prescribed to lessen your worry about the procedures planned.
how can effexor (venlafaxine) xr be effective for anxiety if it increases adrenaline? one main anxiety symptom i have is tachycardia and ssri's didn't help.
if effexor (venlafaxine) isn't helping you fire it and try something else. propranolol is very effective for blunting adrenaline triggered tachyardia. the dose ranges from 60 to 240 mg daily and can be given as a single long-acting capsule.
hr 108 shortness of breath and chest pain what could be the cause? history: hyperthyroidism until july 20 2011 hbp and palpitations no thyroid meds
get checked for heart/lung condition asthma anxiety irregular heart rhythm etc. i presume u had all the necessary tests done. have your thyroid function monitored. cut down on caffeine/soda intake minimize exposure to smoke. get checked for pheochromocytoma. take care!
if taking synthroid (thyroxine) 100 mcg every other day and 50 mcg on other days still having tachycardia at night occasionally. dr said levels ok why tachycard?
if your thyroid levels are fine your rapid heart rate is not related to your taking thyroid medication. there are many many many cause of tachycardia including anxiety but if it is intermittent it is unlikely to be the sign of a significant medical issue.
i had something like a chest spasm on my right side and i got dizzy for a few seconds. what can it be? thank you
of the chest wall with hyperventilation from stress and anxiety can do this. sometimes you need tests if it get worse such as chest x-ray ekg. i hope this helps. if you do have more questions or other concerns kindly contact with me on my virtual practice at : www. healthtap. com/dryetimyan
is it possible to have a genetic cardiac defect leading to ventricular arrhythmia/sudden death. even with no family history of any heart defect?
it is possible for all of your family to be heterozygous for an abnormality and therefore asymptomatic and you are homozygous and at risk. it is unlikely that you would have a problem of this nature and not have had serious symptoms or diagnostic evidence by the time you were 20. you need to get control of your anxiety. you have a normal echo and a loop recorder in place. take your xanax (alprazolam) and chill
i'm having chest discomfort shortness of breath and left arm and neck pain dizziness and pressure in head. had a stress echo and 5 ekgs all normal?
anxiety neurosis. stop borrowing someones's signs and symptoms. you have no med problem.
i suffer with severe anxiety and when i played football last week i had bad heart palpitations and i have continued to have them now and again what feels like an irregular beat in my chest. i have had an ecg and blood test but they come back normal. is my
your question was cut off. please re-ask and clarify the question.
i've been experiencing heart palpation and sharp and pressure like pains in the middle of my back and chest right after the palpation?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i took 3. 5 grams of niacin yesterday now in severe nausea and tachycardia?
the nausea is most likely a consequence of the niacin and the tachycardia is most likely as a response to your nausea mild dehydration vasodilatation from the niacin and anxiety about the event. this will resolve. check with your health care provider regarding the proper dosing for you for the future.
i have had a tension headache for the past hour now it's gone but i feel light headed and and feel my pulse in the back of my neck and back of my head and i have insomnia and anxiety could that have anything to do with those feelings i'm experiencing?
need to be evaluated by your doctor and the same goes for the other symptoms you mention to rule out medical conditions. if this is an anxiety disorder you can see a clinical psychologist to learn some stress management techniques. peace and good health.
is vertigo a symptom of anxiety? my vertigo has lasted for 3 months now. other symptoms include sweating palpitations and depersonilization.
first see your pcp to rule out medical causes for vertigo and palpitations. be sure to list all meds any use of alcohol/drugs or tobacco and current stresses. if all points to anxiety ask for a referral to a mental health professional for coping strategies and guidance. meantime try to limit stressful situations and write down possible triggers for episodes of vertigo. hope this helps you.
is it safe to take caffeine pills and energy drinks together?
consuming 4 to 12 mg/kg of caffeine has been associated with undesirable symptoms including anxiety and jitteriness. headache and fatigue commonwithdrawal symptoms can occur after short-term high-dose use. caffeine intoxication is a clinical syndrome of nervousness irritability anxiety insomnia tremor tachycardia palpitations and upset stomach. seifert et al 2011. its high risk behavior
is a resting heart rate of 120 high?
un the absence of stress anxiety or recent exercise it is high. you should see your dr. for an ekg and possibly a blood count and thyroid blood work if needed.
is it normal for sugar to increase heart rate?
there are a variety of reasons sugar can speed up the heart rate. it has immediate effects on metabolism (body energy usage) medium time and late effects. these are controlled through a variety of hormones and are normal. if the rate is change is a lot you are having other symptoms or it is causing panic attacks especially in someone with anxiety disorder these are reasons to be checked.
i do have anxiety but my chest been hurting for a week now is that a heart attack. it's not squeezing or heavy feeling just a funny feeling.
i do recommend that you have a physical exam right away. but if no organic issue comes up please see a psychologist expert in treating anxiety disorders. consider emdr therapist as most effective for long term resolution of anxiety
i do have anxiety but my chest been hurting for a week now is that a heart attack. it's not squeezing or heavy feeling just a funny feeling.
can make a diagnosis of a heart attack. i strongly urge you visit a provider asap. it is recommended also to get an annual full physical check up to stay healthy and prevent medical illness. best wishes.
i took an adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) yesterday at 12 and it's now more than 24 hours later and i have tachycardia and a bpm of 100. is this cause for concern?
stimulants like adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) can cause increased anxiety rapid heart rate and elevated blood pressure. so your vital signs should be monitored regularly while you are on these meds. if it persists then the dose may need to be lowered or you should be switched to another med. other substances like caffeine can also raise your heart rate. naturally if you exercise your hr will go up.
i'm a 18yo f with a pulse rate of 100-135 what should i do? i'm also a smoker of only a year. how can i slow it down? as well as quitting smoking
helpful for both may be biofeedback. make sure about reasons/causes for each. anxiety stress etc. hydrate with water. hope this helps. biofeedback is way you can tap into yourself and solve or improve a number of conditions.
i've been experiencing vertigo palpitations sweating and a continuous headache for the last 4 months. could this be anxiety?
why speculate when you could see a dr about it?
why my heart beats fast? and weird like i'm scare or nervous?
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. symptoms of severe anxiety: insomnia chest pain shortness of breath nausea palpitations teeth clenching/grinding and headache.
what to do if i'm extremely anxious right now. what are the chances i have an arrhythmia?
first obtain medical consultation to make sure it is not cardiac related. if not treat as anxiety and try not to panic that something is wrong with your heart. try to follow a simple behavior program for anxiety management.
why does my heart beat fast when i'm eating like i'm nervous or scare? it never happen before.
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. symptoms of severe anxiety: insomnia chest pain shortness of breath nausea palpitations teeth clenching/grinding and headache.
went to emergency yesterday and they did blood tests and made an ecg (chest pain). all they told me was that i shouldn't worry and they sent me home.?
atypical chest pains are common and no reason to worry about. . there are many reasons for it such as anxiety related to heart burn musculoskeletal & other reasons.
what are some good medications for palpitations from pvc's and pac's? took metoprolol but gained weight just started atenolol. don't wanna gain more
if you do gain weight then consider other options. it is not that common to gain weight on beta blockers and can usually be avoided if you watch your food intake. if your irregular heartbeat is so bothersome that you take medication you may want to consider ablation. it is ussually such a benign condition that no medications are necessary. make sure it is not your anxiety that you are treating
how can coffee cause palpitations?
the caffeine in regular coffee is a stimulant and too much in a short amount of time can cause palpitations anxiety jitteriness sleeplessness and irritability.
heart investigations have been fine. yet still gettig chest pain tachycardia hard heart beat palpitations short of breath and fatigue. wht else?
i am assuming you are no using any street drugs. also assuming ekg stress test holter were negative. excessive coffee energy drinks and other medication can give your symptoms. endocrine conditions like overactive thyroid. anxiety disorders another possibility. i will continue with a good trusted physician that can expend time with you and get a good history and physical.
heart palpitations numb/tingly arms/legs dizzy/faint no loc. felt as is peed self (warm) then ok a few minutes later. serious? 31/f no <3 prob ns
causes for above episodes could include a heart rhythm problem metabolic/endocrine problem or possibly anxiety/panic related. an event monitor or holter monitor would be helpful to assess if was a rhythm problem. your doctor can assess if lab testing or heart echocardiogram (to look at heart structure as a potential cause of rhythm problem) is needed.
have chest tightness in cold air or with anxiety. ekg blood tests echocardio and myocardial perfusion scan (cardio) are normal. what could it be?
as you said anxiety causes vasospasm. same as cold air. see also comments.
have chest tightness in cold air or with anxiety. ekg blood tests echocardio and myocardial perfusion scan (cardio) are normal. what could it be?
both can cause the symptoms you're describing.
heart rate decreases with caffeine/adderall is this normal?
for adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) and caffeine to cause a decrease in heart rate suggests the substances are helping your anxiety and frustration and providing you with relief. usually both substances cause an increase in heart rate.
have dull ache chest pain on and off above/upper left and right never in the middle. health test normal. cholesterol normal not diabetic ecg fine.
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
have to take adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) ir 3x a day 20 mg/20mg/10mg. i've had major anxiety breathing problems chest pain and heart racing. is this common?
these are all side effects of adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine).
i'm 18 severe anxiety for many years - rapid heart beat palpitations etc. no family history healthy weight. what my chances of heart attack/ disease?
at 18 in the absence of other diagnosed heart conditions or significant family history. . your chances are currently very very low. though anxiety is a crippling condition and can cause feelings of physical problems you are at a very low risk of any heart issues. don't let that compound your anxiety but i would endorse you to get seen by a mental health professional for the anxiety.
i'm 18 severe anxiety for many years - rapid heart beat palpitations etc. no family history healthy weight. what my chances of heart attack/ disease?
you don't have to worry about a heart attack heart disease in the near future given your age. but you do need to treat your anxiety- to alleviate the symptoms of anxiety itself and a lot of physical problems as your body is constantly exposed to stress hormones. see a psychiatrist.
i am currently on escitalopram 20 mg for health anxiety. i read about the qt prolongation and possible arryhmia side effects and i feel scared to take my meds. my health anxiety seems to focus on my heart. i have taken celexa 40 mg for almost four years w
i would discuss this issue with your primary physician. if you've never had any history of heart problems and have previously had a normal ekg i would not expect an issue. pre-existing heart conditions such as certain kinds of arrhythmias can make qt prolongation more dangerous but in the absence of any issues these medications are safe to take. i would talk with your doctor.
i can feel my pulse throbbing throughout my body. it feels as if my entire body is expanding and contracting with each heart beat.
this may be just from a severe anxiety/psychologic reaction or something more serious like a dissecting aortic aneurysm even though i am more inclined towards anxiety. nonetheless this calls for immediate medical attention.
i'm 19 years having pvc's for a couple of days accompanied by fear/dizziness restinghr 46-50 i'm 5'10 142lbs and i workout daily going through some stress/anxiety and sleep problems am i safe?
may be prolapsing mitral valve and need to be on beta blockers. need medical work-up.
i'm 19 years having pvc's for a couple of days accompanied by fear/dizziness restinghr 46-50 i'm 5'10 142lbs and i workout daily going through some stress/anxiety and sleep problems am i safe?
a few questions about your story. . how do you know these are pvcs? have you had an ekg perhaps a holter monitor? do the pvcs happen during workouts? do they compel you to stop what you're doing? when you say "dizzy" do you feel as if you might pass out? pending answers to these questions the general rule is that any irregular heartbeat associated with light-headedness should be evaluated.
i was wondering if watching horror movies and the killing scenes in them is dangerous? can it damage you or kill you? heart attack? i have anxiety
it's not for real and just make believe. see a psychiatrist if you feel differently
i like heart rate to be 60-75 it occasionally spikes to 90-92. is this dangerous? i take 50mg of atenolol. spikes when i check pulse obsessively.
a heart rate of 92 is perfectly safe. it sounds like you already suspect that checking your pulse obsessively is not helpful and may be reinforcing your anxiety. substituting a healthy outlet for compulsive tendencies can be a useful mechanism for dealing with anxiety. daily aerobic exercise may be something to try and coincidentally improves heart health.
i get very nervous during dr appts and my ekg had me at tachycardia range. why does this happen to me? i have been cutting down on alcohol and coffee.
will trigger the "flight or fight" reaction which causes your heart to race. you may have had a bad experience with doctors in the past or have a predisposition (or both) to high anxiety in certain situations such as the medical setting. anxiety or panic attacks in the absence of medical factors are treatable. see: <link> take care.
i had tachyarrhythmia (tachycardia? ) during ekg today v. anxious at time of test. my dr said to cut down alcohol but i barely have 2 drinks/wk. help?
anxiety can cause tachycardia. 2 drinks /week should not be responsible for the tachycardia. avoid caffeine if you are a coffee drinker though
i've been diagnosed with ibs and gerd my stool is random almost never good shape (yellow). also i seem to have headache tingling/crawling skin dry mouth. and pvc's when i lay what's related?
your symptoms don't seem to be related to a single physical illness but may be related to anxiety or stress which can affect widespread areas of the body. the mind-body connection is real. there is constant back and forth communication between your brain and your organs not only by nerve connections but also by neuropeptides generated by both which travel in your blood><link>
i take atenolol 50mg split dose. can this cause anxiety? i feel like it makes me anxious although it brings down heart rate. is this med safe? harmful?
what is the purpose of the atenolol for you? hypertension or anxiety?
i have mild mvp mild regurgitation. i feel palpitation and anxious at night. why this happens at night?
it sounds like you may be suffering from panic attacks likely due to stress and anxiety. recent studies refute prior held beliefs that mvp causes anxiety. see your clinician to referral for cognitive behavioral therapy an ssri and possibly a short course of a benzodiazepine. take care!
i'm 19. i have heart palpitations that occur sometimes rarely sometimes frequently sometimes during activity or rest. had normal ecg. should i worry?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
i have a lot of anxiety and have noticed fluttering in my upper abdomen area. my heart rate is always the same. could this be from anxiety?
trunk of the body needs to be examined by your doctor. it may be from anxiety but he/she can rule out other possibilities and then you will know how to deal w/it better. peace and good health.
i have been dealing with a strong icy feeling like when you eat a strong mint in my throat and chest. i am also dealing with heart palpitations. i had an ekg done on monday that was normal but i am really getting nervous. for the past few months i h
heart problems are very rare at age 28. most common cause of palpitations are anxiety attacks caffeine use smoking sleep deprivation dehydration anemia and drug use. other problems that can present like heart problems include gallbladder attacks heartburn ulcer disease and spasm of the esophagus. the original post was cut off and more information would narrow it down.
i have been on atenolol 10 months 50mg per day for tachy/anxiety. my hr is lower in the 50's at night. can beta blockers over time have more effect?
l9ng term use c@n lead to depression just be awa%e of side effects
i take 25mg metropolol er succinate daily. doctor says i can take. 5mg up to twice daily for anxiety. is this safe? no interaction?
5 mg of what?
i sometimes feel my heart skip a few beats but it lasts a few seconds until i breathe deep. can anxiety make these skips more frequent?
heart palpitations can be bothersome or frightening. they usually aren't serious or harmful though and often go away on their own. most of the time they're related to stress and anxiety or to consumption of stimulants such as caffeine nicotine or alcohol. palpitations also often occur during pregnancy. in rare cases palpitations can be a sign of a more serious heart condition. therefore if you have heart palpitations make arrangements to see your doctor. and seek immediate medical attention if along with palpitations you experience shortness of breath dizziness chest pain or fainting
i was taking 50mg of atenolol doctor suggested i switch to toprol xl 50mg because the atenolol was wearing off fast. second day on toprol and it sucks. it takes too long to kick in i feel it's making anxiety worse. switching back to atenolol safe?
yes. you can switch back to atenolol but talk to your doctor first and find out the right dose and frequency.
is rna for hiv conclusive at 30 days after exposure? i am going insane! please help. i have anxiety issues so i need to figure this out before i have a heart attack.
probably not often you get 3 6 and 12 months labs done ideally though if the source person/patient is proven negative it's quite unlikely you will get it. also if you had a high risk exposure you should be taking antiviral therapy prophylactically early this is the best defense
is rna for hiv conclusive at 30 days after exposure? i am going insane! please help. i have anxiety issues so i need to figure this out before i have a heart attack.
all tests have their sensitivity and specificity. also their predictive value based upon the a priori probability that you have a particular condition based on your history. you need a good doc who you can sit down and talk with about your particular concerns and get them answered to your satisfaction.
what to do if heart palps / tired / anxious / don't feel right. dr. says i'm fine. what could it be?
medically cleared by your physician - consider seeing a psychologist or psychiatrist to determine if there is an anxiety disorder. anxiety disorders are treatable (if that is the cause of your symptoms). take care.
what can i take for anxiety. tried most snri and ssri with too much activation. current meds are betapace (sotalol) and losartan?
ask your doc about xanax (alprazolam) or oxazepam.
what are some nice tips to control anxiety or your heart rate in stressful environments?
what! on a health website? i mean the breathing pattern - w/out a cigarette! actually many smokers benefit from the breath pattern w/out knowing the role it plays. the deep inhale hold and full exhale thru the lips is very good for you. it reduces bp and hr. part of "i need a smoke! " is about this. so don't use tobacco - but take the time of a cigarette and breathe that way whenever you want.
when irunning waking i get extreme tiredness heart racing and shortness of breathing iam thinking like heart attack anxiety can couse extreme tirednes?
anxiety disorders are often quite varied and can respond to medications and counseling. sometimes it can take a while to find the best medications. if cardiac symptoms are present they should be checked out although uncommon at your age. go over your history and symptoms with your medical provider and if you do not get improvement consider seeing a specialist such as a psychiatrist. good luck!
why do i always think about how i'm breathing and heart rate rise?
anxiety a lung problem or both. if persists go see your doc on a day that it's bothering u.
heavy heart palpitations after eating generally healthly but severely consitpated. is there any link between eating and feel palpitations?
constipation can cause discomfort which can cause tachycardia and anxiety which could be perceived as palpitating. get your constipation treated.
how can you tell if you're having palpitations?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
how can i be not so obsessed by my heart rate? there is nothing wrong with my heart (checked) but sometimes i get these pvc's and they make me anxious
anxiety stress strenuous exercise fear anger and social anxiety cause palpitations. it is natural. you are doing behavior therapy keep it up. you may want to check thyroid function. high thyroid can cause palpitations. your ekg is normal so there is no congenital wpw syndrome. also no coffee alcohol or social drugs. . good luck.
heart cath negative 2 years ago ecg ekgs countless visits to the er and other drs. feel like i can't get a deep breath in. even worse when trying t exercise. something more or just anxiety?
that's an awful lot of tests. you've probably seen enough cardiologists. if you have also seen a lung specialist there isn't much left to look for. have you never been treated for anxiety to see if you feel better?
heart cath negative 2 years ago ecg ekgs countless visits to the er and other drs. feel like i can't get a deep breath in. even worse when trying t exercise. something more or just anxiety?
sounds like anxiety to me.
how quickly does magmesium citrate work on palpitations?
is it racing pounding or jumps/skips? they are different + treatment is different. there are many causes incl. caffeine adrenaline (from stress anxiety or illness) abnormal blood chemistry or actual heart problems. low mag can cause extra beats but mag tabs might not help if your level is normal or if you have benign palpitations (pounding from adrenaline). have you seen your doc?
hi doctor why am i having palpitations after my angiogram was clear?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
hello. i'm a 36 year old male with history of anxiety and pvcs. can't sleep. as soon as i doze off i get sharp pain below sternum. what is this?
see your primary care doctor first to rule out medical issues especially with pain in your sternum. if you are cleared medically try using the free anti anxiety app for up to date information exercises and videos to reduce anxiety. best.
hello. i'm a 36 year old male with history of anxiety and pvcs. can't sleep. as soon as i doze off i get sharp pain below sternum. what is this?
there are many causes of sharp chest discomfort and given your self recognized anxiety you likely think the worst. musculoskeletal causes are most likely but gastrointestinal and pulmonary causes as well as the protean manifestations of anxiety can be th culprit. there are cardiac causes potentially but much less likely. set up an evaluation with your doctor. some testing may be in order.
how long is it ok for a resting heart rate to be at 115?
a resting heart rate of 115 is considered abnormal. concern is what is causing it. would not let it go have it checked especially if any sob chest pain anxiety nausea etc.
how long is it ok for a resting heart rate to be at 115?
115 for long time depending on the reason. sinus tachycardia vs supraventricular tachycardia if regular rhythm. if irregular rhythm then it's a more severe arrhythmia. need more info to help you. dehydration hyperthyroid heart attacks anxiety/panic attacks drug induced physical deconditioning obesity few causes. see your doctor for better assessment soon.
how dangerous are heart palpitations? i experience them almost every night and they scare me! i've had an ekg which the dr said was perfect but could something else be going on?
a young person your age if there is no other medical causes like heart thyroid or adrenal problems can be very likely anxiety panic attacks get consultation with psychiatrist to address the issues with therapy andrews can easily be taken care of relax if doctor told you there is nothing wrong with your heart there is nothing to stress out get an appt and will be ok good luck.
how dangerous are heart palpitations? i experience them almost every night and they scare me! i've had an ekg which the dr said was perfect but could something else be going on?
if you are otherwise healthy & these are related to anxiety or stress then it should be fine. if not you could have a problem with the electrical conduction in the heart; a 24hr ekg might help.
have panic attacks but sometimes resting heart rate increases w/o feelings of anxiety--normal test results-not worried-curious abt avg. fluctuations?
a normal heart rate is between 60 and 90 beats per minute. it can vary slightly depending upon race gender age and smoking status. degree of physical fitness is also a factor since there are plenty of people who are very physically fit with a heart rate of 50. clinically if your resting heart pulse is over 120 or under 50 if you have any symptoms then it would be appropriate to be seen by your doctor.
have panic attacks but sometimes resting heart rate increases w/o feelings of anxiety--normal test results-not worried-curious abt avg. fluctuations?
some people have a variation in their resting heart. you were great in having it checked. give yourself a pat on the back.
have panic attacks but sometimes resting heart rate increases w/o feelings of anxiety--normal test results-not worried-curious abt avg. fluctuations?
there are numbers of things that could cause elevated heart rate with no panic attacks. what were you doing just before you felt this? did u smoke drink caffeine eat chocolate take otc medication disturbing/upsetting thoughts etc. just too many causation factors possible in the face of normal test results. let it go and. if you can't talk about it to your dr. /therapist.
how do you know if what you're experiencing is palpitations? i know its an awareness but are there any other specifics that could point to them?
the sense of your heart beating fast or irregularly could be a palpitation an anxiety symptom an irregular heart rhythm or just normal awareness of you heartbeat. contact your doctor for an evaluation. studies such as an ekg or longer heart monitoring study should provide an answer.
heart rate 67bpm i feel flutters in my chest near heart every few minutes for hours at night. i also feel flutters in my abdomen at times too. ?
if your hr is only 67 and you feel flutters they could be pvcs or anxiety. heart monitor will help determine if there is any arrythmias or not if none seen might reassure you.
help for anxiety? i'm taking alprazolam and i have been to the er 3 times in the last 3 days bc of ^ heart rate. they're not helping i don't know what to do
you should go to a psychiatrist to get full understanding of where your anxiety is stemming from and they can prescribe appropriate medications for you.
help for anxiety? i'm taking alprazolam and i have been to the er 3 times in the last 3 days bc of ^ heart rate. they're not helping i don't know what to do
what occurs first? if you develop a fast heart rate first and then become anxious the anxiety is secondary and not your primary problem. need to establish the cause of the fast heart rate. a cardiac event monitor can be useful. if you become anxious or develop unexplained fear/nervousness and then develop a fast heart rate alprazolam may help but seek care from a psychologist.
have pots- every morning wake up in extreme panic high hr sob feeling of doom restless legs. takes an hr to calm down need help! is it pots or anxiety?
you must be aware that answering this question would require a full detailed history physical exam and perhaps some labs. only the doctor managing you can determine the likely source for these symptoms. go and be seen. good luck and best wishes.
have pots- every morning wake up in extreme panic high hr sob feeling of doom restless legs. takes an hr to calm down need help! is it pots or anxiety?
sounds very much like panic attacks. you should discuss this with your doctor.
how do they diagnose acute coronary syndrome? 2nd stage of stress test my heart rate was 170. heart ultra sound shows leaky valve. can hardly exersise
acute coronary syndrome (acs) is a clinical diagnosis extremely unlikely in a 24 year old. leaky valve does not cause acs. depending on degree of leakage & which valve exercise intolerance may be due to leakage. hr of 170 during exercise could be due to deconditioning (being out of shape) arrhythmia or even anxiety. discuss with your doctor.
hi i get panic attacks a lot for no reason. the symptoms are nauseousness heart rate speed up and pins and needles i'm hands and nose. why it happen?
you have these symptoms. i do recommend medical evaluation to check for underlying medical problems. there a # of ways to address anxiety: cognitive behavioral therapy behavior modification individual psychotherapy group psychotherapy psychotropic medications qi gong tai chi acupuncture acupressure homeopathy meditation yoga exercise program or progressive muscle relaxation (to mention.
how come my heart rate was 126 during a bout of anxiety but i didn't feel it racing or pounding like i normally do if my pulse is that high?
you can have a rapid pulse that is not accompanied by high blood pressure or high blood volume pumped out with each beat ( stroke volume ). in that case you would not perceive your pulse rate.
had nissenfundoplication and having gurgling in chest after eating and also have flutter in my sternum don't no if its heart palpi or esophogus spasms?
cardiac work up needs to ve done>gi w/u: exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo andthe discussion of treatment options with your doctor. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety and hyperventilation can cause numbness.
how can i differentiate panic attacks or anxiety from heart attack if they have the same symptoms? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg threadmill stress test
you sound like excess anxiety and panic attacks have you worried. unless you have a pretty specific defect a heart attack is unlikely to be a danger. however the emotions are giving you some real distress. getting help when youre not doing well alone is perfectly honorable and really makes sense. anxiety and panic can be controlled. psychotherapy and meds will do the best job. good luck!
how can i differentiate panic attacks or anxiety from heart attack if they have the same symptoms? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg threadmill stress test
with above normal studies you are not having or are not going to have a heart attack anytime soon. take care of yourself and your anxiety disorder. keep a healthy life exercising and eating healthy. good luck.
how can i differentiate panic attacks or anxiety from heart attack if they have the same symptoms? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg threadmill stress test
you are right the symptoms are similar. but with normal echo ekg and stress tests it's quite reassuring that from the heart perspective.
how can i differentiate panic attacks or anxiety from heart attack if they have the same symptoms? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg threadmill stress test
panic attacks can develop rapidly ; include: marked anxiety; rapid pounding heart beat; chest tightness or pain; shortness of breath with hyperventilation; hot or cold flashes; a sense of butterflies in the stomach nausea or even vomiting; tingling of mouth or extremities; increased sweating; feeling faint or lightheaded; headache or shaking. there may be difficulty swallowing or tight throat.
i had skipped beat followed by 130 hr while lying then it comes down couple of minutes later is it anxiety because i noticed it? i also get shaky and get more skips after which results in a loop
you most likely have a form of tachyarrhythmia initiated by the skipped beats. ask your doctor to arrange for you to have a monitor so a diagnosis can be made and appropriate treatment recommended.
i had an ecg that showed 1st degree av block sinus tachycardia biatrial enlargement and rightward axis. what does this mean?
right axis has a number of causes. and some of them are serious. for someone on premarin (conjugated estrogens) over age 30 with sinus tachycardia and an ekg showing right axis deviation the most worrisome cause is a pulmonary embolism and an immediate er visit would be paramount. symptoms would include shortness of breath. chest pain. leg pain or swelling and feelings of anxiety.
im suffering from anxiety and panic attacks. i got my heart checked (ecg ekg and stress test) the results were perfect. but i still get chest pains.
chest pain is often a symptom of anxiety. anxiety can mimic other physical and psychiatric problems. monitor your breathing at the onset of chest pain and take control with slow deep diaphragmatic breathing. smoking makes anxiety symptoms worse. tthis could result from heartburn from gi sources especially with fatty & spicey foods. medications and cbt psychotherapy help anxiety.
im suffering from anxiety and panic attacks. i got my heart checked (ecg ekg and stress test) the results were perfect. but i still get chest pains.
if the work up is negative you know the chest pain is not coming from the heart! there are multiple other causes for chest pain but none will kill you. forget about further work up and concentrate on treating/ controlling panic attacks
i have dealt with anxiety for almost one year. the doctor wants me to up my dose of clonazepam from. 5mg daily which i've been on for 1 month to 1mg daily. i'm also on 50mg of atenolol for tachycardia related anxiety. what should i expect?
the clonazepam may decrease anxiety symptoms. but are you on any other anxiolytic medication like a serotonin reuptake inhibitor or buspar (buspirone)? what non-pharmacological options are being tried - like cbt other forms of psychotherapy meditation exercise breathing exercises yoga cranial electrotherapy stimulation acupuncture etc.? outcome is best if you have more than 1 tx modality.
i have dealt with anxiety for almost one year. the doctor wants me to up my dose of clonazepam from. 5mg daily which i've been on for 1 month to 1mg daily. i'm also on 50mg of atenolol for tachycardia related anxiety. what should i expect?
chronic use of an benzo like clonazepam is the wrong therapy and will make you worse requiring more medication to get buy this is addiction please ask your doctor to stop that drug and treat the underlying cause of your anxiety ask to see an addiction specialist and a psychologist as well and stop the benzo medications! please get help soon!
i have anxiety. my question is when i feel fine why does my heart beat fast? it makes me panic and it beats even faster.
the heart may beat faster for many reasons. the problem may be that you have come to associate rapid heart rate with panic. as you become more anxious it may be fueling the panic reaction.
i have pots. today i have anxiety palpitations and an unusually high pulse even at bedtime/night. i take 2. 5 mg bisoprolol today. normaly only a quarter of this. im usually med sensitive. besides slow hr(which i have not) is there any danger with bb?
the medication might result in a lower blood pressure than usual but otherwise there is little concern at the low dose you are taking. sounds like you might be dehydrated. hydrate and increase your salt intake.
what are the long term side effects of taking 25mg metoprolol every day?
the biggest consequence is the need to stop it slowly. as a beta blocker it slows your heart rate. if you stop it cold turkey it can cause rapid heart rate and anxiety.
wat causes your heart to feel like its an eletric shock and its skipping beats then it start to beat faster is this part of my anxiety disorder?
if you have not had a good physical examination for your problem then i would strongly suggest you have a doctor sit down with you and go over the symptoms in detail. they should also feel compelled to do some degree of testing on you such as an electrocardiogram some bloodwork and perhaps a holter monitor.
wat causes your heart to feel like its an eletric shock and its skipping beats then it start to beat faster is this part of my anxiety disorder?
ct scan stress test & cardiac catheterization. it might be anxiety - but medical causes would need to be ruled out for one to know. can't make assumptions about this issue. take care.
what causes shortness of breath warm sensation all over and sweating with rapid heart beat and weakness?
many things can cause these symptoms from anxiety asthma heart disease thyroid disease chemical imbalances etc. . please talk to your primary care physician about your symptoms as it can be serious.
went 2 er 4 stabbing chest painin rt lung did repeat ct scan bloodwk xray dopplar ekg everything was neg and said old clots were gone. y am i hurting?
if all else is negative -probably anxiety. especially if it took a while for you to get evaluated the first time. pts are often lectured to come in if any problems and not to wait! then the pt starts to have recurrent symptoms and comes in every time only to hear an er doctor say " you again? " its difficult for the pt not to over react vs delaying treatment.
what do you suggest if my pulse rate is too high only twenty years old! ideas?
you say it's too high but don't list the range or circumstances. this can be as simple as chronic anxiety a thyroid problem a heart problem or just you miss counting. see your doc for an evaluation. write down all your symptoms when this started any meds including otc supplements and take the list to the visit.
which is a better medication for anxiety disorder? metoprolol or clonazepam? please answer. thank you.
metoprolol is a beta blocker which will slow your heart rate and calm you down in an anxiety provoking situation. clonazepam is a anti-anxiety medication but has some issues with habituation. it would be a "stronger" anti anxiety medicine taken for limited periods of time generally. metoprolol would be a safer choice but may not be "strong enough" depending on your anxiety.
heart palpitations (pvcs and pacs on 24-hour monitor). on ritalin (methylphenidate) (40mg). doctors say it's anxiety. should i worry about sudden death or heart attack?
need to see some of your results holter echo etc. to consult me : healthtap. com/volkantuzcu
heart palpitations (pvcs and pacs on 24-hour monitor). on ritalin (methylphenidate) (40mg). doctors say it's anxiety. should i worry about sudden death or heart attack?
it depends on the degree of arrhythmia how many and how many in a row mostly. if the doctor says it is nothing i presume it is read as none in a row and he is mostly right. try to relax and if the medicine you can tell is causing the problem discuss it with your doctor for alternatives.
heart palpitations (pvcs and pacs on 24-hour monitor). on ritalin (methylphenidate) (40mg). doctors say it's anxiety. should i worry about sudden death or heart attack?
no i wouldn't go that far however it is a scary feeling. it will help if you stop ritalin (methylphenidate) and see if the palpitations stabilizes. a benign condition can cause pvc's as well called mitral valve prolapse.
how do i get over my health anxiety. particularly heart anxiety? . my ekgs. echo. stress test came back normal along with my blood work. help? !
if you are having anxiety about your health and you are healthy it may help to speak to a professional therapist. this can be invaluable to help you feel better.
how do i get over my health anxiety. particularly heart anxiety? . my ekgs. echo. stress test came back normal along with my blood work. help? !
you're on your way to feeling better if your doctors have examined you found no physical health problems and you know that health anxiety explains your concerns. so now you need treatment for the anxiety. a good psychotherapist and psychiatrist can help with this over time. medications may help but also talking ; developing certain anxiety management skills will help too. ask dr. for referrals.
how do i get over my health anxiety. particularly heart anxiety? . my ekgs. echo. stress test came back normal along with my blood work. help? !
the last thing a 28 year old woman should be worrying about is a heart attack. it sounds like you have an anxiety disorder which your doctors should be treating rather than ordering unnecessary ekgs echos and stress tests!
how do i get over my health anxiety. particularly heart anxiety? . my ekgs. echo. stress test came back normal along with my blood work. help? !
repeated unwanted thoughts re: having a health issue is common manifestation of ocd. for compelling story about how such obsessions can take over one's life read this excerpt of david adam's personal story of living in fear of contracting hiv: <link>#excerpt | consult with ocd specialist.
how do i get over heart anxiety? constant worry about heart. normal ekg. echo. stress test. chest xray and blood work good. need reassurance. nervous? !
a belief that persists in spite of contrary evidence. we humans are very good at false perceptions false interpretations ; false conclusions. the most common error is to look only for confirming evidence. look for evidence that could prove your belief is false. what other explanations are possible ; which are most likely? talk to a mental health professional who treats anxiety.
how do i get over heart anxiety? constant worry about heart. normal ekg. echo. stress test. chest xray and blood work good. need reassurance. nervous? !
there are a number of different anxiety disorders. please see a psychiatrist about the treatment especially therapy that would be right for you. best wishes.
heart palps anxiety normal holter with only 5 pvcs and 8 pacs nsr average hr 99. all symptoms worse week before cycle. if not heart hormonal?
your symptoms are indicative of anxiety. you have "cardiac awareness" - that is normal daily variation in heart rhythm is distressing. check out this website: <link> a betablocker that crosses the blood brain barrier would be very helpful adjunctive therapy: propranolol is the drug of choice. good luck!
heart palpitations for 3 days. anxiety for a day and a half of it. was worried so i started counting them. i had 20+ of them in 35 minutes. worry?
young people is usually not serious and your anxiety likely triggers it. see your dr and get checked. have an ekg and possibly a 24 hour holter monitoring done. treating the anxiety will likely resolve the palpitation. take care and god bless u! <link> <link>
had medical abortion 2-3 months ago ever since i've been feeling weird. body aches depression high heart rate anxiety blood tests fine what's wron?
after having any type of miscarriage whether intended or unintended there are a lot of emotions a woman goes through. depression and body aches would be normal reaction. i doubt anything is physically wrong with your body as medical abortion is very safe. are you exercising? sleeping 7-8 hours a night? how have you addressed feelings of loss and relationship with boyfriend? maybe see a therapist.
healthy 29 year old male could i have blood clots? having chest pain palpitations lightheaded pain behind legs and in arms
you'll need to see your primary care doctor first. the cause of your symptoms could range from anxiety attack to other medical conditions such as lyme's disease hematological(e. g. sickle cell disease) neurological or circulation disorders.
how can i tell whether i am having an anxiety attack or a heart attack?
you have to examine yourself ask the risk factors: hypertension male sex smoking high cholesterol other diseases (dm obesity rheumatologic such as sle) and family history and age. . then look at the symptoms of chest pressure severe sweating dyspnea radiation of pain. again reassess the risks have a baseline ekg. don't be overconfident of anxiety unless assesses properly.
how can i tell whether i am having an anxiety attack or a heart attack?
at 30y/o the likelihood weighs in favor of anxiety attack. getting a treadmill test or other evaluation to minimize the possibility of ischemic heart disease can let you concentrate on working on your anxiety condition if that is indeed what the problem is.
heart palpitations past week non stop?
many potential causes (thyroid cardiac anxiety etc). this is the type of problem you need to see a doctor for.
help! what can be causing symptomatic sinus tachycardia?
"symptomatic" means that you can feel the heart. the sinus node is the area in everyone's heart where the normal electrical heartbeat is generated. that is "sinus. " a rapid heart beat is "tachycardia " so symptomatic sinus tachycardia is a normal rapid heartbeat that is felt. common causes include: anxiety anemia dehydration excess thyroid hormone and stimulants (caffiene or some medication).
how likely are irregular heart beats and increased anxiety from taking lexapro (escitalopram)? i'm very anxious/depressed i need it but scared of those side effects
koala if your anxiety and depression symptoms are very severe you need treatment. many times anxious patients are afraid to take medications because of the side effects. work with your doctor to develop a plan to slowly titrate the dose up so that your side effects will be minimal. best wishes pamela svendsen md.
how likely are irregular heart beats and increased anxiety from taking lexapro (escitalopram)? i'm very anxious/depressed i need it but scared of those side effects
discuss with your doctor. those are not prominent effects but can happen.
heart attack brain aneurysm or anxiety attack how can i tell the difference?
sometimes it is hard to differentiate between a heart attack and and anxiety attack because of overlapping symptoms of chest pain/difficulty breathing. however a brain aneurysm rupture is hard to miss. the typical symptom is the sudden onset of the "worst headache of one's life". the pain is excrutiating and often produces coma. neurosurgical attention is needed immediately.
heart attack or anxiety attack what's the difference?
or mame the other needs psychiatric help.
heart attack or anxiety attack what's the difference?
in a heart attack there is no blood flow to a portion of the heart muscle and damage to the heart can occur. symptoms include chest pain that can go to the left arm or jaw shortness of breath sweating etc. in an anxiety attack there is normal blood flow to the heart and the person feels anxious and may have similar symptoms of a heart attack. an ekg is sometimes needed to tell the difference.
i had an mri with/without contrast. it normal. head feels like brain is squeezing/shaky. feel dizzy some have anxiety. heart test good. muscles tense?
ruled out. stick w/your doc but see a mental health professional to learn stress management. you discomfort is real but treatable. peace and good health.
i was lying suddenly i feel like i missed a heartbeat. after that i was sweating and my stomach ache and i had to go to the bathroom. bp is normal.
heartbeat is just a pause after an extra heart beat! its called a "palpitation" and the most common cause is anxiety! anxiety from the palpitation results in more palpitations! cool it! btw "lying down "waiting" for it is the best way to produce them! hope this helps! dr z
i was always feeling i'll get heart attack psychiatrist said its anxiety now after one week on lustral 50 and lexotanil 1. 5 i feel depressed?
with your psychiatrist. tell them of your mood swings.
i did cocaine for 1 day 3 weeks ago since then i haven't felt the same. i have lung infection pounding/faster heartrate & am anxious/panicky. why?
cocaine can trigger anxiety and panic. see: <link>
i'm 27 and work out a lot. i've always had palpitations but lately my heart pounds a lot and i get short of breathe. also i've felt weak. what is this?
your symptoms sound exactly like mild panic attacks/anxiety. but before you can assume that you should have testing done such as a stress test & a medical exam. once you have had any physical causes eliminated you can assume your symptoms are caused by anxiety. there are many solutions: stress reduction courses therapy meditation &just knowing what these symptoms are -all can relieve your worry!
i've been drinking energy drinks everyday for the last 11 months. this morning i went for a poo and went to wipe to find bright red blood.
may be unrelated may be hemorrhoid but would follow up with doctor as could be polyp inflammatory or food reaction. in general energy drinks can be quite dangerous the caffeine content is very high and they contain other substances as well. would stop the energy drinks can develop palpitations tremors anxiety and a host of issues. f/u w/doc.
i was told i have non dangerous svt by my heart specialist i was just wondering does svt cause stomach pain and anxiety which sometimes causes my heart to flutter?
flutter: yes. anxiety: yes/possible. stomach pain: no.
i am getting an icd in a couple weeks. i was diagnosed with brugada. i am afraid to sleep am i being irrational?
to be anxious about a surgical procedure and a potentially lethal diagnosis. this is rational. fortunately we have excellent treatment for your condition that will prolong your life. ask your health care provider to give you a little something to alleviate your anxiety until your device is implanted. at your age a subcutaneous device rather than an intravascular implant might be preferred.
i feel lightheaded daily. not dizzy just groggy. been to ent neurologist and cardiologist. mri of brain clear ecg holter and echocardiogram clear.
dizziness is a very common symptom of anxiety. the good news is dizziness caused by anxiety is usually fairly temporary.
i'm on buspirone for anxiety and was just prescribed 40mg twice a day of propranolol to help with my gad and heart rate. my dr knows i have asthma. ?
which can increase heart rate. buspirone is for anxiety. having propranolol with buspirone may have headache dizziness lightheadedness fainting see a physician for asthma; psychiatrist for diagnosis medication interactions benefits and side effects dose triggers of asthma and therapy for stress in your life.
i'm on buspirone for anxiety and was just prescribed 40mg twice a day of propranolol to help with my gad and heart rate. my dr knows i have asthma. ?
propranolol probably won't exacerbate your asthma in any significant way. if you have moderate or severe asthma it may be more of an issue. you can give it a try and see if there's any problem. or ask your doctor if you can try a calcium channel blocker instead (not as effective).
i'm on buspirone for anxiety and was just prescribed 40mg twice a day of propranolol to help with my gad and heart rate. my dr knows i have asthma. ?
in addition to your physical ailments i hear a great deal of anxiety and worry in your question. are you seeking psychotherapy? medications only work up to a point. the real work comes in the consulting room of a reputable psychotherapist.
i felt like i was having a heart attack. i have hyperthyroidism. could it have been my heart or lungs? i am 21 and have had thyroid issues for 2yrs.
hyperthyroidism can certainly cause palpitations. you don't say what your symptoms were. but palpitations can cause anxiety and panic attacks even which can feel like a heart attack. as you know keeping an eye on your thyroid levels is important and you feel better when they are normal. see your doc regularly or whenever you notice symptoms that you cannot explain from other causes.
i take bystolic (nebivolol) becsuse my anxiety causes my heart rate to be at a constant 144 beats per minute. i am trying to get pregnant. how can i lower my hr?
you need a full cardigan evaluation then they place on the right medicine to lower your heart rate before you get pregnant then they keep monitoring you when you are pregnant and adjust the medicine
i was diagnosed with mvp and pvc's after having severe anxiety attacks. my cardiologist wasn't very helpful and told me "it's not a big deal and to just get over it that i would be fine. " i'm still worried that my heart will just stop so i'm to scared
while clinicians often diagnose the "mitral valve prolapse syndrome" with palpitations anxiety and other symptoms in truth the association between the valve and the symptoms is not at all certain in most cases. if you truly have an abnormal mitral valve as diagnosed by echo and interpreted by an expert then a cardiologist can give you advice. in most cases no treatment is needed.
i get palpitations as a result of my anxiety and panic disorder i freak out just as bad now as i did the first one i had. how do i keep from this?
you may need a serotonin retake inhibitor like zoloft (sertraline) combined with cognitive behavioral therapy. you can learn not to think the worse when you have panic attack. you can also learn relaxation techniques and address any suppressed anger you may have.
i get palpitations as a result of my anxiety and panic disorder i freak out just as bad now as i did the first one i had. how do i keep from this?
you have to see a psychiatrist for psychological or psychopharmacology cal treatment
i have anxiety attacks all the time. some severe. i have a family history of heart disease. how can i know it's just anxiety and not a heart attack?
your symptoms need to be evaluated medically to determine if there is a medical cause. one can not just assume that they are due to panic disorder.
i woke up one day with a racing heartbeat. and before i sleep i feel heartbeat irregular. and when i eat alot i have heart pains when i breath?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i had my gallbladder out 2 wks ago and now i have chest tightness burning feel panicky heart palpitations weak and woke up sweating. what is wrong?
symptoms may reflect anxiety but could also reflect post op infection or even post op blood clot issue. at minimum call surgeon and let he/she know what is happening now!
if you're having anxiety/panic attack while having an ekg can this cause ekg to be off or abnormal?
the only way the ekg can be off is if you are experiencing an arrhythmia. sometimes the arrhythmia can lead to an anxiety or panic attack but the reverse is not true. (association does not imply causation). anxiety is state of mind which can be brought about because of changes in the body but most often because of changes in perception (or how your brain perceives things). discuss with your doc
if you had an irregular heartbeat (benign) can an anxiety attack make it more pronounced and bothersome?
any stress can increase the symptoms of irregular heartbeat which usually refers to "pvcs" or "pacs. " irregular heart beat could also mean atrial fibrillation but this would be unlikely at your age. anxiety sleeplessness illness stress of any sort alcohol caffeine can increase palpitations. check out my website <link> for heart health education.
i was going to measure bp and got very anxious which made my heart race to 130-140 the reading was 160/100! different place after 150/95 anxiety?
the top value estimated from only a single heart beat the bottom estimated from the lowest value between 2 different heart beats. like any behavior the values can change quite rapidly. fear frustration & pain are most common factors leading many to? their bp &/or heart rate; both reflecting split-second adjustments from mind/brain which controls heart output & peripheral arterial resistance.
i was going to measure bp and got very anxious which made my heart race to 130-140 the reading was 160/100! different place after 150/95 anxiety?
children teens & young adults with high blood pressure readings usually have 3 separate readings by their doctor & by their doctor's clinical staff depending on method. your doctor will listen to your heart to determine if your heartbeats are erratic as well as rapid then refer you to a cardiologist if needed. list all prescription otc herbal & recreational drugs that you take.
my brother just have a heart attack and he can't work and very depress what kind of activities can i suggest?
even primary care doctors are very adepth in treating major depression and anxiety. psychiatry is great if he is open to the idea but a lot of people do not want to see such a specialist "off the bat". hopefully he has a good relationship with his current physician. if not he needs to find at least a primary care doctor he is comfortable with. his doc will know if he needs to see a specialist.
my son is tachycardic heart rate 120 for 4 hours now what to do? my son is 7 years old
a normal resting heart rate for a child under 10 years of age can be anywhere from 70-130 beats per minute. however your son's heart rate being on higher end for 4 hours is concerning. many things can cause a fast heart rate such as: -an arrhythmia such as supraventricular tachycardia or wolf-parkinson-white syndrome -anxiety or stress -medications such as cold remedies or asthma medicines -caffeine -pneumonia or other lung disease -thyroid disorder -heart failure if your child appears ill or is having other symptoms such as chest pain fainting dizziness fever swelling of hands and feet or difficulty breathing you should take him to the emergency room or call his doctor immediately.
my 14 yr old son has rapid heart rate. it happens only periodically but really races when it does. should i be concerned? he's healthy & active.
the most common causes of racing heart rate in children is stress/anxiety. also common is supraventricular tachycardia (svt) which is a racing heartbeat that starts suddenly often with no obvious trigger. other arrhythmias (abnormal heart rhythms) are rare but occasionally occur. dehydration overexertion and many medications can also cause a racing heartbeat. a cardiologist can sort it out.
might it be possible that a a lot of anxiety and stress cause a heart attack in a person with a healthy heart?
anxiety and stress can cause arrhythmias including serious ones that may be life threatening but those are not technically a heart attack. psychosocial stresses often are associated with poor lifestyle habits (diet weight lack of exercise cigarette use) that may contribute to heart attack risks.
might it be possible that a a lot of anxiety and stress cause a heart attack in a person with a healthy heart?
pts with an acute or traumatic life altering event has been known to cause chest pain ekg changes and a wall motion abnormality in the front of the heart on echo. the cardiac enzymes will rise as well. when a heart cath is done no blockage is found. this has been dubbed " broken heart syndrome ". presumeable cause is from the catacholamines ie adrenaline rush that affects the heart
my chest has been hurting. 2 yrs ago it was doing it alot they gave me an ekg and said it was anxiety no bloodwork. cld it be something?
it could be a variety of things. it's true anxiety can cause chest pain but before assuming that see a doctor for a thorough history and exam assessment of your other risk factors etc. sometimes additional testing such as an ekg labs imaging etc are needed. if it is anxiety then incorporating techniques into your life to prevent and manage stress/anxiety would probably be helpful.
my chest has been hurting. 2 yrs ago it was doing it alot they gave me an ekg and said it was anxiety no bloodwork. cld it be something?
if this happened to you previously because of anxiety then it is possible that it may be anxiety again. it could also be something else. are you having the same type of pain? is it radiating? can you pinpoint it? is it so painful that it is becoming a hindrance? and there are more questions. please get it checked out by a physician as soon as you can to prevent a serious complication.
my pvcs only happen when my heart rate is over 100 what would cause that?
hyperthyroidism caffeine dehydration irregular conduction in your heart anxiety tumors causing high levels of epinephrine in your body.
what kind of heart palpitations could possibly cause a heavy heart beat and throbbing in the back of the neck? echo shows ok heart structure.
i know you're asking about cardiac conditions. i don't think it was a mistake to investigate - but it is a mistake to persist if there is a null result - especially at your age. be reassured. instead - consider a really skilled health psychologist who can teach you how to take your health seriously w/out anxiety and unneeded procedures. it can be the best way to feel better. worth a try!
whats wrong if you are bigger and you feel your pulse everywhere and is it normal to see your stomach moving to your pulse? maes me shaky.
i think you're describing "cardiac awareness" which is when we focus on normal pulsations our heart and circulatory system produce. a good test would be to count your pulse when it occurs - if it's >150 when you're resting it should be brought to the attention of your doctor. stress tension and anxiety can contribute to these feelings.
why do i feel drunk whenever i eat food? i suffer with migraines but am on beta blockers to prevent them and citalopram for my anxiety.
sometimes its the sugar or the additives in the food. in some people there may be an allergy as well. check it out with your doctor
what could cause sudden gagging 3-4 times followed by an irregular pulse between 110-65 and feeling cold with a normal temperature?
hi it could be anxiety or dropping blood pressure or vasovagal reaction to a stressful situation. please see your provider to investigate this more.
heart palpitation w/ center chest pain. lasts few moments. dizziness & sweating fallow for several mins; felt plus pulsing in neck hard & fast.
need to see doc asap for evaluation arrhythmia such as flutter wpw(wolff-parkinson-white syndrome) supraventricular tachycardia etc. . may cause this; however other diseases such as anxiety hyperthyroidism may also cause palpitation.
how come some peopke die while exercising? i get nervous sometimes working out because i get palpitations and think i'll have cardiac arrest. anxiety?
can have mi at rest if a vessel thrombosis. but if narrow and heart wants more oxygen during exercize the supply may be limited and cause angina-heart pain or myocardial infarction as next step. to alleviate your concern see cardiologist and do monitored exercize-stress testing.
how come some peopke die while exercising? i get nervous sometimes working out because i get palpitations and think i'll have cardiac arrest. anxiety?
yes. you have nailed it. people who die from exercise have heart disease. it is very unlikely to occur in someone your age or with good health.
heart palpitions do i worry?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
having palpitations from buspar (buspirone) should i keep taking it?
buspar (buspirone) is very rarely associated with heart palpitations but anxiety (for which buspar (buspirone) is often prescribed) more commonly is. if using caffeine or other stimulants please stop. please discuss this question with the physician who prescribed you the buspar (buspirone) -- s/he knows you and how you were before being given this. psychotherapy helps anxiety also and might be considered here.
having insomnia from palpitations and feeling not getting enough air been on buspar (buspirone) 10mg 2xdaily 2weeks can increase dose help this?
you wrote previously about having had your symptoms checked in er and had normal exams etc. your symptoms are very common in anxiety which buspar (buspirone) can help. buspar (buspirone) can be increased in dose and your doctor can work with you on this. another essential part of treatment is psychotherapy because this can help you learn healthy ways of dealing with painful emotion -- including anxiety. be well.
help please? i have frequent heart palpitations what to do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
hi should i go back to the doctor for palpitations its worring me. also what could cause this?
yes it's reasonable to feel as confident as you can that you are not missing a serious cardiac condition. but after understanding the findings (if negative) please do consider the value of psychotherapy to learn about yourself and how your behavior and feelings can put such pressure on your body that it feels like a heart condition. you can learn ways to relieve or avois such stress and anxiety.
i have occasional full body aches with shortness of breath and slightly elevated heart rate(94-100). should i be worried about this?
shortness of breath i can be assured symptom seek front of valuation with a physician face-to-face. shortness of breath can i have many causes they can be serious like a blood clot like pulmonary embolus or pneumonia or asthma or heart trouble it can just be anxiety. general body aches are very nonspecific they can occur with chronic fatigue anxiety stress or other condition
is a tsh of 5. 13=hypothyroid. feel fatigued low energy slow resting heart rate cold anxiety/depression. 20 y. o. female. dr. didn't say it was abnormal?
within the normal range according to the laboratory's parameters your md will consider it normal. it is slightly high for some laboratories. if so your doctor may order a free t4 & ultrasensitive tsh to determine if you have hypothyroidism & if you need other studies & treatment. either way ask your md for referral to mental health providers for diagnosis & management of anxiety/depression.
i hv ocasional shortness of breath. no cough no wheezing. doc says nthng wrng & ecg also normal. smoker but quit it year ago. age 26. is it lung disease?
most likely it related to hyperventilating secondary to anxiety. if breathing into a paper bag for 5 to 10 minutes helps you may have extra confidence it is hyperventilating. it is related to co2 levels not oxygen!
i'm 20 & i'm having a tingling feeling above my chest and into my left arm. ive been told i have a slower heart rate than normal. what does this mean?
these two conditions are not related. most probably it's anxiety
i've had issues with high pulse (often over 100 resting) and bp spikes (160/107 or 125/104). it makes me faint or feel ill ekg / echo normal. insite?
variations in blood pressure and heart rate normally go along with discomfort and anxiety but there are many other reasons why these numbers might be high. a careful review of your history and some basic evaluation should sort out whether there's anything more serious going on.
i felt a sharp pain in my chest that passed after a few minutes and never came back. could that be a heart attack or just anxiety?
chest are usually from the muscles and bones. cardiac pain is usually a dull pressure like sensation. like a tooth ache. it is highly unlikely that a 16 year old would have coronary artery disease. consider some counseling to help you with your anxiety.
i fainted today in a hospital when watching my son get bloodwork. they said bp was too low. can i take my klonopin (clonazepam) tonight safely?
i'm not sure why are you taking klonopin (clonazepam) for? anxiety or seizure disorder? either way please hold it and call your doctor it can cause hypotension and further can lead to orthostatic hypotension. your doctor would suggest an alternative medication for your case also review the rest of your drugs you are on if you're on any good luck
i have been on sertraline 50mg for 3 weeks and have a bad rash thats just getting worse. also a high pulse in the morning. is this normal?
sertraline is for treatment of depression and anxiety. it can cause rash and palpitations. feel good about your achievements in work relationships and personal hobbies see a psychiatrist for diagnosis sertraline benefits and side effects discuss wellbutrin and effexor (venlafaxine) for depression; ativan and xanax for anxiety; and therapy for stress in your life. do breathing and music relaxation
my husband has been told by a doctor that he may have globus hystericus. what is the best course of action to treat this? he has been through 2 heart ablutions in 3 years and is now taking sotalol to keep him in rhythm. there have been no other traumas
if it really is globus hystericus then it may be a variant form of panic anxiety. at the same time you do want to be sure that there isn't some other physical illness causing the symptoms. sotalol (a beta blocker) can sometimes mask or diminish panic symptoms making panic diagnosis more difficult. if panic is confirmed by a careful psychiatric history then treatment might include such medications as a daily ssri antidepressant or twice daily clonazepam as well as psychotherapy.
my average heart rate even at rest is as high as 90 to 100 bpm what is the best way to reduce it to about 70?
your heart is regulated by a system of fine neurohumoral mechanisms - why are you trying to defeat them? if your resting hr is 90-100 there's a reason for it. that said generally the better shape you're in the slower your resting hr so working out and being keeping body mass index 18-25 will usually do the trick. fever anemia anxiety stress exercise xs thyroid etc. increases it.
my cholestaral is good my bloodpressure is good but my chest is still hurting chest xrays bloodwork and ekgs are ok. idk what's wrong?
i can see that you have an anxiety problem. i already told you what is the next step why do you need to ask again?
what causes fast heart rate with nausea?
there could be many reasons for the symptoms described. if you are having nausea and you are anxious that could raise your heartrate alone. now what could be causing the nausea? that could also be anxiety related or it may be a sign of a viral gastroenteritis. if you have been vomiting with the nausea then if you are dehydrated that could cause a faster heart rate
weakness fatigue fast heart rate feels like something stuck in throat burning throat and stomach. ?
are these symptoms that you have all the time or is there a pattern: mostly with meals when you lie down at night when you climb the stairs or do something strenuous or just randomly when you might be sitting? while reflux or anxiety may explain these the weakness and fatigue with these symptoms is concerning and i would recommend a check - up this week to determine a cause!
weakness fatigue fast heart rate feels like something stuck in throat burning throat and stomach. ?
not much info but looks like anxiety
worried i will get a heart attack while smoking cannabis. my heart is fine but i take metoprolol for tachycardia. what would it take for heart attack?
i presume if your holter was normal your metoprolol is to reduce frequency of panic attacks? your anxiety is not being treated properly and my concern is that you are "self medicating" for your underlying condition. ( anxiety) also cannabis can trigger anxiety paranoia and psychosis! please seek mental health help!
what is the difference between panic attack vs atrial fibrillation?
if you think you could be having cardiac problems this needs to be evaluated. medical causes for symptoms should be ruled out before making diagnosis. panic attacks sxs: anxiety; rapid pounding heart; chest tightness/pain; shortness of breath w hyperventilation; hot /cold flashes; butterflies in stomach nausea or vomiting; tingling of mouth or extremities; ^ sweating; feeling faint or >
what spikes up a heart rate i was out and it was normal one second and then my heart rate shot up real fast pounding.
other than stimulants like amphetamines and cocaine some prescription drugs caffeine decongestants fight or flight response with epinephrine surge from fear or anxiety it could be tachyarrhythmia. please see your primary care physician who can refer you to a cardiologist if necessary. you may need a 24 holter monitor or 2 week event monitor if this continues. mitral valve prolapse also.
what is sinus tarchaydia? according to my medical records i have/had that while recently in the hospital? what causes it?
sinus tachycardia is an increased heart rate above 100 beats per minute. it can be caused by a host of things from exercise anxiety and desire to volume loss and a variety of other medical conditions. it is usually treated by addressing the underlying cause of the increased heart rate.
what does this mean heart racing dry mouth can't relax indegestion?
are you stressed nervous or anxious. the symptoms you are describing sounds like anxiety or nerves.
what to do about headache & heart racing when i wake up?
a headache that is mostly in the morning may be caused by sleep apnea bruxism anxiety or depression. in the early morning hours (between 3 and 8 a. m. ) our body has its lowest levels of endorphins so most primary headaches may present. see your pcp for consultation tests and possible referral to a headache specialist.
why is your heart rate more sensitive for anxiety during the day? and in the night when you get anxiety it stays around 50bpm.
when you're sleeping perhaps with dreaming it's not unusual to see marked variations in hr including very rapid rates. we see it on 24 hour recordings. you don't see it because you're asleep!
what to do if i have rapid heart rate should i been concern?
if you have a resting heart rate in excess of 100 beats a minute an evaluation of why is appropriate. fear and anxiety isn't needed but an explanation of why the elevated resting rate is needed.
with anxiety/panic is possible to have palpitations every few minutes for hours at a time? sometimes get them after feeling stressed. not during.
yes. feeling like your heart is palpitating is frequently associated with anxiety and it can happen after the stressor is gone.
what causes palpitations?
palpitations that symptomatic deserve a prompt w/u: exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo andthe discussion of treatment options with your doctor. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety and hyperventilation can cause numbness.
what classifies as 'stress related illness? ' sx:muscle tens fatigue irritability hrt palps. complete workup. no clinical illness. this is dr's dx.
illness is a broad term. examples of conditions which can be impacted by stress include: irritable bowel syndrome chronic fatigue syndrome asthma tension headaches migraine headaches etc. changes in heart rate may occur with anxiety/ panic.
having heart palpitations and tightness in left side of chest. what could this be?
at your age i'd consider it as anxiety. unless you are at high risk of suffering from heart attack. family history of sudden deaths from heart disease obesity cholesterol problems diabetes hypertension kidney diseases can all increase the likelihood of heart disease even in young people like you. being physically active and healthy food habits are to be followed on a regular basis.
heave you ever herd of inappropriate sinus tachycardia? how hard is it to diagnose? think i've had it for 13 yrs. diagnosed as anxiety & deperssion.
it's that specialists cannot find a physiological cause that is 'inappropriate' in the dx. a person can also suffer emotional problems but they could be tangled up w/ the heart too. try to urge your doctors to consult and take the heart issue into consideration when prescribing psych meds - many can have side efxs of cardiac malfunction and you want to avoid this risk. work as a team ok? best!
how come my heart beat fast - i took vicodin - 3 hours later paxil (paroxetine) and heart started racing?
there are "idiosyncratic" reactions to drugs which mean that they are not common and only happen to certain susceptible individuals usually for reasons that cannot be discovered. ssri drugs like paxil (paroxetine) can occasionally produce heart arrhythmias and you should talk to your doctor. the vicodin is unlikely to have been responsible although if the vicodin wasn't legally prescribed anxiety might.
hi i was told that i have mild mitral valve prolapse is it normal experiencing skipping heart beat? and anxiety / panic attacks
having skipped heart beats with mitral valve prolapse is a normal phenomenon. having anxiety and panic attacks are not associated with mitral valve prolapse.
healthy eater only water. why does my bp spike every couple of days & sometime bp is normal & heart rate is in the 90's. could this be anxiety?
you need a full medical evaluation of this problem to be sure. you also list "headache pain dizziness" in your clinical findings -- and they may be connected with your blood pressure changes. bp and pulse can vary as these respond to activity level. if associated with symptoms they need investigation. please start by seeing your family physician.
hi was just wondering i get heart palpatetions a lot and the doc can't find anything wot could it be?
after ruling out cardiac related diagnosis other causes of palpitation could include anemia anxiety thyroid gland disease ect. . basic cardiac workup is needed if symptoms continue and blood tests.
hard to breathe get pain on the left side of my chest my heart beat also increases out of nowhere for like 10 minutes randomly. should i be concerned?
check in to er it cod be anxiety and also could be some arrthymia or pneumothorax. evaluate in er is the way to go.
have had an ekg chest xray and ct scan. all came back fine. is there any possibility that i could have heart failure/related? or is it anxiety?
it is possible that this is an anxiety disorder. good to hear that your are being followed by your doc and that your test results are good. seek the help of a clinical psychologist who works w/anxiety disorders for additional help. there is much reason to hope. peace and good health.
have had an ekg chest xray and ct scan. all came back fine. is there any possibility that i could have heart failure/related? or is it anxiety?
you do not have heart problems. please stop wasting money on such impossibilities and get some help learning how to live in our stressful world.
had ekg it was fine that's three this year question is what could cause my chest pain it's sharp pain stabbing could it be my acid reflux or aniexty?
chest pain in a 22 yo is rarely causec by heart problems ; the normal ekg's suggest your heart is fine. reflux or anxiety can cause chest pain that is usually squeezing or a pressure/tightness. sharp stabbing pain makes me suspect a musculoskeletal cause. consider seeing an osteopath who does manipulation or a good chiropractor- see <link> acupuncture or homeopathy may also help.
had ekg it was fine that's three this year question is what could cause my chest pain it's sharp pain stabbing could it be my acid reflux or aniexty?
the good news is it appears your heart is stable and not causing your pains. a good history and physical should now slowly start to get the real diagnosis pinpointed which certainly could include acid reflux ("heart burn"-pyrosis) or anxiety. both of which the h;p exam should be able to diagnose more easily. let dr. know if stressed or if any trigger foods cause it etc. best wishes.
had ekg it was fine that's three this year question is what could cause my chest pain it's sharp pain stabbing could it be my acid reflux or aniexty?
your 3 normal ekgs and age make your heart an unlikely source of your pain. cough muscle stretch acid reflux and anxiety are all likely contributing factors.
heart racing slight chest discomfort nausea and feeling like i could pass out. maybe two of these a day. feels like anxiety attack.
is heart skipping beats. you may be having palpitations and/or fibrillation. see your doctor. but take pulse first while having symptoms. if rate is even and regular then it is likely anxiety related to virus etc.
history anxiety. frequent heart flip flops every half hr to hour reg heart rate no chest pain. don't feel stressed. body scan showed 0 calcium score.
to determine the cause of your heart symptoms. sorry to hear that you sound very anxious but this is treatable w/therapy to re-educate your body to respond less strongly and change thought patterns. peace and good health.
had an ekg this year in the er said it was fine 3rd one this year i still have chest pains mainly on right side on the breast at night? im only 22
sometimes chest pain can be caused by anxiety or inflammation in the cartilage of your ribs where it meets the breastbone. muscle tension or spasms could also cause chest pain. talk to your doctor about an evaluation and treatment for possible anxiety.
how can i determine if my prob. is anxiety or my automatic nervous system still having palpitations and dizziness when i eat and sleeping problems?
anxiety results in autonomic nervous system activation. so the answer would be that both are involved. but before you conclude that it is just anxiety i would rule out other medical issues. so start by seeing your regular physician and see what tests might be recommended. if you do have an anxiety disorder then get a referral for a psychiatrist. also cognitive - behavior therapy for anxiety.
how can i determine if my prob. is anxiety or my automatic nervous system still having palpitations and dizziness when i eat and sleeping problems?
discuss with your doctor abut having tilt table and electrophysiological testing of your heart to assess for dysautonomia.
how high can bp rise with anxiety? can anxiety cause heart attack?
high bp or fear u r having a heart attack u should seek medical attention. whether or not anxiety is impacting on your bp or not u may need medication 2 lower the bp. i do not believe that anxiety can cause a heart attack but until u have been checked out u will not know if u r having panic attack symptoms or a heart attack. once medical has been ruled out psychotherapy ; hypnosis can help.
how high can bp rise with anxiety? can anxiety cause heart attack?
anxiety causes release of adrenaline like compounds which stiffen the blood vessel walls increase the heart's efficiency and divert blood to the critical organs all which increase bp. repeated or continuous stress elevates bp and causes gradual damage over many years. resulting in heart attack kidney failure or stroke.
how high can bp rise with anxiety? can anxiety cause heart attack?
anxiety can raise the blood pressure and heart rate as your body releases adrenaline during an anxiety attack. anxiety attacks can feel like a heart attack. if you're healthy an anxiety attack is rarely harmful in the short term. if someone who already has heart disease has an anxiety attack it can potentially precipitate an arrhythmia or heart attack.
i take lexapro (escitalopram) and buspirone for anxiety just srtarted taking the bus par 3 weeks ago 5mg 3 times a day i feel heart palpitations is it still anxiety?
i understand your distress. both anxiety and lexapro can cause heart palpitations. buspirone is a medication for anxiety. see psychiatrist for medication benefits and side effects discuss discontinuing lexapro; taking buspirone or ativan or xanax (alprazolam). have therapy for stress of relationship marriage parenting unresolved feelings of worry fear; work and finances. breathing relaxation yoga.
i have slight shoulder pain that came on all of a sudden. am i having a heart attack? im worried and take meds for anxiety.
anxiety can be due to stress. see psychiatrist for therapy medication use breathing and music yoga relaxation
i have been having intermittent sharp chest pains that shoot down to my pinkie finger. never lasts more than a second except wrist is tingly.
at age 19 chest pain is more a sign of anxiety than heart dis assuming you don't have gastric reflux or other specific (physically identifiable) disorders
i have history with anxiety attacks depression and ocd. can having anxiety give you chest pains or heart palpitations? i've had them all day today
trigger chest pains and other symptoms. it is important that you see your doc to rule out medical condtions. after that please see a mental health professional to learn strategies to manage your anxiety. a self-help technique found at www. relaxationresponse. org. peace and good health.
i have history with anxiety attacks depression and ocd. can having anxiety give you chest pains or heart palpitations? i've had them all day today
be an anxiety disorder although i think an atypical one. major depression comes with anxiety 75% of the time and anxiety attacks are the most acute versions of anxiety. a triple whammy for anxiety? there are 33 possible sx's of any kind of anxiety including chest pains and heartpalpitations. in your case go to the er for an ekg and blood work first--probably right away. then anxiety.
i went to the er for my anxiety making my heart beat fast for a period of 3 months straight. they ran all kinds of tests and x-rays but nothing was found to be wrong. should i be concerned that my resting heart rate is over 100 all the time?
are better addressed by the physician who provides continuous care for you rather than er doctors who treat acute illnesses that need immediate attention. see your primary care physician for history physical referral to a psychiatrist & a psychologist for accurate diagnosis & treatment of your anxiety disorder(s) & possible referral to a cardiologist for a 24-hour recording of your heart rate
i wake up with bad anxiety every morning. after a half hour of feeling dizzy racing heart and shakes a bit it subsides. what could be the cause?
there are many possibilities for what you describe. your best course is to see your doctor and be evaluated. getting a list of possibilities here is unlikely to really help.
i have throbbing in my head and chest for weeks which is in multiple places and skips "beats". what could this be?
i understand your distress. “throbbing in head and chest in multiple places” is due to stresses in your life causing anxiety. skipped beats or heart beating fast can be due to: stress overactive thyroid gland smoking drinking too much alcohol or caffeine drug abuse see psychiatrist for therapy for stresses of relationship; and medication. do breathing and music relaxation yoga meditation.
i'm a 26 yr old "athletic" male who regularly weight trains/boxes. i was diagnosed with mvp and have had all the symptoms to varying degrees at various times and levels of physical excursions (palpitations fluttering "skipped beats" shortness of breath
with you doctor for monitoring. also mvp is often associated w/anxiety. stress management may be helpful. see a mental health professional for treating. self-help at www. relaxationresponse. org
i have been chest pain under breast. gallbladder is fine but as soon as i eat it hurts also i have anxiety and currently on my period. pain still 3ds?
it seems as though your are describing 3 different problems. without the ability to discuss your symptoms it's impossible to give advice. i suggest you visit your physician. an online consultation at health tap may be helpful. you would want a video or voice consult if possible. if you choose an inbox text consultation you will need to be available throughout the day to answer questions.
i have felt quite panicy for a few days and worried. i went light headed a couple of times and my chest feels tight. could this be anxiety?
be anxiety but lightheadedness is unlikely to be associated unless you were hyperventilating (breathing rapidly. ) try hydrating more for a few days and if the symptoms persist then seek medical attention.
i have been having chest burning. doctor told me it was anxiety and heartburn. ekg was clear. gave me zantac and buspar (buspirone). how long does it take to work?
it depends mostly on how severe the episode was whether the conditions that brought on the episode are still present and whether any treatment that you're giving it is effective or not. you should abstain from caffeine alcohol and tobacco. it would be wise to avoid any foods that you notice bring on your symptoms. follow whatever medication regimen your doctor has put you on. good luck.
i have been having chest burning. doctor told me it was anxiety and heartburn. ekg was clear. gave me zantac and buspar (buspirone). how long does it take to work?
zantac acid reducer w side effects of headache + loose or hard bm's. tell md if stool problem buspar (buspirone) is antianxiety w many se. chest burn prob esophagitis from gerd u r decreas acid but enzymes to digest food&inflammation still present&must heal. to stop gerd no lie down 2hrs aft meal&slight elev of head&uptorso w pillow(gravity). gi doc if not better in 1-2 wk. no spicy food. u take oth med?
i have been having chest burning. doctor told me it was anxiety and heartburn. ekg was clear. gave me zantac and buspar (buspirone). how long does it take to work?
it takes busbar a week or two to start showing seffects busbar usually is added to an antidepressant ( one that works on anxiety) and both dosages are titrated to optimal effect
my doc has given me celexa 20mg whereas psych gave prozac (fluoxetine) 20 mg but said i could take any 1. have dep/anxiety/ panic/ heart palp. need help decide?
both celexa and prozac (fluoxetine) are ssri antidepressants and can help depression anxiety and panic problems. they are a bit different in terms of half-life and specific fda approval for ocd etc. prozac (fluoxetine) may be a little more activating than celexa in some people. remember that the psychiatrist has additional specialty training in these disorders. you'll also likely need psychotherapy for best outcome.
my doc has given me celexa 20mg whereas psych gave prozac (fluoxetine) 20 mg but said i could take any 1. have dep/anxiety/ panic/ heart palp. need help decide?
both are ssri antidepressants that can help depression and anxiety. there may be specific reasons the psychiatrist preferred prozac (fluoxetine) in your case. not knowing anything else about you or your symptoms i might opt for the celexa: it works a few days sooner and is less likely to cause agitation as a side effect. but either one is a reasonable choice.
my pulse reached up to 195! the other day so i went to the er and they gave me a huge dose of ativan (lorazepam) which brought it down to normal. it shoots up again that high unless i take the ativan (lorazepam) what could be causing this m?
well this is interesting with such a young person but i would see my own doctor. not clear if this is cardiac in nature like ventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. or is this anxiety. really need a thorough work up and not just er visits.
my pulse has gotten up to 200 at rest. i have extremely bad anxiety. is this y? my doc ran a full work up on heart and said it is perfectly normal. why am i experiencing this?
did your doctor also have you wear a 24-hour holter monitor to possibly catch some of these runs of rapid heartbeat (tachycardia)? you might not find this on a regular ekg. if you are truly at rest and are not taking stimulants of any kind when these runs of 200 bpm happen it's definitely not normal -- even though it may not be the cause of your anxiety. have you had a cardiology consult?
might have anxiety or thyroid issue. main symptom tachycardia and insomnia. taking remeron and xanax (alprazolam) at night. should i try a low dose beta blocker?
i think you should discuss this with your doctor.
my child has an extreme phobia of buzzers specifically thatwhich you hear in a basketball game. he covers his ears sweats and his heart beats fast. opinions?
i'm wondering the age of the child when this began and what led to this reaction. generally cognitive- behavioral treatment such as systematic desensitization can be quite effective w phobias and similar anxiety problems. seek help from a psychologist or mh professional who specializes.
my arrythmia nurse hasent mentioned vegal nerve tone i've had ep study wihich was normal but fast heart echo wins normal but 3 ecgs abnormal waiting on 7 day heart monitor results this has been going on since july i need to find out what's wrong me?
need to follow up with your doc who has apparently already been trying to find out what is wrong with you. often in cases like this (ep study and echo) it turns out to be anxiety.
my 10 yo has had several episodes of near fainting: pale sweating trouble breathing rapid heartbeat. blood tests fine. could it be heart related?
yes it can. what blood tests were done? i would definitely get an ekg but it also might be anxiety asthma and few other problems needs some workup and good physical.
my heart skips beats. i started drinking a small glass of whiskey every day and it has completely stopped skipping. why & how did whiskey change it?
even though you're young you should still investigate why your heart skipped beats - i can't tell the reason unless i saw an electrocardiogram. whiskey like any alcohol slows down the nervous system sometimes including the heart especially if the palpitations were related to anxiety. you might want to consider stopping the alcohol and figure out what's really going on consulting your doctor.
my father died a few months ago. since then i've had some heart palpitations one or twice a day gas and general anxiety. could it be gad? should i worry about the palpitations?
i'm sorry for your loss. grief can present in many ways including physical symptoms. however when you have new symptoms it's wise to have a checkup with your primary care physician to make sure you're in good physical health. anxiety can cause the symptoms you mention also. short-term psychotherapy may be of help and there are specific talk therapies for general anxiety too.
my father died a few months ago. since then i've had some heart palpitations one or twice a day gas and general anxiety. could it be gad? should i worry about the palpitations?
sorry you lost your dad and please accept my sincere condolence. you should check these "palps" and gi symptoms with your primary care physician. they may be related to anxiety however it is better and safer to first make sure your physical health is sound. best wishes to you.
my father died a few months ago. since then i've had some heart palpitations one or twice a day gas and general anxiety. could it be gad? should i worry about the palpitations?
sorry about your dad. have your primary care doc. evaluate your cardiac status then if all normal refer you for tx for anxiety.
my father died a few months ago. since then i've had some heart palpitations one or twice a day gas and general anxiety. could it be gad? should i worry about the palpitations?
no individual advice can be given. new onset of palpitations needs medical consult before psychiatric issues - counseling - assuming these are due to even an obvious stress can miss a cardiac issue that might need to be addressed. that said gad requires pervasive and persistent anxiey and normally would not be diagnosed if anxiety was new development after a significant loss. counseling advised.
my pulse rate is normally in the 70's but has been in the 90's for the past couple of days should i be worried about this. i have not been sick.?
this is clearly not usual for you as yu have been in the 70's before. unless you can pinpoint a cause like anxiety works etc. then i would have it checked out? thyroid bp etc. issues.
when does orthastatic hypotension stop after prolong bed rest for 3 months? will walking be dangerous? or would help?
why were you on prolonged bedrest? there is nothing under "conditions" to justify it. why ct of head? what makes you think you have orthostatic hypotension? what are your symptoms? could they be related to your anxiety or meds? o. h. will improve with aggressive hydration and it will improve with assisted ambulation as long as it is done safely to prevent fall. see your doc for bp check.
when i'm really stressed/anxious for long periods i get jaw pain palpitations arm pain. but my heart is fine other than infrequent ectopics. why?
increased muscular tension (especially in upper back neck & jaw) is common with stress/anxiety. more rapid heart beat pounding heart beat & chest tightness can also occur with stress - especially panic attacks.
why can't a patient receive a flu shot if they have an elevated heart rate due to an anxiety disorder? (ptsd)
usually the only issues that would preclude you from getting a flu shot is current infection fever or allergy to eggs/other parts of the immunization. anxiety disorder does not prevent you from getting the flu vaccine.
when i'm on the cusp of sleep in jolted awake by serious anxiety and heart palpitations. i'm just wondering if this is a disorder anyone is aware of. ?
the short answer is panic attack which is very treatable. other possibilities include an irregular heart rhythm which secondarily causes anxiety.
when i'm stressed then walk i get skipped beats. cardiac stress mri clear. cardiologist thinks anxiety. why doesn't exercise help?
in most cases palpitations even with exercise are benign. in one series short runs of irregular heart rhythms were detected by stress testing in healthy people and did not lead to heart disease on later follow-up. have you worn a heart monitor? talk with your doctor about exercise testing or wearing a heart monitor to evaluate the rare possibility that your may have svt episodes with exercise
will anxiety make ur head feel funny n my heart beating fast?
anxiety can cause many symptoms including those you list
had an ecg/treadmill test done seven months ago. all was normal. having heart-attack like symptoms is it likely something is wrong or just anxiety?
you are carrying your stress in your chest. holding your muscles too tight. not breathing in deep slow restorative ways. your body is exhausted of this and trying to get your attention. exercise. yoga. talk therapy nay all be in order.
had an ecg and treadmill test regular drs care. bp fine. yet can't stop thinking chest pain from acid reflux is a heart prob. how to stop worrying?
if you were already checked and everything was fine maybe your problem is plain anxiety. please be careful to control it under family doctor /internist / psychiatric supervision as anxiety may worsen into panic attacks that are more difficult to control.
hi i am suffering from anxiety and arythmia due to anxiety. is luvox alone or celexa mix whit seroquel (quetiapine) better?
to the medications you mention a good addition might be some good psychotherapy. it has no side effects or dangerous interactions and can teach you ways to deal with life. think about adding it to whatever drug you are prescribed or even as a first effort to help you decide what to do. best!
how just "anxiety" can cause chest pain shortness of breath arms and kneck pain diziness headache sudoration palpitations? all chardio tests done. txs
anxiety attacks account for a large number if emergency room visits. when anxiety hits the body releases adrenaline and corticosteroids- which impact a lot of organs and systems in the body. if you were physically cleared i suggest you seek counseling to find tools to learn to handle the anxiety better.
had bloodwork ecg and chest x-ray. in february i can feel my heartbeat all over and see it i my gut. i'm not thin. 30yrs old. any ideas?
i assume all of your tests results were interpreted as normal? sometimes anxiety can cause you to feel your heart beat other times there is a different treatable cause. how often and how long do you get attacks like this for?
how much time do heart palpitations last?
seconds to days depends upon what is going on. technically the definition of palpitations is "awareness of the heart beat". often due to a "not normal" heart beat or arrhythmia of some sort but sometimes general anxiety cause heighten awareness of the heart beat.
heart palps on and off for ten years. ekg was fine. really bad when nervous. but still happen at random times. more than anxiety?
talk to your doctor again. perhaps he/she could consider and "extended ekg" more properly called an event monitor or a holter monitor.
heart flutters everyday. worse when i have a beer. cardiologist doesn't think i shud b worried. shud i get 2nd opinion? can it give me a heart attack
skips in heartbeats may be associated with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements. avoid stimulants such as caffeine alcohol (beer) otc decongestants eg pseudafed.
heart stops and restarts and then i'll get sudden head rush. ekg was normal. can anxiety cause heart to stop and get head rush?
hearts beat in patterns that can only be recognized by machines. hearts are in a sense starting and stopping continually in that they pulsate or beat meaning that they contract and rest about every second. anxiety can cause a person to feel odd sensations. focusing on these can increase anxiety. focus instead on your positive interests and get busy. your heart can take care of itself.
i have been on 1mg of clonazepam for 3 months. i take atenolol also for anxiety tachycardia 75mg daily. i've been tapering the clonazepam to now 0. 75mg but i have noticed my heart rate 55-60 to the point where i know only take 25mg of atenolol. why?
the atenolol is designed to lower the blood pressure and the heart rate. now you are coming off of climax roam slowly. this is good. but you still may be on to much atenolol for the hert rate is low. ask your doctor to re evalute you and perhaps drop the dose again
i've been having chest pain in the left side that comes and goes along with pain in my right arm. it feels as if i just got a shot in my arm. anxiety?
it is important to rule out medical causes for your chest pain before assuming it is due to a mental health reason. take care.
i get a pain in my left upper arm from time to time also have anxiety i've been on the ekg and it always came back normal. why do i have this pain?
if your doctor has determined that your left arm pain is not associated with a medical condition and you suffer from pain and anxiety i would look at the possibility that you may be suffering from a somatic symptom and related disorder. if such is diagnosed therapy is often helpful in resolving these symptoms.
i haven't been able to sleep even though i feel tired and sleepy my body feels like it's floating and my heart is racing. what's going on with me?
you may suffer from anxiety disorder. you should seek a professional to help your insomnia
i have been diagnosed with brugada syndrome and have an icd that has worked fine. i am wanting to find out more about this disease and wanting to know if there are any help in dealing with the severe anxiety about my defibrillator going off.
brugada syndrome is a relatively common familial arrhythmia syndrome found in patients presenting with syncope or sudden cardiac arrest. it is very understandable that you are having symptoms of anxiety about the defibrillator. my advice: talk to your pcp or cardiologist and ask for a referral to a counselor or psychiatrist. in the meantine refer to: familyheart. stanford. edu/clinics/brugada2. htm
i have been diagnosed with brugada syndrome and have an icd that has worked fine. i am wanting to find out more about this disease and wanting to know if there are any help in dealing with the severe anxiety about my defibrillator going off.
the only effective treatment is aicd it is a hereditary condition and is well known for sudden cardiac death very increased heart rate known as ventricular tachyarrythmia. there is no proven medical(medicine) treatment. but aicd (icd) is very successful treatment so just relax and keep regular followup with your cardiologist regularly
i have been diagnosed with brugada syndrome and have an icd that has worked fine. i am wanting to find out more about this disease and wanting to know if there are any help in dealing with the severe anxiety about my defibrillator going off.
the following website is recommended <link> ly/1umw0sk also if having anxiety cbt-cognitive behavioral therapy can be very helpful. go to my checklist "overcoming anxiety and stress"
muscle aches palp dizz anxiety sob difficulty swallowing at times. normal labs u/s tiny cysts hetero echotexture. can it still b thyroid prob?
these are all signs of thyroid issue. please see a physician to evaluate the hormone levels.
my mom(50) she took 2 dose of primolut n is stressed alot. she was having severe head spinning swollen neck got high bp 150/90 and ecg is not normal.?
primulotin? never heard of it; do you mean premarin (conjugated estrogens)? her situation is multifactoral and complex. the anxiety and headaches can be related if she clinches her teeth at night ( bruxism); if she snores badly could have sleep apnea. swollen neck is it big or acutely enlarged? if big and she snores loudly consider a sleep study. some can do home sleep studies but may need to be evaluated.
my ekg holter (1900 pvc's) in 48 hours cardiac us nuclearmri/ct and stress test are all normal. i get on/off chest pain which radiates to my neck. should i see a cardiologist? family history.
could be anxiety or increase in caffeine intake. see a cardiologist to complete work up for it could be benign and if symptomatic will need to see an electrophysiologist cardiology.
my wife is 3 month pregnant and she is suffering by fast heart beating many times a day.
either she might be having anxiety attack or tachy arrythmias. as she is having these epsiodes it can be diagnosed through 24 hours holter monitor. please see your pcp or cardiologist.
my heart rate (not resting) is 77. i am 19 and a female. i have a squeezing left chest pain painful shoulders and nausea. what should i do?
hrt attack try mylanta. it's probably esophageal reflux (heartburn) or possibly anxiety (maybe both). are u sleeping well at night? do u clinch your teeth? significant chest pain is very low probability for a cardiac problem or death at ur age. it would be irresponsible of me to tell u to not go in though. it may b something more significant.
my heart rate (not resting) is 77. i am 19 and a female. i have a squeezing left chest pain painful shoulders and nausea. what should i do?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
my pulse is fast and strong. more than 100 bpm can feel heart beat rapidly even when im resting. i don't think its anxiety. should i be worried?
rapid heartbeat can be a sign of anxiety but more worrisome causes include thyroid disturbances chemical imbalance in the blood low blood counts complication of medical therapy or dehydration. see your doctor and get checked out. and don't wait around. some of these problems can be serious.
my pulse is fast and strong. more than 100 bpm can feel heart beat rapidly even when im resting. i don't think its anxiety. should i be worried?
u need thorough evaluation by your family doctor to rule out several things such as anemia or thyroid problem or heart issues etc. wish u well.
what causes 5 second stabbing pain in left chest between breast and collarbone? muscle? stress test ekg ok 30 day monitor showed pvcs.
sharp pains that only last for seconds are not due to anything serious. most often they are due to anxiety and can be ignored. you should work to reduce your stress level. one way to control this problem is to do daily exercise especially in the form of walking. it will help you to reduce your stress anxiety and depression. getting closer to nature has a soothing effect on your mind and soul.
what could cause a heart rate of 120 bpm at night only? during the day it averages 85 bpm.
any late exercise sexual activity caffeine use other decongestants or stimulants? do you take any supplements or medications at night? might try switching to dosing in am to see if that makes any difference. any other symptoms like shortness of breath anxiety?
what causes a 2 hr dull pain in left chest above breast below collarbone? passed stress test ekg heart monitor. similar pains in arm shoulder blade.
the most important to rule out is heart disease and sounds like you've done that. gastrointestinal reflux heartburn costochondritis muscle spasm shoulder arthritis-it's a long list. anxiety is a biggie.
what are beta blockers used for?
beta blockers are used to treat so many different conditions from elevated blood pressure to irregular heart rhythms to anxiety to tremors and migraine headaches. this just names some of the uses!
what factors cause high heart rate?
many factors. normal - regular 60-100bpm. normally sinus node hr is 60-100; junctional 70-110; ventricular ~ 36 bpm. any abn focus can lead to irregular rhythms such as a. fib/flutter sinus tahcycardia ventricualr tachycardia to name a few. abnormal cardiac focus - afib; metabolic/endocrine - thyroid infections; ca; substance abuse; anxiety; congenital abn are some.
what does it feel like when you have a heart attack? do you feel pain or just numbness?
heart attack symptoms can include: chest pressure pain or tightness that can radiate to arms neck jaw or back; nausea shortness of breath sweating lightheadedness dizziness fatigue anxiety or a sense of impending doom. get med eval if you believe you may be having cardiac symptoms.
have been having constant chest pain which radiates to my back for 5 days ekg normal exercise intolerance but ativan (lorazepam) relieved. what could it be? help
i assume the above investigations are normal? anxiety can certainly present with chest discomfort relieved with ativan (lorazepam). problems with your stomach or digestive system may also present with chest discomfort. be sure to follow up with your doctor.
had a 24hr holter 30 day event stress echo. showed only a few pacs. drs. say not dangerous. i usually can tell when palps are coming. is this my anxiety?
anxiety can certainly exacerbate and provoke palpitations. treating anxiety can help definitely.
hi im 17 old guy and i have had anxiety for 2 months and latley i've been scared of having a stroke or heart attack what are the odds? im scared!
at 17 your chances of heart attack or stroke are very little.
hw does chest pain caused by anxiety feel like? i hav ds chest pain for 3months nw ecg&chest x-ray are normal. the pain is like strained muscle. bend
surgical excision of darkened area and plastic closure
high anxiety! short chest pains directly between breasts muscular tension in back shoulder. ekg normal. pcp says no need for cardiologist. do you agree?
i agree.
how high of bp is high enough to seek er help? during anxiety it goes up high like 150/111! <negative_smiley> i don't want a stroke or heart attack during this.
blood pressure readings can change throughout the day depending on a number of factors. checking your blood pressure in the mornings and at night may help you get a better idea of what your trends are. if most of your readings are within normal range you are less likely to have the damage to your arteries that ultimately leads to heart attacks and strokes.
heart stops for 1 second and restarts. one dr says its anxiety and another dr said its not anxiety. who should i believe? ekg was normal
you may have premature heart beats which are usually benign but annoying. mitral valve prolapse can also cause this occasional irregularity but it is also benign. the presence of anxiety does not mean that you cannot not pvc's but this in turn can cause anxiety unless you know it is benign. a presence of a normal ekg can be reassuring.
how can i help if someone gets heart attack on the plane?
often times on the plane there is passenger who has some sort of medical experience. whether it be a nurse doctor or paramedic someone who understands basic life support should be able to make an assessment. knowing basic life support is key. most flight attendants are trained in this. oxygen decreasing anxiety and determining the severity is the most important factors.
heart rate shot up to almost 155 last night went to er and left due to wait time. should i worry if heart rate has stayed around 95-100?
there are several possible causes for tachycardia you have to be examined by your doctor. sudden onset of fast heart beat might be just secondary to anxiety however other potential health problems have to be ruled out.
how can i tell the difference between having a heart attack or an anxiety attack? i have been having pain in chest and back. just to name a few
anxiety can often present like a heart attack and many people end up in the er because they don't know. it can be very frightening but the only way to know for sure is to be checked by a doctor. if your heart is fine you may want to consider the level of stress in your life or if anything in particular is worrying you large or small. talking to a professional can help you figure this out.
had a holter done nothing abnormal found just a fast heart rate now and than nothing higher than 120. still scared my hearts just gonna stop? i'm 33.
your heart is not going to stop! holter is already benign! you should concentrate on your anxiety/panic disorder instead of the rhythm of the heart. seek help as anxiety is not easily controlled by yourself.
hi doc has put me on levothyrozine 50mg and i am worried as i heard this med can cause palpitations and anxiety. dont want to take if this will happen?
your thyroid levels. the side effects will occur if your levels become too high. you should feel better with your thyroid levels normal. just keep monitoring them
hi what apart from anxiety are there other medical conditions that can cause anxiety like cardio proplems?
heart problems could give you symptoms of heart racing or palpitations. drinking too much coffee (caffeine) can produce the same effects. thyroid conditions can produce anxiety symptoms. the list goes on. a complet history would help the doctor zone in a specific cause.
ive had a soreness in my laft arms for about a week now come and goes mild have had some anxiety when i lay down i can feel my heart beat?
left arm discomfort anxiety and feeling your heart beat can be related or independent symptoms. if you have exertional left arm pain or chest pain you need a cardiac evaluation.
i layed down and rested because i felt dizzy then i took my pulse twice and average 126 bpm.?
be a response to something else such as anxiety withdrawal of medications (or substances) or it may be a native arrhythmia (abnormal rhythm of the heart). you may pass out. if this persists or comes in waves i would get myself to a healthcare provider as soon as possible for proper examination and diagnosis. these are the types of condition that requires a thorough workup by the physicia
i have prolactin level of 1300. can this cause anxiety/flushing? propananol was helping but now isn't working! tried increasing dose but didn't help
is very high. it is imperative you inform your primary doctor asap. . more tests are needed. best regards.
i randomly started having chest pain today i've never had chest pain before in my life. of course i freaked out and immediately thought heart attack. i'm a 19 year old female. this past week has been extremely stressful for me because of school. could st
chest pain may be due to stress or anxiety especially given your young age; but see your pcp right away or go to urgent care to rule out cardiac or other medical cause. be safe and get seen today. i hope this helps. best wishes.
i sometimes wake up in the middle of the night and develop racing heart palpitations with left arm tingling/numbness. anxiety or cardiac issue? 25y/o
when your heartbeat feels unusual & rapid we call that palpitations. if you have chest discomfort shortness of breath lightheadedness or fainting that's worrisome. start by seeing an internal medicine or cardiology doctor; depending on what else turns up some tests are in order.
my fiancée 25 had a high heart rate before and during her menstruation 90-100. lab tests are clear no thyroid problems. now it's a normal rate. why?
heart rate can increase for various reasons. stress anxiety walking talking anger infection thyroid disease and many many others. it is difficult to answer your question as the list is very long and i do not have more history. the fact that it normalized it may suggest a benign cause.
my pulse is running at 105 resting very rarely have caffeine drinks and i feel tired all the time?
there are few reasons for elevated heart rate. caffeine is one cause. however some supplements do contain caffeine. anxiety stress or panic disorders can lead to increase in heart rates. cardiac disorders or thyroid abnormalities could the cause if your increase heart rate. check with your provider so he or she can do the appropriate work up. do this sooner than later.
my doctor prescribed buspirone 5 mg for anxiety. i started taking it yesterday and have bad heart palpitations. what would be a good alternative?
there are other medications that could be used to treat your anxiety. your doctor will decide on one based on your symptoms and existence of other medical conditions. tell your doctor about the side effect with buspirone and ask if another medication could be considered. good luck.
my doctor prescribed buspirone 5 mg for anxiety. i started taking it yesterday and have bad heart palpitations. what would be a good alternative?
is really harmless discuss with u provider.
my symptoms are fatigue palpitations chest pain(chest is tender to touch)and dizziness. i had an echo and it was normal. what else could be going on?
you need to have detailed medical history including family history and past history and comprehensive physical exam ekg blood test to make a correct diagnosis only echo is not enough you may have thyroid problem anemia anxiety syndrome and one of many more conditions which can cause your symptoms. so consult your doctor and get it checked you are only 23 years old.
my heart rate races when i lay down almost every night it wakes me up. is this dangerous?
get checked though for thyroid disorder arrythmia (svt pvc) etc. or could just be anxiety/panic attack. have u had holter monitoring done? cut down on caffeine soda energy drinks and alcohol. go see your dr for a repeat ekg. may need a beta blocker. if stress echo is normal it means your heart is structurally sound. you are still young to have serious heart ailment. give us some feedback!
my heart rate races when i lay down almost every night it wakes me up. is this dangerous?
see your doctor to be checked out lots of possible reasons from abnormal structure and function to anxiety.
m iit professorial. mother has high bp. i now get negative thoughts high bp anxiety get scared sudden hunger low confidence. thyroid and ecg ok.
consult pcp/therapist about worries & ways to relieve anxiety. exercise meditation tai chi yoga biofeedback relaxing hobbies can help. docs may recommend anxiolytic meds while u learn to cope with triggers.
m iit professorial. mother has high bp. i now get negative thoughts high bp anxiety get scared sudden hunger low confidence. thyroid and ecg ok.
this is a problem that necessitates a face-to-face meeting with your doctor. this will allow him/her to examine you ask specific questions. and possibly order tests to find out what's wrong and what to do to help you.
my mother take inderal (propranolol) for 8 yrs but she have palpitation? her age is 45yrs i want to know reason
palpitations that symptomatic deserve a prompt w/u: exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo andthe discussion of treatment options with your doctor. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety and hyperventilation can cause numbness.
why do i keep waking up with a rapid heart rate?
chronic stress and anxiety will lead to interrupted sleep which will result in arousal with tachycardia. reducing chronic and anxiety will help.
what is difference between short acting and long acting propranolol? doc gave me short acting for anxiety will it still lower blood pressure?
acting is required to be taking more than once a day because of its elimination time. the long acting is released slowly hence last longer in your blood and requires single dosing. both will lower your bp and heart rate
went to the er for back/chest discomfort/dizzy/lump in throat. dr said ekg looked great. prescribed xanax (alprazolam) for anxiety. still having pain. still worry?
healthy would encourage you to see your primary care doctor for a more thorough assessment to check for any other medical causes of these symptoms. if that workup is also negative would encourage you to see a psychiatrist or psychologist for help with your anxiety.
what is a normal heart rate when active. i mean like cooking n cleaning. my resting heart rate is 77bpm. was 85 bpm when i was cooking. ?
the normal heart rate at rest can be from 55 to 90 with 72 being average. it is normal for the rate to increase with activity or anxiety and your rate of 85 during moderate activity is quite normal. with vigorous exercise the heart rate can exceed 140 but should gradually return to normal after 5 to 15 minutes of rest.
what is best remedy for benign pvc's (pre ventricular contractions)? they are driving my anxiety through the roof!
as long as they are benign pvc's they generally dont require treatment. if your ekg has been reviewed by a cardiologist you can relax my friend!
what are palpitations a symptom of?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
weaning off propranolol(on it for anxiety/headaches/dizziness) eversince suffer wi a bad stomach. could this be due to anxiety? dont feel anxious
however this is not a common effect of propranolo. please get an abdominal examination and medical evaluation.
weaning off propranolol(on it for anxiety/headaches/dizziness) eversince suffer wi a bad stomach. could this be due to anxiety? dont feel anxious
possible.
what to do about stress induced heart palpitations i'm in a high stress job trouble shooting problems on a daily basis not easy to deal with?
hi talk to ur provider you might benefit from a medication called b-blocker also treating anxiety with ssri could be helpful.
when i lay on my side @ bedtime i start to get heart palpitations like my heart is beating out of my chest. what could be a cause? what should i do?
it is approximation of heart to the chest wall. . but a anxiety component is also at work.
what can cause chest pain for several days? went to er ekg normal and chest x ray normal lungs sound fine. this is the third time this has happened
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
heaviness in my chest feels like someone is sitting there had an ekg done nothing was found could it be anxiety? or what can it be?
a little discrepancy in information provided. you mention "overactive thyroid" under conditions but list levothyroxine under medication. levothyroxine is for underactive thyroid. nevertheless i think you do need a full cardiac work up to rule out ischemic heart disease. please consult a local cardiologist to arrange for cardiac enzymes stress test etc. anxiety can only be diagnosed after a
heaviness in my chest feels like someone is sitting there had an ekg done nothing was found could it be anxiety? or what can it be?
many things cause chest pain including anxiety. other non-heart related causes include acid reflux asthma lung infections muscular pain blood clots. discuss your ekg with your doctor. knowing more about the type of pain -how long it lasts what makes it worse or better-is helpful so your doctor can help figure out why you have the symptoms and what can be done about it.
having sharp achy pains on left side of chest. resting heart rate per minute at 80. anxiety stress or something more serious?
never ignore chest pain. there are many causes of chest pain and some can be life-threatening. before assuming it is due to something like anxiety or stress it is best to make sure it is not something more serious. please consider going to an er or your doctor if they are available as soon as possible.
hi my heart beat is98in night is it important for me?
98 beats per minute is getting a little high. things like caffeine nicotine drugs (cocaine etc) anxiety . can all cause a fast heart rate. eat well exercise keep a healthy weight and if your heart rhythm stays on the high side then see the dr for an evaluation.
heart rate increase breathing rate increase dizzy tremor normal thyroid hormone? happen during excitement or anxiety. why?
could you be pregnant? if not have you had a rapid growth spurt? sometimes during periods of rapid growth the autonomic nervous system has trouble regulating and you may need to have more salt and water in your diet. check for a 30 beat or more difference in hr from lying down to standing.
heart rate was 55 sitting and then i stood it was 130? just like when at drs bp is 140/80 and always at pharmacy it's 107/60? is this all anxiety?
emilym747 bps are often elevated when patients are seen in the medical office due to being mildly anxious. this could still be a problem however because it means that in stressful situations your bp could be elevated. i would recommend close bp monitoring. changes in hr with standing can sometimes be normal but going from 55 to 130 seems a bit much. i would have this looked at by your doc.
how can high dose ritalin (methylphenidate) effect the heart long term? i no longer take it but have daily tachycardia and frequent palpitations and lightheadedness.
ritalin (methylphenidate) affect is essentially cleared in less than 24 hours depend in dose and extended release forms. your symptoms are more suggestive of anxiety or panic attacks but you should see a doctor to evaluate for other causes such as cardiac arhthmythia anemia hyperactive thyroid.
hello doctor my condition is that i get palpitation and heart race without high exertion. i feel that since 1 and half month. and flank pain. regards?
hello the tow things may not be related. palpitation without exertion may be underlying heart problem or even anxiety. please see a physician to get this further evaluated.
hi. about 8 months ago i got an echo multiple ekgs. a stress test and blood work and everything was normal. anxiety about my heart is back? ! advice?
the type of person who expresses his/her emotions bodily. normal bodily feelings can become the focus of phobic feelings. a mental health professional can help w/this. clinical hypnosis is one option. peace and good health.
how u know when you are having a heart attack. i m 28 and worried. had the holter blood work ekg echo was fine but had a lot of sharp pain mid chest?
you have had a pretty thorough cardiac work up for someone your age. heart attacks although possible are not typically seen at your age unless there are some genetic or other medical issues present. heart attacks also typically aren't sharp pains they are classically described as crushing with an inability to catch ones breath. time to look for other things reflux anxiety etc.
heart rate of 120 two hours after intense cardio. i rarely do cardio so is this normal?
possible inappropiate sinus tachycardia in association with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but may cause anxiety about symptoms. see doctor to be checked and to consider ultra low dose beta-blocker drugs. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium & omega fish oil supplements.
heart beats faster after having a couple of drinks. lately it causes skipped beats. is this normal? i'm a anxious person over my health lately
you are probably wise to not drink for awhile. it is not helping your anxiety and you are now having physical symptoms because of it. it is a depressant and causes anxiety. it is not benign.
had several pac/pvcs in a row. made my body tingly hands sweaty and center of chest had a burning sensation 4 a few secs now im having anxiety. ideas?
you define yourself to have a cardiac arrhythmia with secondary symptoms. ideas? obvious! get a thorough evaluation of this. if solid objective evaluation is negative and you don't actually have a defined arrhythmia then your other health history suggests your illness might be panic disorder. cardiac workup first!
having many heart palpitations but confirmed no heart problems. what next?
stop all the stimulant like alcohol caffeinated beverages and nicotine try to treat any anxiety you might have. make sure you thyroid and electrolytes are well balanced. i don't know what you mean by no heart problem but i assume you have no structural heart disease like valvular problem have you done a 30 day holter monitor called zio patch? if not i believe you should benefit from zio patch.
how can i discriminate if i have panic attack or angina attack? both include chest discomfort rapid or irregular heart beat and anxiety.
one condition is potentially life threatening angina and the other is not. you should be evaluated by a physician to exclude life threatening causes of chest pain with testing such as an ekg labs and stress test.
i'm 22 deal with anxiety. have chest ache on right side nausea. comes and goes. scared i'm having heart attack but not sure if it's anxiety.
an anxiety disorder. please see your doc for a check up and then a mental health professional who can help you deal w/this. anxiety can express itself in many ways. irrational health fears are but one. peace and good health.
i was told anxiety and stress can cause a short pr interval on your ekg is this true? is it dangerous?
short pr interval < 0. 12 msec is associated with lown-ganong -levien syndrome and wolf-parkinsons-white syndrome. i would follow up with cardiologist specifically an electrophysiologist cardiologist -they know ekgs- and make sure you don't have that-because that can be treated and is significant before attributing it to anxiety. everyone in us is anxious and stressed.
i keep getting tachycardia but my bp is normal. could this be weight and anxiety related? im 27y/o 5'3 and 200lbs. just had salpingo oop a month ago.
27 year old lady with morbid obesity & anxiety s/p saplingo oophorectomy 1 month ago now with tachycardia. sinus tachycardia is a physiologic response to several stressors including pain anxiety anemia hypovolemia and other factors. you should be evaluated by your physician as soon as possible because tachycardia can be a sign of bleeding after surgery. probably not but please get full exam.
i recently feel my heart rate very fast but when i check my pulse is always between 50-55. i feel my muscle and heart is flutter and shaking. why?
can be because of variety of reasons including caffeine and anxiety. would recommend a holter monitor if still ongoing
i'm 22 female just started getting palpitations and nervous feeling in stomach when it happens only when i'm up and moving when i'm sitting down and?
palpitation could be anxiety or may have structural or functional herat problem you need some work up to find out what is the heart rhythm during the episodes. other no cardiac causes like thyroid disorder anemia need to be ruled out also see your pcp
my pulse rate has been ranging from 110-130 lately. why would that be?
if you are referring to resting heart rate this is too high and can be caused by a variety of conditions ranging from anxiety to overactive thyroid anemia (low blood count) heart rhythm disturbances or endocrine abnormalities to name a few. prolonged tachycardia (high heart rate) can damage the heart. have your family doctor check it out!
my heart rate is increasing gradually and i can't breath well and i also feel a short pain in chest. when i concentrate on this i feel very fear. why?
evaluation with your physician as there could be many causes including anxiety.
my mother is not feeling well. she doesn't feel like eatinganything gets fed up of everything and sometimes she gets scared and gets palpitations. what should i do?
it could be a medical/ psychological issue. palpitations and decreased appetite are caused by medical illnesses like anemia as well as anxiety and depression can cause similar symptoms. need to see her physician and get blood work done.
my mother is not feeling well. she doesn't feel like eatinganything gets fed up of everything and sometimes she gets scared and gets palpitations. what should i do?
could be depression or anxiety but could be a heart rhythm problem or infectious disease or many other conditions. she would likely benefit from a medical evaluation of all symptoms timing of onset any medications she is on and other factors.
my aunt passed away on may 9th and i've been experiencing palpitations and light headedness when i wake from sleep. what can be causing this?
this sounds likely to be a reaction to the stress you are under from your recent loss. increased anxiety causes adrenalin surges which result in palpitations and light headedness. would talk to your doctor. avoid stimulants like caffeine and keep alcohol to a minimum. stay well hydrated. you might need a mild anxiety aid lie xanax (alprazolam) or an antidepressant for a time. cardiac tests if sx continue.
my mum is 43 and has developed severely red cheeks as well as insomnia anxiety and increased heart rate. what could it be?
2 distinctive diseases that can start with an intense red rash mainly at the cheeks. usually in adults. rosacea and systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). both more common in women. lupus tend to be associated with systemic symptoms like fatigue fever joint pain loss weight anxiety etc. autoimmune disease that can attack any organ of your body. see your doctor soon.
my mum is 43 and has developed severely red cheeks as well as insomnia anxiety and increased heart rate. what could it be?
first assess all of the medications and food she has eaten recently to rule out an allergic reaction. the next step would be for her to talk through what is on her mind with a professional to reduce the worry and develop coping skills to better deal with anxiety in the future.
my dr referred me to a cardiologist for a high resting hr blood ecg are normal no anxiety or coffee heart seems fine what else could be wrong?
level of physical fitness circulating hormones and autonomic nervous system control resting hr. if consistently at or above 100 something maybe wrong. don't know what blood test were done. ecg can be normal and still have a heart condition. stress test and 2d echo to be certain. endocrine evaluation for overactive thyroid and other endocrine problems. what's your level of fitness/ cardiac conditi.
my dr referred me to a cardiologist for a high resting hr blood ecg are normal no anxiety or coffee heart seems fine what else could be wrong?
most cases of patients with high resting heart rates are nothing at all and related to deconditioning or being "out of shape". only very rarely is it something else.
my resting heart rate is 130 right now. i have anxiety and mono. is this normal?
your anxiety is quite severe judging from your questions. if your fever from the mono is still present it can increase the heart rate. but your own adrenaline pumping will keep it elevated. you may need more than behavioral therapy to control your anxiety. please check with your therapist or doctor for proper medication treatment.
my brother hasn't had a ecg in a long time he has a heart murmur and also a leaky valve he gets chest pain sometimes is it anxiety or heart problems?
there is no good way to answer this without data. you know it but your brother needs to re-establish care with his physician and to get this figured out!
will anxiety cause irregular heartbeat. sumtimes my heart will beat twice then there's a pause & will start beating regular again. happens daily?
this is a common symptom of anxiety. i'd suggest a good psych eval and treatment in cbt therapy. if meds are seen to be needed the therapist will refer for that. this is often a fairly easy symptom to relieve if you are willing to learn skills for anxiety mgmt. best wishes!
will simvistatin exacerbate anxiety? will simvistatin create more palpitations
doubtful that simvastatin will create anxiety.
will simvistatin exacerbate anxiety? will simvistatin create more palpitations
hi. simvastatin causes neither anxiety nor palpitations. has your thyroid function been checked? <positive_smiley> good luck!
what could help with the palpitations brought on anxiety?
these are caused by many things. stress excitement irritants both physical and chemical pressure like a hiatal hernia or esophageal push or pull and primary heart things the causes are very many in number.
what could cause a double heart beat?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
why do i sometimes feel my pulse? also why do i sometimes feel like my heart is beating fast? ive also have been getting a little light headed.
anxiety stress thin body hyper thyroid state lack of sleep ( rest ) other medications. if on bc obese. blood clot may be a factor. caffine any form street drug cold medication anemia mitral stenosis of heart are also causes.
what would cause throbbing that feels like a heart beat in your stomach and should i be worried?
throbbing sensation in the stomach could indeed be the heartbeat if associated with fear or anxiety. talking to your doctor is the best way to get an answer to your question and allay any anxiety you may have. answers to questions such as these often come from a face to face discussion with your doctor who can assess you more fully.
when stressed i get chest pain going to left arm and neck. had echo echo stress test all clear. i'm 25 could this be prinzmetal angina?
you had work up done for coronary artery disease it is apparently negative. you do not seem to have any significant risk factors at least you did not mention any. most likely you have stress situations causing anxiety. check with your doctor who can help you.
wife has reoccurring chest pain. sob and frequent palps. has had test to rule out conditions. anxiety meds dont help. dr wont do aniogram. what next?
your doctor should review all her testing and history. if persistent chest pain symptoms a revisit with your doctor would be helpful. if however she is in severe distress can't breathe or find comfort perhaps a visit at the emergency room is warranted.
what is anxiety? i'm 18 and have been experiencing a feeling of impending doom when it comes to my health. fluttering heartbeat sweats numbness
the symptoms you are experiencing are symptoms of anxiety. see your physician
what could having rapid heart beat and tingling hands fingers mean? no sign of chest pain.
those symptoms come together as a form of anxiety. but it has to be determined what caused what: your heart started beating rapidly for some reason and you noticed it and started freaking-out breathing so hard that your fingers tingle (really). -or- for some reason you became anxious about something breathing hard and your heart started racing. you might want to get checked out for them.
when i'm anxious my heart rate at rest is about 105 when i'm relaxed its about 65. should i be worried that my hr increases only when i'm anxious?
this is fairly common and can be thought of as part of our fight - flight reflexes. there are nerve connections between the heart and the brain that can lead to either fast or slow heart rate. see your doctor about your anxiety. relaxation techniques may help you to better control your heart rate.
how do beta-blockers work?
you body's natural tendency to speed up your heart rate increase your blood pressure when you need more oxygen to tissues for whatever reason. depending on the particular drug-this is why they work well for hypertension and anxiety.
how low is a low heart rate and how does in relate to beat blockers used for anxiety?
less than 60 beats per minute is considered slow. beta-blockers decrease heart rate and blunt the stress response. if you are having excessively slow heart rates while taking beta-blockers you should talk with your doctor about lowering the dose or a different medication.
how low is a low heart rate and how does in relate to beat blockers used for anxiety?
heart rates vary from person to person and in the same person and "rate" (heart beats per minute) varies in the name person in a wide range while awake and lower rate but still wide range while asleep. heart rates below 60 beats per minute are considered "low" but are very normal. beta blockers lower the heart rate. anxiety (eg: about your heary) will raise it!
how low is a low heart rate and how does in relate to beat blockers used for anxiety?
60 beats a minute is the lower limit of normal. beta blockers will slow the heart rate. if the rate falls below about 45 or you have dizzy spells you need to notify your doctor so that he/she can modify the dose.
how can i know i have heart attack or anxiety? what are the differences?
anxiety or panic attack can cause chest pain just like a heart attack can. if you are feeling chest pain its a good idea to seek prompt medical attention. sometimes only after examination with a doctor blood tests ekg can one tell a heart attack from a panic attack or anxiety - so - call your doctor or go to emergency room if you have chest pain now. good luck!
how can i know i have heart attack or anxiety? what are the differences?
you will need a cardia exam to include ekg and echocardiogram. if you are feeling anxious have your physician prescribe anti-anxiety medication.
hi i take propranolol for anxiety but i understand this slows my heart rate down i want to join the gym but would taking propranolol be dangerous?
generally no. your maximum heart rate may be slower but being on propranolol should not pose a serious risk. certainly worth discussing with the md that prescribed the propranolol but it really shouldn't be dangerous. that said i don't believe propranolol is all that effective for anxiety. if its helping then great but if not there are more effective anxiety meds: ssris.
how to prvnt get heart disease & angina? i'm in anxiety disorder sometime exp chst pain. how to diff normal and abnormal chs pain? did ecg already
u have no angina unless u have premature cad in ur family. fyi angina comes with exercise and goes away with rest usually.
hi i suffer from anxiety and was prescribed 3. 125 mg of coreg (carvedilol) a beta blocker. is this drug safe?
good drug. can be very helpful. should help you with your anxiety symptoms.
how do i know the difference between anxiety about heart rate vs having real heart problems?
in order to rule out any possibility of your anxiety like symptoms to not have anything to do with your heart. . i believe for your own piece of mind a visit with a cardiologist is your next and only step. it is always better to be safe then sorry!
how do i know the difference between anxiety about heart rate vs having real heart problems?
by ruling out a heart condition. anxiety is most of the time a diagnosis of exclusion when somatic symptoms are prominent. talk to your doc about your heart symptoms and the need for further tests/.
hi. when i am in bed my heart rate its like 70-80. when i stand or when i do little effort or driving my car even i sit my heart rate going fast 130-140. that's normal? 60 kg 27 years old no histor
such rise in the heart rate at your age is not normal. with exercise the heart rate increases ubt not with mild form of activities. you may have anxiety which can lead to high heart rate even while sitting such as driving. or if your body is not used to any activity and you ahve a sedentary life style and are overweight etc your heart rate may increase with minimal activity. please see a doctor.
hi. when i am in bed my heart rate its like 70-80. when i stand or when i do little effort or driving my car even i sit my heart rate going fast 130-140. that's normal? 60 kg 27 years old no histor
no really normal: normal heart rate is 60-100 bpm. 130-140 would require both ekg and a 24 hour holter monitor. you should also get an echocardiogram and metabolic blood work to include a full thryoid evaluation. yes your anxiety and panic may be contributing; however call for an appointment asap!
how likely is 75mg of venlafaxine instance release to cause cardiac problems like heart attack. i've been on it for 4 days and getting palpitations.
venlafaxine causes cardiac problems like heart attack by causing severe hypertension. bp should be checked regularly. this drug is used to treat depression personality disorder social anxiety disorder bipolar. other drugs like flupentixol yasmin (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) have same effect in a non smoker. it may cause palpitation.
halter monitor for palps. no pauses no ventricular ectopy. symptoms did not correlate with ecg changes 62 bpm bradycardia episodes no answer for palp?
if a holter shows normal ecg correlated accurately with symptoms present then anxiety likely is responsible for your symptoms
how to know if palpitations are dangerous. or they only caused by anxiety?
it is very important that you speak call doc or psychiatrist today about amytriptyliine as it is a tricyclic antidepressant and these are known to be contraindicated in those individuals with a cardiac problem history. they can affect electrical conduction in the heart. do so soon. ssri's are a much safer and modern route to curtailing the panic attack/ anxiety. take care.
have hadhad heart burn indigestion but lately been having chest and muscle weakness and chest pain have had 3 normal ekgs am i having aniexty?
get a stress test holter monitor reading echocardiogram to confirm anxiety.
hi i have really bad health anxiety. my heart in particular. i had ekgs echos stress test etc done about a year ago. should i worry? ! i'm scared? !
anxiety will not cause medical problems but it can make life miserable. there are great treatments available- talk to your doctor. the feelings can be very scary.
had episode at work. cold sweat heart palp dizziness and nausea. almost blacked out and had to sit down. could this be from metformin? not diabetic.
did you check your blood glucose and vital signs after the spell? the episode could be due to poor nutrition hypoglycemia drugs medications seizure vasovagal response arrhythmia anxiety panic disorder etc. see your primary care physician to be evaluated. <link>
how can a doctor tell the difference between anxiety palpitations and heart problems on a 48hour heart monitor? what's the difference?
the idea of the monitor is to see exactly what your heart is doing while you have symptoms. it's important to write down when exactly you felt something to correlate with the measurements. often we will see that it is a benign "skipped beat" or pvc. we also check for dangerous heart rhythm abnormalities that can feel like anxiety.
i have been sitting down for a good 30 minutes and i stood up only once to get the remote to turn the tv off. my heart rate is at 126 and i don't know?
this rapid heart rate is inappropriate for someone at rest. possible causes include fever anxiety overactive thyroid excessive caffeine nicotine or alcohol. if the heart rate remains over 100/min go to the hospital emergency room where an examination blood tests and an ekg can be done to determine the actual heart rate and rhythm.
i have a rbbb and suffer from anxiety. i was prescribed lexapro (escitalopram). will this cause problems? i'm nervous of having sudden cardiac arrest or death
complete or incomplete? see a cardiologist or internist.
i am always worried & scared about disease? looking it up on internet? i get fast heart beat feel panicked & ready to flee. is it due to bp or heart
sounds like panic disorder and anxiety disorder
i have very bad anxiety & panic attacks. chest pain head pain daily. disrupting work sleep and life. don't want to take medication. please help!
over the counter anti-anxiety meds such as valerian root nerve tonic (made by hyland's) or chamomile tea. avoid caffeine and soda too. increase exercise. try yoga or meditation too.
i am 18 and my heart beats really fast to the point where i can't even sleep. i think it's because of stress but is it normal to have tachycardia?
always best to have yourself evaluated rather than presuming. your condition could be far worst than what you think! most common cause is paroxysmal tachycardia. make sure you are being referred to a cardiologist and not psyche and dismissed it as anxiety or hysteria!
is moduretic (50/5) half tablet safe to be used to control bp if serum creatinine 1. 7 blood urea 37 s k 4 in 72 yr patient with paroxysmal afib?
you should bring this question to your prescribing doctor for any concern or possible misunderstanding since s/he knows more about your individual conditions than anyone online. further inquiry online may add unnecessary confusion anxiety & even fear. do you trust your doctor? if not see others as needed.
i had palpatations. dr. gave candor5. i get fast heartbeat usually when i am thinking about heart problems? why did dr. give candor5? is it due to bp?
30 f sri lanka states has palpations esp when thinking about palpations. given candor 5. asks why? due 2 bp? need to know exactly what type of palpations did you have? regular irregular how fast first time? what did dt say was causing them? i cannot find candor5 as drug name. so need more information. my first huess is that you got bb 2 treat arrythymias/anxiety/bp. when u know more get back.
i get fast heartbeat. dr said its due to anxiety. also that i had trival isolated met. 2nd dr. gave concor5. is it due to heart or high bp? i am stressed.
from your short description i don't understand the question or the condition. "trival isolated met" - is that "trivial tricuspid regurgitation"? or some other valve? ("mets"? ) we're limited here to 400 characters so using healthtap prime will provide us (& you) better info. echocardiograms are way too sensitive picking up "trivial" anomalies even when there are no symptoms (nor ever will be).
i'm 16 noticed a visible pulse in sync with heartbeat in stomach. never noticed before. this normal? have hypertension. strong heartbeat. anxiety
but even though it would be rare at your age an aortic or other arterial aneurysm should be ruled out. sometimes this can be done with physical examination but an arterial ultrasound is more accurate.
i'm taking metoprolol 50mg succ. (in the a. m. ) for anxiety related sinus tachycardia. is it safe to take melatonin 3mg to help with sleep issues?
the most common melatonin side effects include: •daytime sleepiness •headaches •dizziness other less common melatonin side effects might include abdominal discomfort mild anxiety irritability confusion and short-lasting feelings of depression. in addition melatonin supplements can interact with various medications including: •blood-thinning medications (anticoagulants) •medications that suppress the immune system (immunosuppressants) •diabetes medications •birth control pills
my doctor says i might have low magnesium. palpitations daily up to 2 hours at a time feel very cold too. how dangerous is this?
magnesium is a essential for the function of over 300 enzymes & needed for muscle nerve & heart function. low magnesium can cause or aggravate muscle spasms anxiety insomnia migraine headaches hypertension fatigue palpitations constipation asthma osteoporosis etc. the best magnesium supplements are magnesium taurate glycinate citrate & aspartate. see <link>
my bp is 141/93 with heart rate of 84 bpm and i'm 39 yrs old. how bad is it? sometimes upon standing i get a head rush. i do have a lot of anxiety.
that bp is too high and certainly higher than normal for a young man. there are many causes of high bp and anxiety can definitely provoke higher bp. in order to further clarify it you should have your bp checked more frequently and if it's still running high you should see your doctor for a complete eval to make sure there isn't something else going on to cause high bp.
my mothers heart rate is very fast. its about 90-110bpm. even when her blood pressure is normal her heart beat is fast. what could be cause. age 50?
can be simply due to lack of physical conditioning obesity drug induced(to much caffeine) anxiety hyperthyroidism etc. i will recommend a good history and physical by a primary care physician.
my tsh is 5. 69 should i be on thyroid meds my doc says no? my mom has graves' disease and over past 3 months i've had bad anxiety/palpataions iam 39
a tsh of 5. 69 is a strong indicator of hypothryoidism. i advise you also have your free t3 (liothyronine) & thyroid antibodies checked. anxiety is a common symptom of hypothyroidism but also consider magnesium supplements; low mag. causes anxiety & palpitations & many who are hypothyroid also have low magnesium. see <link> & <link> consider seeing a different doc!
my tsh is 5. 69 should i be on thyroid meds my doc says no? my mom has graves' disease and over past 3 months i've had bad anxiety/palpataions iam 39
while anxiety and palpitations are symptoms of hyperthyroidism a high tsh is indicative of hypothyroidism that may not be associated with your symptoms. you may need further studies on your thyroid especially with your family history see you mom's endocrinologist.
my gp send me to ed because my hr was 125 but ecg and blood test were fine and hr went down to 96. could this be anxiety?
those findings are compatible with anxiety can't say if that's it from out here though.
my gp send me to ed because my hr was 125 but ecg and blood test were fine and hr went down to 96. could this be anxiety?
it could be and being evaluated by a psychiatrist may be beneficial but having a full work up by ac cardiologist for other causes to rule out other causes would be useful as well.
my body is deconditioned i want to exercise. i'm on anxiety & dep. meds. my heart rate is high w/basic things (100-105 usually. should i exercise still?
the high hr is likely due to the deconditioned state. start light and progress gradually. try 4-5 days per week for 30-60 minutes trying to raise your hr to 160-180 and keep it there for 30 min. your hr will start to lower with improved conditioning. build in 2 recup. days per week. walking jogging biking elliptical are all good starting options.
my body is deconditioned i want to exercise. i'm on anxiety & dep. meds. my heart rate is high w/basic things (100-105 usually. should i exercise still?
start gently with a bike brisk walking elliptical machine swimming for at least 20-30 min 3-4x a week. after a few weeks of this u can add some resistance training. let someone with certified training instruct u on proper technique. this also may lower your anxiety level and help your depression. thats what multiple studies have shown. good luck.
my body is deconditioned i want to exercise. i'm on anxiety & dep. meds. my heart rate is high w/basic things (100-105 usually. should i exercise still?
gradually increasing exercise will help your stamina as well as anxiety. i see that you are only taking benzos. talk to your doctor about using some ssri if appropriate for you. that will give youore energy. mind it that bezoa are for short term use only.
my cardiologist thinks my atrial flutter is due to a severe anxiety disorder. if the anxiety gets controlled can the atrial flutter go away?
atrial flutter is due to an abnormal electrical pathway. it may be triggered by anxiety if the anxiety make you have extra early beats (palpitations) which may trigger the rhythm problem. otherwise atrial flutter may resolve on its own (but may return) may be controlled by medications or may need a procedure called an ablation to cure.
my doctor told me my heart palpitations are benign but they have gotten worse since then. they even keep me up at night and cause difficulty breathing?
that decision? ekg holter test stress test thyroid test? are you having anxiety attacks? here is few causes of benign heart palpitations: excess caffeine energy drinks cold medicines dehydration pots( palpitations appearing after assuming standing position from sitting) streets drugs like marihuana asthma/allergies hyperthyroidism (associated with sweating tremors headaches).
moderate/severe chest pain on/off since 3pm its now 3 am heart fluttering at random i drank heavily last night could this. be anxiety or a-fib?
things including a heart arrhythmia and even a heart attack or a anxiety attack. go to emergency room asap. talk to your parents friends or 911 if alone.
my tests are all normal. ekg. echo. stress test. blood work. chest xray. but im still having off and on chest pain and minor sob. anxiety or heart issue?
unlikely cardiac cause. it could be gerd and ibuprofen makes it worse. if you are birth control you need to r/o pulmonar embolism by ct. if ct is negative for blood clots then you should take prilosec for a month and see if it helps.
why heart so irritated? very frequent pvc/pacs 5-10/min over couple weeks. stress echo ekg considered normal. messing up sleep. no caffeine alcohol
check your magnesium levels. if low start taking magnesium tablets. if overweight lose weight. drink lot of water. eat lot of fruits and fresh veg. why are u on aspirin at age of 31? if you have anxiety disorder as you are taking klonopin (clonazepam)then it can be a cause too. how do you know that you are having pvcs/pacs? did you get a holter study done? if not get one done.
would heart attack symptoms get worse? how fast? chest pressure tried to sleep woke up in sweat. been anxious lots so can't tell. normal vital signs
anxiety is a very common cause for chest pains. it is thought that the chest muscles tighten to cause it. for some people it may cause actual myocardial ischemic pain but this is very uncommon in young folks. you may need to look into this anxiety diagnosis more
want to know how effective 4 ekgs a blood test and a chest x-ray is at ruling out heart problems. anxiey and panic was diagnosed instead. ?
they are much more effective than an internet site telling you that you do not have heart disease. it would benefit you to see you personal physician if you have not done so. come up with a plan of treatment for this anxiety and give it a therapeutic trail. in other words try treatment and see if it works. there may also be some further testing to do to ally your concerns. good luck.
woke up with diarrhea heart beat in 100. took my anxiety pill glordiazep beats hasn't slow down. i have my beta blocker 25mg. i'm scared to take?
you are taking a good combination of antianxiety and slowing the heart rate; but the dose may need to be adjusted. see your dr.
how to controll a fast heart rate caused by anxiety? breathing exercises don't work.
assuming medical problems like thyroid and heart disorders have been ruled out a beta blocker like propranolol is effective at reducing extra heartbeats often seen in anxiety. but properly treating the anxiety is the most important thing to focus on.
how to controll a fast heart rate caused by anxiety? breathing exercises don't work.
avoid caffeine avoid sugary foods and sodas avoid alcohol continue to deep breathe and think positive thoights. listen to soothing music.
how can i over come examination anxiety? my heart beats so badly especially during oral examination.
this is a particular type of social anxiety/phobia. an experienced specialist therapist w/ a good fit for you can work to coach you to a win. it takes time but it's done again and again. for performances where you want to be clear and as excellent as possible - you don't want to be fuzzy from drugs that make you calm but vacant. but it may be all you can do till you get it right.
had echocardiogram and a ton of ekgs (all fine). still get a lot of annoying heart palpitations and skips beats that make my breath stop for a sec. why?
extrasystoles can occur. with normal echo. anxiety patients usually have worse symptoms than folks without anxiety
had echocardiogram and a ton of ekgs (all fine). still get a lot of annoying heart palpitations and skips beats that make my breath stop for a sec. why?
there's no answer that you will find satisfying. please understand that palpitations do not mean that you have heart disease as irregular heart beat occurs in virtually everyone to some extent and more so when anxiety (which you list) is present. medications and exercise can help. avoid nicotine and caffeine. get plenty of rest. treat your anxiety disorder. consider a beta blocker.
had palptations but normal sinus rythym on ekg and chest x-ray cardiologist believed it was anxiety. do you agree. it only happened twice.
yes
how can thyroiditis & graves be differentiated? what are the differ. & similarities? symptoms i have occasional tachycardia anxiety feel neck bigger
grave's disease is a form of thyroiditis from an autoimmune reaction with specific characteristics such as bulging eyes etc. thyroiditis simply means inflammation which may be from other mechanisms. you need to consult an endocrinologist soon since you may have an overactive thyroid.
have been to dtr 2 this week. thought i was having a heart attack. everything is normal with heart. now i feel a lump in throat and middle of chest?
this sounds like an anxiety problem or maybe depression. did the doc say to see a cardiologist? have you been treated for this before? make sure that the symptoms are not cardiac and then if negative do not put off treatment of anxiety disorder
headach. numbnes. heartbeats fast. can't control emotions. feel lonely. want to hurt myself physcaly. negative thoughts. mostly happens at night. what is it?
you have anxiety and depression which seem to afflict many in today's world. the most concerning thing is your thoughts of self harm. please go get help right now. go to the nearest medical facility an emergency room. i'm not sure how it works in your country but please seek help now. there is hope you can feel better. take a trusted friend with you or family member for support. luck to you.
heart fluttering is it something serious?
heart fluttering can be from a variety of causes but most commonly from anxiety or psvt. psvt can be treated by putting your face in ice water or bearing down more seriously it can be from underlying heart conditions or even from side effects of medications it is best to have it evaluated by your doctor.
i weigh 33kg. i eat on time but i seem to get thinner. i feel tired all the time and i have headaches and chest pains and stomachaches.
thank you for expressing your concerns about your health. “headaches chest pains and stomachaches” are due to stress causing anxiety. weight of 33kg and “seem to get thinner” is likely due to depression or a medical condition. see physician for diagnosis of low weight and treatment see psychiatrist for anxiety and depression; medication therapy for stresses of traumatic experiences relationships
i'm 16 have a strong heartbeat which is seen through chest and stomach is this normal? i have anxiety. i have belly chest fat pulse moves shirt
i commend you for knowing your anxiety. ask yourself if anxiety is due to •belly chest fat •your appearance •problem with parents •problem in relationships •peer pressure •use of alcohol and drugs breathing and music relaxation help with anxiety. strong heartbeat can be normal in thin persons. be concerned if you have fast or skipping of heart beat. see physician for diagnosis and treatment.
i'm 16 have hypertension see a pulse which moves my shirt seen in stomach and chest. strong heartbeats. anxiety pronounced 2 mnths ago had physical?
16 y. o. this needs to be treated by. your doc. are you significantly overweight? ask you doc about a food plan like the ketogenic diet. it is low carb and works well. ask your doc about kyolic aged garlic formula for hypertension. this is a natural alternative to medication but ask doc first. see www. relaxationresponse. org for some self-help too. peace and good hhealth.
i am roughly 5 weeks pregnant and have started having chest pain! is this normal?
but not totally unusual. often times it is due to anxiety and reflux. chest pain due to cardiac and pulmonary reasons can also happen but rare. hopefully your past medical history is negative keep your ob informed. best wishes
i am 19 yo history of anxiety since i was 9 and practicing triathlons. i feel like i get arrhythmia like 2x a month. am i at risk of cardiac death?
certain types of arrhythmia can cause sudden death thus it is best for you to consult a cardiologist before doing another triathlon or other kinds of strenuous exertion.
i am 19 yo history of anxiety since i was 9 and practicing triathlons. i feel like i get arrhythmia like 2x a month. am i at risk of cardiac death?
although it is impossible to say from your statement this is information you can get rather easily. an electrocardiogram can detect a prolonged qt interval that might place you at risk a 24 hour holter monitor could see if you are really having arrhythmia's. a cardiac echo could see if your heart structure would place you at such risk. if they all are negative your risk is negligible.
i am 19 yo history of anxiety since i was 9 and practicing triathlons. i feel like i get arrhythmia like 2x a month. am i at risk of cardiac death?
see your md and get a stress test to evaluate this. good luck.
i have been experiencing a chocking feeling in the neck and a heavy feeling in the chest along with headaches and other symptoms. what could this be?
you do not give enough information to give a formal diagnosis but a lump in the throat sensation is referred to as globus sensation. this can be caused by stress or anxiety but a more formal h & p needs to be done to rule out other causes which may include inflammation of the throat from sinus drainage or ge reflux dysfuntion of the muscles in the esophagus etc. make an appt with your doctor
i suffer anxiety but today was different! normally also high pulse rate/heart race. 2day anxiety bad but my pulse/heart rate normal!? is this normal
there isn't necessarily a fixed correlation between levels of anxiety and heart rate. the fact that your heart rate was normal on days when your anxiety level was very high is not medically significant and certainly doesn't indicate any cardiac abnormality if you are having significant anxiety you will benefit from cbt-cognitive behavioral therapy. go to my checklist "overcoming anxiety and stress"
i suffer anxiety but today was different! normally also high pulse rate/heart race. 2day anxiety bad but my pulse/heart rate normal!? is this normal
not every episode of anxiety has to be accompanied by an elevated heart rate. this could still be a normal anxiety attack. see how it goes for the rest of the day.
i'm 30 years old and my pulse rate when i got home from work was 113 is that too high?
a pulse of 113 is high if you have been at rest. however it may be normal if you were exerting yourself or rushing. some of the reasons the heart rate can be faster than normal: anxiety smoking(nicotine) alcohol medication side effect(including otc cough and cold medicines) fever pregnancy caffeine over active thyroid gland congestive heart failure
is it ok to take propanolol occasionally for times of high anxiety/stress maybe once or twice a week? . thanks
if it was given to you for this purpose then it is fine. propranolol can be used for anxiety associated with performance.
i feel my heart racing and i am scared. my mother in law died last week suddenly and she was 69 and very very healthy. my rate is 87 but i'm trying to?
studies show palpitations the unpleasant awareness of a "forceful rapid or irregular" heartbeat are usually benign however can sometimes indicate an underlying arrhythmia. personal or family (not in-law) history of sudden death syncope arrhythmia structural heart disease ekg findings like long qt syndrome are some indicators to pursue a workup. often women disproportionately dx'd w/ anxiety.
my heart rate is very volatile. without a beta blocker at rest it can get up to 150+ but with meds it stays at 50 & at night slips to 40. is this ok?
i am concerned about your heart rate fluctuating so much. at your age the heart is supposed to be healthy and beat between 60-90 times per minute. the doctor who gave you a beta blocker needs to explain to you why he/she placed you on a beta blocker in the first place. intense anxiety can cause heart rate to go high especially if you have panic attacks. you need a psychologist/counseler to help y.
my phicisian has told me that i've mvp by several examination and it'll be with me till death. does mvp cause anxiety and heart palpitation and pain
it is a permanent situation. some progress and need repair or replacement surgery. arrythmias are common and usually medically controlled. pain is variable. anxiety is common and personal.
my phicisian has told me that i've mvp by several examination and it'll be with me till death. does mvp cause anxiety and heart palpitation and pain
mvp should not cause anxiety but you may be anxious with the diagnosis and that can cause palpitations. pain usually is not an effect of mvp. you should be monitored regularly (at least yearly) and may need antibiotic dental prophylaxis. discuss with your doctor and get treated well. best wishes to you.
my doctor did the hammer to knee reflex test and said i was over reactive what does this mean? can this have anything to do with tachycardia/anxiety?
all three of those can suggest hyperthyroidism. did you ask your doctor about the symptoms?
my son age 35 has anxiety. physical: normal bp but high (100) heart rate. no hyperthyroidism. other physical causes of both? beta blocker help?
i agree with dr. werner's list of differential diagnoses of anxiety which can itself cause many physical symptoms. however i respectfully disagree that xanax is the best long-term anxiety treatment and suggest seeing a psychiatrist for evaluation and recommendations. xanax can help temporarily but is habit-forming. other safer options include psychotherapy buspar (buspirone) ssri's inderal etc.
my son age 35 has anxiety. physical: normal bp but high (100) heart rate. no hyperthyroidism. other physical causes of both? beta blocker help?
good run down in space allowed! other considerations include infection heart failure av fistua anemia malnutrition or most any underlying chronic illness. anxiety is likely but is a dx of exclusion. a lipophilic beta blocker like propranolol can help. xanax (alprazolam) is also used rather than valium.
my resting heart rate is 100 right now. i took my klonopin (clonazepam) to see if it would go down. it actually is now higher. why is this happening?
to treat your problem requires a diagnosis. although your history suggests that your problem is from anxiety you do need to get some blood tests (overactive thyroid anemia etc) and perhaps a cardiology work-up to find out the cause.
my resting heart rate is 100 right now. i took my klonopin (clonazepam) to see if it would go down. it actually is now higher. why is this happening?
there are many causes of tachycardia some benign such as anxiety however some can be very serious. if you are worried you may want to be evaluated especially if you are also having other symptoms such as fever shortness of breath chest pain cough etc.
my husband was diagnosed with pvc a while back once a while he gets his attack moments&eventually goes away but sometimes goes on even longer&my q is how long is too long? when i should call 911? help
pvc's are in general benign and a common finding. they may be triggered by anxiety or stimulants. the frequency and length of time the symptoms last are not generally predictive. seek care for symptoms which are different from his "routine" pvc's.
my heart keep skipping beats and my fingers keep numbing up what is happening?
you can have simple anxiety organic heart/ lung disease electrolyte anomaly benign heart rythm anomaly. see pmd.
my gp said that i have anxiety after my ecg and thyroid test came back normal. i feel like something is wrong feeling nervous all the time. help.
anxiety is the common cold of psychological disorders. one common first intervention for anxiety problems is exercise. getting 30 minutes of vigorous exercise such as brisk walking running or swimming 5 times a week can be as effective as psychotherapy! a variety of types of psychotherapy are available that very effectively treat symptoms of anxiety. get thee to a good psychologist!
my blood pressure is 140/90 heart palpitation age 33 weight 80kg did ecg which is clear?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
where do you feel heart fluttering? can gas cause fluttering in the heart area? mine are right in the middle of my chest
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
why is my heart rate high all the time?
there are many possibilities for why someones heart rate could be high all the time. without knowing more about you one can't speculate. some possibilities are anxiety anemia and hyperthyroidism. poor aerobic conditioning is another common problem.
what would cause heart palpitations at night when laying down? i've had ekg heart monitor chest xray. all normal. i'm worried and it's uncomfortable
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified. it sounds like you've had a good workup and don't need to worry.
why is my pulse so fast on my neck could my shunt be having a pulse my head has been hurting all day?
a vp shunt does not have a pulse. i am not sure why your pulse is so fast but could be caffeine or anxiety. the head hurting needs to be investigated if very severe. do you have migraines? you have not mentioned the mri results or how long ago it was done. if this is severe you need to call your neurologist for further eval.
would ans dysfunction cause sinus tachycardia or another type of arrythmia? would it cause elevated epinephrine?
the elevated epinephrine levels from whatever causes the arrhythmia and not vice versa as a rule. i would look for other causes like anxiety stress fever anemia caffeine alcohol nicotine hyperthyroidism etc before attributing the condition to ans. your cardiologist and personal physician are best qualified to evaluate the dysrhythmia and its causes however.
what causes tachycardia/pounding heart wheb laying down? not anxiety
arrhythmia which mean abnormal heart beat could be simple tachycardia easy treat it with medication. or it could be complicated and with consequences like atrial fibrillation could cause a clots to the vital organs in the body like brain with stroke or kidney or guts. or it could be a bad tachycardia that could lead to fibrillation and cardiac arrest. so please see a doctor
what causes tachycardia/pounding heart wheb laying down? not anxiety
there might be a number of reasons do you have overweight problem? do you feel extra - skipped beats. your doc should be able to tell why you have these symptoms after examining you.
was having a bad panic attack after i ate so i took two beta blockers but i still feel it pounding somewhat. am i having a heart attack?
it is very rare for someone your age to have a heart attack. talk to your doctor about your symptoms and appropriate treatment. avoid the use of caffeine especially high energy drinks. if you smoke quit. palpitations can be a symptom of panic and anxiety. your doctor can order an ekg and check your thyroid. avoid any illicit drug use especially stimulants such as meth or cocaine. best wishes!
what can cause the feeling of rapid heart rate (not going over 100) and a adrenaline (nervous/excited) feeling in chest and abdomen? not anxious!
you can't have it both ways. you cannot be "nervous/excited" and not be anxious. two options: contact your doctor. consult a psychologist - they are experts on anxiety.
what causes me to go light headed have palpitations even in arms legs hands start to tremor and shake. i was dx with roscea have low bp ?
possible causes are many. primary heart issues need to be ruled out. metabolic causes such as hyperthyroidism should be considered. nonphysical causes such as anxiety are also in the mix. start with your primary care doctor.
why feeling uncomfortable on left chest it feels mild sharp poking feeling echo was normal and ecg was within normal limits also have anxiety.
pain on left side not always from heart it could be from the bones and cartilage esophagus stomach and from colon too. you need physical exam and complete history to find out the source of the pain. as you have mentioned anxiety it can mimic lots of problems also.
when lying down feel pressure in top of head. also have strong heartbeat. ekg is clear except mild micro valve prolapse. i also have anxiety. ?
make sure you check your blood pressure also at different times.
when lying down feel pressure in top of head. also have strong heartbeat. ekg is clear except mild micro valve prolapse. i also have anxiety. ?
and see what happens. check thyroid for hyperthyroidism
would dysautonomia cause tachycardia at night (that wakes you up multiple times a night)? also cause tach (up to 180) after eating large meals?
this tachy up to 180bps need more complete eval. svt hyperthyroid osa and even anxiety are potential causes of tachy. 1st we look for common beasts and when none found then we look for the more rare zebras in the forrest. never start out looking for the zebra (unusually unlikely).
why would my heart rate constantly be over 100 with a normal ranged blood pressure? i am freaking out.
normal heart rate(hr) in infants is 110-150 bpm. resting hr in adults normally doesn't exceed 100 bpm. anxiety fear or stress can cause hr to significantly exceed 100 bpm (this is called sinus tachycardia). hr can be high in doctors office but normal when resting at home. for more information see: <link> if still concerned consult your physician.
which quantity of propranolol should i take for current anxiety and how long does it take to have any effect?
and i expect some might think it's the way things are now but prescription medications - especially those being used for off-label conditions - are serious stuff. there are warnings about who and how to take it what to avoid etc. it has potential side effects and w/drawal risks. ask a doctor to prescribe the right thing for you and get all the info you can about proper use and what to expect.
how can you tell if the heart palpitations are from a anxiety attack or something different. had this yesterday with shaking ?
here's a tip. when you feel palpitations exercise (eg: run in place) palpitations will cease after your heart rate returns to normal. in other words regular exercise will help anxiety related "palps". hope this helps dr z
how can you tell if the heart palpitations are from a anxiety attack or something different. had this yesterday with shaking ?
unfortunately the only way to distinguish between these possibilities is to be evaluated in person. sometimes even when seen in person if you aren't having the symptoms right then it still can be difficult.
had palpitations for years. had heart holter 2 years ago managed to have one faint palpitation not like usual palps i get. test came normal. afib or no?
anxiety patients have symptoms from all kinds of things. you can't say you have atrial fibrillation without ecg or physical diagnosis evidence of the rhythm. you should talk to your doc about your concerns and work with the doc to help your symptoms.
had sinus infestion couple days pulse has been around 90 got app on my phone that checks it shows over 100 alot im freaking out in which isnt helping?
there are many reasons for tachycardia a chief one of them being anxiety or "freaking out" <positive_smiley> also certain over the counter medicine such as pseudoephedrine may cause your heart to race. see a doctor if you have fever or unremitting symptoms.
hello i am 16 and was pescribed "metoprolol tartrate" due to having panic attacks etc and to fix my heart ryhtm but today i took around 125mg to prevent a panic attack (not all at once) will i be ok?
range of lopressor (metoprolol tartrate) for hypertension. lower doses of beta blockers are are given for fear of public speaking & a few other phobias & anxiety disorders. have someone drive you to get your blood pressure checked as it'll be low if it's normal off lopressor (metoprolol tartrate). talk to your doctor about med management see a psychologist for cognitive-behavioral therapy & avow never to self-medicate again!
hi. i'm 23 n the past two nights i can feel my pulse in my stomach i've done it befor but it went away but i have bad panic attacks an anxiety is itok?
it is part of your anxiety to notice what is usually normal and worry about it. exercise and remaining busy may help reduce fear and anxiety
hi. i'm 23 n the past two nights i can feel my pulse in my stomach i've done it befor but it went away but i have bad panic attacks an anxiety is itok?
you are most likely feeling your aorta the largest blood vessel in your body pulsing. . which can be common especially if you are thin. have your dr check you out and show him/her right where you feel it and they can confirm what it is. best wishes.
hi. i'm 23 n the past two nights i can feel my pulse in my stomach i've done it befor but it went away but i have bad panic attacks an anxiety is itok?
it is ok. you have touch of obsessive disorder.
having ruled out heart condition by cardio doctor then why do i get pvcs? they drive my anxiety through the roof!
these are caused by many things. stress excitement irritants both physical and chemical pressure like a hiatal hernia or esophageal push or pull and primary heart things the causes are very many in number.
having ruled out heart condition by cardio doctor then why do i get pvcs? they drive my anxiety through the roof!
do you mean irregular heart beats. pvc less than 6 per minute could be normal. have your anxiety managed
heart anx normal ecg bloods cardiac trace bp d dimer am i safe?
excess anxiety often has a physiologic cause. make sure that you are maintaining an optimal healthy lifestyle. get 7-8 hrs of sleep per night. eat three healthy meals per day with 20 gm high quality protein / meal 5 servings of fruits/vegetables / d healthy fats(i. e. omega3 fatty acids coconut oil). eat magnesium & potassium rich foods. get 20-30 min of exercise daily.
how does my dr know by my holter monitor results that pacs are benign? had normal echo stress
in otherwise healthy individuals without structural heart disease pac's are almost always benign. it is a common cardiac dysrhythmia and generally not considered an abnormal finding. symptoms such as sensation of skipped heart beat can be treated with beta blockers. life style changes such as avoiding caffeine and tobacco and minimizing anxiety tends to help.
had multiple ecgs and event recorder would it have picked up any abnormality that can lead to sudden cardiac arrest i suffer severe aniexty?
there's always an outside chance they missed something but it's small. prolonged qt would have been seen & there would have been electrical evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. other possibilities would have been picked up along the way (see other answer). anxiety prompts epinephrine burst & throws you into scary sustained tachycardia only feeding the panic. vicious cycle but no flatlining.
hi doc i have severe anxiety. palp. nervousness. ecg echo tmt holter are all normal. pls help?
try regular walking exercise being busy with ur work praying. may see a psychiatrist if no improvement.
hi doc i have severe anxiety. palp. nervousness. ecg echo tmt holter are all normal. pls help?
you could try health tap prime to get a referral to a local mental health professional or call 1-800 273-8255 the national suicide hotline -which deals with acute mental health issues -for referral to a local mental health crisis center. good luck call now. .
have light pain in jaw towards chin comes an goes sharp pains in chest to right changes to left sometimes 2 ekgs were fine the past 5 months anxiety?
symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include nausea sob insomnia dry mouth aphasia tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can recommend appropriate treatment.
holter ecg stress echo thyroid function normal. so what would my heart palpitations be or is it just anxiety and y can i see my heart beat in chest?
palpitations are an awareness of extra heartbeats which most of us have. the sensation can be single or multiple and can sometimes last minutes. different people may feel other symptoms along with them such as dizzy lightheaded or short of breath. the palpitations are almost always atrial or ventricular premature beats. usually benign but they are also found with abnormal hearts.
hi i'm a 29yr old female and when i fall asleep i'm waking up with palpitations and my heart feels heavy?
see your physician for an ekg and blood testing. this could be stress tension or anxiety; however heart disease must be excluded.
i was prescribed 10mg of elavil for anxiety. prozac gave me palpitations & zoloft (sertraline) made me depressed. should i try this? i'm so scared of side effects!
you have already had adverse effects from medications far less toxic than elavil (amitriptyline) which has substantial anti-cholinergic problems. sounds like you may benefit from a second opinion regarding all of this.
i was prescribed 10mg of elavil for anxiety. prozac (fluoxetine) gave me palpitations &zoloft made me depressed. i'm so scared of side effects! should i try this?
i understand you feeling scared of side effects of medication due to unpleasant experiences with 3 medications. discuss with psychiatrist: • intensity of symptoms at that time • diagnosis-anxiety depression or both • therapy for stresses of relationships separations school work and finances • develop coping skills • breathing relaxation • visual imagery • meditation • yoga • tai chi
im 26 with no known heart conditions and i took 4 250 mg azithromicin tablets i keep seeing thing saying that it can cause heart attacks and i wanna k?
azithromycin is used to treat respiratory skin ear infections; and sexually transmitted diseases dose depends upon severity of symptoms and the infection. heart effects are not common side effects of azithromycin. with no history of heart conditions it is unlikely that you could have heart attack. see physician. see a psychiatrist for stress causing anxiety depression guilt. ; therapy
i am a woman 47 years lately i have been experiencing dizziness palpitations which is sudden my ecg was normal.
can have a variety of causes such as a primary cardiac process anxiety and thyroid dysfunction. the fact that your ecg was normal does not rule out an arrythmia. sometimes more intense or long cardiac monitoring such as a holter monitor is warranted.
i'm 24 year old female 140 lbs 5'7. i've been diagnosed with sinus tachycardia. doc says due to anxiety which i dont have. should i get an echo done?
commend yourself if you do not have anxiety due to stress. . sinus tachycardia is usually a response to normal physiological situations-stress anger exercise. other causes can be: •intake of stimulants such as caffeine nicotine cocaine or amphetamines •pain •fever •anemia •hyperthyroidism •dehydration see physician for diagnosis status of your heart; discuss need for echo and treatment.
i have shortness of breath even at rest but spirometry xray and ecg shows normal. sometimes black streaks present in cough. what it is as m afraid?
if spirometry x-ray and ekg were normal then one needs to rule out anemia or anxiety as the cause for your breathlessness. a pulmonology consult may be in order.
is it normal to have a pounding heart beat very strong pulse with normal blood pressure and normal pulse rate?
this usually means that your heart is working very hard to pump out the blood. if this happens only when you are stressed or anxious then anxiety or panic attack may be the cause. if it is a persistent problem you need to contact your doctor.
i can breath but i feel like i cant catch my breath anxiety maybe? its been all day also my chest is sore like pulled muscle or maybe agina?
“i feel like i cant catch my breath” is likely anxiety. “sore like pulled muscle” can be due to muscle strain it does not seem angina as you do not have difficulty in breathing on exertion. see psychiatrist for • diagnosis • therapy for stress • medication if needed • breathing relaxation • visual imagery • meditation • yoga • tai chi
i'm 28 and have a clean bill of health but still having constant chest pains pounding and acid relfux ( allergic to ppi). i have bad anxiety ( new) & ocd. i'm always tired ( weight? ). i'm having daily thoughts of suicide over all this. what do i do?
as soon as possible or go to nearest er for mental health eval-do you need inpatient psych. therapy?
i'm 28 and have a clean bill of health but still having constant chest pains pounding and acid relfux ( allergic to ppi). i have bad anxiety ( new) & ocd. i'm always tired ( weight? ). i'm having daily thoughts of suicide over all this. what do i do?
28 year old lady with palpitations new bad anxiety and acid reflux. first of all you need to realize that you should never ever hurt yourself and reach out for help. you have several medical problems that need specialist referrals. please reach out to a psychiatrist on healthtap asap and do cognitive behavioral therapy to get some relief from this stressful situation. good luck.
is there a way to tell forsure if your having a heart attack at home other then goin to hospital i worry about it so much. i have bad anxiety im 27 m?
your life is precious! believe in wonder of 3 billion muscle cells in your heart working together to pump blood with oxygen to all parts of body and brain since you were born and continue to do until now. even your worry thoughts and feelings need oxygen which is being sent by your miraculous heart! trust in healing powers of your body! see psychiatrist for therapy medication and relaxation.
my heart is racing shaking and sweating what does this mean?
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations etc.
my resting heart rate is 120 bpm. is this a normal thing for a 18 year old?
a resting heart rate of 120 bpm is abnormal for an 18 year old. the most common cause for a high resting heart rate in an 18 year old is anxiety but there are several other important causes. a few of these include cardiomyopathy/myocarditis hyperthyroidism infection severe anemia or cardiac arrhythmia. if your true resting heart rate is 120 bpm you should see your doctor.
my 15 year old daughter developed rapid heart beat and extreme dizziness two weeks ago the dr says its anxiety can it last that long its everyday?
hope treatable conditions like hyperthyroidism svt anemia etc are ruled out. hope she is not using drugs or too much caffeine and is well hydrated. make sure treatable conditions are ruled out.
mom takes plavix (clopidogrel) and metoprolol had angio and 2 stents. psychologist recommended citalopram for her anxiety is it ok for her to take them together?
but there can be some increased bruising and prolongation of the qt interval on her ekg so that should be checked. this is due to the interaction of plavix (clopidogrel) and citalopram.
my ectopic atrial tachycardia first showed when becoming really stressed. how is this related? do i have to take beta blockers even if not stressed?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid and salt intake try magnesium supplements. ultra low dose beta blockers can be initiated and then up-titrated to control symptoms
my husband had a heart attack on november 15th 2013. it's like he's a different person. does a ha change a persons brain?
the most likely cause would be if he had a period of time during the heart attack when there was a decreased amount amount of oxygen going to his brain. this would occur from a drop in the blood pressure or a clot. this is same a stroke which can affect parts of the brain that control someone's personality. depression and anxiety are very common after heart attack.
my husband had a heart attack on november 15th 2013. it's like he's a different person. does a ha change a persons brain?
having a heart attack for some men can alter their psychological outlook on life etc. feelings of inadequacy and depression/anxiety are common. of course it there was also a severe heart attack and blood supply to the brain was affected some brain anoxia can cause mental status changes but that would have been diagnosed at the time. he may benefit from counseling and therapy. best wishes.
my doctor told me i have a very benign and common heart rhythm problem called sinus tachycardia what does this mean and do i need medication?
sinus tachycardia occurs when the natural pacemaker goes fast. it is normal for this to occur with pain anxiety or exertion. it is a natural compensatory mechanism of your body and does not require treatment.
whenever i'm tired or had a bit of caffeine i feel heart palpitations as if there's an adrenaline rush. i'm only 24 so i fear i have heart problems al?
you may want to see your doctor for an evaluation. talk to your doctor about your concerns. your doctor can obtain a history and check your heart. this may alleviate your anxiety or fears. you may also want to avoid the use of caffeine. also if you smoke talk to your doctor about quitting. best wishes!
what causes numbness/tingling in right hand and arm as well as heart palpitations and dizziness?
palpitations that symptomatic deserve a prompt w/u: exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo andthe discussion of treatment options with your doctor. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety and hyperventilation can cause numbness.
what can cause symptoms of overactive sympathetic nervous system and elevated epinephrine? thyroid fine heart tests fine except for tachycardia.
some causes can be adrenal fatigue heart disease high blood pressure chronic fatigue food sensitivities fibromyalgia alcoholism anxiety depression insomnia compulsive overeating irritable bowel excess sweating ptsd.
what might be the cause of irregular heartbeats relieved by belching.
belching is the act of expelling air from the stomach through the mouth. it usually occurs when the stomach distends or expands because of too much swallowed air. belching releases the air to reduce the distention. you can also have a gas buildup in the stomach from bacteria working on food which give up for gas. anxiety can cause just about any physical symptom but it would be uncommon for anxiety to cause excessive belching. if your anxiety includes hyperventilating then that would be a good source of swallowed air which then could lead to belching. some things that may help in belching. tried to be aware of how much air swallowing. try to chew food completely before swallowing it so that the stomach will have smaller particles for the bacteria to give off gas with. excessive exercise can also lead to belching. and sometimes relief can be obtained with anti-acids; h2 blockers and proton pump inhibitors.
waking up feeling short of breath? multiple ekgs blood work and chest xrays all clear? all thats left is my generalized anxiety and depression?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
what could cause someone to have flare ups where they get clusters of red dots on their arms heart palpitations everything burns including the face and ears and they have nerve and muscle pain?
these multiple symptoms are nondiagnostic but may be due to release of hormones by tumors such as carcinoid pheochromocytoma or conditions like hyperthyroidism or even anxiety. your physician would take a detailed history perform a thorough physical examination and order appropriate tests in order to make a diagnosis. if needed a referral to a specialist will be made.
was sick with chest pain and prescribed a zpack about 1 1/2mo ago. went to urgent care today for chest pain and shortness of breath. ekg perfect. x-ray clear. have medical related anxiety so given ativan (lorazepam) until i can have ct scan in 2 days.
or chest wall pain also anxiety related chest pain possible! try allieve 2 1/2 twice daily if you are not allergic to asp and f/u wiith physician
have ist / mild pots only real symptom is irritating high hr which causes anxiety ranges from 100-140 standing. concern or just annoyance 2 deal with?
pots can be symptomatic with fatigue gi symptoms (nausea. . ) and dizziness. usually the first step is to increase fluids and salt intake avoid caffeine and lower limbs exercises. if these don't help there are medications that can help with this.
have severe chronic anxiety have a common cold and today had rapid pulse went er ecg normal no pain or other symptoms. is anxiety cause?
with your history of anxiety yes it is the most likely cause of rapid heart beats. anxiety releases chemicals that will speed heart increase blood pressure and make you miserable. learn now to handle this internally by working with a psychologist now to avoid a life dependent on pills or alcohol or worse to manage your symptoms.
hi i am on deanxit withdrawal i am doing ok with headaches dizziness and mild insomia but i am feeling that my heart palpitations arent ok is it a sy?
deanxit is a combination medication with a lot of possible side effects. it was banned in the us due to the side effects. withdrawal of the medication can cause an increase in the anxiety and heart racing. it needs to be monitored very carefully. if you are having heart palpatations then call your doctor to have them evaluate you.
health issues chronic stress 7+yrs (financial/family/legal - abusive ex) ongoing. v resilient in past suddenly overwhelmed. prx propranolol. what now?
sounds like you are having a difficult time. propranolol is used for anxiety especially for stage fright but it sounds like you may need to consider counseling and discussing with your doctor a different type of medication like an ssri (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor). you are not a "weak" person for asking for help or for using a medication to help you through this.
had numerous ecg's in the past and 2 24hour holster monitors for palpitations! and all came back fine and i do suffer from anxiety still worries?
while anxiety can be the result of physical factors such as hyperactive thyroid in most instances it's the result of scary thoughts. learning to recognize these thoughts and dismiss them and relaxing into the anxiety sensations can help. also consider treatment with a therapist skilled in treating anxiety.
how effective is an ekg and blood work for ruling out heart problems. i was diagnosed w anxiety instead but still get chest pain which scares me?
yours is a common "differential diagnosis" issue among young-middle aged people: chest pain due to heart problem or anxiety/ neurosis. blood tests (troponin) & ekg can certainly differentiate between the two most of the time with some help from your clin history and state of physical health
hi i'm currently suffering from anxiety because i used to drink a los of energy drinks. i was worried because my nervous system was going crazy i felt light headed and dizzy every day. until i got my first panic attack. i went to get my urine and blood c
not entirely sure what your question is but energy drinks are high in caffeine & sugar which can be dangerous so it's wise to stop. caffeine withdrawal can cause anxiety but lasts just a few days. eat healthy foods minimize sweets take a good b complex & magnesium taurate or glycinate herbs like tulsi tea & ashwagandha meditate/ practice slow deep breathing exercise and get adequate sleep.
how long does the anti anxiety effects as in supressing a racing heart last for with propranolo?
if the standard preparation is used the drug will last 6 to 8 hours. the long acting form propranolol er should last 24 hours
had 14 day loop and had sinus tachycardia with heart rates 55-180bpm. also the 180 occurs when sleeping or lying in bed. cardiologist not sure why tach occurs every night. elevated epinephrine? ideas?
did the cardiologist state what type of tachycardia the rhythm of 180 beats per minute was? supraventricular or ventricular and how long these tachyarrhythmias lasted? anxiety usually doesn't cause the heart to beat at 180/min. checking for hyperthyroidism and for a pheochromocytoma would be advisable before attributing these episodes to anxiety reactions panic attacks. ? see an endocrinologist.
i feel like im having trouble breathing have for about 5 or 6 days. i think maybe it's anxiety im breathing about 15 breaths a min. heart rate is good?
right. see pcp and check your lungs
i have an anxiety disorder. i take 10mg of cipralex each night. i recently ran a half marathon and have been having heart palpatations (heart flutter)?
i commend you for running half marathon. cipralex ( lexapro) can cause palpitations. running half marathon possibly increased palpitations. discuss with psychiatrist: •anxiety symptoms for which cipralex was started •side effects and effect of half marathon •severity of symptoms now needing medication •decreasing dose •ativan or xanax (alprazolam) for anxiety •therapy for stresses •breathing relaxation.
im a 27 year old male weigh 190 is it normal to see my heart beat in my stomach? i have terrible anxiety
i'd like to encourage you to get a handle on your anxiety. it might be related to the heart beat question and if not that can be a reason for an exam. but being very anxious is not healthy so consider cbt - it's a great way to learn how to understand and manage anxiety. if the therapist thinks a drug might be helpful - they'll advise. pills alone are not the best idea. be well!
i have pvcs often and i was put on paxil (paroxetine) 40 mg for them and the anxiety i get with them. i'm prehypertension. are muscle relaxers safe to take with?
paxil (paroxetine) in not a medication for pvc it can cause anxiety and palpitations. let wise woman within you ask: •anxiety due to pvc •anxiety due to paxil (paroxetine) •anxiety due to stresses in life •prehypertension due to stress •lack of response to high dose of paxil (paroxetine) 40mg/day •need for muscle relaxers if tension is due to stress •need to see psychiatrist to decrease dose of paxil (paroxetine) and •therapy • breathing relaxation
i had an abnormal ekg and i'm going to get a echocardiogram soon how often are ekgs wrong? i'm worried and can anxiety mess up an ekg?
truth be told the ekg isn't the most informative test in the world. it's good as a screening test but regardless of the results of such if we think someone is truly at heart risk we test further (stress test for example). and even if the ekg suggests an abnormality we often need to confirm with more testing (2d echo for example). so it's not the most accurate test out there.
i've been to the er feeling chest discomfort rapid heartbeat a lil sweats they tell me i'm fine ekg and x-ray good but i still can't figure out why?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i can feel an see my pulse in my right wrist i have anxiety is this normal i've never felt this before an i am worried?
the pulse in your wrist is not likely abnormal. in fact there is a specific point and similar areas around the body where a pulse can be observed. and of course anxiety can increase heart rate which may in turn increase the pulse. hope this helps your anxiety. be well.
i am 18 year old female and my heart rate is between 108-127bpm should i be worried?
if this is your resting/sleeping heart rate you likely have a problem that should be evaluated. if this is what you count while you obsess /worry about your health it may just reflect your anxiety. caffeine and nicotine products can drive up your rate. your heart can tolerate this rate without damage.
i'm hypochondriac had normal heart exams 2 wks ago (echo stress holter) pulse was 60-70 this weekend it's 55 even during panic. cause for concern?
a hear rate of 55 is low but normal especially if you are in good physical shape. you mentioned you are a hypochondriac. while many people laugh it off it can be a serious psychological problem because it it can create unnecessary anxiety (like working about a heart rate of 55) and affect your life. much more serious than a heart rate of 55.
i had blood taken for tests 2 days ago my arm is tingly and sore from it i also fainted after it but i was told the fainting was normal for some?
not uncommon ;likely all due to a vasovagal and anxiety response;will resolve;get counseling if necessary
my blood pressure machine told me bp was 95 over 50 with a heart rate of 48 but said i have an irregular heartbeat. dr said mine is normal. how?
if you have an irregular beat the bp machines may not be accurate. also measuring bp too often when it is not needed will create more anxiety and that in turn worsen bp. if your doctors says it is normal you may have to control anxiety better. you need help. do not let anxiety and hopelessness control your life as you sound like a healthy 23 yo. you are also taking supplements you don't need.
my sister has cardiomyography and is mentally challenged (not quiet normal) has epilepsy and anxiety a defibulator and the doctors arnt communicating?
not quite sure what your question is. please rephrase.
my palpitations are sometimes feeling like airway is tightened wen they happen for a sec. should i get second opinion 4heart disease? i hav anxiety 2.
regardless if is due to anxiety pain in your chest and "airway is tightened" is a serious medical condition. it is always a red flag and appointment with your pcp is warranted. rec. : see your pcp for further investigation or referral to cardiologist. take care.
my palpitations are sometimes feeling like airway is tightened wen they happen for a sec. should i get second opinion 4heart disease? i hav anxiety 2.
check with a pulmonologist. you may have asthma.
my uncle has t4 levels greater than 100 and feature like palpitation. increasing thirst etc. is this a problem?
t4 level assays can range from 60 -150 for normals. propranolol is used to effectively relieve the symptoms of palpitations tremor and anxiety. it has no effect on thyroid hormone secretion. tsh is and excellent test to see if thyroid disease is under adequate control.
my anxiety symptoms went down so much with zoloft (sertraline). if i still have lil heart palpitations sometimes does that mean its a heart problem & not anxiety?
regardless could be only muscle pain anxiety heartburn. however pain in your chest with the symptoms you have described is a serious medical condition. it is always a red flag and appointment with your pcp or a cardiologist is warranted. take care.
my boyfriend has short breaths palpitations loss of appetite discomfort in the throat burp pains and anxiety. tests are normal. thyroid problem?
what tests were done? the usual tests that are done to rule in or out are thyroid studies cardiac problems(ekg stress test) anemia (cbc) gi work up (egd upper gi tests)eent examinations and of course a good mental status to rule out anxiety or depression. a general physical examination can eliminate some problems.
my boyfriend has short breaths palpitations loss of appetite discomfort in the throat burp pains and anxiety. tests are normal. thyroid problem?
if the tests included thyroid and are normal then - no. if not perhaps that should be done - but these symptoms are hard for a trained professional to diagnose don't expect to be able to do it yourself. he needs to talk w/ his provider to find the likely cause(s) and proper treatment. you can support and help - and that will be very beneficial.
my neurologist perscribed me xanax (alprazolam) 1mg er to take everyday for 1 month due to my anxiety. i have wolff parkinson white syndrome how safe is this?
cardiac conduction system is usually not altered by sedatives/ anti anxiety meds
my l and r upper chest are extremely painful and sore to touch for months. also experience palpitations. all heart tests negative. anxiety? anything?
it could be anxiety but it could also be musculoskeletal. i would try an anti-inflammatory such as aleeve 400mg daily with a meal
my heart every 5 minutes now beats really fast for 7 seconds and then returns to normal. i have beta blockers i refuse to take and i don't want to go to the er. they rarely do anything for me?
your beta blockers why? with the med list you are on you could be anxious or depressed. get tested for your cyp2d6 or cyp2c19 to make sure that the antidepressant you are on is actually beneficial if it hasn't been done already. sometimes tachycardia causes anxiety-in that case or vice versa. consider tilt-table test holter monitor
my dad 75 yrs no htn/diabetes got palpitation at 8:am in office. having no stress/anxiety but had sleep lack before palpitation any possible reason?
at your dads age arrhythmia specially atrial fibrillation is a common occurrence and needs to be pursued as it has potential serious consequences. at least a 24 hour holter monitor is to be considered after a complete cardiovascular exam
muscle burning fatigue heavy legs heart palpitations gerd malaise lasts for mos. diagnosed with ptsd and panic disorder. anxiety cause these symptoms? my doc sees no blood test abnormalities.
stress is a complex biology that produces many "non-specific" (vague little on tests) symptoms. the symptoms you mention are within the spectrum of symptoms seen in chronic stress biology; but that does not prove it is the cause for you. since it has been going on for months and tests negative stress a likely cause. mechanisms complex and not simple to understand.
muscle burning fatigue heavy legs heart palpitations gerd malaise lasts for mos. diagnosed with ptsd and panic disorder. anxiety cause these symptoms? my doc sees no blood test abnormalities.
cp with normal bp relieved with nitro is classic for angina. she should go to the ed. if reluctant then asap md apt (next day) for history and physical/ecg. rf need to be assessed. and stress test.
muscle burning fatigue heavy legs heart palpitations gerd malaise lasts for mos. diagnosed with ptsd and panic disorder. anxiety cause these symptoms? my doc sees no blood test abnormalities.
so many systems involved over long pariods of time. suggests you may be right. are you able to perform tasks. is it hard to get out of bed in the morning. do you eat well? do you cry or feel weepy. i would suggest you check out a mental health professional for further guidance.
sometimes i get a numbness that can be relieved by moving and a light feeling in arms/legs and a fast heart beat what could cause this?
multiple causes. . ie: anxiety low blood pressure cardiac arrythmia.
what are my chances of developing an arrhythmia from anxiety? doctor says my heart sounds good and my bp is perfect otherwise healthy.
arrhythmia in a normal heart resulting from anxiety is very unlikely. stay healthy & treat your anxiety.
why do i get palpitations when i lay down. usually after 20mins then they really start. when i'm nearly asleep 30yrs otherwise healthy. not anxiety?
maybe reflux as pain or burning not necessarily noted with reflux and cough and or palpitations maybe only notable symptom. everyone has palpations and some people are more in tune with these changes a fee test would be needed to assure this is normal heart beat changes or if there is something abnormal going on even at the young age of thirty. hope all is well.
went to er had a dizzy spells did cbc chest e xray ct scan ekg snd checked blood pressure all normal what could cause these little spells?
dizzy spells are usually from not enough blood flow reaching the brain momentarily. this can be due to low bp even if it was normal in er. low bp is apt to occur when you're dehydrated and standing up. also klonopin can cause dizziness as can inderal (propranolol) (can make it more likely for bp to drop). if you also get fast heart rate ask your dr if you could have pots. also anxiety can do this.
what causes tachycardia? should a rapid heart beat be a concern?
"tachycardia" means rapid heart rate. any stress will make your heart beat fast: fear anxiety pain anger walking lifting your arms standing up. also: fever anemia xs thyroid infection pregnancy and many many other conditions as well. the underlying cause should be addressed if you are concerned.
when i wake up i'm shaking inside and anxious all day. i take propanolol but it still doesn't help what is causing this. i get palpitations too.
your anxiety disorder can certainly cause all of these symptoms. i am assuming you have had some basic cardiac workup such as an echocardiogram and a 24 hour monitor. if not talk to your provider to see if these would be a good idea.
why when im falling asleep. my body feels wierd i have to open my eyes to feel normal. my pulse is really low?
humm. doesn't sound like a cardiac problem such as low heart rate. i'd worry about an anxiety disorder.
had 2 week loop which showed 119 episodes and heart rate 55-180 sinus rythmn. the 180 occurs while sleeping and wakes me up every night all night?
you would need to confirm that the rhythm is sinus when it's up to 180. if so then possible explanations include apnea recurring fever pain anxiety anemia( this shouldn't be only at night though) pregnancy? essentially sinus tachycardia which is above 100 is not a primary heart problem rather related to other issues. if it's not sinus then that could be a primary heart rhythm problem
help. heart condition(wpw) thats real turned me into a hypochondriac after 2 seperate catheter ablations. anxiety bad on my heart. ?
anxiety adds stress. related to cathecolamine levels being elevated which then give a vicious cycle predisposing you to arrythmia. wpw is usually dealt with efficiently. i dont think you should be worrying about it. talk to your ep doc. there are different ways of dealing with anxiety and stress. from meditation to beta blockers to ssris. hope you get better cheers c
hi i get very nervous/excited feeling in my stomach fast heart rate tingly left hand sob headache dizzy blurry vision. not thyroid/heart/anxiety?
do all of these symptoms occur at the same time? are they constant or episodic? tingling in the left hand that may be easiest to explain. which fingers does it affect? headache can be caused by a lot of things. can you describes anything else about this? maybe separately.
hi female 47 year old had 5 stent put in 7 month ago still have chest pain and breathlessness any advise no signs of heart attack?
if the cardiologist has been informed and deemed it to be non-cardiac. the simplest explanation is anxiety.
how does sleep affect your heart rate?
generally the heart rate slows down during sleep. if there is an anxiety producing dream however heart rate can go up.
how does anxiety cause brain fog lightheaded feeling/faint feeling? always assumed it was more of heart attack feeling. dont have fast heart/breaths.
anxiety certainly can cause lightheaded/faint feelings but you also want to make sure there is not a physical explanation that has not been addressed. if you have not discussed your symptoms with your primary care doctor i recommend you do that to make sure something isn't being ignored. in addition pay attention to the situations in which these symptoms occur for clues to possible triggers.
heart palpitations after working out. not during. and a few extra ones this week when just sitting down. had a 2d echo about a month and a half ago came back fine. what could the cause be?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
history of hypertension pre-diabetes anxiety disorder on ssri heart attack. is nyquil safe?
forget about pre-diabetes at least for now. if you haven't seen a psychologist you should ask for a referral. if you already have a psychologist ask your friends if they might know someone else. you should be seeing your cardiologist regularly.
heart racing right now & for a week. mostly when i lie down to sleep. keeps me awake. i had caffeine. also taking vit d 50 000iu once a week. help?
if you are drinking too much caffeine you are likely to experience a racing heart especially when lying down at bed time. this could also be a result of anxiety. i would wonder why you are consuming the amount of caffeine that you are drinking? are you sluggish or finding it hard to concentrate and focus. likewise why are you taking the vitamin d? talk to your doctor about these questions.
had a diffuse stiffness in sternum. ecg and exercise tolerance test came negative. was given antacid. for a few times had palpitations after heavy meals. have anxiety how to proceed. ?
if you have a little anxiety then having palpitations can be extremely disconcerting. palpitations in this setting are most likely nothing to worry about. the anxiety though can make everything more significant and worrisome. i would recommend going back to see your physician and talk about treating the underlying anxiety. that would be the best way to go.
hello i was wondering if a 19 year old can get broken heart syndrome? i have an anxiety disorder and i'm scared of getting it.
but luckily rare things happen rarely. you're more likely to be hurt in a car accident than to get takotsubo's cardiomyopathy which is i believe the condition that you're concerned about. please wear your seatbelt!
hello i was wondering if a 19 year old can get broken heart syndrome? i have an anxiety disorder and i'm scared of getting it.
it's possible but it's probably avoidable w/ good psychotherapy and perhaps medication. if it happens it's treated much like a heart attack by the er and you'd probably be admitted for treatment. with a basically healthy heart you'd likely heal well. read: <link> seek tx!
heart arrythmias causing underarm pain slight dizziness? many ekgs blood and xrays done all normal. i have anxiety depression & high bp though.
please let us know what medications you are taking so we might get better idea on whether they are triggering your symptoms since you mentioned that your workup is normal.
have anxiety disorder. i've been on vyvanse for awhile recently prescribed effexor (venlafaxine). took it heart racing hands shaking arm tingles is this normal?
vyvanse and effexor (venlafaxine) can both increase heart rate blood pressure anxiety and other undesirable symptoms. vyvanse is not indicated for anxiety. therefor try to have your diagnosis and medicines check by your doctor.
how does anxiety cause funny vision n lightheaded daily 24/7 for over 5 yrs sometimes fast heart head funny swaying just off feeling?
anxiety can cause many different physical symptoms. the way our bodies feel is controlled by the brain and anxiety is a brain signaling condition so it can result in very real physical symptoms. dizziness tremors headaches are common. anxiety can make a person feel out of control and that can result in dizziness. but if anxiety is properly treated these symptoms should improve too.
i am male 27 years. i have heavyness in the back during afternoon on some days. in my childhood i had fainted thrice. even a year ago i had fainted?
of causes of repeat fainting but it requires an eval. by a doctor. heart rhythm disturbances low blood pressure vasovagal syncope (which can occur from sudden anxiety or pain) pooling of blood in the legs from standing a long time and difficulty maintaining sufficient circulating blood volume (pots) are just a few. please see your doctor about this. best wishes. dr. anne.
i'm 16 years old. i have been having chest pains and i feel my heart beating fast. what is it?
from anxiety to a heart condition to an overactive thyroid gland. please let your parents (or guardian) know about this so they can get you to a doctor. all of these conditions are treatable & there's no sense in suffering in silence. best wishes. dr. anne
idk why but for some reason i step thinking i'm going to die of cardiac arrest it scares me i don't have any health or heart condition please tell i'm overthinking?
please have an evaluation by a physician. you could be missing something important. without a medical cause it sounds like you are experiencing anxiety related to your physical functioning. you may benefit from discussing this with a psychologist. often relaxation training helps. trying to get over this on your own may not work and your anxiety might worsen.
i wake up with a heavy chest which always goes away within a few hours i also have a mild cough. i have anxiety could it be that?
anxiety always a possibility but usually i do not make that call till other possibilities considered. could be some type of asthma or possible gerd.
i have tomorrow party with my parents&i have social anxiety. can i take propranolol without asking a doctor cause there is no time? plz answer thnx
dangerous without a thorough assessment of your medicine health allergies proclivities tenancies and genetic predisposition family history to determine whether its the right med for you. talk to a psychiatrist or general family practitioner first b4 taking the med. thanks for checking in with us.
i have tomorrow party with my parents&i have social anxiety. can i take propranolol without asking a doctor cause there is no time? plz answer thnx
is very safe. as long as there are no medical contraindications! these include a slow heart rate and asthma or chronic obstructive lung disease! hope this helps! good luck with the visit! dr z
if i have normal low blood pressure (in range 80/60 approximately). can i take propranolol?
if you are taking it for familial tremor you are fine if you are otherwise healthy. if you feel well your blood pressure is adequate. this is not "low". if you are taking it for social anxiety or public speaking consider coaching instead. trust your physician on this.
i'm experiencing chest pressure and dizziness but after the er did an x-ray everything came back normal. what could possibly be causing this?
a lot of options here. i would go see a doctor to tidy up loose ends that er started. i have to assume the er did more than just chest x-ray for your symptoms. at the the top of my list of possibilities is high blood pressure as a cause. another is anxiety. many other possibilities too. go see a doctor to review the er notes and do an exam on you.
i'm experiencing chest pressure and dizziness but after the er did an x-ray everything came back normal. what could possibly be causing this?
if everything else (including an ecg) checks normal then it may be hyperventilation or anxiety. check out this good link regarding chest pain: <link> and if it persists see a family doctor.
my bp is 104/65 and it has been staying like this for a few days and experiencing tightness in the center of the chest had ecg and stress test 2 mnt ago it was ok what's the cause cardio gerd muscle?
the bp is fine. in light of stress test which was negative other dx may be considered. musculoskeletal pain vs gastritis vs gerd vs anxiety. etc
my cousin have her heart beating very fast which is not normal to me so help me. she does not taking any medication. she is only 15 years old.
the normal heart rate for an alert person at 14 is 60-100 bpm. it should drop to 50-90 in sleep. if the rate is above this and there are no issues like anxiety or recent exertion the kid needs an evaluation. subtle problems like an overactive thyroid can start with this as a first sign.
muscle twitch in left breast. on n off numb/tingle in jaw&yawning a lot. norm bp ekg stress echo holter. 28 no fam history n non smoker. heart? anxiety?
certainly not your heart. maybe not anxiety either. sometimes we don't know why stuff happens.
my husband just had a heart attack after seeing his pc twice in a wk for nk sh chest pain& he sent him for a mri of his neck. do we need a new doctor?
patients at high risk for heart disease (family history tobacco use hypertension high cholesterol) who present with chest pain should always be taken seriously. however in a healthy person with low risk chest pain may be musculoskeletal gastrointestinal or even anxiety related. angina (heart pain) can be difficult to diagnose if it occurs in low risk patients.
my sugar lvl 5. 1 cholesterol 5. 4 bp 144/81. ecg and echo 6 times. but always feel tremble and unsteadiness while walking. chest pain. is it nerve prob?
it could be anxiety/nerves. what is your blood pressure when standing? non heart causes of chest pain include caffeine medications thyroid abnormalities gastric reflux h. pylori infection rarely pheochromcytoma and carcinoids(most these have blood tests). try a trial of antacid/omeprazole avoid caffeine follow with a doctor
my heart beat just feels weird. i don't think it's heart palpations. it's not rapid. it's like i'm just aware that it's beating. ?
it is not abnormal to feel your heartbeat. often when we are resting or falling asleep we are more aware of our pulse. also stress and anxiety can exacerbate awareness of bodily symptoms. if this does not improve or causes other symptoms such as faintness dizziness lightheadedness seek medical attention.
my heart rate is usually 60-70 today it's been between 90-100 why? could this be a sign of heart attack
not necessarily. how long have you had it? is it persistent now. ? are you anxious? do you have any infection? do you have any other symptoms. tachycardia can be due to many conditions including infection anxiety over active thyroid and heart problem. please see your doctor if it is persistent and it is bothering you.
my friend has strep throat and was prescribed zpak. his sore throat is about 75% gone but last night and this morning his heart was racing. he is also extremely stressed right now for work. his mind is very cloudy. the heart palpitations have since stopp
i am glad he is feeling better and yes a lot of the symptoms could be stress related but the antibiotic that he took could cause arrhythmia that is the racing in his heart so he really need to see his doctor to eliminate the possibility of drug side effect and same time he will get proper medicine for his anxiety and stress please advise him to do so thank you and good luck
my friend has strep throat and was prescribed zpak. his sore throat is about 75% gone but last night and this morning his heart was racing. he is also extremely stressed right now for work. his mind is very cloudy. the heart palpitations have since stopp
his palpitations may be due to anxiety and is not related to his strep throat. he might benefit from seeing a psychologist
my ecg says possible st/t abnormality. normal enzymes though.
many st-t wave abnormalities are nonspecific. by themselves they may not represent any problem because a variety of unrelated issues can cause them - for example electrolyte abnormalities from dehydration hyperventilation from anxiety and other non heart related problems are possible causes. so they don't necessarily indicate a heart problem. talk to your doctor about possible causes for you
my heart beat feels faster and i have a feeling of unease and worry. my hands are also shaking. is this serious or just anxiety?
make sure you have a routine check-up including bloodwork.
my heart beat feels faster and i have a feeling of unease and worry. my hands are also shaking. is this serious or just anxiety?
if you're thyroid gland is not overactive and sugar level is normal and you're not taking any over the counter medicines ( like those for sinus congestions cold remedies ) then it's anxiety.
my urine ph has dropped from 7. 0 to 5. 5 is this normal. (shortness of breath and palpitations as well)?
urine ph measures urine acidity and ranges from 5 to 7. animal protein is the major source of acid in diet and will result in low urine ph. vegetarians usually have u ph in higher range. your symptoms suggest anxiety/hyperventilation which raise blood ph and hence u ph.
should i get my heart checked? my heart flutters a lot at least 8-15 times a day if not more. its starting to really worry me.? could you please give me some answers.
fluttering heartbeats are generally termed palpitations and can be triggered by stress exercise medication or sometimes by an underlying medical condition. they are usually harmless. they can be a symptom of a more serious heart condition such as an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) that may require treatment. since you have frequent palpitations you should see to your doctor to see if you need heart-monitoring tests to see if your palpitations are caused by a more serious heart problem. this evaluation could be urgently needed if your palpitations are accompanied by chest pain shortness of breath fainting or dizziness. palpitations can be caused by stress or anxiety exercise fever caffeine nicotine or stimulants in some medications. occasionally heart palpitations are a sign of a serious problem such as an overactive thyroid gland or an arrhythmia. arrhythmias can be very fast unusually slow an irregular heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation). atrial fibrillation can be a sign of underlying heart disease such as mitral valve disease or other conditions that can cause stretching of the atria â€” the upper chambers of the heart. a cardiologistâ€™s evaluation and an echocardiogram are often useful in ruling out some structural disease affecting your heart. if there is no structural heart disease then the principal risk of atrial fibrillation is that blood clots may form in areas of the heart that are not contracting and possibly travel through the bloodstream to cause a stroke. this risk of a stroke is increased if you are over 65 years old; if you have high blood pressure; if you are female; if you have had a prior stroke transient ischemic attack (or tia â€” a fleeting stroke) or other blood clot disorder; if you have diabetes; if you have heart failure; or if you have known vascular disease (heart attack aneurysm or limitation of blood flow to the legs). the more risk factors you have the higher your risk of a stroke. with one risk factor many physicians will recommend aspirin therapy or sometimes more potent blood thinners. with two or more risk factors blood thinners are usually recommended. this should be discussed in detail with your doctor. unless your palpitations signify of an underlying heart condition there's little risk but if there is an underlying heart condition possible complications include fainting stroke heart failure or it can cause your heart to stop beating effectively.
should i have a echocardiogram? my gp has been treating my symptoms as anxiety and i am currently taking 75 mg of zoloft and 25 mg of xaxax as needed. i have had a mri and ekg both were normal. the medicine has helped me improve however now i've been ha
there is not enough information to know if you should have an echocardiogram. anxiety is not an indication.
should i have a echocardiogram? my gp has been treating my symptoms as anxiety and i am currently taking 75 mg of zoloft and 25 mg of xaxax as needed. i have had a mri and ekg both were normal. the medicine has helped me improve however now i've been ha
you should see your primary care provider for a history physical and ekg. based on the results your doctor can tell you if they feel it is an issue with your heart or another cause (i. e anxiety). if the evaluation suggest a cardiac (heart) issue then your doctor will likely order and echo as well as a stress test. i would start here. however if you develop severe chest pain palpitations nausea jaw or arm pain present to an er. best of luck.
should i go to the er"? i am a 56 yr old female diabetes high blood pressure. having off and on stomach pain in the middle and left side pain in my neck and ear and some jaw pain. i thought these may be symptoms of a heart attack in women. i have no in
hello. i don't know what your pain represents. i will list some of the symptoms of a mycocardial infarction (heart attack). chest pain tightness squeezing or fullness is the most common presentation. however the pain can also present in the upper back the upper middle abdomen jaw head teeth or in the arms (left more than right). one could have nausea vomiting or it could feel like indigestion or heartburn. feeling short of breath sweating and just feeling out of sorts can also occur. about a fourth of people have no significant symptoms during a heart attack. you asked specifically about symptoms in women. the following statistics are from a national institute of health study. 43% of women had no chest pain. 58% were short of breath; 55% had marked weakness; 43% experienced fatigue with cold sweats in 39% & dizziness in 39%. according to the study preceding their heart attacks women experienced the following symptoms: unusual fatigue - 70%; sleep disturbance - 48%; shortness of breath - 42%; indigestion - 39% and anxiety - 35%. whenever int doubt it is best to take the cautious road. jaw pain in a woman with diabetes and high blood pressure is of concern.
symptoms of heart attack in women?
same as in men but maybe more subtle. . chest pain possible arm or neck pain nausea sweating lightheadedness shortness of breath fatigue restlessness anxiety etc.
suffer anxiety (panic attacks) could a fast heart beat lead to sudden death?
folks suffering from panic attacks may often think that they are having a heart attack and call 911 and go to the emergency department where they are told their heart is fine. there are good treatments available for panic disorder. in my practice i try and control a patient's panic/anxiety symptoms without the use of benzodiazapines like xanax (alprazolam) as they can be habit forming.
suffer anxiety (panic attacks) could a fast heart beat lead to sudden death?
heart beating fast is quite safe. think if it as exercise for your heart very much like when you run or play tennis. during panic attack it is common for sufferers to feel as if they are going to die. they don't actually die.
sometimes when i wake up my heart is racing and i'm in a panic. is that night terror?
it could be anxiety from a nightmare or it could be sleep apnea. do you snore? do you have kind of a thick neck. a sleep study could probably determine the precise nature of your condition.
should acid reflux ever cause heart palpitations? if so how is it possible?
the esophagus sits immediately posterior to the heart. acidic irritation in the esophagus could elicit palpitations by local inflammation and irritation as well as by increasing adrenergic tone because of associated pain and anxiety.
what would work better for someone thats having a panic attack with palpitations (skipped extra heartbeat): propanolol or lorazepam? all tests are ok
either one depending on the extent & duration of the symptoms. ativan (lorazepam) calms anxiety down. propranolol slow heart rate. both can cause sedation. review with your doctor first.
what can cause depression anxiety weight gain heart palps fatigue night sweats? have goiter/swollen thyroid. doc says thyroid is functioning ok?
have a full battery of thyroid tests done as well as adrenal gland tests and cortisol levels.
went to er with pain in upper left chest. had 3 troponin 3 ekg and stress w/o dye; all good. so now cardiac issue is ruled out any ideas? muscular?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what does it mean when my heart is pounding like its about to come out of my chest and i breath heavily?
can happen with fear or anxiety or after running or with thyroid or heart arrhythmias
with a structurally normal heart what heart disease cause palpitations?
cardiac work up needs to done exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo. if all testing is normal an eps test needs to be done to try and provoke tge rythm. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety can also precipitate palpitations
would a beta blocker help with anxiety. my blood pressure is 138 over 65. i suffer from g a d. thanks?
in addition to tending to what is ailing you physically with medication have you ever considered psychotherapy? it sounds like you're under a tremendous level of possibly life-threatening stress. seek an appointment with a reputable psychotherapist immediately.
what is a heart beat that's too slow? my rest hr is aprx 40 bpm. used to have anxiety where it was closer to 80 at r. too low? active but no athlete.
while a hr to the 40s can be a normal variant there are several conditions that can also cause a low heart rate or bradycardia some of which can be harmful. it may be worth it to get an ekg to evaluate your heart rhythm to make sure that there are no harmful rhythms.
what is it called when you pass out due to bp getting high then dropping low quickly such as after an accident?
pressure drop with change in position like standing up from sitting or lying position is called orthostatic hypotension. after an accident if there is blood pressure drop could be from blood loss or the initial high bp from pain or anxiety might have dropped down with return of normal condition. these are all assumption from the minimal information provided. talk to you doctor who is treating
woke up with racing heartbeat escalated to tightness in chest panic body shivers. racing heartbeat at night happened a few times. anxiety or?
1st see primary care doc 2 rule out any medical conditions causing your symptoms. if the doc calls this a panic attack (your brain is misinterpreting bodily sensations associated w fight-or-flight response) get referral 2 psychologist who is anxiety specialist & uses cognitive behavioral therapy + exposure therapy. read: <link>
woke up with racing heartbeat escalated to tightness in chest panic body shivers. racing heartbeat at night happened a few times. anxiety or?
after all physical causes are ruled out have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
woke up with dull pain in upper back(no specific spot) and some reflux that both have lasted all day. common heart attack symptom? or my anxiety?
more likely your symptoms are gi or musculoskeletal in nature if going by the odds. why? because of the description of your symptoms your young age and your gender. statistically speaking it's unlikely to be a heart attack. nonetheless if symptoms persist then a good idea to go get checked out
have anxiety disorder. had dull chest pain for months. had 5+ ekgs blood tests ct and seen cardiologist. all say heart is ok. just my anxiety?
sounds like your heart has been ruled out but other causes of dull chest pain include: gastroesophageal reflux costochondritis fibromyalgia gastritis peptic ulcer non-ulcer dyspepsia myofascial syndrome and others. your heart isn't the only possible cause of pain. anxiety is a diagnosis of exclusion since there are no tests to confirm it as the cause.
heart attack vs anxiety. how to tell the difference? when i get chest pains & short of breath how can i reassure myself it's just anxiety?
heart attack is preceded by feeling of impending doom shortness of breath nausea with profuse sweating sudden feeling like an elephant is sitting on your chest and pressure/squeezing/fullness/pain in middle of chest & back and jaw & arm. in any case it is best to exercise caution & get help asap.
hi had a heart attack 4 years ago i no this sounds mad but my foot is swelling and pains in my right shoulder this happened 4 years ago i am scared?
doctor to get evaluated. if u have anxiety it will only make u feel worse.
how to know if it's a heart attack hypoglycemia or anxiety? fast heart rate chest pain crying fear all out of the blue. 22 y/o female no history
the only way to know is to see your primary physician and have them evaluate you in person. unable to answer you regarding this matter without a personal evaluation.
how to know if it's a heart attack hypoglycemia or anxiety? fast heart rate chest pain crying fear all out of the blue. 22 y/o female no history
you're young and not likely to have heart trouble but you need some tests before calling your symptoms "anxiety. " suggest an ekg and blood work your doctor can order to rule out a cardiac cause for rapid heart and hypoglycemia. you might get your thyroid checked too. anxiety is best diagnosed after physical causes are eliminated as factors.
how to know if it's a heart attack hypoglycemia or anxiety? fast heart rate chest pain crying fear all out of the blue. 22 y/o female no history
determine the cause. you can not determine it on your own.
how to know if it's a heart attack hypoglycemia or anxiety? fast heart rate chest pain crying fear all out of the blue. 22 y/o female no history
question. but being only 22 and no medical history chances are it's anxiety. i suggest you check with an internal medicine doc who will run some lab tests such as thyroid cholesterol ekg. mitral valve prolapse may be present so echocardiography may be necessary. best wishes on better health
high blood pressure 150/85. and racing heart rate 125. blood work done everything came back normal ct scan is normal and urine was normal.
assuming those measurements are at complete rest and assuming the ekg shows that the heart rate is due to nl conduction (sinus tachycardia) then the abnormalities are considered "reactive" ie due to something else. some considerations include: fever anemia pain anxiety xs thyroid alcohol withdrawal. more ominous considerations: congestive heart failure sepsis dka. this list isn't all.
hi i keep asking this question (sorry just frustrated). get tachycardia sob tingling hands feel wired 3 or 4 times every night. go to bed really late now to reduce the frequency. any ideas? i have see my doctor and they don't know.
if you had a medical workup that was negative then it could be anxiety or due to substances like caffeine or nicotine. you may be having panic attacks. see a psychiatrist for an evaluation and to discuss treatment options.
hi i keep asking this question (sorry just frustrated). get tachycardia sob tingling hands feel wired 3 or 4 times every night. go to bed really late now to reduce the frequency. any ideas? i have see my doctor and they don't know.
if you have repeatedly asked about these symptoms as your question suggests it is really hard for me to believe someone has not suggested this is an anxiety disorder. perhaps you are having trouble accepting that diagnosis. that is part of the anxiety. you can't accept that there is nothing life-threatening wrong with you. treatment with cognitive behavior therapy medications relaxation!
hi i keep asking this question (sorry just frustrated). get tachycardia sob tingling hands feel wired 3 or 4 times every night. go to bed really late now to reduce the frequency. any ideas? i have see my doctor and they don't know.
if there are no physical causes for your symptoms have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
hi i keep asking this question (sorry just frustrated). get tachycardia sob tingling hands feel wired 3 or 4 times every night. go to bed really late now to reduce the frequency. any ideas? i have see my doctor and they don't know.
syndrome is a transient increase in minute ventilation (breathing rapidly) with a range of associated symptoms. patients c/o dyspnea light headed paresthesias chest pain palpitations diaphoresis sense of impending doom and anxiety. can be treated with behavioral therapy focused on breathing retraining. suggest screening and treatment for an anxiety disorder. i hope this helps.
hello i have been having problems with sleeping peeing a lot lately lots of fatigue muscle weakness heart racing chest pains shakiness pain in back sides and a burning sensation there too?
what you describe is suggestive of a overactive thyroid diabetes mellitus an autoimmune process like lupus multiple sclerosis and severe anxiety on its own or in combination with a disorder like or similar to the disorders listed in this note. you need to see a doctor as soon as possible for blood tests a through physical examination and other testing deemed necessary to reach a diagnosis.
how long does it take to recover fully from heart palpitations and anxiety from weekend binge drinking im on day 6 of recovering still have a symptoms?
withdrawal symptoms from alcohol usually begin 6 to 24 hours after the last drink and can last for up to one week. the severity of the symptoms depends on the amount of alcohol intake and the length of time you have been using it. the symptoms can be very serious and include tremor insomnia dts seizures and even death. you need to think about going into an alcohol rehab program
how could overuse of pseudoephedrine produce a lasting (years) affect on the sympathetic nervous system? y wont my tachycardia and other symptoms go?
effect last 6 hrs anything beyond next day is due to anxiety dehydration or any other medical reason
health anxiety. normal echo and ecg during sinus rythm. svt episodes once a month bpm 160 lasts 20-30s. can this condition kill me? been on a cardiolo
kill you. see ep cardiologist. ventricular fibrilllation kills not svt.
hi i'm 20 years old and i've been suffering from severe death anxiety. i get panic attacks and palpitations all the time. i really need an answer.
you need to see a psychiatrist. get help pkease. take care.
hi i'm 20 years old and i've been suffering from severe death anxiety. i get panic attacks and palpitations all the time. i really need an answer.
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
hi i'm 20 years old and i've been suffering from severe death anxiety. i get panic attacks and palpitations all the time. i really need an answer.
and related phobias are best dealt with through a mental health professional. he/she can teach you strategies to cope with this. we sometimes try to control the uncontrollable and it doesn't work and only diminished life in the present moment. mediation alone is not a good idea. peace and good health.
i have started getting chest pains and i visited a er friday evening. the tests that they took all came back good. could it be something mental?
mental isn't a good description anxiety is a better description however you should rule in what is causing your pain. cp isn't always from the heart which is likely what was checked other causes acid reflux hernias infections anxiety etc. i would speak to your primary and get an overall checkup looking at your go tract and a careful dietary history as well
i have weight problems memory problems mood swings painful periods racing heartbeat/anxiety problems and family history of thyroid problems. help?
we perform at our best if we get enough restful sleep a balanced nutrition exercise & are free from illness. you need to write down all the issues that impact your life & all the questions you have. if you can find a way to get at least 8 hrs sleep it might begin to help now. schedule a checkup and take your list. be sure to ask everything & take notes. if you don't get answers try another doc
i get heart palpitations and anxiety when i get too hot or cold like when i take a bath/shower or when i go outside on a cold night why is this?
i strongly recommend that you make an appointment to see a psychologist. she will almost certainly help you get over this issue. please let me know how things go.
i seen that a doctor on here named dr. andrew michaels said anxiety can cause a heart attack. not all people who have anxiety have one correct? true?
hi german anxiety (or chronic anxiety) is what we consider a "psychosocial risk factor" for cardiac disease and potential heart attacks. other risk factors include work stress social isolation chronic anger type a behavior etc. they increase the likelihood of experiencing cardiac events and/or risk for cardiac disease. you can have a heart attack without these but they increase your chances.
i have hypertension. i'm on propranolol and it controls it well. at home my b/p is 120/80 or lower. when i go to the doctor it's 150-180/90-100. why?
hypertension. it is common and is believed to be due to anxiety associated with a doctor visit. other factors: using too small a bp cuff at the doctor's office. the amount of rise in your bp suggest possible overactivity of your flight or fight responses and might suggest the need for adrenal or other testing. home (which you are doing) or ambulatory bp monitoring can help sort this out. good luck
i have panic attacks heart palpitations & severe anxiety. could i have hyperthyroidism? i'm only 16! i also feel a pulse/twitch in my leg constantly
your symptoms can be due to psychological factors but may also be due to physical disorder. you need to see your md for a physical exam. a simple blood test (t3 t4 tsh) can determine if you have a thyroid disorder. your leg twitch may be due to panic/anxiety but may be due to electrolyte imbalance (again blood test will tell). if physical exam is normal then see a psychologist using cbt.
i have panic attacks heart palpitations & severe anxiety. could i have hyperthyroidism? i'm only 16! i also feel a pulse/twitch in my leg constantly
and thyroid issues can mimic one another. it is important for you to see your doc to see if you have thyroid or other medical concerns. if cleared then you can see a mental health professional for treatment of panic disorder. please learn strategies to help not only medication.
i have a lot of health anxiety. i'm nervous constantly about symptoms i feel. lately i've woken up and seconds later heart is racing. stress related?
in the context of health anxiety it is possible that recent symptoms are stress related. best to see an md for evaluation and treatment recommendations. the treatments that have most research support currently are cbt and medications usually ssris but your md can guide in the latter. after ruling out physical basis for your symptoms consider seeing a clinical psychologist. hope this helpful.
my heart has been fluttering and heart rate around 100 at rest but jumps to 146-160 when i'm up and moving what are some possibilities?
when heart rate goes above 100 beats per minute you start feeling heart beats that is called palpitations. most commonly it is from anxiety / stress but at times could be due to underlying heart problems such as atrial fibrillation sinus tachycardia. need to see your doctor and he may put you on medicine such as beta blocker to control your hear rate.
my ecg today showed pointed and long p waves and paramedics told me it was abnormal what would cause the p waves to be like this <negative_smiley>?
did the paramedics say "p" as in "papa" or "t" as in "tango"? abnormal p waves can indicate an atrial abnormality but the echo you list is far more accurate. tall or "tented" t waves can be normal but can indicate elevated potassium. "long" t waves (i suspect we'd call them "flat") are a non-specific change; abnormal but not diagnostic of anything. hyperventilation (anxiety) can do it.
my heart rate is irregular for 3 days. thought it was anxiety but even at rest my pulse rate is over 150. can anxiety do that on an ongoing basis?
it's possible but it can also be atrial fibrillation which is an irregular fast heart beat. if your heart rate is that high go to an er.
my heart rate is irregular for 3 days. thought it was anxiety but even at rest my pulse rate is over 150. can anxiety do that on an ongoing basis?
you very likely have atrial fibrillation. this is not life-threatening but requires attention. if you've never had this before visiting the emergency room now would be appropriate.
my head tingles sometimes i have shortness of breath heart skips a beat and get very bloated or gassy what's wrong with me?
these are signs of anxiety.
my question was whether it will cause more pvcs at that dose 25mg. it was given to calm anxiety which the dr thinks is the cause of pvcs thx?
what is 25 mg causing pvc?
my resting heart rate is 55 bpm. i live a sedentary life. i never had my heart below 57. i guess i have little anxiety and i am really worried.
if you were quite physically active this would be a fine hr. but as you say you are not - something is not right. don't panic but do have a full exam w/ lab work. it may be thyroid function or some other easy to address issue. also consider some therapy to learn anxiety mgmt skills. it can really help build a stronger and more satisfying life.
my heart rate fluctuates from 80 to 105 to 85 and continues to fluctuate. i am nervous that my heart rate fluctuates this much possible causes?
heart rate fluctuates from 60 to 100. some people have tendency to run very slow in their 60s and some have higher base line hr. anxiety can increase heart rate because of adrenaline secretion. so please calm down. if you having symptoms with it please go to your doctor.
my heart rate fluctuates from 80 to 105 to 85 and continues to fluctuate. i am nervous that my heart rate fluctuates this much possible causes?
it is common for our heart rate to fluctuate depending on activity anxiety just being nervous about something or taking certain medications. top heart rate of 105 is not of concern. if you use your albuterol inhaler it will cause your heart rate to elevate as it has a stimulant affect on the heart and can also make you jittery. if you are greatly concerned i recommend seeing your doc
my heart pvcs have started to get worse as i'm walking. but the cardiologist still can't find anything wrong with my heart. still anxiety?
chronic anxiety has a lot of staying power. it hangs on even discovers new ways to bother you until you learn ways to avoid reduce and manage it. acute anxiety is functional - it's our species response to immediate threat. chronic may be meaningless - it's just there. cbt therapy is very effective if you find a therapist you trust and work at learning. it's a good value for better living! best!
sharp pain below sternum (feels better food in stomach) bloating anxiety/tachycardia lightheaded not sleeping well. thryoid or digestive problem?
anxiety can cause indigestion as well as irritable bowel syndrome peptic ulcers gastritis panic attacks insomnia high blood pressure and much more. you need to speak with your doctor about getting medication for improving your coping abilities and therapy. you can spend your life going from doctor to doctor for all your symptoms but they are usually caused by anxiety and depression.
suspenseful movies or occasional anger starts heartbeat in my throat. i'm a healthy 52 yr old pre-menopausal woman. dad died at 52 of 2nd heart attack?
if you are healthy it's probably palpitations that could be caused by stress or anxiety. obviously yo9u should get it checked out by your gp or internist.
sometimes i feel my heart beat and then i can feel it moving in my chest is this bad? i've had a heart murmur when i was a baby so this worries me.
if the murmur you had as a baby did not require any special followup (x-rays ekg's echo's etc. ) it is probably not an issue today. if i listen to a kid often enough i will hear a heart murmur at some point & most represent normal hearts doing normal things. if you are preoccupied with your heart get checked out. a good exam with a trusted doc might quell your anxiety or find something.
son has sharp sudden chest/back pain with slight wheezing (new) for a month he underweigh worries a lot and has anxiety ekg last month should i worry?
sudden chest pain is always a concern. take your son for evaluation. do not delay.
slight chest pressure after light activity 2 normal stress test over 12 normal ecg 2 normal echo's should i do coronary angiography or its gerd?
unless there is a family history of premature heart disease or you take meth or cocaine you likely have asthma anxiety or reflux. you have at this point demonstrated that it is almost certainly not your heart try other approaches.
should i be concerned about an intermittent burning sensation around my a-icd? it was implanted over 1year ago.
you should not have any discomfort around your device. device may malfunction if wire is disconnected or broken battery leaks ( unlikely) infection in the area of the device. talk to your cardiologist hopefully it is just anxiety and there are no problems with your device.
several years ago 2d eco showed small mitrol prolapse recently anxiety symptoms and ekg with extra beats. should i be concerned?
this is a typical constellation of symptoms with mitral valve prolapse. occassion skipped beats are ok but if you ger rapid fluttering of your heart talk with your doctor. sharp chest pain lasting seconds are usually normal. if your mitral valves is not too diseased you need not worry about infection from dental work. once again clarify with your doctor.
several years ago 2d eco showed small mitrol prolapse recently anxiety symptoms and ekg with extra beats. should i be concerned?
mitral prolapse is common and generally not associated with extra beats despite plenty of misinformation on the internet that suggests that it is. extra beats if troublesome should be checked out separately and if necessary for bothersome symptoms they can be minimzed with medications.
suffering from depression/anxiety after pacemaker/icd surgery. what do you suggest?
it is not unusual for transient depression after such a procedure. you should realize that the icd is a device which should help protect you from sudden death. as such if you put your mind on it being a positive hopefully you can adjust your viewpoint and convert your anxiety depression to positive outlook. talk to your doc.
suffering from pvcs. uncomfy chest palpitations muscle weakness&incoordination and fear of death comes for hours. xanax (alprazolam) helps a bit. is this panic?
attacks. most pvcs among young folks are benign. i presume u had all the heart work up. get reassurance from your cardiologist. get checked for thyroid condition pheochromocytoma myopathy myasthenia gravis etc quit smoking if u do cut down on caffeine soda and alcohol intake. if all tests are find you need to find ways to overcome anxiety! (pls read link below).
symptoms pvcs tachycardia swelling on left side includes face neck and legs. what could this be. dr can't find anything wrong. have had tests.
anxiety can cause some of these symptoms. but if there is true swelling in the face and neck you many have allergies or intolerace. also get checked for inflammation lupus thyroid vitamin deficiencies.
will a beta blocker such as bystolic (nebivolol) be more likely to cause or help with anxiety?
beta blockers are often helpful to relieve anxiety and many professional performers (pianists etc. ) use them to help with stage fright. bystolic (nebivolol) would not be as useful as some of the less receptor specific agents. metoprolol or atenolol or even inderal would be a more usual agent to utilize for this. be cautious if your heart rate or blood pressure are low as these will lower those more.
when i lie down to go to sleep i can strongly feel my pulse pounding in my abdomen and ears so much that i struggle to get to sleep any ideas?
keep it normal if u/s abdomen is normal don't worry it may be anxiety
why would my heart start to beat faster and also my head hurt worse toward the night?
assuming there is no underlying heart condition this combination of symptoms sounds like anxiety- which can cause many physical symptoms. go to your doctor and make sure there is no underlying condition. if there isn't consider techniques to control anxiety symptoms- like deep breathing meditation relaxation training. you can also consider medication if you feel anxiety is more constant.
what are the extraintestinal symptoms of ibs-c? can patients experience fatigue poor sleep headaches back pain and heart palpitations?
technically speaking ibs-c (constipation predominant) shd only affect the bowels. ibs isn't a systemic disease like ibd (inflammatory bowel disease - crohn's or ulcerative colitis). that being said ibs can certainly cause anxiety / panic disorder (it has a way of affecting the mind sleep & there4 personality) which can then explain the symptoms u describe. ttyd & perhaps a counselor regarding
woke up to racing heart. hr has returned to normal but noticed my spo2 bouncing from 99 to 94% all morning. have been feeling lightheaded and fatigue?
sp02? why do you have that kind of monitor? that would be an important piece of information. but that aside with respect to what you've said a racing heart usually leads to a racing respiratory rate (? anxiety? ) which would increase your s02 then if you calmed down a bit it would go down too. that's ok as long as the s02 is above 92-94 but that depends on whatever is going on with you.
when i lie down i have chest pain palpitation shortness of breath dizziness and feel like drowning. when i wake up i have very severe palpitation?
on the basis of your symptoms it seems that you could have some kind of heart irregularly or even a lung problem like asthma. however the biggest cause is some kind of stress or anxiety. please go and see family doctor. he can perform some tests to make sure your heart and lungs are the cause or not. he can then treat you with proper medicine or send you to a specialist for further treatment
why does a heart rate of 70 worry me? is this a high heart rate at rest? i am extremely obsessed with my heart rate not being over 70. creating anxiety?
a resting heart rate of 70 is normal. among factors that can affect resting heart rate in a healthy person are ambient temperature state of relaxation/worry hydration status medication alcohol caffeine.
why does a heart rate of 70 worry me? is this a high heart rate at rest? i am extremely obsessed with my heart rate not being over 70. creating anxiety?
there are probably various reason's why people develop health anxiety. but the underlying reason is likely fear of dying. normally this understandable fear is kept in check by your ego (personality) otherwise people wouldn't be able to function. you should see a therapist to discuss this. also: see the check list "overcoming anxiety"that discusses cbt. self directed therapy that will help a lot.
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
calm down concentrate meditate think good calm quite area to think about. think bout a place that take you away in your mind and be peaceful. if you pray go to the location that help you in the past. close your eyes and get to that place in your mind relax deep slow breath think of happy events in your life
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
that response is typical for anxiety/panic attack. try very deep breathing making sure to expand the diaphragm muscle by inhaling all the way into the belly. do that about 10 times and see if it helps lessen the sensations of shortness of breath. simultaneously tell yourself that this is just anxiety not a serious threat to your ability to breathe and that it will pass in a few minutes.
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
you should consult a mental health professional who specializes in treating anxiety or panic attacks. there are a number of treatment protocols with an without medication that are highly successful in treating this condition. don't delay. contact someone now!
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
may need medication for panic attacks. general advice is relaxation techniques as well as deep breathing exercises to help control physical and emotional responses to anxiety. also need to ask yourself what you are really anxious about and is there anything you can do to change or control whatever it may be. also go easy on stimulants like caffeine etc and get adequate sleep. good luck!
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as panic attacks which are common is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
i most recommend emdr therapy for faster resolution of anxiety. there are also a number of extremely effective "distraction" or "grounding" skills we teach to clients to rapidly slow down the fight or flight response. if you happen to be military please check your local mtf. i work at travis.
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
i have worked with many people who have had panic 'attacks' (episode/disorder). some meds can help acutely or preemptively but talk therapy can offer long term recovery without the side effects of meds. both cognitive behavior therapy and insight oriented therapy (different approaches) can dramatically reduce or eliminate panic disorder. find a reputable therapist in your area. it is treatable.
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
come out of the blue. they are treatable by a mental health professional who specializes in treating folks w/them. the breathing and heart concerns are normal reactions. please see your doc to rule out medical conditions and then a clinical psychologist who can teach you strategies to deal w/this effectively. peace and good health.
hello dr i'm just wondering how can i over come my anxiety without medication. i had an attack earlier today felt like i couldn't catch my breath or gonna have a heart attack is this normal? thanks
being female and 30 yr old your chances of having heart problems is very low but given the shift in modern life style and food habits it is always important to make sure that your risk factors are low. if you never had panic attacks before i suggest to be evaluated for orher medical causes that can cause this. see an internist. yoga meditation and breathing exercises help a lot with anxiety.
heart palps/skipped beats happening often. pcp and cardio say it's anxiety. had angio done at 19 and been worked up sev times in er for this. 21/445lb?
dysautonomia syndrome causes different symptoms alleviated by avoidance of stimulants ensuring hydration using magnesium vitamin d & omega fish oils (www. cardiamin. com use code: cmc) low dose beta blockers e. g. propranolol 5 to 10mg 2 to 3 times daily and ssris e. g. citalopram 5 to 10mg daily. read dr. ronald hoffman’s mvp book (www. amazon. com) and visit www. dysautonomiainternational
having mild nausea in the morning but it comes and goes but not pregnant or sexually active and is it normal to hear your heartbeat in your ears when lying down or is it normal to see your heartbeat through your clothes.
whether your symptoms are due to an abnormality or not will depend on a full evaluation. common causes of palpitations tinnitus (hearing heart beat in ears) and heaves (seeing heart beat through a shirt) may be due to anxiety hypertension increased thyroid functioning or increased catecholamines like adrenaline (this is a rare condition). if these symptoms continue please see a cardiologist.
hi i'm 22 weeks pregnant and have been suffering with palpitations for the past 3 days it sometimes last for hours is this normal also my pulse is 93b?
sometimes elevated heart rates are due to undiagnosed infections with fever too active thyroid fetal issues or anxiety. palpations can result from all of these causes and requires that you notify your ob md for him/her to sort out the source.
hi lately my hr has been 112-120. i connected myself to tele to see if i had any arrythmias other than st. i'm a cardiac nurse and its scarying me.
a 'cardiac nurse' should understand there are many possibilities for what you describe ranging from anxiety through anemia endocrine and cardiac disorders to lots of others. see a doctor you trust and get checked out.
hi sometimes i've fast heart beat which lasts for about 30 min or an hour followed by fever. think it might be anxiety. heart tests are ok. pls help?
it may be anxiety or it may be an arrhythmia or even both. depending on the frequency your doctor can order a holter monitor event monitor or rarely even a loop recorder. it is odd that you have fever after the palpitations (sensation of a fast heart beat).
have been having trouble breathing recently. doc says lungs are normal and heart rate is fine. all in head or is it serious?
there are many possible causes for 'having trouble breathing'. without a history and physical exam and perhaps other testing we can't tell from out here whether anxiety or a more physical cause is in play. discuss with the doctor who saw you.
hi. i have been experiencing short breath and sometimes palpitation. i am 16 years old and my weight is 75 kg. i am quite worried about this issue i hope all is well. thanks?
symptoms like that regardless of your medical history should warrant evaluation by your primary doctor. symptoms like you're experiencing at your age could simply be attributed to anxiety but other more serious conditions need to be ruled out first. if you are persistently unable to breath go to an emergency room. i wish you good health
how many days dose it take for 10mg of propranolol to work fully for panic attacks?
propranolol carries an indication for panic disorder at doses of 40mg once daily and higher. dosing is balanced against its blood-pressure lowering effect which can be troublesome in some healthy patients. effect should not take more than 4 hours from the time of dosing and is not cumulative over weeks or months like other anxiety medications such as ssri class or snri class meds.
how long does a dose of propranolol for performance anxiety last? if presenting all day would i need to take another dose in the afternoon?
if it is the long acting propanolol it can be taken once a day if not twice a day will be usual
how can i tell reflux pain from a heart attack pain. little chest pain for a month. note: i do eat & lay down & i have anxiety but no attack lately.
heart attack pain may be similar in character. however due to your young age cardiac disease is less likely but still possible. please ask your doctor to obtain an ekg and evaluate you for cardiac risk factors ie hypertension diabetes dyslipidemia tobacco use family hsitory
how can i tell reflux pain from a heart attack pain. little chest pain for a month. note: i do eat & lay down & i have anxiety but no attack lately.
please see your health care provider to assess but the history goes against it being a heart issue.
have had normal ekgs echo stress test chest xray troponin and d dimer but still have left sided chest pain fast hr. could it still be my heart?
the cardiac conditions have been sought. . now you need to look into non cardiac conditions. like- you are 28. unless you smoke have diabetes are morbidly obese with a strong family history why are you stressing about the heart? could anxiety issues be a factor?
is random chest pain that comes and goes infrequently and random shortness of breath that isn't bad likely to be a blood clot or anxiety?
at your age serious pathology is unlikely though not impossible ;anxiety is a diagnosis of exclusion so get checked out for complete reassurance
i have anxiety. today i had a panic attack. i'm used to high hr but for some reason my pulse was only around 70-80 plus no palpitations. strange?
hi hugo 70 to 80 is not that low but any concerns about your heart should be discussed with your doctor. generally a fast heart rate is a common symptom of anxiety. it is possible but not as common for heart rate to slow down during anxiety. during emotional stress your vagus nerve can become excited and slow down your heart rate and blood pressure. consider cbt to manage anxiety/panic.
is a constant shortness of breath + high heart rate (around/over 100) occasional palpitations + chest pain in 18 y/o female w/ normal ekgs a concern?
you need a thorough history and physical examination range of diagnoses is between anxiety and serious condition such as pulmonary problems ;get checked out asap
i have recently been having heart palpitations at night. i am wondering if i should be worried about this? anything you recommend that i can do? thanks! heart palpatations
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i had a dream where i fainted. my heart raced in it i passed out and felt like i couldn't breathe before waking up. causes?
release pent up emotions from our day. the reason for your dream is likely anxiety. i see that you are being treated by a doctor and mental health professional. please keep up the good work and know that we all dream and some of them are not pleasant but they do help us. read think and recall pleasant things prior to sleep to help influence the content of your dreams. peace and good health.
i am prescribed 1 40mg propranolol (beta blocker) twice a day for anxiety. i have had 1 today to start it off should i stay at 1 or increase to 2?
propranolol as a beta blocker can lower blood pressure and heart rate so i would advise to stick with 1 tablet initially. low blood pressure can cause dizziness and feeling faint. make sure to stay well hydrated when taking it and to be careful when getting up from sitting down or lying down.
i am prescribed 1 40mg propranolol twice a day for anxiety so it is ok to take one at about 8am and then the other at about 6pm?
when meds are prescribed twice per day usual dose is one in am and one in evening. unless your doctor has specific instructions ( such as one with breakfast or one upon awakening and one at bedtime) the times you suggest are ok. try to take them around the same time each day that way you are less likely to forget dose. if you have more questions check with your prescribing doctor. good luck
i am prescribed 1 40mg propranolol twice a day for anxiety so it is ok to take one at about 8am and then the other at about 6pm?
if that's how your doctor has prescribed it then that's how you should take it. propranolol can be given up to 4 times per day. if you are having trouble with the medication talk to your prescribing doctor about decreasing the dose & increasing frequency. side effects like lightheadedness low bp & others usually go away with time but if you have concerns relay them to the prescribing doctor.
i sometimes get chest pain while taking 10mg propanolol for anxiety. is this just a side effect?
anxiety itself can cause chest pain however it could also be a side effect of the propranolol. i would mention it to your prescribing physician. also consider when does the pain start? how long does it last? does anything make it worse? does it go away when you're feeling calmer? any other symptoms like shortness of breath or dizziness?
i'm 27yr old history of anxiety but and now stress. i have heart palpitations tight chest and a bubble in chest feeling also pronounced veins. bad?
most of what you mention can result from an anxiety disorder. after seeing your doctor to rule out or identify medical conditions please see a mental health professional to learn stress management. peace and good health. qigong and yoga can be good self-help techniques.
i have pots dysautonomia and gastroparesis. i also have sever anxiety and depression. i have been throwing up all morning. can i take xanax to help?
i suggest going to the er. this is to make sure your electrolytes kidney function are ok and also for iv hydration.
i'm 17. i was laying on my right side and all of a sudden my heart beat faster for like 20 seconds and then stopped. felt like couldn't breathe?
it appears that a faster heart rate might be normal variation of circulation. it could also increase with caffeine panic/anxiety and other factors. sometimes it can cause difficulty with breathing. if you continue to have challenged breathing and hr continue to beat faster you can make an appt with your md/refer to cardiologist and or virtual appt thru health tap.
my resting heart rate stays around 100-120. i'm 17 f. possible reasons/causes?
some possible causes of tachycardia (fast heart rate) are abnormal thyroid anxiety anemia fever drugs or medications heart disease abnormal electrical pathways in the heart imbalance of electrolytes caffeine and many other causes. if this persists you should be evaluated by your pcp.
my husband have woken up in the middle of the night with a rasing heartbeat. this is the third night. something bad?
racing heartbeat may be a sign or something serious or it may be anxiety. best to see primary care for evaluation. thanks for trusting healthtap!
my problem is anxietyall the time my heart beats fast while seeing my boss loss of memory and hopeless. and i have anger too on silly matters?
an opportunity to learn skills for avoiding reducing and managing anxiety would really help. if short-term medication is needed they can refer for it too. the combo works best. it's great that you are aware of this if you can resolve it asap. it is not hopeless you just need a bit of help.
my pvc's are benign but they are killing me only get like 6 a day that i feel. i don't know what to do with my life! anxiety killing me. ?
about things that may not happen or if they do may not hurt you. if 24-hour monitoring of your heart rate & rhythm shows nothing for you to " obsess" about but you can't stop see your primary care for referrals to a psychiatrist & psychologist for evaluation & treatment of anxiety disorders. chronic anxiety alters levels & functions of brain chemicals so address it now.
short of breath fast heart tired feel nervous. ekg normal still waiting for echo & holter moniter results. cud it b anxiety or panic?
a panic attack would be a diagnosis of exclusion (after medical causes are ruled out).
should i worry about rapid heart beat - happening on regular basis - can anxiety cause this to happen even when i am at rest?
anxiety - especially a panic attack - can cause a rapid heart rate. however there are other causes too. you should get it checked out. many of the can be treated with medicines and some cured by procedures.
started paxil (paroxetine) 5mg x1 wk now upped to 10mg. feel extreme fatigue at times with skipped heart beats and faster heart rate. can these be se?
ck with doc but most likely sx are anxiety & paxil (paroxetine) isn't helping yet.
sometimes i experienced hand shaking and during this time i feel my heart beats fast evenwhen i am at rest. my pulse during this time is 93bpm. why?
hand tremor/shakiness rapid heart beating sleeping disturbances fatigue can be due to hyperactive thyroid. also anxiety type of disorders. are you under a lot stress? talk to a physician.
suffer from panic attacks think i'm having heart attack doctor says ekg and blood work were fine could i still have one? 28yr old female
many young kids are afraid of monsters. we know it's pointless to try to convince them that monsters exist only in their imaginations. in ur case it's like u've got a child next to u living in fear of u having a heart attack. a psychologist specializing in treatment of anxiety &panic can teach u how 2quiet this child so to speak. educate urself about anxiety & panic. see <link>
sob occasional chest pain being evaluated by gp. ox %100 bp/heart rate great. many tests. worry about pe and go to er or wait for cardio apt monday?
is for people to go to the er for any worsening symptoms. u have history of anxiety which can cause your symptoms. be aware that pe occurs in people with risk factors- clot in legs sedentary lifestyle history of long travel surgery estrogen use clotting factor defects etc. typical pe presents with low oxygen saturation but anything is possible. hope everything goes well with u!
should i be worried? i've had a holter monitor several ekgs and blood tests. my cardiologist is having me try citalopram and seeing how that works.
if all those tests are fine the likely cause of your symptoms is anxiety and this is what your doctor is treating.
solu medrol (methylprednisolone). can it cause low heart rate and nonspecific ekg?
why are you on solumedrol (methylprednisolone)? it can increase bp fluid retention tachycardia mood swings nervousness insomnia anxiety vertigo hypokalemia glucose intolerance and in theory non specific ekg changes due to above.
sinus tachycardia of the heart at rest why does this happen?
sinus tachycardia at rest can have many causes including deconditioning anemia hyperthyroid fever infection trauma anxiety drugs smoking pots tachy/brady syndrome arrhythmic sinus tachycardia and more. .
sinus tachycardia of the heart at rest why does this happen?
pain or anxiety can cause mild tachycardia near 100. possible hidden causes are anemia & overactive thyroid which are detected by blood tests. sounds like your doctor already did an ekg which would rule out an abnormal heart rhythm if its really >100. heart & lung conditions (with low oxygen) can cause sinus tachycardia too but you probably would have other symptoms like short breath. good luck.
should i be worried if it feels like my heart is racing but it isn't. what can be the cause of this?
anxiety is the commonest cause of what you describe.
symptoms of heart murmurs? sometimes i feel my heart flutter/beat really fast. ekg last yr said heart was fine. i have anxiety too. heart problems?
a heart murmur. a murmur is just noise. sometimes serious problems cause a murmur many times a murmur is caused by normal flow. patients often misctranslate what the dr. tells them. you may have anxiety underlying.
symptoms of heart murmurs? sometimes i feel my heart flutter/beat really fast. ekg last yr said heart was fine. i have anxiety too. heart problems?
if you can feel your heart flutter and beat very fast you may have a fast heart rate abnormality which comes and goes. your provider may want to hook you up to a holter monitor which monitors your heart rhythm for a day or more while you go about you normal activities.
should i be concerned about fast heart beat and chest pain from quitting smoking?
anxiety can cause excess cortisol os adrenaline secretion which can cause a number of symptoms including dizziness lightheadedness rapid heart beat palpitations chestpain headaches etc. try calming yourself down by concentrating on slowing down your breathing over a few minutes if this doesn't help see your primary provider for further evaluation. good luck!
sleeping problems. i wake up almost every night with my heart racing and short of breath. my cardiologist didn't say much about it. what causes this?
most likely cause is anxiety at your age. other possibilities include an arrhythmia or sleep apnea. testing in your home can help sort it out (holter nocturnal oximetry).
sob right chest pain occasional right back pain& watery saliva. had multiple tests done x-ray echo ecg all come back fine. what can this be? anxiety?
anxiety is certainly a possibility. there isn't enough information here to make any other diagnostic suggestions but there are other possibilities.
sob right chest pain occasional right back pain& watery saliva. had multiple tests done x-ray echo ecg all come back fine. what can this be? anxiety?
anxiety may be one reason but make sure you allergy medicine does not have stimulants in them which can cause these symptoms or exacerbate them. try some type of mindfulness meditation or exercises which will help with focus and reduce stress.
seen a cardiologist just said i have irregular heartbeat and to exercise. why does getting a tattoo irritate it and make it act up?
i can think of is if the process of getting the tattoo was anxiety-provoking and the adrenaline you were pumping in response to this was a stimulant to your heart.
scared about sca/ha? ! normal echo shows normal function. normal ekgs. just fast heart( atenolol). normal stress test. normal blood work. should i worry?
your anxiety is not justified.
what does it mean when your heart skips beats?
usually it means you're having premature heart beats(pac's pvc s) and the skip is actually a pause following the early beat. these premature beats can be caused by caffeine alcohol nicotine anxiety overactive thyroid or actual heart disease. it's best to get checked with an ekg or heart monitor to identify the heart rhythm and type of extrasystoles and then get other tests or cardiology consult
went to doc for heart attack systems 2weeks ago ekg and blood work good but still have the systems and i'm worried it could be my heart can it. help?
if you're still suffering from symptoms eg angina or chest pain then go see your familydoc & cardiologist for further testing. check out <link> <link> & <link> anxiety can do this
would energy drinks be bad for an 18 year old if they only had like 1 a week or less?
read label before having energy drinks. most contain large amounts of caffeine and sugar. diabetics avoid. caffeine can cause palpitations anxiety and insomnia. see: <link> i hope this helps.
what causes one's breaths to be shaky choppy or trembly? is it hormonal cardiac anxiety? accompanied by palps & light hand tremor in my case
could be any of the above causing labored breathing or hyperventilation and a hand tremor. only a careful medical evaluation can determine causes. anxiety may be diagnosed after physical factors have been ruled out. i hope this helps.
why can i always feel my heart beat see my stomach moving with the rhythm of my heart and chest pain? i have been to the dr but nothing not normal (had a ekg. holter. echo and ct scan) all normal. 19 yold rhr 58 and healthy weight also a smoker
first you should try to quit smoking to improve your overall cardiovascular health. some patients are aware of their heart beats. these patients are usually predisposed to have anxiety as well. in regards to your stomach moving with the rhythm of your heart this is due to pulsation of your abdominal aorta and completely normal. it is more noticeable when laying down.
why can i always feel my heart beat see my stomach moving with the rhythm of my heart and chest pain? i have been to the dr but nothing not normal (had a ekg. holter. echo and ct scan) all normal. 19 yold rhr 58 and healthy weight also a smoker
from what you relate you are having "health anxiety" worrying you are sick when you are not. at 19 years old and negative studies your chance of dying from cardiac condition is likely zero. everyone has a deep seated unconscious fear of dying but usually the "ego" keeps it suppressed. otherwise we couldn't function. go to my check list on "overcoming anxiety and stress" that discusses cbt
what could be the cause of a sinking feeling in the middle lower chest be? its like my heart skips a beat but only when laying on my back and if i change to my side its doesnt happen
i admire you for your concern for your health. “sinking feeling like my heart skips a beat but only when laying on my back and if i change to my side its doesnt happen” indicates that you have normal functioning heart. it is due to stresses of relationship school work and finances causing anxiety see a psychiatrist for therapy. do tai chi breathing and music relaxation yoga and meditation.
why do i wake up at night with my heart beating fast?
how fast? there is always variation in rate. when we sleep there is more autonomic tone effects with increase in sympathetic tone in rem sleep. most are benign but may consider ekg or holter echo including mitral valve prolapse ) and check for sleep apnea. caffeine alcohol anxiety also promote tachycardias. f/u w/doc
went to er with panic attack ekg normal. had panic attack again this time i saw automatic interpretation say abnormal ekg. is this very bad?
the automatic printouts for ekg indicates "abnormal" for many reasons including tachycardia (increased heart rate) which is a major symptom of an anxiety attack and not bad in and of itself unless persistent
what causes your heart to beat harder and a bit faster at rest?
assuming your heart is normal. (if not check with ur doc). eating a large meal anxiety being nervous (such as before an exam) could all be causes for this symptom.
what local anesthetic agent/medicine is safest for long qt heart patient? neck (thyroid) biopsy coming up local anesth. will need to be used.
fine in the very small amount utilized. if absolutely necessary lidocaine with epinephrine could be utilized but is probably unnecessary. if you are extremely worried it could probably be done nearly painlessly with a skinny needle and no anesthetic. your own anxiety and intrinsic catecholamine release is probably of greater risk than anything else. mild sedation might be in order.
worried can you cure an irregular heartbeat which is caused by anxiety by treating the anxiety?
yes. most arrhythmias that are due to anxiety- adrenaline based ( apcs pvcs svt) can be treated with stress management meditation exercise adequate sleep reduction of caffeine. however dangerous arrhythmias can also worsen with stress as well. vtach afib etc. complete evaluation with a cardiologist is important prior to simply addressing the anxiety.
hello sir feeling anxious heart racing butterflies in stomach visual snow and tinnitus. i have been diagnosed with ocd.
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
had clear ecgs around 40 in life time last one today 25 f no family history except svt risk for sudden cardiac arrest? suffer aniexty which im under treatment for kp worrying about sca
i understand your distress. feel good about functioning of your heart as your ecg is normal. believe in healing powers of your body. treatment of anxiety will be beneficial with: seeing a psychiatrist for therapy for stress in your life resolving emotional turmoil learning coping skills and medication breathing and music relaxation visual imagery and meditation. cardiologist for follow up.
had slightly raised d dime neg ct neg dopplers now heart palps normal ecg normal bp normal oxygen not breathless is this aniexty doc said no clot as all scans neg?
how high was d-dimer? it could be related to inflammatory condition or anxiety. i would repeat the test if it was high.
had a lot of tests recently 8 ecgs ct scan of chest full blood work dopplers of both legs im just convinced im going to die i suffer aniexty but nothign is reasuring me im petrified iv seeked help but none availble for 2 weeks am i likely to die?
some hovering concern about health and life now and in the future is quite normal as long as not being overrun by obsession to incapacitate daily living to fulfill a desirable vibrant active life. to ease and control unwanted overrunning anxiety please peruse articles in <link> <link> <link> etc.
hart beat 53 laying down 68 standing currently take 80mg proponolol a day. cause for concern being so low? or. anything i should look out for? 28male
u did not tell me why are u taking propanol but the info u gave without sx doesn't need any change and it is anxiety only
how common is myocarditis? how can you tell between genuine heart trouble and anxiety induced palpitations and fatigue by yourself?
significant chronic antenatal anxiety exposes a fetus to high cortisol levels that can affect fetal brain development with long-lasting effects on stress-related behavior emotions & cognitive abilities. seek referrals from your ob to a psychologist for cognitive-behavioral therapy & to a psychiatrist as fetal exposure to anti-anxiety meds may be less of a risk than remaining untreated.
how can i tell if shortness of breath or feeling of odd breathing is caused by anxiety or heart problem? not pregnant normal echo/ecg last year
discuss this with your primary care doctor. develop an understanding with him or her of which of your symptoms you can feel secure about and which ones you should get medical evaluation for. it may be useful to also have the input of a psychiatrist.
how can i tell if shortness of breath or feeling of odd breathing is caused by anxiety or heart problem? not pregnant normal echo/ecg last year
commend yourself for good functioning heart with normal echo/ecg. “feeling of odd breathing” is due to anxiety. shortness of breath will be less intense with anxiety and it will not be continuous. shortness of breath with heart problem is with discomfort painful feeling in chest palpitation weakness see a psychiatrist for diagnosis; therapy for anxiety relaxation.
i have been taking xanax for several years. a low dose of 0. 25 mg. my bp has been very low 80/60 and i have fainted at times. is the xanax causing it?
yes both hypotension (low blood pressure) and syncope (fainting) are possible side effects of xanax. you are taking a very low dose and you do not specify why you have been taking this for years. anxiety? insomnia? check with your prescribing dr about withdrawing slowly off this drug. consider nondrug solutions like cbt psychotherapy from an experienced psychologist for anxiety or insomnia.
i have random heart palpitations. when i check my pulse when that happens the heart rate is not particularly fast. is that normal? i do feel pinching
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i have athsma but could i take a beta blocker for driving test anxiety and panic attacks. no antidepressent medication has helped with this.
and may flare up your asthma which may increase your anxiety. you are on symbicrt which contains a long acting beta agonist which isn't a good combination with beta blockers also your thyroid problem may be contributing to your anxiety. confer with your psychiatrist/doctor and have a list of your medications for possible interactions/contraindications other techniques may be helpful goodluck
if i am needing to keep a constant eye on my heart rate are wrist style monitors a decent option? or should i be looking at something else?
i am unaware of any diagnosis where the sufferer needs to constantly monitor the heart rate;reconsider and seek counseling help for anxiety
ive had reactions to benadryl abd phenegran that include high hr full body shaking high bp. is hydroxizine therefore bad for me to take for anxiety since it too is a 1st generatiin antihistamine? afraid to try due to bad reactions to other drugs.
yes you are exactly right in your thought. ask your doctor for another medication for anxiety. there are many
ive had reactions to benadryl abd phenegran that include high hr full body shaking high bp. is hydroxizine therefore bad for me to take for anxiety since it too is a 1st generatiin antihistamine? afraid to try due to bad reactions to other drugs.
it is good to see that you have done some basic research on your own. if there is no better alternative and hydroxyzine is the best option consider starting with 5 mg and work up gradually on the dose and see if you can tolerate the desired dosage eventually.
i took mdma oraly my heart rate has been around 10-135bpm 3 hrs. chest tightness. oral temp-99. 8f rectal-100. i'm am having weird anxiety. any help?
mdma or moly or ecstasy causes the very symptoms you describe. it has no legitimate medical use. your current symptoms will go away in a few hours.
i've been feeling stress in my stomach area tight chest. what causes this?
and tight chest. please see your doctor to rule out medical conditions. if ok medically you may have an anxiety disorder. are you under more stress than usual? has your diet changed? see www. relaxationresponse. org for some self-help and a terapist to learn ways to manage stress.
is it common to faint after a lumbar block? i fainted lay tone and they want to do 2 more injections. apprehensive about doing it again
some people faint after any painful procedure or sometimes just at the sight (or thought) of the needle. you should ask the doctor for a pre-treatment (pill usually) that will reduce your anxiety level and help you to relax if you need to repeat the procedure. s/he can also give you a medication at the time to stop the fainting reaction if it is severe. good luck!
i have a feart of my heart stopping. and i keep checking my pulse ( it feels slow? ) is this anxiety? i dont have any heart conditions etc.
health issues suggests a possible phobia or obsessive compulsive disorder. please see a mental health professional for diagnosis and treatment. please don't use medication only. therapy can be more long-lasting and empowering. get exam from doc to rule out medical conditiions. peace and good health.
i feel physical pain like i'm being electrocuted during sleep paralysis. i feel i'm not breathing/heart attack & i will die. i'm scared to go to sleep?
the pattern of symptoms & the timing does not seem to make sense with any organic condition that i am aware of. sleep paralysis should not cause pain. i think there's some type of phobia or irrational / subconscious fear leading to bedtime anxiety. i think you should see a counselor or at least talk to someone who you are close to about your problems. do you have a family doctor or use ht prime?
i had a 30 day heart monitor rhythm is normal but it is really fast all of the time. labs are normal and no anxiety. why is it fast all of the time?
this is something that would require a full review of your history lifestyle exercise & or work pattern personal review of labs and a physical exam. if nothing medical was evident a plan of conditioning might be considered both helpful to aid both health and test the overall effect on the problem. sometimes adding stress helps reveal the answer.
i had heart palpations. ekg says abnormal results but doctor said everything was fine and it was normal. which do i believe? i do have anxiety.
in may ways. once can mentally obsess over things that frighten the person or do behaviors to keep danger away e. g. ritual behaviors checking and re-checking. physically there can be heart palpitations shortness of breath sweating sleeplessness etc. please go to a mental health professional for support if you think you have an anxiety disorder.
i had heart palpations. ekg says abnormal results but doctor said everything was fine and it was normal. which do i believe? i do have anxiety.
anxiety is a common cause of palpitations but not the only one. if you do not believe your doctor made the right diagnosis get another opinion. worrying about it would only make matters worse. together with an ecg you need blood tests to rule out other causes of palpitations such as anaemia or hyperthyroidism. see a cardiologist if you are concerned that the ecg findings are worrying.
my resting heart rate is about 106 bpm. i just restarted taking vyvance after a month break. is this normal. ?
106 beats per minute is slightly faster than a typical heart rate. fast heart rate can be caused by anxiety and/or taking stimulants. in the absence of heart disease or other symptoms it isn't to worrisome but you should talk to your doctor.
magnesium level is 1. 6. take zoloft losartan betapace and nexium (esomeprazole). no kidney issues. dr prescribed 400mg magnesium oxide. interactions with meds?
no interactions. based on your med list you probably hypertension gerd anxiety/depression and h/o arrthymia. mildly low mg level is probably due to ppi use (nexium)
my body constantly shakes along with heart palpitations feeling fearful & anxious whenever in public & even when i'm around just 1 person my body shakes. i can be calm & i still shake at intervals?
it's best to have an evaluation by your physician to ensure that this is a chronic anxiety disorder that will require stress management therapy and possibly a short course of tranquilizers. tests will include a physical examination and thyroid testing ekg etc.
my palps are likely from my bad anxiety but if it's a thyroid or electrical problem could it kill me? ekg stress echo are all normal. i'm 18 and fit
cardiac arrhythmias in the presence of a structurally normal heart with no blood flow issues are harmless.
my heart beat reached 115 per minute. . what are the possible causes?
fever dehydration anxiety stress exercise deconditioning are just few of the many reasons. you have to make sure that your heart beat was regular. see a physician asap.
my doctors gave me 12 pills of 2 different antibiotics and a shot of rocephin in one treatment. two days i collapsed due to extreme heart pain. it has now been over 3 weeks and my resting heart rate will not go below 100 and i have extreme anxiety 24/7.
stay well hydrated rest and relax as you recover. be sure to finish the whole course of antibiotics. a virtual appt is available for follow up.
my heart rate increases at doctors office and is normal at home is this a sign of anxiety at anytime in a day my heart rate is less than 75.
heart rate is closely related to emotional state and often it goes up when anxious such as many people are when visiting the doctor
multiple er trips because of chest pain and radiating discomfort in left shoulder/arm/jaw/face/ and neck. multiple negative ekg and blood tests. seen cardiologist had a 48 hr holter monitor which came back negative and did a stress test that came back neg
next will be to contact your doc. you need a good physical exam a detailed history and work up as needed as well as a possible therapeutic trial. it is good to know that is not your heart. other possibilities including anxiety are to be considered.
my heart starts pounding rapidly sometimes for no reason i would appreciate it if someone explained to me why this is happening?
could be anxiety although keep an eye on it and if it happens frequently see your doctor and consider making sure there is no arrhythmia
my resting heart rate is 90-100 lately and i dont know the reason? maybe stress? im 19 y/o female and this scares me. should i be worried?
heart resting rate of 90-100 per minute may be "normal" for less physically active people if having been able to conduct personal & occupational chores and tasks at a reasonable pace without short of breath. so you may consult doc to assess your general physical fitness ability and lifestyle as well as to ensure you're free of anxiety insomnia overactive thyroid drug misuse etc. best wish.
my resting heart rate is 90-100 lately and i dont know the reason? maybe stress? im 19 y/o female and this scares me. should i be worried?
hr can range from 60-100 in the normal range. if however your hr is normally lower and now is elevated this can be due to several reasons including increase in stress anxiety increase in caffeine intake or cocoa intake. if you have any symptoms of palpitations chest pain or shortness of breath you should be evaluated.
scared about my heart normal ekgs echo stress test chest xray and blood work normal? should i have any reason to fear? high anxiety? !
your cardiac risk is low. get help for your anxiety so you can enjoy life.
scared about my heart normal ekgs echo stress test chest xray and blood work normal? should i have any reason to fear? high anxiety? !
control you anxiety and talk to your pcp for further evaluation and treatment.
should i be scared of sca? ! normal ekgs normal echo shows normal function normal stress test normal blood work overall. high anxiety? !
sounds like your anxiety may be the culprit in any episode of chest discomfort shortness of breath and rapid pulse. discuss this with your doctor and consider therapy to control the anxiety.
should i be scared of sca? ! normal ekgs normal echo shows normal function normal stress test normal blood work overall. high anxiety? !
if you have no family or personal history of sudden cardiac arrest and all your testing has been normal risk of sca would be very low.
somtym my heart beats fast like when we become scared of sth without any reason& i feel whenever my heart beats like this sth bad happens in my lyf.
unfortunately you did not ask a question. it surely sounds like you are experiencing a panic or anxiety disorder and your symptoms are classic for this.
should i try beta blockers for anxiety/migraines?
beta blockers prevent the activation of the sympathetic nervous system thus preventing anxiety symptoms like racing heart and clammy hands. this in turn prevents anxiety feedback to the brain. however beta blockers are best used situationally rather than in an ongoing way. for more systemic pharmaceutical treatment you can use ssris or benzodiazapines. best of all is good talk therapy.
started lexapro (escitalopram) 10 seven days ago now i have a bitter taste in my mouth also i can feel my heart beat as if my heart was outside my body as if scared?
one of the side effects of lexapro (escitalopram) is anxiety which seems to be what is happening to you. the side effects may happen within he first week after taking it. if the symptoms continue stop the medication and go back to your prescriber who may consider other antidepressants.
sometimes i wake up during the night and have a panic attack that really makes my heart thump. how can i control this? already on meds.
links. god bless u! <link> mind. org. uk/information-support/types-of-mental-health-problems/anxiety-and-panic-attacks/ <link> <link>
shortness of breath for weeks. help. ekg fine blood test fine. very low vitamin d. x ray fine. tense shoulders/traps /upper chest. <negative_smiley>?
do you feel short of breath only with exertion? if so pulmonary function tests should be done. if your shortness of breath is only at rest tension or anxiety may be the cause.
should people with history of heart palpitations take azithromycin? im taking it and had heart palpitations. i've had history of anxiety.
your doctor should know your history so he/she can prescribe therapy appropriate for your situation. azithromycin is ok for most patients with benign palpitations. there are some people who might have problems with the drug and prescribing doctors should be able to judge who they are.
should i be worried? heart palpitations all the time?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
shoulder pain from anxiety? normal ekg chest xray and labs. occasional rise in bp due to anxiety (130/100). otherwise 120/80 and below
if the shoulder discomfort is worse with motions there could be a chronic tendonitis or rotator cuff problem. anxiety shouldn't have any effect. try applying local heat and liniment and if you can take them antiinflammatories such as aleve (naproxen) or ibuprofen may help. if no results get a shoulder exam by an orthopedic surgeon.
sometime i wake up panicked with fast palpitations & feeling anxious. no sudden loud noise or nightmares trigger it out of the blue. is this sinister?
waking up panicky and anxious with no known trigger is not sinister. this is likely related to anxiety. . consulting with a psychologist or psychiatrist would be recommended to further explore this concern and find ways to alleviate this matter.
should i be worried? heart palpitations funny feeling in the chest?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
sporadic shortness of breath for a month. had a chest xray 2 ekg ct and nothing was found. what could it be?
talk to your doctor and consider causes of sporadic sob at your age. have a lung test done and also consider reflux allergies like reactive airways and you're the only who can say if it is from anxiety.
should i be worried? heart palpitations after donating blood?
after donating blood some people do feel palpitations due to hypovolemia induced tachycardia or anxiety. if you have recurrent episodes then you need further work-up. otherwise no need to worry.
what could be causing slight shortness of breath/breathing deeply and increased heart rate in a teenage girl?
heavy or long periods reduce number of red blood cells (which carry oxygen) causing heart to speed up to get them from the lungs to tissue to deposit oxygen. in a single day red blood cells can travel 12 000 miles. blood clot in lung must also be considered. as should fluid around the heart (pericardial effusion) anxiety and deconditioning/obesity to name a few. get medical evaluation asap.
when i'm in public my bp will shoot up and sometimes i feel faint. does this sound like brugada or long qt? i've got a long history of anxiety.
brandon sorry to to hear you continue to struggle. in addition to the psychiatric treatment have you considered counseling? assistance from a cognitive behavioral therapist would begin a process of lasting change. medication is extremely important when indicated but counseling can bring hope.
when i'm in public my bp will shoot up and sometimes i feel faint. does this sound like brugada or long qt? i've got a long history of anxiety.
long qt and brugada syndrome are channelopathies which are congenital defects in the electrical firing of the heart muscle base on sodium and potassium channels. this has norelationship to blood pressure or anxiety
what would cause pvcs only when laying on my stomach? or if i bend over to grab something? it seems certain positions make them worse.
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified. it sounds like you've had a good workup and don't need to worry.
what is thebest method to balance autonomicnervous system(sympathetic hypertonia due to chronic stress formany years)? symptoms:anxiety tachycardia.
lowdose beta block may work. might start w metoprolol succinate (not tartrate) at 25mgs/d. physiology: neg feedback is if u go off equilib u come back. positive fb is if u go off equil u go further off. tachycardia frm sympath nerves due to anxiety tends to be positive: u feel worse& increa sympa output. with beta block (cachan blk if beta counterind) can keep sympath system at bay.
while taking lexapro (escitalopram) 10mg for anxiety disorder can i take flunarizine 5 mg at once when having migraine? can lexapro (escitalopram) itself prevent me from migraine?
once a diagnosis of migraine has been made effective management of migraine involves three specific strategies: 1) patient education 2) nonpharmacological management and 3) pharmacological (medical) management. see an orofacial pain or headache specialist for evaluation and professional management. lexapro (escitalopram) is helpful for migraine prevention.
while taking lexapro (escitalopram) 10mg for anxiety disorder can i take flunarizine 5 mg at once when having migraine? can lexapro (escitalopram) itself prevent me from migraine?
ssris e like lexapro (escitalopram) can and in some people help decrease the frequency of migraines
why am i having skipped beats everyday no matter what i'm doing? had 24hr mon showed 1 pvc so cardiologist says it's ok but now i'm getting more?
27 year old woman experiencing ectopic heartbeats. limit caffeine and tobacco use. with your history of anxiety one would typically venture to say-anxiety. however a stress test/echo/12-lead ekg are reasonable steps to see how your heart performs. always include your medications and medical history for your physicians. <link>
hi im an 18 year old female and i have been having chest pains on my left side for about 3 days now. is it gas? i told my dad thats wat he said.
not enough info to answer your question. chest pain can be due to heart issues lung problems musculoskeletal problems even anxiety. the type of pain location in the chest severity aggravating and releiving factors timing and associated symptoms all provide critical clues to determining the cause and treatment.
hi i am 27 years old and was just recently diagnosed with pvc. i am currently on lopressor. i take 25mg bid. it has helped with my symptoms of shortness of breath and chest pains but i still experience the "flip flops" sensation in my chest from time to
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. and ask if there is a reason for yours
i have sinus tachycardia what treatment options are out there? what is sinus tachycardia? could this been caused by reaction to mobic?
means your normal heart beat is faster than 100 bpm. this can be normal as the range of normal is 40 to 120. it is unlikely to be caused by mobic however pain can cause the heart rate to increase so the reason you are taking mobic might be the reason you are tachycardic. treatment is to address the cause not the rate. fever dehydration anxiety anemia pain can all cause this.
i feel like my heart may try to beat faster to send more blood through my system making me feel like heart is racing. causing palpitations heart pounding. scared and nervous. feel like i have to push it to keep it beating?
it's important to note your actual heart rate(taking your pulse) when you feel palpitations to see whether your heart rate is truly abnormally fast at those times. anxiety can make your heart beat forceably giving the sensation of being abnormally rapid. if indeed you have bouts of inappropriate rapid heart rates(over 100/min) at rest then an evaluation by your physician with testing is needed
i am having very little pain in stomach and heart area. it seems to me that i am uncomfortable at times. i think a lot about heart attacks too. help?
these symptoms may be due to chronic stress and anxiety. if you're overly concerned about your heart have a thorough noninvasive cardiac assessment including a treadmill stress test. when these tests come back perfectly normal you will have peace of mind. this will go a great way toward resolving your symptoms. stress management therapy can also be effective. discuss this with your physician.
i'm having an ep study for ventricular tachycardia with possible icd implant. i also have crohn's disease. how worried should i be about the procedure?
question repeatedly in this forum over the last few weeks. you have been told repeatedly by many different health care providers that there is no additional risk associated with your conditions. in addition in qualified hands the procedures are low risk as well. relax! consider obtaining psychologic counseling to help you deal with your anxiety.
i got fast heart beat or heart rate without exercising my heart rate is 106 is that normal for my age at 21 can fear cause heart problems?
that heart rate is high for a resting heart rate. anxiety can sometimes contribute to an elevation in baseline heart rate. i would schedule an appointment with a primary care doctor for a medical checkup that would be a good place to start.
is a heart of 115-125 after meals normal. im 5ft 10 185lbs resting hr around 90 bpm. the high hr last about 2 hrs after eating. i do have anxiety?
any physical activity consumption of drinks food stress anxiety lack of sleep etc can cause heart rate to increase. if it is persistent there might be other causes to it not just food or anxiety like hormonal issues not excluding thyroid problem. if persists- good idea to see a doctor
i am 10 weeks preg. i have strong palpitations shortness of breath shivering and dizzy all day i need mg oxide every test turned out normal! 3rd?
if your tests all turned out normal why do you need mag. oxide? if not anemic i would wonder about anxiety or heart problems causing the symptoms.
i was prescribed aerius and amoxicillin (rapiclav) for sinus & i felt worse. anxiety hbp palpitations sleeplessness. do both meds conflict?
neither drug by itself or in combination is expected to cause your symptoms. you should talk to your doctor to see if there are substitutes just in case you are the rare individual who gets unusual side effects from these drugs. i suspect that your problems are from some other conditions.
my pulse is almost always at 115. even at a resting state. i do have major anxiety. i don't take anything for anxiety but is that normal?
115 is high for resting. it could be anxiety but see you md to check for regular rhytym thyroid labs and an ekg run.
my pulse is almost always at 115. even at a resting state. i do have major anxiety. i don't take anything for anxiety but is that normal?
lower especially at rest. go to your md for an eval. anxiety will raise pulse rates across the board because of the constant infusion of adrenaline into the bloodstream. adrenaline is the body's own version of speed only not addicting because your body made it. but it is designed to keep you more alert and tachycardia is one of 33 symptoms of such a state.
my heart has felt like its pounding for days now. stressed overthinking and having to constantly go. is my heart rate racing going to hurt me?
sounds like an anxiety attack check with your doctor to see if more diagnosis and perhaps therapy are indicated.
my normal heart rate even during the day is 50-77 but when eating ice cream 84-100 what could this mean? is it bad? i also have anxiety disorder!
stop checking your heart rate just enjoy the ice cream! watch calorie intake so that you don't become obese.
many doctors i consult have diagnosed me with anxiety disorder my symptoms are life crashing stressful and feels close to death is this dangerous? i also av an irregular heartbeat help me please.
you need to work with a good therapist. consider cognitive behavioral therapy. take care.
many doctors i consult have diagnosed me with anxiety disorder my symptoms are life crashing stressful and feels close to death is this dangerous? i also av an irregular heartbeat help me please.
consult your pcp to check for the source of your irregular heart beats and to refer you to a mental health professional for cognitive therapy to treat your anxiety.
many doctors i consult have diagnosed me with anxiety disorder my symptoms are life crashing stressful and feels close to death is this dangerous? i also av an irregular heartbeat help me please.
attention to your heart and then to the panic attack sx's. treating either would help the other so you'll need to consult with both a cardiologist and psychologist. here's the psychology part: <link> learn to practice daily calming skills--yoga meditation healthy eating mindfulness. go to groups that support sane living.
many doctors i consult have diagnosed me with anxiety disorder my symptoms are life crashing stressful and feels close to death is this dangerous? i also av an irregular heartbeat help me please.
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
my 15 yo son has been getting palpitations frequently. along with fatigue & lightheadedness. he cut out caffeine. gets anxiety often. ekg norm. norm?
could be normal but a longer monitoring period such as a holter study an echo cxr and thyroid studies would help to confirm this. all the best.
my heart rate and blood pressure are fine but im having chest pains what could it be? ive had heart tests and they were all normal
if your heart tests are normal at 25 years of age the chest pains are most likely due to anxiety. exercise may actually be the best "treatment " this should be supervised by your physician. and be "graded" with cardiac conditioning the "goal" hope this helps! be well! dr z
my heart rate and blood pressure are fine but im having chest pains what could it be? ive had heart tests and they were all normal
chest pain in the young can be caused by smoking inflammation where ribs join the breast plate in the chest and frequently from anxiety and stress. those are generalities so if persistent see you doctor even though heart tests are normal.
my husband says my heart rate is too high since it rests at about 90-100. is it normal if not how can i fix it? i'm not an excerciser type person i don't have the stamina for it.
may have rapid heartbeats in association with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium and fish oil supplements. low dose beta blockers help control the rate.
my father has had a heart attack blood clot and is waiting to have a aortic dissection surgery. can a heart rate of 130 temporarily be bad?
that's the least of his worries right now. more mumbo-jumbo is written about heart rate than about many other things. medications anxiety and human variabilty are all factors i'm glad your dad has you at this difficult time.
my heart beats fast and i feel panicky during every episode. it feels like i'm not in my body. is it panic attacks? i have aspergers and anxiety.
provided there is no physiological reason for your symptoms have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
my heart beats fast and i feel panicky during every episode. it feels like i'm not in my body. is it panic attacks? i have aspergers and anxiety.
sounds like you are having panic attacks. i recommend you speak with your doctor who might consider an anti anxiety medicine or refer your to a psychologist to help deal with these episodes.
my heart beats fast and i feel panicky during every episode. it feels like i'm not in my body. is it panic attacks? i have aspergers and anxiety.
i would recommend checking with your provider. they may screen with an ekg.
my heart has been skipping beats and i have some chest pain as well as panic attacks could this be mitral valve prolapse? i have most of those sympto
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
my doc just prescribed paxil (paroxetine) 20mg and metopropol tartrate 50mg. take one of each daily. is this in any way a dangerous combo of drugs? i am scared! <negative_smiley>
this is an acceptable combination of drugs. however if metoprolol is prescribed specifically for anxiety rather than some medical condition then it is debatable whether it will help (doctors have conflicting views about this. )
my regular heart rate is usually low 50-60 and i wake up feeling drained with a fast heart rate 90-100 what could cause this?
higher than ur normal hr and hence something worrisom. normally hr should be normal or low when u get up. is it u get up early become nervous then it is anxiety. if it is 90 right on waking up it is called abnormal hr variability which is sign of or leads to ht disease and u should see an md. normally we dx this by doing 24 holter monitor but u r already giving abnormal finding.
palpitations on lupron (leuprolide) for fertility treatment. due to med or to low estrogen>6 skipped beats every minute.?
anxiety is common in fertility patients. more concerning is pulmonary embolism ectopic pregnancy or ovarian hyperstimmulation all of which can increase heart rate. it is best to consult with your physician.
panic attack causing borderline high pulse rate?
when you are in the middle of a panic attack there is usually an increase in heart rate. however this increase does not usually continue after the panic attack ends. if you havfe a consistently high or even "borderline high" heart rate it is probably due to something else. one possibility would be a persistent presence of stress and anxiety in addition to specific episodes of panic.
patient came into er because of tachypnea tachycardia profuse sweating and chest pain. which is subjectiv?
no objective documentation of these symptoms? . . would consider ecg checking for intermittent cardiac arrhythmias via holter hyperthyroidism with blood test and pheochromocytoma with 24hr urine test. if all negative could be anxiety attacks?
pain in chest mostly left side. pain can be dull or sharp. rapid heartbeat. pain in left arm neck and shoulder. my dr gave me buspar (buspirone) for anxierty.?
before you ate assigned a diagnosis of anxiety get a thorough physical and blood work.
palpitations. husband was laying on my chest and said he thinks i have and irregular hbeat. i do have bad anxiety at times can that cause my problem?
yes it can but it is better to be seen by u pcp for evaluation and work up.
pain in chest mostly left side. pain can be dull or sharp. rapid heartbeat. pain in left arm neck and shoulder. my dr gave me buspar (buspirone) for anxiety?
in fact the diagnostic tools in your cardiologists' offices are inaccurate. they produce too many false positive and some fakes negative results. most importantly they can only detect late stage diseases in an unsatisfactory manner in my view. therefore i alone with my coworkers have created multifunction cardiogram! <link>
pain in chest mostly left side. pain can be dull or sharp. rapid heartbeat. pain in left arm neck and shoulder. my dr gave me buspar (buspirone) for anxiety?
if your doctor has ruled out ischemic heart disease likely is treating anxiety. ask your doc.
palpitations for most of my life that cause anxiety if ekg/echo are normal and dr. says nothing to worry about- why do others state to check further?
try this good luck! <link> m. wikipedia. org/wiki/multifunction_cardiogram.
palpitations for most of my life that cause anxiety if ekg/echo are normal and dr. says nothing to worry about- why do others state to check further?
i assume the ekg and echo cardiogram were done under the supervision of a cardiologist if not they should be. anxiety is well known to cause palpitations the way you stated it was reverse: palpitations cause of anxiety. i think the former explanation is probable. if a generalist physician said check further it is likely because they are not a cardiologist. just being "careful".
pains in chest had ekg normal what else could it be?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
severe cardiac anxiety. in treatment. ecg and holter came back ok. new sensation above left breast. felt as if skin was being pulled for 5 sec. anxiety?
it could be anxiety. if your anxiety symptoms are severe enough to justify the medical workup you had then you should definitely be seeing a psychologist for treatment. medication alone (zoloft) is not optimal care. psychotherapy should be part of your treatment plan and should help you address the causes of your anxiety (not just symptoms).
severe cardiac anxiety. woke up w/ 5 second squeezing pain center of chest @ breastline. no other symptoms. cannot reproduce. ecg and holter ok in oct?
always important to first check symptoms with your primary care physician or a cardiologist. if no physical causes for the sensations can be determined you may be experiencing panic attacks and panic like symptoms. if that is the case proceed with a cbt for panic disorder ( including interoceptive exposure ).
should i worry if i'm constantly having an increase in heart rate and chest pain? could it be deadly or will i be fine.
may have rapid heartbeats in association with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
strong heart fluttering on right and left side of left breast. happens off and on about every other day or so been going on for awhile and i'm only 35?
this may be from anxiety or from a cardiac problem. although at your age the latter is less likely you should still need to get this checked out to make sure that it is not something more serious.
scared to be alone or drive alone because i think i will have a stroke heart attack pulmonary embolism etc. i have anxiety every day. help me please?
form of an anxiety disorder. a mental health professional can help you manage your fears. claire weekes book "hope and help for your nerves" is an oldie can be helpful. peace be with you as you make progress.
shoulder and back pain left side for over a week. heart rate near 100 most of yesterday. palpitations no shortness of breath or arrhythmia. worried?
i suggest having a visit to evaluate your symptoms of shoulder and back pain. it is possible that the pain is muscular and is causing anxiety with a rapid heart rate. however if you have heart inflammation such as pericarditis lung inflammation or hyperthyroidism you could have these same symptoms. the only way to evaluate is to be seen.
sporadic chest pain feels heavy sometimes to shoulder and back. very short of breath suddenly and pounding rapid pulse. no heart att no anxiety?
as described i would assure you have no heart issues first and foremost and if your ekg is normal then you may need a follow-up stress test for more information. anxiety is not always so "cut and dry" so there still may be that possibility too. keep following up with your dr. until you get an answer. best wishes.
should i be scared if my heart rate is 100 during the day and 59-55 at night right before closing my eyes? i have health anxiety and ocd. ekg?
you have a clear cut case of normality.
should i be scared if my heart rate is 100 during the day and 59-55 at night right before closing my eyes? i have health anxiety and ocd. ekg?
do not worry. this all seems to be due to your anxiety which is relieved by sleeping. not a bad a idea to check your thyroid and ekg? well only after someone has examined you well
shoulder pain jaw pain left arm pain pain in heart palpitations on and off allday. can't be caused by anxiety/stress- even when relaxed? surely?
it is imperative that you get to the er to rule out a heart episode.
was standing and suddenly had tightness in chest heart felt like it was pounding and nausea with sweaty palms and hands and a cough and gagging?
more info is required in order to advise appropriately. symptoms like this in female in 30s could be related to anxiety asthma infection etc. however with recent onset of chest pain in people that are potentially unstable based on history family history appearance or vital signs should be immediately evaluated in an emergency dept. in stable pt a consult would help to determine next steps.
what are the sure symptoms of heart attack? how long does it last for?
typically some form of chest discomfort often accompanied by breathlessness sweat nausea palpitations a sense of impending doom anxiety with radiation of discomfort to various areas in the svc distribution;but some or all of these may or may not be present in the majority of presentations. a large minority up to 20=40% present with very atypical symptoms inc. painless
worried about everything since finding i have small pfo and asa. my bp is low a lot like around 95/70 and i get heart palps/skipped beats concerning?
follow up is warranted don't miss appointments tell your doctor of your concerns probably just anxiety good luck
would sinus issues cause disorientation and feel like the floor is closer than it is or looks like the floor is curved? making me nervous heart race
can cause visual problems. please see your doctor and get diagnosed and treated. all of this can lead to anxiety. peace and good health.
was taken into coronary care with chest pains i had 4 11hrs was monitored told unlikely to be my heart still hav chest pain that comes & goes any idea?
and cardiac conditions ruled out suggest anxiety i. e. tight muscles in chest. stay w/your doctor but consider learning stress management from a mental health professional. peace and good health.
what causes pain between lower breasts? is that still considered chest pain?
between the lower breast is the lower 1/3 of the sternum and the xiphoid process. pain in this area can be from the stomach - gastritis acid reflux. it can be from bone/cartilage - costochondritis (which can be caused by injury and even stress/anxiety). this one isn't dangerous but can be painful. is the pain worse when you breath deep? does it hurt to press in that area?
what causes ddimer levels to be elevated? ct was neg. for pe. no leg pain or swelling. chest pain. dr diagnosed as anxiety/panic attack.
go to this website it has the most information about elevated d dimer without pe or dvt's. <link> here are a few reasons: several factors to be highly associated with positive d-dimer results. this study has several advantages over previous studies; with our large sample size we were able to adjust for a large number of covariates. this provides a more accurate estimate of the risk of a positive d-dimer even for factors previously known to be associated with positive results. in addition we were able to identify several factors not previously known to be associated with positive d-dimer results and describe the association of subcategories of malignancy surgery connective tissue disease lung disease and pregnancy
while i'm sleeping my heart rate speeds up and have me feeling like i'm about to fall out of bed. am i having anxieties?
try to take your pulse in your wrist or in your neck. see count the number of beats in 1 minute. normal is <100 beats per minute. it gets higher when you exercise or move around but when lying in bed it should be <100. if short of breath dizzy see your doctor today. if the pulse is normal then it may be anxiety and you'll want to see your doctor for that too. avoid caffeine cigs sudafed.
when looking at ekg can a doctor tell the difference between fast heart rate due to anxiety and fast rate due to vtach afib and other heart issues?
for the rhythm issues you listed one can easily tell by 12 lead ecg. they are other abnormal rhythms that are more difficult to discern.
what causes sudden rise in bp? i've had massive heart att and chf. taking my bp meds as normal. did this way before heart attack. causes?
sudden rise in bp can come from anxiety anger being startled caffeine from any source difficulty breathing as part of the waking up process good excitement. bp is always dynamic and never static. avoidance of as many of above mentioned items is helpful but not always practical. this needs to be addressed by the cardiologist. 24 hour blood pressure monitoring would be helpful.
hr pound & face sting while gaming when done i shake a lil & calms. also doing anything that increase hr like stairs. anxiety&adrenaline sensitive?
b"sd does not make sense at your age - or any age - sounds like something could be wrong - even an adrenaline producing tumor - pheochromocytoma. you need to have this evaluated - including special testing for hormonal evaluation. may also need to evaluate for heart related problems
hi i keep having daily ectopics when i laugh i get one. feel like my hearts sensitive i also suffer palpitations in mornings and hard beats?
few extra beats are normal in all persons. but if it more frequent and bothersome it should be evaluated properly. it can be due to simple anxiety or thyroid disorder or from cardiac origin it self. so see a md and get proper evaluation
heart feels like it's pounding. ekg blood stress test are normal. felt it in er but heart rate was 88. doc said heart rhythm was steady. what is it?
from what you provide it appears to be sinus rhythm which is normal. if the ekg was normal then nothing to worry about for now. could be anxiety. if it continues you may need to wear an event recorder to see if something is being missed during your visit.
hello can anxiety cause palpitations that last all day non stop? reply with yes or no please all i ask for is yes or no
yes
hello can anxiety cause palpitations that last all day non stop? yes or no? all i'm asking for is a yes or a no
reference: <link>
had squeezing in chest and trouble catching breath bending over. hr 170. went to er. ekg troponin and blood normal. hr still high. should i go back?
in your age range two common diagnoses are anxiety attacks and a transient arrhythmia disorder. if you are concerned you should definitely go to the er you also may benefit from a holter monitor (24 hour heart rhythm monitoring) which can be done by a cardiologist.
have tightness and pressure on left side of chest gets worse when driving and feel out of breath sometimes get pvcs have digestion problems?
your symptoms all could be from the gi tract itself may be associated anxiety. you need thorough history and physical to address your problems. you may have asthma anxiety any gi problem or really heart related which should be considered in the diffreential
how can i safely lower bp is 125's/85's. ambient heart rate is between 100-80. i am 27yo female 5'3 200lbs. i also suffer from anxiety and panic att.
you need to begin mild exercise walking at a comfortable pace outside or on a treadmill. try walking with a friend outside on a sunny day. your bmi is 35. 4 which is unhealthy. begin with 15 min. then gradually work up to 30 min. at least 3x/wk. this will help you lose weight gradually and will also help with your depression and panic attacks. talk with your doctor about the dash diet.
how fast is too fast for a heart rate while exercising for someone with tachycardia? assuming non-smoker and no alcohol or drugs and otherwise healthy female in late teens to early twenties. tachycardia started a week ago with no identified cause.
for age 19 normal heart rate is 60 -100 beats/min. exercise and anxiety can cause tachycardia. tachycardia starting a week ago at age 19 is likely due to sudden stress such as fright with feeling of being overwhelmed or anxiety. see physician for possible diagnosis of fever hyperthyroidism anemia b. p. medications effect or heart condition. see psychiatrist for stress anxiety relaxation
how do i lower my heart rate during an anxiety attack?
i understand your distress of anxiety attack. anxiety can increase heart rate which can cause more anxiety. focus on wonder of 3 million air sacs in your lungs due to which you have been alive and functioning. speak-breath is life! take a deep breath feel the wonder of lungs hold the breath and keep saying; breath is life! feel relaxation repeat feel peace do not focus on heart.
i'm a 38 yr old male that recently started feeling my heart beat in my chest and ringing in my ear. my blood pressure is normal. what could it be?
it can be a variety of things including anxiety increased thyroid hormone level or irregularities of the heart. a physician should evaluate you with more questioning blood tests and an ekg
i have rapid heart beats and my body shakes when i lie down my blood pressure is normal 120/86 and my doctor prescribed blood pressure med my age 28?
i would like to know your exact heart rate(pulse) when you feel that it's rapid. if you or a reliable observer can't determine it accurately then i recommend that you wear a portable heart monitor(holter) for 24-48 hours and write down when you have symptoms. frequently we find no abnormally rapid rate(over90) when the patient feels it's rapid. this is often seen in anxiety states. discuss with
i went to a party & the dj loud music with strong bass caused strong hearbeating & chest pain. i felt sick & nauseous. can loud music harm my heart?
frequencies and volumes that can be detrimental if focused on the chest cavity or heart. it is unlikely this could happen in a recreational setting. anxiety could contribute to your symptoms. just avoid the situations in the future if you can.
i have periodic pvcs my cardiologist prescribed 25mg metoprol as needed. i also peridiodically take. 25 mg xanax and just began 10 mglexapro any issues?
metoprolol is usually safe with these other meds and may have a nice secondary effect of decreasing anxiety
i've never liked taking medicines and being on this two month course is making me anxious. is symbicort safe? ps i suffer from anxiety+ palpitations
symbicort is safe esp during a "short" 2 mo course (some ppl are in it for much longer) what is the lung condition you are treating? however in terms of mood/anxiety steroids (in symbicort) are notable for exacerbating anxiety and mood symptoms. check out halo therapy for respiratory issues?
i had a migraine in class then chest pains & it felt like someone was squeezing my heart. i was dizzy & light headed. what happened?
it might have all been related to the migraine. also there could have been some elements of an anxiety attack that would have been similar. if this is not typical of your migraines then go see your doctor.
i'm taking propranolol 5ml plus 2. 5ml twice day everyday for anxiety aswell as i take ranitidine for acid reflux twice a day everyday for the past few weeks are these medications ok to take together?
that is a common combination
i have mobitz type 1 and anxiety. i got root canal treatment coming up i'm so scared my heart have a reaction to the numb injection. will i be okay?
will be ok.
i have mobitz type 1 and anxiety. i got root canal treatment coming up i'm so scared my heart have a reaction to the numb injection. will i be okay?
make sure to completely fill out health history form recording all medical conditions and all medications. your dentist or specialist endodontist can then choose the appropriate local anesthetic for your personal circumstances.
i have mobitz type 1 and anxiety. i got root canal treatment coming up i'm so scared my heart have a reaction to the numb injection. will i be okay?
perfectly fine. in fact if they use numbing medicine with epinephrine in it your heart will be racing rather than going slow or blocking. the real question is why a 26 year old should need a root canal!
i have mobitz type 1 and anxiety. i got root canal treatment coming up i'm so scared my heart have a reaction to the numb injection. will i be okay?
for you to know that the problem is mobitz type 1 you probably had a thorough evaluation with a cardiologist. i am assuming that mobitz type i is correct and that you don't have a long qt on your ecg. if you do not know these for sure you need to see your cardiologist to be sure. you should have your dentist avoid using lidocaine since it can interact with mobitz 2 (not 1) patients.
is drinking caffeine daily bad for you? in the form of energy drinks tea coffee and sodas?
how much you are drinking. if you are bothered by restlessness anxiety difficulty sleeping your caffeine intake may be too high. caffeine can also irritate the stomach and bladder. here are a couple of articles about caffeine caffeine content for coffee tea soda and more <link> caffeine chart <link>
i have 10mg propranolol tablets. can i take 2 of those instead of 1? because it doesn't seem to be working. it was prescribed for anxiety.
propranolol may not be working may be underdosed or may not be appropriate. in all cases relay your concern to the prescribing doctor before changing the dose. while some people take 20 mg at a time you also run the risk of low bp & a slow heart rate both of which can be harmful. how long have you been taking propranolol? the anti-anxiety effects take time to build up. use healthtap prime.
in bed last night heart rate increased and stayed that way for an hour or so average 95 bpm resting. woke this morning with migraine related?
pain can cause heart rate to increase. increased heart rate can be due to fever heart related issues anxiety etc. examination and exg would be recommended please consult your family doctor.
my bp is 122/68 and pulse rate is 95. is this normal?
bp is fine pulse is a little high could be dehydration heat exercise stress anxiety pain. would hydrate relax and repeat. note pulse and bp change second to second so would not worry some people have baseline higher pulse occasionally high pulse is due to thyroid issues very very rarely clot in lung if associated breathless and chest pain f/u with doc check thyroid d-dimer
my heart starts racing randomly for some reason. i don't have any chest pain or anything but my heart is racing. i'm not sure what it's from?
could be due to many things: anxiety and stress; true heart rhythm abnormality; overactive thyroid among many others. tests i would do would be a thorough history and physical examination an echocardiogram (ultrasound of the heart) routine ekg blood work including a tsh to measure thyroid function and a 24 ekg holter monitor. that combination is more than likely to yield a diagnosis.
my ecg says "normal variant of ecg" and sinus tachycardia. what does this mean?
it means that your heart rhythm is normal (sinus) but the rate is >100 (tachycardia). this is caused by non-cardiac issues like stress anxiety pain fever anemia (you mention menstruation) etc. "normal variant" means that you're normal but we wouldn't choose your ekg to illustrate a medical textbook for students learning ekgs. be well.
my heart doctor thinks j have dysautonomia. i am 27. i am so scared it will kill me i can't function. scared of heart attack. holter recorded a pvc.
get all your questions answered by the doctor who knows you and your information. hopefully you can be reassured and have your anxiety alleviated.
my heart rate jumps from 60-100 bpm for no reason. my ekg blood pressure and heart scans were normal. what's causing my heart to race?
you say "for no reason" but no doubt there is a reason. it just hasn't been discovered yet. heart rate picks up in response to increased metabolic demand - stress anxiety fever caffeine nicotine pain. there may be internal factors you're not aware of: indigestion gall bladder infection; a search for all the causes can be exhaustive. meanwhile a heart rate of 100 is not harmful.
my heart rate is really good when waking up and throughout the night 60-70 but throughout the day it stays near 105-110. should i be concerned?
yes you should be concerned. sounds like from things like mental stress anxiety panic attack etc but could be from anything else. if it is related to pathological problems like hyperthyrodism heart rate would be high even during sleep. high heart rate for long time is a problem regardless of any cause as it cause heart failure from tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy. i would do further testing
my bloodtest showed my potassium chloride level was 3. 2. is it causing my heart palpitations? ekg was fine. racing heart causing anxiety and insomnia.
levels can be bad for arrhythmia of the heart with low levels liable to cause more rhythm problems and issues with muscle spasms. at that level k 3. 2 it should not be too bad. eat more bananas and drink more pineapple juice.
my hr is normal but i feel like it is racing. what does this mean. anxiety? i have mvp w/ regurg. please help. i cant get into cardio drtil end oct
i feel empathy for your distress. i understand your anxiety about mitral valve prolapse with regurgitation and need to see cardiologist. omeprazole may cause anxiety increased heart rate and constipation. “my hr is normal but i feel like it is racing” indicates anxiety. go to urgent care or e. r. for diagnosis and treatment. see a psychiatrist for therapy. relaxation visual imagery meditation
my hr is normal but i feel like it is racing. what does this mean. anxiety? i have mvp w/ regurg. please help. i cant get into cardio drtil end oct
this is common with mvp but you can take your pulse when this happens and write it down to tell your physician what it is when you have the rapid feeling. this will help them access your symptoms
my resting hr is 98-120 and gets faster when i stand up and i sweat more than usual. this all started when i woke up this morning. what could i have?
i don't anything about you so this may not apply but typical causes are: dehydration fever thyroid excess anxiety caffeine nicotine alcohol withdrawal pain from any source anemia infection. do any of those apply to you?
my father 72 diagnosed af after a big stroke. i get heart fluttering regularly. should i get checked? in the uk its hard to get referrals from the gp!
first is about the atrial fib in the father. atrial fib is a risk for stroke that is reducible with various blood thinners. then. mostly it wouldn't be hereditary. a holter monitor would determine if there is a serious arrhythmia. its useful mainly when tehre isn't a problem to be a first step in counseling anxiety treatment.
palpitations sob chest pressure for months. xray stress test echo ekg holtr monitor all clear. is this anxiety or something else? seen by cardi& gp
if cardiac & metabolic abnormalities were ruled out possible anxiety.
palpitations sob chest pressure for months. xray stresstest echo ekg holtr monit all clear. is this anxiety or something else? seen by cardi and gp
most likely anxiety. find psychologist to teach your stress relaxation technics.
palpitations nervousness weight loss after 1 year giving birth?
up to 20% of women develop a clinically significant mood or anxiety illness during pregnancy or up to one year after the birth. this continued risk up to 1 year postpartum appears to be related to the activation of genetic risks that occurs when estrogen drops significantly birth. you may contact me if there are no perinatal psychologists or reproductive psychiatrists near you.
palpitation for years. 24hr holter fine. still get pvc's. skipped beat followed by long pause feeling no pain but discomfit after. is this common?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
please help chest pain overnight and all day im getting nervous over it is it vascular? i reel like having heart attack. normal 2decho ecg stress test
thing by excluding the serious condition that can endanger your life. the next step is to exclude other non cardiac causes of chest pain including acid reflux disease and anxiety disorder like panic attack. talk to your pcp and he may help you or refer you to psychiatrist. good luck.
please help. everytime i have my period my anxiety and panic attack gets worse is it normal? having normal 2decho ecg and stress test to not be alarmed
i'm glad you've got a healthy heart as your test results show. your anxiety may be part of premenstrual syndrome. core symptoms of pms include affective symptoms like depression angry outbursts irritability and anxiety plus body symptoms like breast pain bloating and swelling & headache. exercise; avoid sugar salt & caffeine; consistent sleep; may need magnesium; possibly ssri.
please help. everytime i have my period my anxiety and panic attack gets worse is it normal? having normal 2decho ecg and stress test to not be alarmed
recommend you see your doctor for treatment of pmdd (premenstrual dysphoric disorder).
please help a sudden intense of fear everytime i wake in the nyt chest pain worries tingling in my feet is it still anxiety? normal 2decho ecg stress t
your symptoms would be alarming for most people and i'm glad you've had a cardiac workup that's turned out normal. good for you. your symptoms are also very common in panic disorder -- including waking in the night with panic attacks. a psychiatrist should be able to help you with these attacks and i see you're also in "behavior therapy. " the two can work well together for you.
pressure in my sternum and feel like i need to throw up. hiatel hernia and anxiety. possible flu. ekg and bloodwork normal.
gastroesophageal reflux. initial treatment is medical management with acid reducers and prokinetic agents. if this is not successful with relieving symptoms or there are cell changes on endoscopy you might even need endoscopic or surgical procedure to correct this problem. ask your gi specialist for specific recommendations.
pressure in my sternum and feel like i need to throw up. hiatel hernia and anxiety. possible flu. ekg and bloodwork normal.
this could easily be anxiety especially from your real condition of hiatal hernia. you've got some significant symptoms especially the back pain which can be many things like a tear in your esophageal-gastric lining or the beginnings of an ulcer or pancreatitis. it would be wise to see your doctor to talk of stress relief diet change and to rule out a serious issue like those mentioned.
please help! i have a palpitation and anxiety how can i get rid of it?
by learning relaxation skills ; learning to modify the thoughts perceptions ; beliefs that trigger your anxiety. learning to calm your body ; your mind is the key. biofeedback helps learn relaxation skills (www. bcia. org ; www. aapb. org). check with md to rule out non-anxiety causes of palpitations.
please help! i have a palpitation and anxiety how can i get rid of it?
your palpitations checked medically? if not - recommend that. breath in slowly ; deeply through your nostrils. fill your lungs with air (but not to the point of discomfort). hold for a count of five then slowly begin to exhale through an open mouth. repeat at least 12 times longer if you need to.
playing w/2 yo. turn him upside down to tickle. i think neck was bent he couldn't breathe. it was10 sec/ lips got blue. happened 1 other time when tickling. has a innocent murmur. echo ekg ok. worry?
innocent heart murmurs are very common. if you had an ekg and cho and all is well do not worry. turning blue can happen with breath holding very easily. however not a very good idea to turn a 2 year old upside down for that long --- risk of injury fear or anxiety. turning blue for a few seconds probably nothing to worry about. if that continues to occur however get it checked out!
please tell me could a 19 year old have a heart attack from anxiety?
anxiety can cause some severe reactions. in a rare situation it is probably possible for anxiety to trigger a real heart attack in a 19 year old. it is much more likely for anxiety to trigger a rapid heart action with symptoms caused from that then an actual myocardial infarction.
since i started having anxiety i started having pvcs and pac's. sum strong. is this normal? i've never had them b4. done echo/stress/ekg/holter.
it is highly likely that your premature heart beats are a direct result of stress hormones released by the body when it is more anxious. consider having your provider also check for thyroid or other metabolic conditions which can cause premature heart beats also.
since i started having anxiety i started having pvcs and pac's. sum strong. is this normal? i've never had them b4. done echo/stress/ekg/holter.
pvc's and apc's are frequently encounter. if your work up shows normal left ventricular function and no vascular or valvular abnormalities and there is no concentric left ventricular hypertrophy these premature contractions don't mean too much.
since i started having anxiety i started having pvcs and pac's. sum strong. is this normal? i've never had them b4. done echo/stress/ekg/holter.
anxiety may cause palpitations cardiac arrhythmia. young females may have mitral valve prolapse thyroid disorder hypertension. further evaluation ekg holter monitoring echocardiogram. it may be benign & require stress testing. if vpc increase on exercise during stress testing should be treated with beta blockers
since i started having anxiety i started having pvcs and pac's. sum strong. is this normal? i've never had them b4. done echo/stress/ekg/holter.
with anxiety adrenaline levels increase which causes extra beats in the heart muscle. it's harmless. one thing to rule out is thyroid hyperactivity which can cause anxiety and extra heart beats. a simple blood test can detect this. if the extra heart beats are very bothersome a low dose of a beta blocker medication can suppress them. but addressing the underlying anxiety is the most important.
since i started having anxiety i started having pvcs and pac's. sum strong. is this normal? i've never had them b4. done echo/stress/ekg/holter.
anxiety does cause cardiac arrhythmias. by the same token treatment will also help your cardiac issues so proceed with therapy
should i get seconds if tests if i am still experiencing symptoms? normekg stress echo holter. age28 no family hist non smoker. move on to next cause?
perhaps get assessed for anxiety. you could start by doing the zung sas scale which you can find online. if it fits then maybe talk with your pcp about a referral to a psychiatrist.
so if chest pain episodes seem to be avoided when i take b blockers may that mean the are related with heart more than with something else?
while heart is the gorilla in the room that must be addressed (got to check it withmd) esophageal spasm and anxiety are also causes of chest pain that can feel better with a beta blocker. address the possibility of a cardiac cause first then if heart is ok evaluate for other possible causes.
severe palps(panic) when waking up. all heart tests normal. please help.
provided and medication use your condition is probably related to mental health issues like panic and anxiety disorder. if you havent had a chance pl consider a re-evaluation from your mental health specialist to review your medication needs or adjustment in dose or other therapy as indicated. quality oi sleep affects how you feel waking up also.
severe palps(panic) when waking up. all heart tests normal. please help.
this is one of the most effective ways to learn how to avoid reduce and manage stress anxiety and panic that there is. if needed - the therapist will rx or refer for medication - but this is possibly enough to avoid side effects w/drawal and other bummers. glad you were tested and cleared - now you can relax. learning good breathing patterns will really help w/ the pains etc.
several skipped beats per minute for days! pcp says it is stress and anxiety. any thoughts? severe cardiac anxiety! stressful life with an ill child.
while your problem may be due to stress drinking too much coffee on colas containing caffeine. also eating too much cholate or drinking power drinks may also be harmful
scared of heart attack shall i go an er or should i go for an angiogram test?
heart attack symptoms can include: chest pressure pain or tightness that can radiate to arms neck jaw or back; nausea shortness of breath sweating lightheadedness dizziness fatigue anxiety or a sense of impending doom. some heart attacks can be silent. seek urgent medical evaluation if you think you may be having a heart attack.
started atenelol on <negative_smiley>22 init on losartan but had palp from anxiety so on atenelol for pressure also. he said it ok to ck pressure once a week agree?
checking your blood pressure once a week is fine. if you have anxiety about your blood pressure then limiting the checks to once a week is probably a good idea.
should i see a doctor about anxiety if i get random chest pressure/pain and heart palpitations from time to time? always think im pregnant even if not
i think you should see pcp. those symptoms can be from anxiety disorder if the clinical scenario fits well but organic causes- including cardiac (heart) - should be excluded first. i would recommend seeing a primary care provider (pcp) specialized in internal medicine/pediatric (according to your age). even if it was confirmed to be anxiety related a better control can be achieved for those sympt
sometimes when i need a bowel movement i feel palpitations cold hands mild dizziness & generally feel strange. relieved soon as i go to toilet. why?
it sounds like you may be experiencing a vagal reaction with bowel movement. this is not an unnatural reaction but it may be exagerated in some individuals. it is not clear if you have any medical or mental health diagnosis but it is more common in females with anxiety disorder. you may benefit by consulting with your doctor for an anticholinergic such as scopolamine if symptoms worsen.
since weening off propranolol 160mg for anxiety/headaches ive suffered with acid reflux. will this stop when ive completly come off propranolol?
propranolol doesn't treat or prevent acid reflux. the issues are unrelated and their timing is coincidental. try one of the many over the counter acid reflux treatments and avoid eating within 2 hours of bedtime even water. keep your meals smallish.
suffering extreme aniexty every time i stand feel sick dizzy like i'm trapped under water heart rate increases should i be worried?
yes this could be related to anxiety. if it only occurs when you stand up it may be related to your blood pressure. are you taking any cardiac meds or blood pressure meds? some medications cause orthostatic hypotension a sudden drop in blood pressure when you stand or sit up from lying down. check with your doctor or pharmacist re your medications. if all ok then consider cbt psychotherapy
sinus rhythm ecg non specific t wave abnormality what does this mean doc said ok but i'm freaking?
t wave changes are very non-specific meaning there is specific cause. they can occur with hyperventilation anxiety drinking hot or cold beverages and positional changes. they should be interpreted keeping the symptoms patient history and physical exam in mind. if you have specific concern seek the advise of a cardiologist.
severe aniexty heart racing breathless chest pain constant hospital trips don't believe i'm ok in state all time gp won't help unspecified t wave abnormality on ecg plz help?
agree with the other doctors in their assessment. address underlying anxiety. from your perspective it begins with a healthy diet aimed at improving brain neurotransmitter function: b vitamin rich foods omega 3 fats folate (folic acid) rich foods eliminate all food coloring and minimize processed foods. daily nuts and seeds regular fish daily greens exercise and meditation and psychotherapy for 6months
severe aniexty heart racing breathless chest pain constant hospital trips don't believe i'm ok in state all time gp won't help unspecified t wave abnormality on ecg plz help?
symptoms of anxiety and you seem to have the most common and biggest ones. do you have a psychiatrist? they do better with these sx's than gp's. a cardiologist is indicated for ekg abnormalities. if anxiety alone is responsible for all this then you need a psychologist. here's a start: <link>
severe aniexty heart racing breathless chest pain constant hospital trips don't believe i'm ok in state all time gp won't help unspecified t wave abnormality on ecg plz help?
like you have a large dose of anxiety going on! suggest you speak about that with your gp and ask for a referral to a mental health professional for some help with this which is treatable and usually with simple measures/medications good luck i hope this helps! dr z
severe aniexty heart racing breathless chest pain constant hospital trips don't believe i'm ok in state all time gp won't help unspecified t wave abnormality on ecg plz help?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
shortness of breath with slight chest pain. normal ekg stress test 02 sat 99% echocardiogram and blood levels. what can it be?
these are common symptoms seen with anxiety. you don't have to have anxiety disorder per say but an event or circumstance that may be causing more stress than usual. sometimes the stress is internalized can manifest with shortness of breath chest pain and rapid heart rate. try some meditation (aka "mindfulness") and see if that helps! also follow your doctor's instructions.
tachycardia sharp heart pain loss of consciousness and paraesthesia (pins and needles sensation).?
although this could represent hyperventilation or an anxiety attack let a trained physician decide don't run he risk of ignoring symptoms that could represent a heart attack.
there a possible way i can lower my pulse fast when in dental chair?
good deep smooth long breaths will actually very effectively lower your pulse. try to be calm and collected. ask questions so you have less anticipation. if needed you can get medication to aid in reducing your anxiety. ask your dentist if you have more concerns.
there a possible way i can lower my pulse fast when in dental chair?
the easiest way to lower the anxiety level in the dental chair is to ask the dentist for a prescription for an anti-anxiety drug. these drugs work wonders for hyper anxious patients.
these palpitations are getting annoying! how can i stop them!? i don't drink caffeine or smoke or eat chocolate. nor do i have anxiety.
you sound very angry and upset. (i am sure you realize that using all caps can be construed as "yelling" online although we here have not caused your problem. ) i suggest you see your primary care physician about your palpitations. it's good you've stopped caffeine & cigarettes etc. hopefully you're not using any other stimulating substances either -- but if you are please don't.
take asa & warfarin have af. when i do get that feeling of impending doom high irreg pulse rate dizzy ha. can high na foods cause it?
many things could be causing your symptoms. . af with rvr anxiety/panic attack. may be reasonable to wear a heart monitor to see if rvr is present then and blood work to ensure thyroid and electrolytes are normal.
tingling in hands face and neck. i had a normal ct and ekg. i have anxiety disorder. what could be causing this?
high anxiety -- and full panic attacks -- may cause hyperventilation which in many people results in tingling symptoms like you're describing. usually these appear in extremities first but can progress to other parts of your body. your doctor is trying to rule out other possible physical causes. please know there are good treatments for anxiety; psychiatrists & therapists can help.
tingling in hands face and neck. i had a normal ct and ekg. i have anxiety disorder. what could be causing this?
you may not be breathing right. hold yourhead up and you might breathe in and out better especially if you have an mri which is very enclosing and possibly scary. have your mom standing by along with your dad if he is available.
trouble sleeping; i can't sleep on my sides as this makes me dizzy and may cause palpitations. i sometimes shiver and get a tight throat. anxiety?
other than evaluation for anxiety also consider sleep study to find out also are you taking any medication or supplement that affect your blood pressure.
these are a few of my symptoms for the last 3 months body rash including itchy skin tachycardia afib flushed hot feeling running through blood muscle aches diarrhea and tenderness below breast bone. what could it be?
than one issue. i'm sure your physician has checked multiple labs including the thyroid and electrolytes. the rash is hard to tie to the afib. diarrhea and body heat. say you have high stress and poor sleep; then menopause sx's. anxiety can affect bowel and cause rashes. no diagnosis high stress. cymbalta (duloxetine) helps anxiety hot flashes pain and a sleep med may help. treat during w/u sum sx may imp.
taking 30 mirtazapine upped from 15 last week. have severe anxiety still w palpitations. can i take klonapin with mirtaz and how much? i have prescription for it. but md not answering my calls
don't add or adjust any meds without the advise of a physician. persistent palpitations in patients on antidepressants require urgent evaluation. seek medical attention.
taking 30 mirtazapine upped from 15 last week. have severe anxiety still w palpitations. can i take klonapin with mirtaz and how much? i have prescription for it. but md not answering my calls
contact md.
tachycardia/thyroid or anxiety? how can i know if the "real" heart beats i average are results from my anxiety or other? (my b/p seems normal)
your doctor can help you with this.
what does it mean when you can duplicate and aggravate your chest pain ( left side) by pressing on your chest or moving around? what about shooting pains under the nipple and towards the middle of the chest that last 2-3 seconds. can it be the heart?
when you can duplicate your pain by pressing on the area or moving around it means the source of the pain is in the musculoskeletal system not the heart. the shooting pains may also be due to the musculoskeletal spasms or could be anxiety related.
why is concor 5 prescribed? i was given it after i went with heart palpatations. is the fast heartbeat due to high bp? i have anxiety issues?
this medication is used for a variety of heart problems as well as high bp. the fast heartbeat is related to heart rate pulse - not exactly the same as pressure - but do ask the doctor for a full explanation in words you'll understand. your druggist may be able to explain some too.
when my heart rate increases i get throbbing pressure throughout my head. the worst of the pain is above my forehead. any ideas?
the answer is in the details. exactly what is the heart rate? there are a variety of diagnoses to be determined by professional evaluation. the most likely explanation is panic attacks/ anxiety.
weird butterly-ish feeling but in my upper chest near heart. normal heart rate just feels very odd. never diagnosed with anxiety not stressed out?
feel good that you are not overwhelmed by this feeling. let wise person within you reflect: •feelings of worry fear hurt resentment confusion •relationships problems with parents siblings and friends •use of alcohol and drugs •your identity •coping skills to deal with difficult situation seeing therapist will benefit you
went to doctor due to middle chest pain in general/swallowing he said esophagitis but bp was 130/95? said bottom number is high why? before 130/80
that your bp was on the high side is not unreasonable given that u may be in pain from esophagitis. many things affect bp including pain incorrect cuff size anxiety etc. therefore one should never panic by 1 reading but rather u ought to monitor your bp. if it is consistently > 120/80 then for starters you ought to make lifestyle changes including but not limited to low salt diet.
went to doctor due to middle chest pain in general/swallowing he said esophagitis but bp was 130/95? said bottom number is high why? before 130/80
anxiety can elevate your blood pressure. other times you discover you actually have hypertension and need treatment. it would be worth your while to purchase a blood pressure cuff and record your pressures at home and show them to your health care provider so you can receive treatment if necessary. this could avoid long term complications of untreated hypertension if it is present.
was under intense stress & emotions to the point where i saw stars & vision went grey. no history of heart issues. ekg was good. possible anxiety?
the symptoms you mention but so can visual and neuro issues. please see your doc to continue to rule out medical conditions. consider seeing a clinical psychologist to lear strategies to manage stress. peace and good health.
why do my superficial temporal artery and the arteries around my neck pulsate fast when lie down on the side of my head? is it a problem with my spine
temporal artery travels near the zygomatic arch the prominent part of the facial bones in your upper cheek. because of being near a firm structure it is easier to see/feel. i doubt that lying down is actually making your heart beat faster but the rapid rate is more observable. stress/anxiety could be causing rapid beating but it dserves a good eval with your doctor. doubt it is your spine.
what can cause random chest pains that come and go?
ida very common cause anxiety is another. muscle strain would be more constant. heart pain usually is more constant usually pressure not all over and in males on the left sided and radiates to the jaw and left arm. if you are worried please get checked out.
when i get hangovers i feel sick all day until 7pm feel very anxious sweaty palpitations. have to stay in bed is this normal?
your life is precious! you deserve energy and satisfaction in life. hangover symptoms lasting until 7 pm next day indicate alcohol dependence. let the wise man within you ask: • reasons to use alcohol • depression anxiety blackouts dui • effect on relationships finances • need to see psychiatrist for alcohol use tolerance addiction • alcohol rehab program aa meetings • therapy for stresses
went to er last night. been dealing anxiety for the past few months. hr 130 ( unusual over 90) and bp 194/89 ( never that high). my chest was pounding so badly ( already have 24/7 after biaxin). ekg x-ray blood stress test ok. is heart or anxiety?
believe in wonder of 3 billion muscle cells in your heart working together to pump blood with oxygen to all parts of body and brain since you were born. and even with hr 130 bp 194/89 and effects of biaxin ekg x-ray blood stress test are normal. high hr and high systolic bp can be due to anxiety. discuss with psychiatrist: •ativan or xanax (alprazolam) for anxiety •therapy for stress •relaxation
went to er last night. been dealing anxiety for the past few months. hr 130 ( unusual over 90) and bp 194/89 ( never that high). my chest was pounding so badly ( already have 24/7 after biaxin). ekg x-ray blood stress test ok. is heart or anxiety?
continue the workup they suggested. full exam medical and surgical history pregnancy status and a review of all your symptoms needed. do you take birth control or smoke? make sure you follow up with your primary and get a holter monitor/zio patch. make sure you don't smoke especially if you take birth control. these boxes are not a medical diagnosis and definitely trust er docs but follow up
went to er last night. been dealing anxiety for the past few months. hr 130 ( unusual over 90) and bp 194/89 ( never that high). my chest was pounding so badly ( already have 24/7 after biaxin). ekg x-ray blood stress test ok. is heart or anxiety?
the diagnosis made by the er is much more reliable than anything anyone can conclude on a distant forum like this one. i suspect they said anxiety not cardiac. if so you can rely on it.
heart flutters after eating food. already have a heart murmur beats more prominent?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. ><link>
hi im a 21 year old and i suffer from depression and anxiety disorders. i recently have been suffering from blackouts but havent been passing out. i f?
you may be having a seriously nasty problem with your eye. if they don't have a maven in neuroophthalmology at u va then they surely must have one at the wilm's eye institute in baltimore. get evaluated at one of those
have extrasystoles everyday constantly. had ekg said normal just need lifestyle change. can anxiety cause constant extra beats? i have severe anxiety.
26 year old lady with a past medical history of anxiety experiencing extrasystolic heartbeats continually. anxiety does cause cardiac symptoms. however there are several risk factors including a personal or family history of arrhythmia family history of sudden death and other cardiac risk factors that determine whether further workup is indicated. get cardiology consult and zio patch/holter mon
have extrasystoles everyday constantly. had ekg said normal just need lifestyle change. can anxiety cause constant extra beats? i have severe anxiety.
yes! anxiety can do it. you might need to have the anxiety under control.
hi. i was prescribed atarax (hydroxyzine) for anxiety. about an hour after taking it my hr shot to 104bpm. i guess it did the opposite? dont take again correct?
104 is slightly fast but not very. our hearts often normally reach such a rate temporarily during the day. typically hydroxyzine doesn't cause an increase in heart rate. but it is not a very powerful medicine for anxiety. if you had anxiety at the time of the 104 heart rate it just may not have been working very well. perhaps some reassurance that a temporary hr of 104 is not serious?
how do you differentiate anxiety disorder from pots/inappropriate sinus tachycardia?
vs. anxiety disorder. first go to a doc to rule out/identify pots and underlying cardiac conditions. then see a mental health professional to learn anxiety management skills. one possibility is clinical hypnosis another is biofeedback. see www. relaxationresponse. org for some self-help too. peace and good health.
how do you know if heart flutters followed by racing heart for a few minutes is due to anxiety?
it can be due to anxiety but can also be due to thyroid disease electrolyte abnormalities or an underlying abnormal heart rhythms so would followup with doc/ cardiologist for ekg. holter echocardiogram.
how can you tell the difference between inappropriate sinus tachycardia and anxiety?
anxiety disorder is very common. inappropriate sinus tachycardia is not. a physician can generally get a pretty good indication by a history and physical exam. sometimes testing is appropriate.
had ekg in emergency room. first one abnormal other two were normal. all other test were normal blood and chest exray. heart rate high can be anxiety?
given the sparse details we are unable to specifically respond; however tachycardia and anxiety are common bedfellows and the one usually leads to the other
have a tightness in chest after eating. ecg and bloodtests clear. i'm active and eat healthy. docs say anxiety but it's been persistent symptom?
or gi issues. please consult a gastroenterologist and obtain liver function studies pancreatic enzymes and testing for h. pylorii.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort. it's not really a pain. i just get a brief tingling feeling near my heart hear and there. i have anxiety.
say without being physically examined. although you never said how often this happens? i would make an appointment with my primary care doctor to determine it's cause.
i can feel an see my pulse in my right wrist i have anxiety is this normal i've never felt this before an i am worried?
when you are anxious or even during normal times it can be perfectly fine to see your vessels pulsating in various areas of your body. the next the inner elbow and the wrist are common areas. some will even feel their pulse in their throat or sides of the head. these symptoms alone are not a cause for concern.
i've got a lightheaded motion swaying type feeling drs says anxiety i'm really worried heart rate feel up will romberg show inner ear off m on for 6yr?
would follow up with ear nose throat doctor ask about tests of vestibular function and vestibular physical therapy. would also check tilt table test ( cardiology) for autonomic dysfunction and pots syndrome if you get a fast heart rate when rising from lying position. may also consider mri or head and testing for lyme which can affect romberg.
i'm a rifle shooter i want to approach the competition in a positive passion heart beats and nerves control any solution for this? thank you!
anxiety. clinical hypnosis and self-hypnosis training can help you focus and stay calm. www. asch. net may have licensed referrals in your area. peace and good health.
i have hard and fast heart beats after standing sitting eating and walking around. it all has started after my first panic attack one year ago.
please start by seeing your doc to rule out/identify medical conditions. then please see a mental health pro such as a clinical psychologist who specializes in mood disorders like panic attacks. heartbeat and breathing are common areas panic and anxiety magnify and your mind has become focused on them. lots of reasons to hope. peace and good health.
i tend to have a lower heart rate (around 5<positive_smiley> because i eat low calorie but i have anxiety. i read ativan can lower heart rate. is it safe to take?
ativan has no direct effect on your heart or your heart rate. it only lowers heart rate by making you calmer. it's entirely safe to take. it's given to people during their heart attacks without adverse consequences.
i feel tightness in my chest along with breathing difficulties. dull chest pain and anxiety problems. i am 20 years old.
you should be checked for asthma. if you have no hx and it's not present when you're examined a provocative test called a "methacholine challenge" can be useful. sometimes anxiety alone will account for your symptoms but asthma should be excluded first as anxiety as a cause is a diagnosis of exclusion.
i feel tightness in my chest along with breathing difficulties. dull chest pain and anxiety problems. i am 20 years old boy. ?
is unlikely that you have cardiac issues unless you have other predisposing health problems or risk factors. with that said it is worth having a health care professional evaluate you so that you will be less anxious about your symptoms and reassured.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort severity: moderate. heart rate 145 per minute bp- 131/80 trouble breathing?
chest pressure chest pain or trouble breathing are signs that she should talk with her doctor right away or go to the e. r. in adults chest pain can be a heart attack. she should not drive herself (safer by ambulance). if it turns out not to be myocarditis heart attack symptoms or anxiety attack symptoms the e. r. will also have checked for problems such as a collapsed lung or a pneumonia.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing) (severity: severe) (side: both left) (time frame: sudden) arm pai.
chest pressure chest pain or trouble breathing are signs that she should talk with her doctor right away or go to the e. r. in adults chest pain can be a heart attack. she should not drive herself (safer by ambulance). if it turns out not to be myocarditis heart attack symptoms or anxiety attack symptoms the e. r. will also have checked for problems such as a collapsed lung or a pneumonia.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing sensation of tearing pain) (worsened by: after sudden movements ben.
chest pain is a sign that she should talk with her doctor; or go to an e. r. if pain is moderate or worse. in young adults chest pain is less likely a heart attack. she should not drive (get a ride or go by ambulance). if it turns out not to be costochondritis myocarditis anxiety attack symptoms or heart attack the er will also have checked for problems like a collapsed lung or a pneumonia.
my doctor prescribed clonazepam for anxiety after i had an episode of afib. the er when i was being treated for afib gave me lorazepam. any issue?
they are both benzodiazepines. the lorazepam is fast acting and is useful for acute relief. there is some immediate relief with initial dosing of clonazepam but can take several weeks with daily dosing for maximal therapeutic benefit.
my dr. prescribed vistaril for anxiety. but he knows i'm already on zoloft (sertraline) which can prolong qt interval too. why would he do this?
hydroxyzine and sertraline don't interact can be taken together different mechanisms of action. sertraline doesn't cause qt prolongation hydroxyzine may affect it but no risk of qt prolongation if taken together wish you wellness
pvcs and sinus tachycardia. feel short of breath and faint and chest pain daily. what can be the cause of sinus tachycardia?
even at 24 i would get your symptoms checked although your risk for heart disease is low i would be suspicious for a pulmonary em-bolus. other possibilities include pneumonia pleurisy mitral valve prolapse anxiety. substance use? decongestants adhd drugs also caffeine: tea coffee soda energy drinks could all be possibilities.
please explain why does my heart beat fast when i'm not even out of breath?
can be many reasons including anemia thyroid problems medication side effects a heart condition anxiety and others. labwork and exam would be very helpful.
please explain why does my heart beat really fast for no reason sometimes?
causes of tachycardia are anxiety panic disorder high blood pressure poor blood supply to the heart muscle due to coronary artery disease (atherosclerosis) heart valve disease heart failure heart muscle disease (cardiomyopathy) tumors or infections other medical conditions such as thyroid disease certain lung diseases electrolyte imbalance and alcohol or drugs.
please help docs! is my heart rate always so high because of my anxiety disorder?
one for you. medical causes would need to be ruled out before assuming that anxiety is the cause. take care.
please advise if it's common for your heart rate and pulse to be normal during anxiety?
it's a spectrum - vital signs may be unaffected by mild anxiety. it would be unusual to find normal vital signs in someone who is "frightened to death".
possible reasons why my heart beat fast - i took vicodin - 3 hours later paxil (paroxetine) and heart started racing?
allergic reaction to vicodin; unrelated coincidental rhythm disturbance of the heart called arrhythmia; anxiety disorder etc. these are nonspecific problems.
please tell me will stress and anxiety cause months long of daily heart flutters in a 19 year old?
need to be ruled out before considering this as the primary cause for these symptoms.
please tell me what should a person with tachycardia do?
it may be related to anemia hypotension thyroid disease coffee intake anxiety smoking stimulants lack of physical fitness obesity nothing at all or be related to other illness. your md will be able to tell the difference.
palpitations from anxiety per doctor. seem to be more severe lately. entire chest seems to flutter. also worse on exhaling after deep breath. normal?
any kind of abnormal heart rate or rhythm should be get evaluated by the doctor asap. get an appointment with your primary care doctor now and have a thorough evaluation.
pain in back of head on right side right at the base of head/neck. worse w alcohol. also right sided facial flushing heart palps and random sob?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
palpitations & sharp left chest pain & random sharp left nipple stabbing pains. pain- 2/3months nipple pain - 1 month. palpitations 4+ years help?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
please my anxiety out of control plus irregular periods palpitations and tingly breasts very low mood. is this perimenopause or stress im 49 50 soon?
you are in perimenopause and you may be stressed too. see your doctor to make sure your blood pressure and your labs are good. the best therapy for anxiety and low mood is exercise!
pvc episodes seem corr. with anxiety &/or going 2 long w/o food. no pvcs in last month. ecg normal. abroad w/o good doc axcs. ok to start exrcsing?
i'm surprised you were told not to exercise in the first place -- the increased vagal tone from being fit may help. many folks have pvc's and the cause is never found -- if there are no more than 5/minute and they don't form runs usually it's a non-concern. the fact that they correlate with hunger & anxiety also says "no great danger". take your life back & enjoy fitness.
past year have had 2 pfts chest xrays head ct 1 ekg 1 eng bloodwork allergy tests. all normal. should i get retested or assume it's anxiety?
i think you have had extensive testing and this has turned out to be negative if there are no other associated symptoms i would not consider nay further testing unless the symptoms worsen or change. you do not mention about lifestyle exercise and weight it would be prudent to get an idea of where these issues lie if you are otherwise in good shape it may be unrelated. would wait and monitor
press on chest wall using thumb feeling pain. tingling hands and legs sometimes. ecg echo blood test done and okay. shortness of breath and dizzy. idea?
your symptoms maybe from stress and anxiety. please see neurologist to rule out neurological problem.
severe anxiety. echocardiogram ekg stress all normal. what's the worst than can come from my palpitations? 18 in good shape. can i have a heart attack?
palpitations are an awareness of extra heartbeats which most of us have. the sensation can be single or multiple and can sometimes last minutes. different people may feel other symptoms along with them such as dizzy lightheaded or short of breath. the palpitations are almost always atrial or ventricular premature beats. usually benign but they are also found with abnormal hearts.
suffer from pvc's every now and then after i experience one i get stomach cramp and need loo straight away any ideas what cause or correlation?
this sounds like a latent gastrointestinal problem that may trigger pvcs. both may also result from anxiety. be sure to follow up with your doctor regarding your irregular heart beat and possible further work - up.
sudden increased heart rate shakiness in hands and pain/tightness in chest?
anxiety hyperthyroidism can be the cause of the symptoms although heart disease can do it also but in a 21 y/o it is unlikely but not impossible
scared of going on birth control because of heart attack side effect and others. anxiety about it killing me. ?
heart attack in 21y/o females is exceedingly rare what are you afraid of?
since 2 weeks night sleep is broken. sleep for an hr & get up. when i get up feel pulse is 92 and palpitation is there. mornings i sleep for 4hrs. help?
hi. i suppose that could be many things including anxiety worry etc but i would at least have your doctor check your tsh and free t4. i hope you get to the bottom of this and get some good sleep!
sometimes when i'm resting my heartbeat starts thumping. not alarmingly fast but hard like i can see my body fat move to the beat. subsides quick tho?
can't tell whether this is from your anxiety or not. however at the minimum you should get some basic cardiac workup and monitoring.
seen 2 heart docs stress echo ekgs are normal 3 monitors all normal. but still have pain shortness of breath dizziness. should i be worried about heart?
if these cardiologists have ruled out heart problems it is likely you are suffering from anxiety. seek a mental health professional.
symtomps :- chronic pain in left soulder smelly farts burps stomach growling bloating fast heart beat chest pain anxiety. what problem is this?
seems like amebiasis. get stool examined take tineba/metronidazol. watch food and drink contamination.
shortness of breath lightheaded for 3minutes left with ache near armpit 24year old female major anxiety sufferer could this be a heart attack?
with your young age and history of anxiety this could be an anxiety attack. very similar to heart attack symptoms
should i be concerned about sporadic heart palpitations?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
sometimes i have hbp and dizziness and i feel like fainting difficult in breathing fast heartbeats my doc said i might have vertigo is it right?
usually you do not have any symptoms with high blood pressure but if you do have a dizziness then your blood pressure may be very high and needs meds. if your blood pressure it is not very high then your symptoms may be due to other reasons like anxiety.
some discomfort in chest and bp has been anywhere from 130/80 to 150/95 the last couple of hours. any reason to be concerned?
your bp usually is what the chest discomfort is like where exactly what brought it on are there any other symptoms (nausea sweating indigestion etc) and so on. many conditions can cause chest discomfort and an elevation of bp including heartburn esophageal spasms lung problems and of course heart problems. both can also be caused by stress/anxiety. best to get it checked if it persists
still getting some chest pressure but heart holter and stress test were good what could it be?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
severe shortness of breath warm skin no fever headache fast heartrate when standing worsening daily. ekg. xray normal. no anxiety meds wont help.
a variety of illnesses some serious could be causing these symptoms. please see your doctor for examination and appropriate tests.
shrppain in ❤️during wlk for abt 10sec now left shldr pain n headache mult er trip and seen cardio inpst w/ neg ekg bld wrk n holter. wht cud this be?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it. yours sounds musculoskeletal perhaps intercostal muscle spasm
tightness in chest difficulty breathing but heart rate's normal what could it be?
could be cardiac origin- blockage in arteries or valve problem; could be lung origin- asthma emphysema pneumonia bronchitis; could be unrelated to heart or lungs- anxiety anemia etc. need a good evaluation to figure out what testing to best evaluate this.
tightness in chest difficulty breathing but heart rate's normal what could it be?
first and foremost hear problem should be considered and ruled out. lung problems including asthma and chronic obstructive diseases also may present with tightness of the chest and shortness of breathe. clot in the lung can have similar presentation. after all the life threatening medical conditions are excluded anxiety disorder can be considered. i suggest you go to your pcp ed and checked.
tips for dealing with anxiety? i've never had a history and now i'm on xanax (alprazolam). please help i can't deal with it anymore my heart rate is always up.
although your symptoms can be explained by anxiety. i wanna make sure that you don't have an organic problem causing it. for example thyroid disease can cause anxiety like state. some rare heart problems. you can discuss these issues with your doctor and make sure you rule them out befoe you get diagnosed as anxiety. xanax (alprazolam) is a fairly short term solution. . you might wanna consider meditation.
tips for dealing with anxiety? i've never had a history and now i'm on xanax (alprazolam). please help i can't deal with it anymore my heart rate is always up.
what amount of xanax (alprazolam) (alprazolam) and how often? you can have rebound anxiety in between doses. you've had some studies of your chest but you also need studies of heart thyroid etc. if all is well there a psychiatrist can help with meds as xanax (alprazolam) is not good for chronic use; psychotherapy for anxiety too. on your own you can practice breathing exercises meditation yoga tai chi etc.
tips for dealing with anxiety? i've never had a history and now i'm on xanax (alprazolam). please help i can't deal with it anymore my heart rate is always up.
are you anxious about every day stuff or particular events? contact your primary for further eval to rule out organic causes. consider psychotherapy. practice relaxation meditation guided imagery. keep a diary of the events when you happen to be anxious: what happened (the event) thoughts you had; things you've done to decrease anxiety; how you body responded: where it felt in your body.
tips for dealing with anxiety? i've never had a history and now i'm on xanax (alprazolam). please help i can't deal with it anymore my heart rate is always up.
deal with anxiety is combination of psychotherapy ( primarily ) and medication. the role of xanax (alprazolam) is limited only for couple of weeks until the effect of ssri / snri and psychotherapy kicks in.
the cardiologist nurse called me with blood tests results for palpitations my potassium levels 3. 4 it says it should be 3. 5-5 so mine would be low?
it is below the cut off line. you can take one banana or orange ; it will come in normal range. important thing is palpitation. what is the cause? result of holter? you take xanax (alprazolam) for anxiety. anxiety is the cause. also should do thyroid function test. stay away from sugary drinks smoking alcohol and recreational drugs. pls read- arrhythmia-http//doctorrajput. com. thanks.
trg 175 vldl 35 ldl 95 hdl 30 cholesterol 151. ecg is normal. my bp shoots any time. heart beat increase when walk n anxiety increases.
start a structured exercise program to improve stamina and. your hdl can improve so also the symptoms.
toprol (metoprolol) or lepressor for wolff-parkinson-white syndrome? is it a good treatment?
beta blocker therapy is a good treatment for wpw especially in patients with anxiety and high blood pressure.
the cause of my high resting heart rate couldn't be heart anomaly because i had an echo and they said it was normal? doesn't that rule it out?
an echocardiogram if performed by a well-trained individual and interpreted by a knowledegable physician should exclude structural and functional heart disease. an elevated resting heart rate could be related to anemia hyperthyroidism anxiety certain medications and other causes.
trouble breathing rapid heart rate ekg revealed flattened t waves. doc ordered echo consulted cardio who added nuclear stress test. is this serious?
assuming you do not have risk factors it sounds like anxiety especially if you tolerate exertion well.
the past few months i've felt very different chest pain near heart heart palpitations shortness breath lightheaded? healthy 29 year old male.
eval. although this might be associated with anxiety - medical causes must be ruled out. if you have not previously been evaluated for one of these episodes then chest pain palpitations shortness of breath ; light headedness = emergency room (; don't drive yourself).
thyroid echo stress basic labs weight ekg normal not anxiety. hr@103-111resting for past 10 days. cardio says just hyperactive heart. 33yrs history mi-causes?
low blood volume dehydration increase in adrenaline. these are three. in addition there is always deconditioning or being out of shape.
tachycardia/dizziness/pvcs/sob getting worse. cardiologist can't find a problem and says heart is ok. i'm not so sure. what's the next step?
heart not the issue perhaps anxiety is playing a role granted hormones like thyroid in blood test are ok.
these past 2months i get heart flutters a week or so b4 period. could it be hormonal? i suffer from anxiety as well & have minor acid reflux.
many things can give a fluttering sensation in the chest including several heart rhythm issues. almost all these arrhythmias are benign (not dangerous) but can be annoying. the most common cause of fluttering is pvcs (single extra beats from the bottom chambers). it is common for such arrhythmias to come and go in the menstrual cycle. it is treatable and a heart monitor can make the diagnosis.
tachycardia 115 bpm. comes and goes lasts for 2-8 hrs. had ekg ct all ok. chest pain on and off not necessarily at the same time. pcp has no ideas?
you may need to see a cardiologist. however this may be a symptom of anxiety or panic attacks so consider that also.
trying to fall asleep. 10 min of palpitations w/ fast heart rate. no other symptoms. doc says heart ok. can anxiety really appear in while relaxed?
in fact people can have panic attacks in their sleep. what you are describing is pretty much the definition of a panic attack. short period of time intense physiologic response w/o real medical probs. what were you thinking about at the time? pas are very treatable with therapy where you work to find your triggers and retrain your brain. i do not recommend just medicating them tho meds help.
what does it mean if my heart rate was really high during exercise and stays at 110 over an hour and a half after exercise? is it anxiety?
=anxiety/fear/pain &/or congestive heart failure. heart rate controlled by brain. like rest of body heart follows orders from brain (many cycles/second). sensors from heart blood vessels rest of body provide extensive feedback to brain: a complex soul? mind? brain? body integrated system which allows life despite only partially understood. getting/studying an <link> could help.
woke up very nauseated with hard fast pounding heart rate. is this normal to have heart beat like this before vomiting? i have bad anxitey worry?
may be related to anxiety and possibly a cardiac issue. these symptoms should be reviewed with an examination and baseline ekg. you should address treatment of your anxiety with your physician.
what is preferred/tolerable for anxiety ocd panic disorder - lexapro (escitalopram) or zoloft? i have bradycardia worried about long qt from drugs raised bp etc.
both are ssri. as to which is better that is hard to say. you could talk to your physician about pharmacogenomics testing to decide which is best.
why would blinking or bright flashing lights cause heart palpitations with mild tremors?
likely not the cause of the palpitations and tremors. i suspect that the lights cause anxiety and the release of adrenaline. this hormone will definitely cause tremor and palpitations. you probably experience these symptoms in other anxiety provoking situations.
what is the best way to deal with chest pain related to anxiety? i've tried breathing techniques etc. but i can never seem to calm myself down.
talking therapy ranks really high. cognitive behavioral therapy or psychotherapy can be effective. aim for daily exercise 8 hours of sleep per night & good nutrition w 5 servings of veggies & 4 of fruit per day. try tai chi yoga qi gong progressive muscle relaxation deep breathing exercises & meditation. don't isolate - spend time w friends & stay active.
what is the best way to deal with chest pain related to anxiety? i've tried breathing techniques etc. but i can never seem to calm myself down.
one way to induce relaxation is through use of tension and release exercises. inducing greater than normal tightness in muscles or the diaphragm forces a similar and opposite release of those areas. these r really effective when used with proper breathing. examples include progressive muscle relaxation and exercises. recommend seeking instruction from trained a professional like a psychologist.
when i lay on my right side get three beat runs of svt/pauses? why?
that lying on your side is causing these short runs of svt. it's more likely that you're more aware of them when you're lying quietly on your side. however caffeine oral decongestants and untreated anxiety can trigger svt. if they interfere with sleep distractions such as white noise or a fan may help. keep any scheduled follow up visits with your doctor. best wishes. dr. anne.
how do i stop taking daily sustained release 80mg propranolol? i've been taking it for about 3 weeks for anxiety but they make me too fatigued
propranolol is a beta blocker antihypertensive medication. occasionally it can be used to treat short term anxiety. its side effects include dizziness light-headedness fatigue diarrhea and cold hands and feet. it lowers your blood pressure and heart rate. patients with diabetes or asthma should not use this medication. talk to your doctor to discuss other drug options.
heart rate got up to 108 while standing w/ shortness of breath hot flashes fatigue. now sitting and it's at 90 still with same symptoms?
a cardiologist is best qualified to evaluate your accelerated heart rate. postural orthostatic reflexive racing of the heart rate is possible but a resting sitting heart rate of 90 is still abnormally fast. testing for hyperthyroidism will be done. if no organic problems are found you could be having anxiety and stress related symptoms in which case stress management therapy may be recommended.
have noticed some symptoms flare together - extreme fatigue dry eyes heart palpitations. could this be an autoimmune problem or more likely anxiety?
would need more information to guide you. there are many other considerations beside anxiety and autoimmune. you can discuss this with your physicians. you will need an evalaution laboratory and even possible imaging to help clarify your question.
hi i am taking 10-20mg propanolol daily for anxiety for approx three months and was wondering if i need to taper off these pills? many thanks
gradually say by one tablet every 2 weeks. however if your anxiety recurs then it is recommended you stay on it. pls confirm with your primary provider.
hi doctors. 22 years old i've been going through a lot of anxiety for 2 months usually a very healthy person. as of late i've had a lot of heart palpitation at a normal beat and very strong but i feel a fluttering feeling as well like a buzz?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
had an ecg 3 months ago. still nt feelng comfortable. having heavy heartbeats for 2 seconds. no heavy breathing or chest pain. could it be anxiety?
but you need a holter monitor
having heart palpitations & breathe difficulties randomly when out. it goes away when i'm at home. started work and have camp this sunday. anxiety?
one possibility. please see your doctor to rule out medical conditions. then you can see a mental health professional to learn strategies to cope w/social anxiety. see. www. relaxationresponse. org for some self-help. peace and good health.
had my first ever shift of my first ever job yesterday and noticed each time i bent down i felt i couldn't breathe and heart palpitations. anxiety?
on the new job. anxiety is likely but please see your doctor to rule out medical conditions. then learn some stress management techniques from a mental health professional. peace and good health.
hot and cold sensations around stomach/under left breast accompanied with a bubbly feeling. i take a beta blocker for anxiety?
helena sensations such as you describe can be due to high levels of anxiety. have you noticed any pattern to these sensations? do they occur after eating or drinking? do they awaken you from sleep? how long has this been happening? have you tried any other anti-anxiety meds? if these sensations persist get a checkup from your md to rule out physical disorders. if all ok talk to psychologist.
i am suffering from panic attacks chest pains and fatigue. i am under a lot of stress recently but i don't believe that's the cause. any help?
chest pains in a 16 year old wouldn't be from anything cardiac such as a heart attack. fatigue can be due to stress anemia poor diet inactivity or thyroid issues. panic attacks don't happen from anything except from anxiety/stress. i think blood tests checking for anemia and thyroid issues might help you rule out other causes.
is it normal to experience anxiety as a start up effect for venlafaxine? heart palpitations upon waking up. dry mouth. just started 75mg last night.
dry mouth and anxiousness are potential side effects of the venlafaxine however it would be rare to experience these after a single dose. call your health care provider to see if he/she wants to continue the medication for you or stop it.
i'm 37 have anxiety had heart tests all normal within the last yr & ekg normal 2 mo ago. i wake up with my heart racing could this be heart realted?
different reasons for a patient to feel their heart racing. some are physiological and some are pathological. information such as how fast and associated symptoms help to differentiate this. from what you have provided it is probably not serious. a long term monitor (30 or more days) might catch something. discuss this with your health care provider.
im on 5mg norvasc my doctor is taking me off it and starting me on 40 mg propranolol but my bp is good on the norvasc but i do have anxiety?
in the case of propranolol there can be antianxiety effects in addition to the main effect of lowering blood pressure. if you are anxious about changing bp meds please discuss your concerns with your prescriber and be sure to follow up to ensure proper bp control
i have benign pvcs. i've had them for a few days off and on due to anxiety can anxiety cause them to last off and on for days?
while anxiety cause them to last off and on for days if you are symptomatic or are feeling them then you should get checked out.
i am experiencing rapid heart rate (worsened by: psychological stress after exercise) chest tightness (worsened by: psychological stress after.
most of what you mention can result from an anxiety disorder. after seeing your doctor to rule out or identify medical conditions please see a mental health professional to learn stress management. peace and good health. qigong and yoga can be good self-help techniques. see www. asch. net for referrals to professionals who practice clinical hypnosis.
i was asleep and i had the feeling of seeing someone next to me scared me and wake up abruptly i had a very strong heart acceleration it is normal?
and odd sensations may be normal. the mental filters that keep our thoughts in order when awake are not as strong during sleep especially on the way in and out of sleep. anxiety causes the heart to beat faster. please see your doc to be sure everything is in order medically. peace and good health.
i have health anxiety. recently went to er w/chest pains. lab work xray and nuclear stress test all came back normal. still have heart palpitations. why?
an anxiety disorder. please see your doc for a check up and then a mental health professional who can help you deal w/this. anxiety can express itself in many ways. irrational health fears are but one. peace and good health. clinical hypnosis can be useful. see www. asch. net for referrals. see www. relaxationresponse. org for some self-help.
lately i've had palpitations i've had 3 ecgs which were all normal and my doc doesn;t seem concerned. is it possible that sugar is causing them?
your prior medical history would affect the response to this question. also you do you have any anxiety. this or panic attacks may manifest with similar complaints. also if you have any heart murmur on examination your doctor should consider mitral valve prolapse as a possibility. for that you will need an ultrasound of your heart to be sure. other symptoms u might have might give clues to dx.
left arm pain and numbness accompanying fast heart rate (anxiety or mi)?
of them but i presume it is heart related and have it checked then if not we are safe we could with the treatment of anxiety. thanks.
left arm pain and numbness accompanying fast heart rate (anxiety or mi)?
you don't mention your age barbara511911 but it's possible that your fast heart rate is precipitating angina especially if you have cardiac risk factors and are not as young as you used to be. why not have a talk with your primary care doctor about these worrisome symptoms? this would be a terrific reason for doing a stress test!
left chest pain under ribs upper abdominal pain anxiety attacks pvcs belching heaviness in chest. all my tests are normal including echo stress test?
if symptoms persist u may need further evaluation.
left chest pain under ribs upper abdominal pain anxiety attacks pvcs belching heaviness in chest. all my tests are normal including echo stress test?
look further. get a multifunction cardiogram test! <link> m. wikipedia. org/wiki/multifunction_cardiogram.
low magnesium and low potassium causing (severe) anxiety. thoughts?
magnesium is a natural relaxant for nerve excitability. both can increase anxiety if you are deficient and if you are low then you should take steps to correct this! potassium deficiency can cause cardiac rhythm problems or worse! diuretics frequently causes dual deficiencies!
last night i went to sleep then woke up. i checked my pulse and my heart rate was 113 bpm. i've never had an anxiety attack before. was this anxiety?
probably just the normal variation in nighttime pulse.
last night sudden numbing sensation in left arm fast heart rate heavy arm & tingling with movement. today cold feelin in wrist forearm & shoulder?
symptoms described are nonspecific. they could be brought on by cardiac causes or they could be related to stress/anxiety with hyperventilation. they could also be brought on by cervical neck issues cause a pinched nerve.
lately i've had bad anxiety focused on my breathing my heart beat and bp. then i panic and it speeds up getting palpitations n scared wanting to go to er. been to pcp says heart ok. what to do? <negative_smiley>
if you md says you are ok you might want to consult with a mental health professional to help you deal with your symptoms.
lately i've had bad anxiety focused on my breathing my heart beat and bp. then i panic and it speeds up getting palpitations n scared wanting to go to er. been to pcp says heart ok. what to do? <negative_smiley>
congratulations for showing the good judgment of going to your primary care physician to get worked up for your symptoms. that was an excellent decision you made. congratulations too on being told that your physical health appears fine. it sounds like you are suffering from an anxiety disorder. your symptoms described can commonly be found with people who suffer from panic attacks.
lately i've had bad anxiety focused on my breathing my heart beat and bp. then i panic and it speeds up getting palpitations n scared wanting to go to er. been to pcp says heart ok. what to do? <negative_smiley>
hello best treatment for anxiety is an antidepressant. if you have insomnia recommend remeron (mirtazapine) 15-30 mg at night. other options are citalopram or sertraline- would start at 10 or v25 mg/d respectively. it will take a few weeks but can help anxiety safely. beware that you don't have bipolar disorder because it can make you worse. rec you see a mental health provider.
lately i've had bad anxiety focused on my breathing my heart beat and bp. then i panic and it speeds up getting palpitations n scared wanting to go to er. been to pcp says heart ok. what to do? <negative_smiley>
the heart is likely ok. you need to take care of the anxiety. your autonomic nervous system can increase the hr with change in level of anxiety. in simple words talk to a psychologist or consider anxiolytics.
lightheaded for a few days heart rate erratic but always regular. possible palp. anxiety disorder? took some heart tests negative. clean for all.
it could be. you should consult with a psychiatrist and/or psychotherapist to look into treatments for anxiety disorders including medications such as ssris like celexa and zoloft (sertraline) but also meditation yoga and exercise.
lightheaded for a few days heart rate erratic but always regular. possible palp. anxiety disorder? took some heart tests negative. clean for all.
if everything ok physically i'd suggest consulting with a mental help professional to help you deal with your symptoms.
left arm pain/anxiety er: normal ecg/bp. 26 years old very fit. felt washed out/chest pressure a few times over next month. heart lung gi issue?
if you don't use cocaine and don't have diabetes angina at your age is unheard of. it's likely acid reflux gastritis or just a sore muscle.
my heart rate at my desk is around 95 is this ok? i have had an echo with an ef of 75% i'm also suffering from anxiety and depression right now
i understand your distress of anxiety and depression. “heart rate at my desk is around 95” is high it is likely due to anxiety. do breathing and music relaxation meditation yoga and visual imagery for relaxation. exercise feel good about your achievements. see psychiatrist for therapy and medication for anxiety follow with cardiologist for ejection fraction and heart rate.
moments ago i had chest pain arm tingling an extremely fast heart rate and felt dizzy. if my doctors eliminated heart issues why is this happening?
could be anxiety. could be chest wall pain and then you panic and the rest of the symptoms come. could be endocrine issues. etc. follow up with your doctor and examine what you are doing and when your symptoms come
not sure my child says he can't sit in school and it is causing him to miss everyday he just came out of a hemorrhoid but he says for some reason his butt fill's squishy when he sitt's down then he dosen't want to get up because he's woried that his pants
all of the symptoms and signs you described should be cause for concern and warrant investigation by a doctor. children are usually very aware of their own bodies and when something is not quite right. in addition to a doctor evaluating him (examining his rectum and genitalia) you have to consider social issues. is he having anxiety or depression for any reason? is he being bullied? are there problems in the home or at school? often times these types of situations can cause children to have actual physical symptoms. please have him evaluated right away. good luck.
neck pain and pressure in right ear accompanied by increased heart rate?
pain provoked anxiety anxiety causes both.
normal lab results hyper thyroid symptoms. (tachycardia/insomnia) is synthroid (thyroxine) or armour preferred? possible adrenal issue?
could b anxiety but need work up to determine source of symptoms.
nausea sob heart palps fatigue lack of appetite anxiety. had an ekg; normal. have chronic gastritis and in peri menopause. see cardiologist?
thyroid disorder mononucleosis ? panic attack etc. consider having a holter monitoring of your heart rhythm. with a normal ekg and young age and i presume no hypertension and no diabetes heart condition is less likely. nevertheless follow up with your primary care dr. give us feedback on the dx. take care!
nausea sob heart palps fatigue lack of appetite anxiety. had an ekg; normal. have chronic gastritis and in peri menopause. see cardiologist?
yes you should see a cardiologist for further evaluation.
normal ekg echo chest x-ray blood work and stress test. seen a pulmonologist and was cleared for ashtma etc. what would cause sob? its not anxiety.
anxiety & panic attacks frequently cause shortness of breath as well as many other physical symptoms. i'm glad you have such good results from your heart and lung evaluations so far. i don't know what your doctors will come to about your situation -- but here's info about panic attacks: <link>
please help i am very scared will mucinex (guaifenesin) increase my anxiety or heart rate i have copd and afib i am very concerned about the mucinex (guaifenesin) i need it to?
regular mucinex (guaifenesin) should not cause an increase in heart rate. other decongestants such as sudafed (pseudoephedrine) or those with "d" (allegra-d claritin-d etc) can cause an increase in blood pressure or heart rate and should be avoided.
please help i am very scared will mucinex (guaifenesin) increase my anxiety or heart rate i have copd and afib i am very concerned about the mucinex (guaifenesin) i need it to?
it souls not if you use the plain type. the kind the contain dexamathorphan ( dm ) or d the decongestant can cause a rise in bp and possibly some anxiety.
pounding fast heart beat up to 140 after eating. feels like i need to burp and burns. can reflux cause this? holter monitor says normal rhythm
would avoid using tom's is increase calcium can also increased symptoms of heartburn. also be careful of the type of foods you eat that may increase gastric acidity. you may want to work with the integrative medicine doctor who can look at your anxiety heartburn heart rate issues. s/he can create a plan for you to work at reducing your current symptoms faster by also integrating mind/body methods like meditation and lifestyle management.
palps chestpain left arm pain cough. negative ecg echo 7daymonitor stressecg mri x-ray. etc. but symptoms improve with diltiazem. what is it?
when you have a episode of palpitation go to er or doctors office to have ekg checked if normal it might be all in the head. . <positive_smiley> you might be suffering from anxiety disorder (perhaps too much stress in your life). avoid caffeine and alcohol in excess. drink plenty of fluids - remain well hydrated exercise and eat healthy. check thyroid hormone levels and blood work for anemia.
panic attacks are starting to feel like i'm having a heart attack. almost passed out at work a few times. i need advice. very hard to get a psych appt?
i really appreciate that you have the insight to know that your mind is causing your physical symptoms. when we panic or have anxiety we often hold our chest muscles too tight and breathe too shallow making a vicious cycle of muscle fatigue and low oxygen add to our sense that something is wrong. learning breathing techniques learning how to manage these anxious feelings is how to live well.
pressure across chest. arms feel worked out. body aches. normekg stress echo 24holt weeks ago. age28. no fam hist. non smoker. still heart or anxiety? 85bpm
without an actual examination i cannot give specific medical advice on your particular health and. . the rare cases of sudden death due to heart causes: hypertrophic heart. big heart on echo/ekg abnormal wiring. easily seen on ekg these are far rarer than car accident deaths and slightly more common than lightning and elevators. but tests make it less likely than that.
palps for months. all tests are normal. i woke up from nap with palps pain and 90 heart rate. bp normal. should i be concerned? i exercise meditate.
is normal: 60-100 bpm. you may need an adjustment of your anti-anxiety medicine. make sure to have your throid function tested with blood testing.
polar ft4 sitting here my heart is fluctuating between 69 - 74bpm. i am so confused. what is my resting heart rate?
22 years male having resting heart rate 69-74bpm. it is normal. heart is regulated by sanode in heart is a normal pacemaker & normally fluctuates between 60-100bpm. it may vary with anxiety depression sensory confusion thyroid disorder. evaluation by ekg 24 hour holter monitoring thyroid function tests urea breath test abdominal ultrasound.
polar ft4 sitting here my heart is fluctuating between 69 - 74bpm. i am so confused. what is my resting heart rate?
hi. your self-awareness of depression confusion and anxiety will help you in understanding what i say. become less self-absorbed. resting pulse 69-74 is so normal it almost hurts. your mental illness is driving your obsession. get treated for your depression & anxiety. good luck!
palpitations when just sitting around. pcp says they are from anxiety. i don't feel anxious when they happen though. is this normal?
this is a chicken and egg question. the primary occurrence of a heart rhythm abnormality needs to be considered if a holter monitor has not shown any significant abnormality then perhaps a longer term monitoring device such as a 30 day event recorder can be considered the causes are multiple work with you're prescribing physicians to try to establish the cause mechanism etc.
portable handheld ecg monitor where to get this?
you are going to drive yourself nuts monitoring your heart. if you have had a consultation with a cardiologist and a minimal work up that is negative monitoring heart is only going to feed your anxiety and make everything worse. please place your energy in things that can make you healthier (don't smoke eat well loose weight and exercise) if you are taking medications be compliant. good luck!
propranolol and flecaninied what are these for?
flecainide and propranolol are drugs which we use to control heart rate and rhythm. propranolol also is used for blood pressure angina anxiety and several other conditons. flecainide is primarily used just for cardiac rhythm control.
pvcs i feel them in my throat had test normal have them bad one day not as bad the next and then none why have bad aniexty?
here's info that should reassure you. it's common and almost never indicates or causes a threatening heart condition - but it was good that you tested normal. do let your pcp know and periodically (yearly or longer) do tests if you continue to have this. for anxiety consider a good cbt therapist to learn stress mgmt etc. <link> best!
pain in center of chest. echo ekg normal. have anxiety and 7 months pregnant. pain left side neck and left shoulder blade also?
ask your obgyn for a referral to a psychologist for an eval. a few sessions might tell if talk therapy can guide you thru this or if preg-safe meds are needed too. this is important to do now to reduce the risks of severe post-partum depression/anx. that's harder to treat - and the baby demands are greater. planning for the life changes is easier w/ help/support. help (like it says) can help. best
pain in center of chest. echo ekg normal. have anxiety and 7 months pregnant. pain left side neck and left shoulder blade also?
chest pain combined with pregnancy is very tricky to treat online. i would suggest seeing your doctor as negative tests with persistent pain warrant more testing. although rare some pregnant patients can develop blood clots in the lungs. please see your doctor or go to the emergency room.
pain in center of chest. echo ekg normal. have anxiety and 7 months pregnant. pain left side neck and left shoulder blade also?
addressed by the ob physician who is caring for you. cardiac issues and gi issues that mimic cardiac issues can be developed newly during pregnancy and the farther along you are the greater those risks become. call ob and at least have them check your blood pressure. how is baby? moving and active is good. sometimes women develop gallstones or even pancreatitis during pregnancy. best be seen 2day
propananol huge anxiety feel like i can't breathe husband said i'm ok?
feelings of anxiety can sometimes be mimicked by heart arrhythmias. you should obtain an ekg monitor during your symptoms and a blood test for thyroid function. if these are normal consider a change from propranalol to an alternative beta or calcium channel blocker. ask your doctor to consider verapamil or nadolol. if truly due to anxiety consider reading about biofeedback techniques.
pulse rate 100 when anxious is that high?
may increase with anxiety. pulse of 100 is bordering on tachycardia (fast heart rate) but may be anticipated with marked anxiety.
pvcs are going to be the death of me. i only get 3-4 a day. but when i get them i get extremely nervous. what can i do? feel a sudden drop under throat
go see your family doc (yeah i write that just about every answer). tell him/her about your concerns. find out cause of premature ventricular contractions eg overactive thyroid methamphetamines excess caffeine holiday heart etc. if no obvious cause beta blockers are useful to slow down heart rate & decrease frequency of pvcs. beta blockers are also useful for (perfomance) anxiety.
pvcs are going to be the death of me. i only get 3-4 a day. but when i get them i get extremely nervous. what can i do? feel a sudden drop under throat
they will help the anxiety as well. they are annoying
recently on new meds developing chest pains? my chest hurts kind of like when im having a anxiety attack but withought the fast heart beat just a sharp pain my chest feels a little tight and my heart beat feels irregular. i was recently put on celexa fo
one must always make sure that there is not a medical origin to a symptom like chest pain. no matter how much anxiety you have do not avoid having your doctor evaluate you for chest pain. maybe a cardiologist needs to be involved? your primary care doctor or psychiatrist could help you figure out how to make sure the discomfort is not imminently a medical danger. this aside anxiety attacks panic attacks and the likes often includes physical and emotional components. you are describing some of the physical symptoms: palpitations (heart thumping) shortness of breath tightness lightheadedness sweating dizziness etc. the emotional may include sense of impending doom loss of control a lot of angst and the likes. celexa an ssri is a fine medication to start with along with some sleeping medicine (restoril). people with anxiety disorders are often very sensitive to these medicines when they first start them and are often the ones who have an initial paradoxical increase in anxiety at the beginning of starting the medicine. this can be helped with the klonopin (clonazepam) (clonazepam) but not always and since klonopin (clonazepam) takes a long time to start working you may further not reap its benefit for over an hour or more. speak to you doctor/psychiatrist to help balance when you should be taking the klonopin (clonazepam). an example of how he may help: he may suggest lowering the celexa for a while (e. g. 1/2 tab of smallest pill or 10 mg or even less). once you are on this dose for a bit then the dose can be slowly increased. in a reverse way taking klonopin (clonazepam) a little more regularly and tapering off as celexa starts working for you can occur. there are many ways to help. first make sure no real medical emergency then clarify alternative strategies discussing alternatives and their risks and benefits with your doctor. you are in the drivers seat you just need a road map to help a little. good luck.
rapid heartbeat when climbing stairs i am so afraid at 39 years!?
this could be anxiety poor physical conditioning or something more serious. the only way to be sure is to see your doctor so your heart (and the rest of you) can be evaluated.
rapid heart rate standing up shortness of breat on top of dizziness ear pressure etc. had chest x-ray and ekg done and er said it is anxiety? worried
while initial er evaluation was unrevealing you have a multitude of symptoms. . please seek further evaluation with your primary physician.
resting heart rate is 50-64 (sitting or lying)when i stand it jumps to 80bpm is this normal? also feel a bit dizzy diagnosed with gad possible pots?
with the two diagnosis of general anxiety syndrome and postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome your symptoms are considered within usual limits. but consult your treating md.
rx'd cefprozil and flovent for pos. lung infection. feeling worse after 8 days. heart palpitations no sleep. side effect or anxiety? what to do?
its time for a recheck by your doctor. your symptoms may be due side effects caused by flovent and your doctotmay want to discontinue the drug.
resting heart rate of 50-60bpm but somedays in the normal range around the 60s. work out only about 3 days a week for 30min. just a lil tired that it?
what's your question but heart rate it's normal to me. keep exercising and a healthy lifestyle. avoid bad habits like smoking. if you don't drink(alcohol) do not start if you drink keep it moderate. good diet with fruits and vegetables and 0. 8-1. 0 gr/kg of protein. stay positive in life and look for help for your anxiety problem.
right side chest psin like it was pressed on normal 2decho ecg threadmill stress test what could it be? can anxiety still doing it? diagnosed costo
extensive w/u done. appears non cardio. may consider ct of chest could be psychogenic.
right side chest psin like it was pressed on normal 2decho ecg threadmill stress test what could it be? can anxiety still doing it? diagnosed costo
it's likely to be muscular/skeletal in nature. costochondritis happens commonly in your age group - heart disease is unlikely even without your testing; even less likely with it.
right side chest psin like it was pressed on normal 2decho ecg threadmill stress test what could it be? can anxiety still doing it? diagnosed costo
see gastroenterologist or try otc zantac (ranitidine).
shortness of breath elevated heartrate anxiety head ache trouble sleeping. been a few days and seems worse. what could this be?
are certainly possibilities. additionally i would suggest a physical exam to included thyroid function evaluation.
shortness of breath elevated heartrate anxiety head ache trouble sleeping. been a few days and seems worse. what could this be?
be due to many different things. it sounds like emotional stress but you may want to rule out any physical causes before assuming that they are stress related. if there is not a physical problem speak with a clinical psychologist about work family relationship issues that could be impacting on your physical health.
shortness of breath elevated heartrate anxiety head ache trouble sleeping. been a few days and seems worse. what could this be?
shortness of breath increased heart rate headache anxiety and insomnia are a constellation of symptoms that could signal many problems both physical and emotional. among the physical possibilities is overactive thyroid. with a complete medical history physical exam and appropriate tests your doctor can help sort this out.
sob chestpain fatigue weak arms/legs lately swollen abdomen and legs/feets in the evening. ecg shows tachycardia echo was normal 6 months ago?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
svt and ectopic heart beats. 2 drs said b blockers 2 said no. short of breath throat closing. forced exhalation anxiety? yes b blocker? or no?
sorry but from out here with what you've presented we can't adjudicate for you. there are several possibilities and they likely trigger the various opinions you got. we would need to actually see and examine you to decide the question.
stress test shows small perfusion defect along lateral wall which appears reverisable and is suspicious of ischemia 2. mild hypothesis prior mi?
vasospastic angina (coronary spasm) is associated with normal coronaries . in the presence of significant physical emotional or chemical (drug abuse) stress chest pain is experienced. nitroglycerin calcium channel blockers anti-anxiety medication relaxation therapy help. also worth trying omega oils (eg from www. cardiamin. com using discount code cmc) magnesium and vitamin d supplements.
should i go back to the doctors and ask for a higher dose as ive had them since monday and i still panic only thing i dont get is heart palpitations?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
short of breath irregular heartbeat hight heart rate?
there are a few reasons for this but because of the high and irregular heartbeat you should be checked as soon as possible. i would recommend being evaluated at your doctor if you can be fit in now an uc or er. these could be symptoms of anxiety but also an "arrhythmia" such as atrial fibrillation or flutter. it needs to be checked out but don't panic.
suffer aniexty had many clear ecgs last year started getting palps everyday anything to worry about or another symptom of aniexty?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
sometimes i feel my heart beating on my left chest and also my stomach moves with the rythm of heart beat. my hr is normal (60-80). is it normal?
it is very common to feel one's heart beat against the left side of your rib cage as the heart is located on the left side in the chest cavity. this is most noticeable while lying on your left side. at times our heart beat is more forceful than others depending on various factors such as the effect of exertion anxiety caffeine alcohol etc.
sometime when i get a skipped heartbeat (not often) i get this rush feel (rarely) hr jumps to 130 maximum gradually then comes down from 10-20 secs. (it happens when i'm laying mainly not distracted)
these are probably being palpitations that are commonly related to anxiety. you should see your doctor and have it checked out though (will need at least and ekg plus some blood tests).
sudden cardiac arrest f 25 svt normal ecg apart from one recently abnormal s and t waves doc was worried im petrified?
need evaluation by a cardiologist and electro physiologist as well review of medications and medical and family history. please do not delay as anxiety may predispose you to rhythm problems.
suffer aniexty had ecg this morning normal feel breathless and heart racing?
it sounds like you are hyperventilating (breathing too fast) which makes you feel breathless and will make you more anxious (racing heart) try breathing into a paper bag. . that somtimes helps and speak with the helath care provider who ordered the ekg about some anti-anxiety medication and/or referral to a behavioral psychologist for some more "lasting" help! good luck dr z
squeezing chest pain on my left side about 6/10 pain (having chest pain for more than 6months) went to diff er and diff drs and no heart problem blood-echo-holter-ct-ekg all done and normal. yoga isnt helping my chest pain what can i do? 20y male
consider other causes like gerd asthma and anxiety.
sometimes pvcs sinus tachycardia. holter monitor and ekg. doctor thinks dehydration and blood volume issues from enalapril. other causes?
potential diagnoses that could explain sinus tachycardia (autonomic dysfunction inappropriate sinus tachycardia medication effects anxiety dehydration etc. ) we all have occasional pvcs. you live near a university health care facility so make an appointment with a cardiologist there for a second opinion.
sodium 142 potassium 3. 7 total calcium 9. 7 ionized calcium 4. 6 magnesium 2. 2. muscle twitches/crawls and skipped beats?
the chemical profile prescribed is essentially nor al however palpitations can occur if other chemistries are abnormal such as hyperthyroidism. muscle twitching can occur from chemical abnormalities as well as anxiety
the last few times i've gone to the doctor my heart rate has been a little over 100. i have anxiety is it bad to have your heart rate high a lot?
yes it's not good to have a high resting heart rate
tried all ssris for anxietyand panic except luvox cr. is it less activating? side effects? others increased my anxiety. i take betapace (sotalol) & cozaar
try cbt. the c will help your thinking and understanding - the b means guided behavioral practice and it is critical. the t means therapy. after a course of treatment your therapist might think that you've advanced enough to try it on your own and just return for boosters if needed. these are real skills to acquire. try it for real. it may lower your need for meds.
taking betapace (sotalol). would a different betablocker be better in controlling spikes in heart rate and blood pressure from anxiety attacks? tremors too?
talk to your cardiologist. betapace or sotalol is one option of many antiarrthymic medications.
two attacks of tingling hands/jaw and chest pain today. ekg stress echo 24holt normal. no fam hist and 28. is this my heart still? or panic? non smoke
after reassuring results from your cardiac work up you should get psychological assessment from a qualified psychiatrist without delay as your symptoms are typical from anxiety/panic attacks which can be overwhelming and quite dramatic and require proper treatment.
take atenolol 25mg doc switched me to metoprolol 25mg 2 days ago i get pvcs like 40 times a day scars me had the tests normal do i need to worry?
metoprolol is a good drug for controlling both bp and cardiac arrhythmia. the pvc could be due to the other drugs you're taking and otc meds used for seasonal allergies esp. those with decongestants coupled with anxiety.
take atenolol 25mg doc switched me to metoprolol 25mg 2 days ago i get pvcs like 40 times a day scars me had the tests normal do i need to worry?
beta blockers are supposed to help with pvcs in symptomatic patients. if they have gotten worse i'd recommend follow up with a cardiologist. i see that you are on an antidepressant. are you having increased anxiety or panic attacks. this may be aggrevating the number of pvcs.
tachycardia everyday but not constant worse in morning. normal rbc thyroid ekg and ultrasound of heart. anxiety? inappropriate sinus tachycardia?
if this is really fast so that it takes your breath away and shows as perhaps paroxysmal atrial tachycardia on holter monitor your cardiologist can recommend ways to manage that are probably easy. if your heart's just a little fast but seems to be doing a good job pumping blood and the beat's regular what's the worry? it's just a number. think about upping your aerobic fitness activities. cheers
take meds for anxiety/panic disorder. i still have fast heart rate and it hurts like it going to explode. dr said heart is ok. what else can i do?
the first recommendation would be to see a cardiologist. at 51 cardiac disease needs to be aggressively ruled out before attributing your symptoms to another source
throbbing pain left side of neck (do have anxiety problems) ekg and echo blood work normal. almost 7 months pregnant. anything to worry about?
women pregnant or not w/ throbbing in side of neck who have had med tests to rule out serious problems are left with a couple of poss. causes: nervous tick (if due to anxiety) nerve irritatio: mechanical-due to pregnancy or just due to spinal or rib dysfunction irritating nerve. in pregnancy meds are a bad idea but osteopathic hands-on exam may find cause & gentle manipulation may fix it.
tight cramping sensation left breast heart area. about a minute long. no other complications. history of inflamed chest wall and anxiety palpitations?
seems like history is repeating itself. those things may be a good way to motivate yourself to get into cbt therapy and learn skills to avoid reduce and manage anxiety. it works if you do and your whole long healthy life will prove how worthwhile it was.
tried celexa (citalopram) amitriptyline and trazodone for anxiety all have caused heart racing and palps also still anxious. any suggestions? am i imagining?
lexapro (escitalopram) is a good medication. ask your doctor about it.
took propranolol to combat anxiety in work situations. just tested with low testosterone. found some studies showing a connection. any knowledge?
"low t" can cause a number of different symptoms including depression fatigue loss of energy memory difficulty muscle pain loss of stamina mood swings nipple pain loss of sexual desire. some men have low t and have no symptoms at all. by definition the t level should be drawn before 8 am and should be below 300 mg/dl. there is no connection with the use of propranolol and low t
when i'm out drinking at a concert or party i've noticed my heartrate be 150 or more. is this becuz of anxiety or excitement? can i have a heartattack
it could be either and it's not too high for your age. do be careful about excessive drinking though - just because. they say a max safe heart rate is 220 minus your age so you are well under that. if anxiety is a problem consider cbt therapy before drug tx - especially if you drink socially. best!
what device monitors only anxiety and not excitement? wristbands that monitor heart rate variability can't tell the difference
one device is called spire. it clips onto your belt or bra. it measures your breathing and you can watch your breath wave on your iphone. when you get anxious you tend to breath faster. it syncs with your iphone. it also measures your activity level. it comes with meditation instruction. available on amazon. see<negative_smiley>/bit. ly/28w8bpb
what is the correct dosage of propranolol for performance anxiety. many thanks?
it's usually the lowest available does. however this medicine needs to be prescribed and should not be used other than as prescribed. you should never use another persons medicine.
what is the correct dosage of propranolol for performance anxiety. many thanks?
i have started folks on as little as 10 mgm before performance and increase gradually until reach an effective dose. discuss with your prescriber. n
what is the correct dosage of propranolol for performance anxiety. many thanks?
propranolol is a cardiac anti-arrhythmia drug meant to control or modulate cardiac arrhythmia disease. it is not a psychiatric drug. however physicians use the drug "off label" assuming your heart beats "faster" if you are anxious-not necessarily true. please read side effects and important black box warning.
what is the correct dosage of propranolol for performance anxiety. many thanks?
usually titrated up over several weeks-months with a dosage range of 10-80 mg am/pm. -lower dosing 10-20 mg is most common starting dose
what could cause lightheadedness tightness in throat along with palpitations and brief chest pain? sometimes low resting heart rate of 45-60 bpm.
you should see a cardiologist but meanwhile try to reduce caffeine intake stop smoking if you do try to decrease any factors that lead to anxiety
what could cause lightheadedness tightness in throat along with palpitations and brief chest pain? sometimes low resting heart rate of 45-60 bpm.
your symptoms are curious but i would need more information about clinical context. if these symptoms are occurring with activity i would think of the heart. if they were happening after a meal i might think of reflux. if they're happening at rest i might even think of anxiety. clinical context is important. but regardless these symptoms should be investigated.
hi doc. is it safe to stop taking proprananol for anxiety right away without weening from it? i saw a cardiologist and said my heart beat was too slow
how much you are using. it always better to come off gradually. your "common sense" should be your guide. hope this helps! dr z
help pls. last night i thought i ws having heart attack. my body was numb with tingling. hands were closing due to numbness (i have hist of anxiety)?
due to anxiety will cause all of these symptoms. the biochemical. changes from hyperventilation cause numbness and can lead to muscle spasm s causing hand closing.
hy there. can etopic beats cause sudden death. i am 26 years old with no heart issues or family history. suffer from bad anexity?
26 m from uk asks: hy there. can etopic beats cause sudden death. i am 26 years old with no heart issues or family history. suffer from bad anexity? ans: yes but very unlikely and most likely related to anxiety. but see your drs and discuss with them your concerns. there may be meds that will help both depending on what is the cause. ask about taking beta blockers as a trial. i use propranolol.
had all kinds of heart tests cause of palps. all came back normal. i'm now getting palpitations that goes to my head like a head throb. what is this?
sometimes the cause of palpitations is not within the heart itself. there could be hyperthyroidism for example. or pheochromocytoma. or anxiety. if the heart checked out fine you may need to investigate conditions outside the heart.
heart palps on & off. sudden panic/anxiety attacks. sudden feeling of fatigue nausea upset stomach irritable jittery gagging.
if so i recommend you see a doctor for an examination. there are many possible causes of this constellation of symptoms and one can narrow the list down by a good medical history and examination.
how much propranolol is too much? i currently take 20mg for anxiety/pvcs but see others are helped by 80mg before anxious event. 30 female 163lbs 5 6"
the treatment of hypertension in someone your size would be 32 times as much as you are taking. (640mg/day. ) how much is the appropriate dose for you and your problem is that dose which relieves your symptoms without causing unwanted side effects. some people need more and some need less but overall for the treatment of anxiety and palpitations the dose range is very low. 20mg to 160mg is ok.
hi i'm an 18 year old female with a blood pressure of 90/60 and a pulse rate of 130 bpm. is this normal and how can i resolve it? thanks
things that contribute to your blood pressure and pulse. that blood pressure can be perfectly normal for your age depending on your height weight and other illnesses(if there are any). the pulse is higher that it should be at your age especially if that is at rest. exercise fever anxiety and illness may make it elevated. please see your doctor to be fully evaluated.
how long does it take for the side effects such as anxiety palpitations sleeplessness to stop affecting persons after they've stopped taking aerius?
(aerius) is a second generation antihistamine anxiety palpitations and sleeplessness aren't known side effects of the drug or is it combined with a decongestant as pseudo-ephedrine which would have the said side effects? at any rate it would clear from your system in 2-3 days its half life is about 27 hours best wishes
how long does it take for the side effects such as anxiety palpitations sleeplessness to stop affecting persons after they've stopped taking rapiclav?
i am assuming you are referring to the amoxicillin prescription in which case it shouldn't cause the symptoms that you are referring to. however if it was the cause then it should take only 1 to 2 days maximum for your symptoms to resolve.
heavy head foggy head pressure. exercise causes awareness of heart beat taking deeper breaths than usual. anxiety or something serious?
the exercise effects are normal. the other symptoms could mean many things and you would probably benefit from a virtual consult
had chest muscle pain. when the pain comes heart rate rises n shortness of breath. last for awhile. now there is warm feeling in my left arm. is it anxiey?
indicates a need for you to see your doc to rule out medical conditions. yes anxiety can cause such symptoms but first see doc then see a mental health professional to learn to manage stress. peace and good health.
hello i m having chest pain since last july. i had 5 ecg twice echo and stress echo all test were normal but still i feel pain.
please stay in touch w/your doctors. chest pain is often present in anxiety disorders. consider seeing a mental health pro to help you learn stress management. clinical hypnosis may be useful. see. www. asch. net for referrals to licensed professionals. peace and good health.
having heart palpitations (skipped beat) for a few days everyday. under lots of stress. could that be the cause?
if you are under a lot of stress tht can trigger anxiety which can feel like heart palpatations. you need to know if tthe cause is medidcal emotional or both. see your physiciaan for a checkup. also ask her to recommend a psychologist for and aassessment and consult. ask the two dr. 's tto coordinate your care. you can also try yoga meditation or relaxation techniques. good luck.
i have ptsd depression and anxiety. is it ok to take trazodone prazosin buspar and hydrochlorothiazide together?
this is a complex issue. i specialize in bp issues and would be happy to do a 2nd opinion to get more information and then we can decide if it is ok. but in general can think good reason you cannot take them all together. i recommend going to drugs. com and look up drug interactions with these and any other over the counter things you are taking and then discuss with your dr.
i have clammy hands rapid heart rate & anxiety. i took six 25mg generic benadryl all at once three hours ago. is it an overdose?
took 6 25mgm caps makes150mgm. that is three times the maximum one time dose of 50mgm. can be taken every 6 to 8 hours. we don't know when you took it. maximum daily dose is 300 mgm. benadryl has a short half life&gets out of your system rapidly. it causes sleepiness confusion ringing ears blurred vision dilated pupils dry mouth shaking fever insomnia hallucinations shaking&seizures. if any sympts goer
i have been missing taking my propranolol in the am. i remember to take at night. after taking i feel blah headachey dizzy. should i take in the am?
why do you take it? thyroid hypertension anxiety heart rhythm headaches? if it makes you feel bad you should not take it and would discuss it with the prescribing physician for an alternative medication.
i am experiencing heart palpitations ( pulse) (worsened by: caffeinated drinks (coffee tea soda etc. ) psychological stress).
potential panic attack. the last thing you want is caffeine--in any form. try talking to a shrink and incorporating healthy grounding and soothing behaviors--self-talk meditation yoga walking 22 1/2 minutes per day etc. here's a reference on anxiety: <link>
i have high bp rapid heartbeat&tight chest pain most of the time. doc rules out hypothyroid&other tests 'coz the results are normal. is it anxiety?
anxiety definitely need to be ruled out or ruled in with this symptoms presentation.
i had anorexia for 5 years. ever since my full recovery i get random chest pains sometimes in the left rib and sometimes in the right. what cud ths be?
on dealing well w/anorexia. please see your doc to monitor the chest pains but do not let them become a conscious or subconscious reason for you to regress. may be something as simple as muscle strain or anxiety. your doc will help. peace and good health. great job!
long stress and anxiety have made my heart more sensitive to every activity affecting hr. resting hr 40 and walking 110. why? can this be dangerous?
a heart rate of 110 is not very dangerous unless you have symptoms with it (dizziness chest pain etc. ). however your resting heart rate should be between 60-100 the lower the better. you will need to rule out such pathologies as thyroid disease electrolyte disturbances etc. start with your primary care doctor first.
long stress and anxiety have made my heart more sensitive to every activity affecting hr. resting hr 40 and walking 110. why? can this be dangerous?
tests recommended by dr pavel there are no physical complications consider learning hypnosis or biofeedback to relax and improve your hr. it can be used to reduce blood pressure as well.
lexapro (escitalopram) and celexa both can cause qt prolongation. which ssri's do not cause this to happen. thank you?
is a novel new antidepressant which has a dual action on the serotonin synapse. not only is this drug effective for clinical depression it is also of particular benefit in combating sleep disturbances and the anxiety that so frequently coexists with depression. although its side effects are similar to the ssris they occur with less frequency.
left arm pain chest tightness jaw pain back pain. dr did echo ekg chest ct and blood work in november and says it's not my heart. what is it?
it is likely an anxiety reaction. have a rheumatologist evaluate the problems to be certain.
lightheadedness occurs usually when stressed or neg thoughts. ekg in feb fine. ldl is fine. in h for dehydration last month heart was fine. anxiety?
anxiety since physically other things have been ruled out. we're you checked for lyme? it can impact on neurological issues. contact a psychologist and start working on anxiety and negative thoughts. be sure to check lyme as well.
lately ive been having text book heart attack symptoms. im 29 with no history. i went to the er and was completely normal. what else could it be?
chest pain is difficult. some common non-cardiac causes are acid reflux esophageal spasms and anxiety. if your work-up at the er has proven to be non-heart related (in terms of blocked arteries) consider taking otc prilosec or nexium (esomeprazole) for a few weeks. no matter what i would recommend you seek care with your primary care physician for a thorough exam to discuss your other risk factors.
lately i can feel my heart pulsing in my chest. it's not beating faster but feels like it's beating harder. i'm 35. resting heart rate is 52.
if there is no irregularity to the heart beat neither is it racing then you are probably experiencing a well-recognized yet poorly understood phenomenon called "cardiac awareness". this can be triggered by some subconscious alarm over an anxiety provoking medical condition in another loved one or acquaintance or some media exposure to a heart related event. but often no trigger can be identified
left side chest pain. sharp cramp-like. left arm pain. sweating. had a good ekg heart enzymes and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago. 21 active. heart issue?
its very rare to have coronary (heart) disease in young age like yours. and you had all checked within 2 weeks. did you check your thyroid? do you have an anxiety? sometime anxiety and thyroid problems may present like this too. i would recommend you to see a doctor if this persists.
lower left chest cramp that i can sometimes feel shift through to my back. good ekg heart enzymes and chest xray a month ago. 21 active. heart issue?
regarding to your age and negative tests it does not sound like a heart issue. it can be chest wall muscle spasms due to stress or anxiety. if it persists see a heart specialist for further evaluation such as echocardiogram 24 hours holter monitor.
last night i felt flushed and my bp was 160/100. i panicked! i took toprol (metoprolol). this morning 150/95 with anxiety. i'm scared i'm going to die! will i?
seek medical care today from your primary care physician or your cardiologist. act don't worry!
last night while i was almost asleep i started sweating feeling hot like hot flashes and chest pain on left side clean ekg and stress echo?
you are too young at 23 y/o to have significant heart disease. is there any family hx of heart disease? i think that this is more likely symptoms of anxiety and i can see you take klonopin (clonazepam) and alprazolam already. i would follow-up with whoever is prescribing and also consider therapy if you are not already in therapy
left arm hurts like muscle ache. air hungry. worrying thoughts. heart rate at 69 bmp laying down. bp 99/67.
the viral signs look good but your anxiety seems increased. you need answer to this problem to help you cope. it does not sound like a heart attack and local tenderness may be muscle or tendon. your physician will evaluate these symptoms.
lightheaded spells burping after tgiving dinner and as falling asleep. exhausted but also anxious about it scared to sleep. should i be worried?
i your issues don't quickly resolve i would see a dr. it could be anxiety that is creating a lot of the issues but could be some other underlying issues. see a dr.
laying down and heart suddenly starts pounding real bad shaking a bit and feel like i'm in a cold sweat just anxiety? or heart attack alert?
anxiety. . panic attack at the best. not heart attack.
laying down and heart suddenly starts pounding real bad shaking a bit and feel like i'm in a cold sweat just anxiety? or heart attack alert?
is very unlikely to have heart disease that she has not been aware of since childhood! it is more likely that anxiety is playing a role especially if you are worried about your heart! get a complete physical for reassurance. . it does wonders! hope this helps! dr z
my 6yo came out of an intense irish dance class. her pulse was 145 and slowly went down to around 120. her friends was 110 then 89. is my child high?
pulse rate reflects several issues. activity level anxiety stress degree of physical conditioning the venue etc. your kid may not be as well conditioned as the other kid or more stressed. random pulse rates are hard to interpret without a better understanding of all the input factors.
my dr said i can take up to 8 10mg propanolol thru out the day as needed for anxiety. do u think it is more effective to take just in morning and eve?
does not last 12 hrs. there are other beta blockers that last all day like nadolol. propranolol is not my choice for anxiety though
my girlfriend and i were at the park last night were she received multiple mosquito bites to her leg. today: pain in chest numbness in leg?
stay calm chest pain likely anxiety. see urgent care doc for anti itch and anti inflammatory medicines to cool the bite reaction down. good luck.
my blood sugar is low and i am dyhydrated most of the time my lips get white i feel dizzy and i have headache. fast heart beats. anixiety.
is not from anxiety although it can produce mood swings and other symptoms. please see your doctor for treatment. peace and good health. if you also have significant anxiety please see a mental health professional for stress management training.
my daughter is eight and has been on vyvanse 20 for 6 months. the last two visits her heart rate was 124bpm. is this high? could it be the medication?
that is mildly elevated for an 8 year old. it could be the vyvanse but many other things can cause high heart rate too. anxiety activity dehydration. have you taken her resting pulse at home? pulse without vyvanse? is she resting when her pulse has been taken in the office or playing? the best way to monitor is to periodically check pulse and see a trend with and without the vyvanse.
my chest has had a pain in the center almost all day idk how to tell if its heart or muscle or anxiety or indejestion no loss of breath heart rate goo?
your doctor or the emergency department will tell you for sure if your symptoms are heart related or something else which is more probable at your age. please see your doc and then a mental health professional if anxiety and learn stress management strategies. peace and good health.
my body shake every second with heartbeat. i can feel the vibration. it moves my all body. my body get twitches. and muscle spasms also. while sitting?
some people are conscious of their heart beats especially if they are anxious about heart disease or anxious by nature. if it bothers you then you should get yourself checked by a medical doctor who can check your heart and make sure that you have a healthy heart that will eliminate anxiety. also you should do daily exercise which slows the heart rate so that you will not feel it anymore.
mitral valve repair short burst minutes fast regular over120 wake me up a few times yr had it since child no problem on holter symptoms of anxiety?
you may have sleep apnea! investigate the possibility of having a sleep study just a thought hope it's helpful! dr z
my hr rarely went below 77bpm last night sleeping--majority of night over 80. barely slept. i'm an athlete. when stood up this morn hr120-135. ?
may have developed an arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation. otherwise something is driving your heart rate like anxiety fever dehydration or infection. it would be worthwhile getting checked out to confirm the absence of a treatable cause for the heart rate elevation.
my chest feels full i feel like i can't feel my heart even when trying to work it up or working out. headache and weight loss. had ekg stress echo and x-ray and bloodowork panel and cbc and endoscopy and colons was
your symptoms may be caused by chronic stress and anxiety. it is not unusual to be unable to appreciate your heart beat. your cardiac testing revealed no abnormalities which should reassure you. weight loss can be caused by thyroid overactivity or diabetes which i assume have been ruled out. stress management therapy may help resolve your symptoms. discuss this with your physician.
no seizures since 10y/o sz's back and frequent na+always slightly low c02 alwys low muscle cramps ekg nsr w/frequ pac's mri's alwys clear in past recent ct=small infarct of unknown age/origin 2 brain
with the return of seizures you should see a neurologist to decide if an mri is needed fatigue irregular meals infection sleep problems noncompliance with medications and anxiety are the usual reasons for a return of seizures in remission.
nasal congestion. cold sensation when i inhale& occasional palpitations. i do have gad. can this be gad or asthma? i have never wheezed nor do i cough
your family doctor can help you determine if your symptoms are related to generalized anxiety disorder allergies cold etc. based upon diagnosis your doc can then discuss appropriate options w/you.
no health problems. frequent peeing dehydration rapid heart rate stress weakness. could stress and anxiety cause dehydration? i've had 4 ivs.
i don't what types of tests you have had but diabetes insipid us and diabetes mellitus need to be ruled out. also other endocrine abnormalities including pituitary tumor needs to be ruled out.
normal 2decho ecg monthly chest xray stress test. but keep coming back to er bcoz of chest pain and doctors don't want to entertain me anymore what 2 do?
yoy have chronic chest pain and the er does not want to see you returning. you have anxiety and high blood pressure. see your family doctor about feed back for stress reduction and controlling your bloops pressure. you may find that controlling bp controls chest pain.
nail bed infection for 4 wks low potassium and having on and off chest pain and tightness. why the chest pain and tightness? related symptoms?
these symptoms are apparently unrelated to each other. hypokalemia produces symptoms like arrhythmia muscle cramps/weakness and paralysis depending on its severity. a nail bed infection is localized and can have a bacterial or fungal cause. finally your chest pain and tightness are signs of angina in an older person but in your case it could be due to anxiety or stress. if they persist see dr.
nail bed infection for 4 wks low potassium and having on and off chest pain and tightness. why the chest pain and tightness? related symptoms?
if you had a craniotomy for a fungal infection call your brain surgeon. i did not see a medication list but you need to be on a prescription medication for the nail infection or a culture. if your chest pain and tightness is not cardiac and your doctors have assured you it is not consider costochondritis which is viral. otherwise it may be anxiety which is more common.
normal heart rate at 6 weeks pregnant?
normal heart rate during pregnancy ;expect an increase of10-15 beats/min from ur baseline with exercise stress anxiety coffee intake etç. god bless. <link> <link>
need to lower hearts extreme reacton to everything and high pulse but can't lower my resting hr anymore (45-50). which beta or what else can i do/take?
please consider seeing a family physician who can help you with your anxiety stress and mental health. you do not need a cardiologist.
normal egd ecg stress test no anxiety. but can't get rid of constant chest pressure lightheaded from pressure. doc does not know. now what?
well if what you're saying is that your doctor has ruled out some of the more likely causes of your symptoms and they can't find any abnormalities then you will either simply have to wait to see how this evolves down the road or your doctor should make an appropriate referral to another specialist if he cannot find anything of an organic nature.
normekg stress test echo holter. age28 nofamily history nonsmoker. what would be another cause of mild chest pressure and numb chin feeling? still heart?
stress tension anxiety chest wall inflammation myalgia neuritis. . the list is quite long: consult your treating physician.
normekg stress echo holter blood work. age28 no fam hist non smoker. norm bp. chol220. weeks of mild chest pressure&numb chin. heart ruled out? anxiety?
what it is. but it appears that it isn't your heart. anxiety would be pretty high on my list after this extensive work up you have already had.
normekg stress echo holter blood work. age28 no fam hist non smoker. norm bp. chol220. weeks of mild chest pressure&numb chin. heart ruled out? anxiety?
it is unlikely cardiac with the tests being normal. anxiety is possible if your symptoms are intermittent. gastric reflux can cause chest discomfort but the numb chin is strange. underlying asthma could cause symptoms but you should have a cough or wheezing. hyperventilation could cause both (with fast breathing) but this would not be constant. lastly inflammation of the breast bone joints woul
nuclear stress test earlier today. diangosis w pleuritis last week. on pred. heart racing since test. not bad but noticeable at around 90 at rest. related?
yes: prednisone is a great drig but many side effects including racing heart palpitations anxiety insomnia gastritis and irritability. it sounds like a side effect issues but you should be examined and checked.
propranolol:does it help with insomnia related to anxiety disorder? i know ill talk to my doctor. i just want to know please
propranolol is used to decrease anxiety symptoms by slowing heart rate. one of the side effects may be drowsiness. you are right it would be good to discuss this with your doctor to see what is right for you.
pvcs left arm pain left jaw pain left shoulder pain. heart tested over and over- fine. but i'm sure pain comes from my heart and skipped beats. why?
20's female concerned for heart disease not discoverable complains of unilateral "jaw shoulder and arm pain". a unifying diagnosis might be thoracic outlet syndrome. cervical spine disorders and anxiety are considerations. see an osteopath. avoid chiropractors who are not legally allowed to diagnose.
pains near the heart and palpitations anything to worry about? or is it anxiety.
palpitations are the subjective sensation of the beating of your heart. rarely an irregular heart beat may cause this. in most cases these are benign. chest pains may also occur - not related to exertion or other symptoms. try eliminating caffeine from your diet to see if this has an effect. also see your doctor to determine if you need further testing.
pains near the heart and palpitations anything to worry about? or is it anxiety.
heart disease or even irregular heart beat. it depends on many things. what other things in your life are going on and what other symptoms your feeling. get your self checked out.
pulse was 87 on finger pulse oximeter. sneezed and it jumped to 131 for over a minute. what causes this? freaking out!
why are you checking a pulse ox? i see that your past history is anxiety depression related with other medications. assuming you've had a good physical by a doc with normal heart exam there is no reason to be checking yourself at home. what are you most worried about? treatment should exclude perseverating on obscure home collected data as this and include frequent counseling 4 coping skills
prescribed prozac (fluoxetine) (20mg) & metoprolol tartr. (25mg). but isn't there an interaction between the two? 19 female. sinus tach & anxiety/depression.
there is a moderate interaction between prozac (fluoxetine) and metoprolol. the prozac (fluoxetine) can make the effects of metoprolol more pronounced. if you should experience dizziness weakness shortness of breath or fainting notify your doctor. hope this helps.
prescribed inderal (propranolol) for anxiety related pvc's/adrenaline rushes/panic. scared the inderal (propranolol) will harm my heart after researching side effects online. help.
pleased to see that you actively learn about your prescribed medications. if it has not happened already these concerns are worth a conversation with your provider to clarify why this medication was selected for you how potential risks and side effects are monitored and what is the risk to you based on your health history. overall inderal (propranolol) has a low risk of cardiovascular complications.
prescribed inderal (propranolol) for anxiety related pvc's/adrenaline rushes/panic. scared the inderal (propranolol) will harm my heart after researching side effects online. help.
it may depend on the dose but inderal (propranolol) is unlikely to to actually cause heart side effect problems. your fear is more likely the fear for which you are taking the inderal (propranolol). however there may be a major question about whether inderal (propranolol) is at all a helpful medicine depending on your particular kind of anxiety.
past 2 days; today (16th) and yesterday (15th). i've been experiencing really bad light headedness (with some dizziness) shortness of breath (like i'm unable to get enough air even with deep breaths) what feels like fast heartbeats (like an adrenaline
have a check up sounds like anxiety but could be more serious
pain & tightness in my left arm for a long time also in my chest&lately i've been getting a weird feeling on my neck. why? ekg clean chest x-ray good
be due to stress or anxiety. muscle relaxants with nsaid helps. see your doctor. i hope this helps. if you still have any concern or additional questions about this contact me via a video consultation at my virtual practice web site: www. healthtap. com/dryetimyan
pvc's more often everyday. random dizzy feeling in head when walk /sit(progesing symp)cardio doc says take beta blocker. hr reg. temp fix. real cause?
premature ventricular contraction (pvc) may induce symptoms: palpitations shortness of breath hypotension anxiety insomnia etc. . over time frequent pvcs can in some patients cause changes in the heart function. you should have a holter a cardiac th. viability scan an echo look at the valves and lv thickness. start on beta blockers metoprolol. you must see a cardiologist.
pounding heartbeat very irritating. cardiac exercise stress test no images and 48 hour holter monitor normal. what could be causing this?
i understand your distress. feel the wonder of 3 billion muscle cells working together to send blood with oxygen to all parts of your body due to which you are alive. feel good about cardiac exercise stress test and holter monitor being normal. “pounding heartbeat” indicates overwhelming anxiety due to stresses of life. see a psychiatrist for therapy medication and relaxation yoga meditation
pounding heartbeat very irritating. cardiac exercise stress test no images and 48 hour holter monitor normal. not anxiety can't fall asleep or woken?
did your cardiologist suggest any medication like beta blocker or anxiety medicine. since all your cardiac work up is ok ask your pcp for advise
pounding heartbeat cardiac tests normal. don't think anxiety since i take 2 mood stabilizer a day and already take 20 mg of propranolol 3 times a day.
it is not clear which mood stabilizer you are taking-ssra medications and effexor (venlafaxine) can cause pounding heartbeat. adderall can do the same combining them will increase anxiety symptoms. see psychiatrist for diagnosis medication benefits and side effects dose monitoring and therapy for stress in your life. do breathing and music relaxation yoga meditation tai chi
potential anxiety suffer no heart issues from pcp i exercise i feel fine until my heart rate / adrenaline kicks in and i feel jelly legs and dizzy?
i understand your distress. commend yourself for good functioning heart. decrease pace and duration 0f exercise. experience wonder of niagara falls in your state. feel good about your achievements in your journey of life of 43 years. feel blessings of your body and mind do not focus on anxiety do breathing and music relaxation yoga meditation. see psychiatrist for therapy for stress in life.
periods of sudden heart racing even if i'm just relaxing. i do have anxiety but i'm not always anxious when it occurs.
i understand your distress. thank you for informing about anxiety depression coeliac disease use of clonazepam. coeliac disease can have depression and irritability; keppra (levetiracetam) may cause depression and anxiety. see neurologist for benefits and side effects of keppra (levetiracetam) and internist for coeliac disease. clonazepam is for anxiety not depression. see psychiatrist for therapy for stress and medication
possible causes of erratic diastolic bp? e. g. 55-60 at rest 85-90 after exertion or stress? bnp normal echo normal chest scan normal ecgs normal.
varies with every heart beat and in general increases with exercise or stress. sounds like normal physiology. perhaps you'd benefit from some counseling to deal with your anxiety.
resting heart rate always beat fast with little exertion? have anxiety but heart shouldn't be fast all the time should it? dont exercise like i use to
the heart does beat faster after exertion. anxiety is your body's alarming system and it is fear based. just like the smoke detectors in your home. if you are not exercising like you used to you may experience an increased heart rate while you get back into shape. if you suffer from anxiety you may want to work on what it is you are afraid of and why.
resting heart rate always beat fast with little exertion? have anxiety but heart shouldn't be fast all the time should it? dont exercise like i use to
do you know how fast your heart rate goes up to? there are many things that can explain this and part of the answer would depend on if you have any underlying medical conditions.
right now having palpitations chest hurts pretty bad. it kind of stings in a sense. mild headache. 84 bph though. should i go to the hospital?
nope. this is your anxiety. it is extremely common that young people get worked up to a state that their physical body wants to just shout back. you need to breathe deeply and slowly and try to calm your mind a bit. you probably need to sleep.
recently most nights i have been experiencing palpitations and internal shaking. so much so it keeps me awake for hours. what is happening?
do you experience palpitations during the day? do you know what your pulse rate is during the palpitations? if you only experience palpitations when in bed and your pulse rate is less than 100 anxiety may be the cause making the heart beat forceful instead of rapid. avoid caffeine and alcohol in the evening. see your physician for further evaluation.
recently most nights i have been experiencing palpitations and internal shaking. so much so it keeps me awake for hours. what is happening?
unless you suffer of any specific illness at your age it is most likely that anxiety is causing your symptoms. however it is always wise to get evaluated and if it is something persistent get tested for other problems. other possible reasons are thyroid elevated blood sugar cardiac arrhythmias among others.
rapid heart beat for no reason 140/90 bp sweating anxiety pain at the back of the head. am i in trouble? do i need to see a doctor? getting worried
your symptoms may be due to stress. talking to a psychologist may be helpful
resting heart rate is always low but once i get up it goes 90 to 120. rhythm was normal on holter. could this be caused by anxiety?
normal heart rate is between 60 to 100 but athletes often have a lower heart rate. anxiety can cause rapid heart rate and other medical problems like hyperthyroidism fever or some drugs. your doctor seems to be on the right track to find out the cause.
rephrasing last question. waking mid night witha fast heartrate for wks. nothing over 100bpm. ekg stres echo holt were norm. what else could cause thisbe?
if all the medical causes are reliably eliminated then i would consider whether anxiety or distress may be the culprit. anxiety is often associated with an elevated heart rate; with panic attacks heart rate can be markedly elevated. also people can become hyperaware making it worse. rarely medical conditions may cause high stress hormone levels unlikely but sometimes worth checking.
racing heart and some palpitation (irregular) in the first few days of the atkins. i'm 16 year old girl who has anxiety. why is this happening? takingmg
of the atkins low carb ketogenic diet is excess production of aldosterone which then promotes salt absorption and potassium excretion through the kidneys. the resulting low potassium levels can cause arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythm).
sudden sharp pain occurred in my left wrist. i have been having heart palpitation is this something to worry about?
the sharp wrist pain is not characteristic of a heart problem but sounds more musculoskeletal from a wrist structure. palpitations may be benign and anxiety related but if they occur frequently a physician or cardiologist will order an ekg and an outpatient holter monitor to track your heart rhythm for abnormalities and see what your heart rate and rhythm are if or when you feel palpitations
should zoloft (sertraline) be taken with a beta blocker? i just started getting my heart palpitations back again. i have been on zoloft (sertraline) for almost 2 weeks 12. 5mg
12. 5mg of zoloft (sertraline) is quite a low dose particularly if treating anxiety. the palpitations may be related to your underlying condition. the best thing would be to follow up with your prescribing physician.
stomach/chest moves up and down with heartbeat sitting/ relaxing. computer jumps up/down on stomach. not anxiety. i'm 17. hr not fast just very strong.
this is probably normal. see a health care professional and have your blood pressure taken and a physical exam to reassure you.
sudden edema left hand. fast heartbeat but pr is only 70-90bpm. pins n needleson hands and ft. twitches under left eyebag on thigh and arms. what is this?
the edema of the hand is not explained by this but have you had a recent insect bite or some type of allergic phenomena? are you sure your hand is swollen? see your doc if you can to get further advice. the heart is not really racing at this speed and may be generalized symptoms for anxiety.
so im either having a panic or anxiety attack or im havin a heart attack im shakey feel like i cant catch my breath but doin 15 a min and im dizzy?
“im havin a heart attack shaky feel like i cant catch my breath and dizziness” are likely due to panic disorder. this does not seem heart attack. breathing 15/minute is normal. feel blessings of 3 million air sacs in your lungs due to which you have breath of life every 4 seconds. discuss with psychiatrist: •diagnosis •ativan or xanax (alprazolam) for panic •therapy for stress •relaxation •visual imagery
so im laying in bed my heart rate is riding about 50-55 im 27 male weigh 190 and dont exercise should i worry?
your life is a gift! cherish this gift. let wise man within you ask about: • risk of diabetes heart disease high bp due to being overweight and lack of exercise • risk of low self-esteem anxiety and depression • limiting happiness and enjoyment of outdoors • limiting pleasures of relationships your health is precious!
should i be worried about heart attack from anxiety? hypochondria panic 24/7 anxiety for 3 yrs. normal echo/stress/holter last month. more testing?
therapy with a good hypnotherapist to help you help yourself. anxiety is very amenable to the techniques a good hypnotherapist can teach you to relax and restructure the deep subconscious triggers to anxiety that keep it coming back. consider reading the book male intuitive mastery by dr. tim hall.
should i be worried about heart attack from anxiety? hypochondria panic 24/7 anxiety for 3 yrs. normal echo/stress/holter last month. more testing?
your normal heart tests are reassuring and you have a very low likelihood of having a coronary thrombosis. however your chronic significant anxiety state is worrisome. i recommend stress management therapy. discuss this with your physician who can refer you to an appropriate therapist.
tachycardia many times a night. always am awakened 10 mjn after falling asleep with tach up to 180bpm. somethung with dleep causjng ghis? not anxious!
can present with tachycardia at rest. a cardiologist will evaluate you & probably monitor your heart rate & rhythm over 24 hours or more. with an anxiety disorder & a vocal tic check your 3-generation family history for tourette syndrome. ts can present as obsessive-compulsive disorder + adhd especially in females without full-blown multiple motor tics + at least 1 vocal tic for a year or >.
they switched me to benicar (olmesartan) hct 20/12. 5 for my bp been drinking it two days and tonight i had a strong anxiety attack is that normal?
this is not a common side effect of that medication. have you had them before? did changing the medication make you worried in any way?
the past 3 days straight ive been getting heart pain with severe cold sweats fatigue etc. even with beta blocker. heart attack or anxiety?
beta blockers are prescribed for angina heart attack high blood pressure and anxiety. • beta blockers can cause fatigue cold hands • headache • upset stomach • diarrhea • shortness of breath • trouble sleeping • these are also symptoms of anxiety. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis and treatment including therapy medication and yoga.
taking metronidazole for c-diff. been on it 9 days. i have rapid heart rate and anxiety nausea. went to er. said heart was okay. is this normal?
agitation & irritability are common side-effects less common are fast heart beats & chest discomfort which may resemble anxiety. discuss with your doctor.
the past 2 weeks when i get irritated my arm starts to hurt. usually the right one. hist gad. stressful 2 weeks. just anxiety? recent holter good.
coronary disease is very rare in women your age however a holter monitor does not screen for it if you are concerned see your doctor about getting an exercise stress test
the past 2 weeks when i get irritated my arm starts to hurt. usually the right one. hist gad. stressful 2 weeks. just anxiety? recent holter good.
unusual new persistent or worsening pain or body symptoms indicates need for continued follow up with primary care. good to see appears some evaluation done. regarding ongoing gad and stress management start or increase intensive anxiety management/ relaxation and wellness skills. meds may be part of anxiety management when needed also.
tsh 7. 12. increased synthroid (thyroxine) dose per md x 2 wks. now big increase in pvcs anxiety and hyper sx. what should i do? had tt in '08.
if you experience a change in symptoms following a change of dosage you should get back to your pcp or the doctor managing your medication. you don't want to suffer a medication related event. get back to them soon.
tsh 7. 12. increased synthroid (thyroxine) dose per md x 2 wks. now big increase in pvcs anxiety and hyper sx. what should i do? had tt in '08.
call your doctor and tell that you can not tolerate increased dose of the tyroid hormone pills. the dosage may need to be adjusted again.
tsh is 1 but i don't feel ok. usually have fast heart 90-100 rest-fast breathing-muscle cramps-hair loss. am i level hyperthyroidism or not related?
i would have a complete physical with your primary care doctor. he or she can sort out these issues for you. it is not likely hyperthyroidism. are you the only bald member in the family? if not it is likely genetic. fast heart beat can be anxiety. are you very stressed? de stress your life.
terrible headache sometimes lower back pain gum hurts sensitive teeth speeding&slowing heartbeat chest pain. no serious problem detected at the clinic?
your symptoms are very vague and do not point to a single illness. if you are going through some kind of stressful situation in your life or hove anxiety then that would cause all the symptoms. if not then you should go and see your regular physician for a complete checkup to rule out any proble. for the tooth and gum problem you should see a dentist.
taking propranolol and hydroxyzine since yesterday. usually smoke marijuana daily. aside from general safety will my anxiety be worsened?
marijuana by itself causes anxiety which i am not sure it can be controlled with propranolol and hydroxzine both together have no interaction but when mixed with marijuana cns depression and psychomotor impairment might ensue i know it isn't easy to quit but that's another acute turn in your health requiring more medicines the choice is yours goodluck
this is my second day on zoloft (sertraline) and i feel restless and tired. i'm also. having heart palpitations will this go away soon?
it may take a couple of weeks for your body to get adjusted to the antidepressant. initial symptoms include an increase in anxiety nausea diarrhea and restlessness. if you stick to your prescribed regimen those initial symptoms will go away. good luck with your treatment and remember it may take about 4-6 weeks before you start to see changes in your mood with the antidepressant-don't give up!
three years ago i passed out. the next day i went to work and felt like i was going to faint again. i was rushed to the hospital and almost went into cardiac arrest. xanax was their answer. i have been on xanax for 3 years. i want off! it's a bandaid?
it sounds like the xanax (alprazolam) actually worked to prevent fainting; the likely cause was anxiety. and you are correct. there are other effective treatments for anxiety: usually a form of cognitive behavioral therapy which would take a lot of commitment/practice from you. go ahead and pursue this but taper slowly off the xanax (alprazolam) only under careful supervision from your doctor. cold turkey is dangerous!
three years ago i passed out. the next day i went to work and felt like i was going to faint again. i was rushed to the hospital and almost went into cardiac arrest. xanax was their answer. i have been on xanax for 3 years. i want off! it's a bandaid?
don't know your diagnosis. if your underlying problem is related to panic / anxiety - then it is likely decreasing symptoms without addressing underlying issues. if that is the case - would consider use of a non-benzodiazepine (like buspar/ ssri) and psychotherapy. work with your medical provider to wean off the xanax (alprazolam).
tachycardic with occasional high bp and anxiety. today i had major pressure behind eyes/nose after exercise. lasted 10 min. made me a bit concerned.
i admire you for doing exercise to improve cardio-vascular health. it is likely that your tachycardia is due to anxiety. putting pressure on yourself for exercise doing exercise when you are stressed continuing exercise when you are exhausted can lead to pressure behind the eyes. see a psychiatrist for therapy for stress. do breathing relaxation yoga meditation
tachycardic with occasional high bp and anxiety. today i had major pressure behind eyes/nose after exercise. lasted 10 min. made me a bit concerned.
you know something isn't right. it's not impossible that anxiety can cause all these findings but it seems unlikely. perhaps you have a heart rhythm disturbance or more concerning an endocrine disturbance. ignore it at your own peril. get seen and get well soon.
terrible news & chest pain/tightness = psychological reaction? thinkng about it makes painworse. is it normal to experience physical pain in such case
is a major stressor and your body and emotions will respond to that. please see your doc to rule out medical conditions and then a mental health professional for anxiety management. see www. relaxationresponse. org for some self-help. peace and good health. sorry for the bad news hope some good news comes along.
terrible news & chest pain/tightness = psychological reaction? thinkng about it makes painworse. is it normal to experience physical pain in such case
yes anxiety can present as palpitations and chest pain however stress can also provoke a heart attack. please go to ed and get checked out that this is not true chest pain. heartburn can also sometimes mimic chest pain however those are all secondary diagnoses after we make sure it is not a heart attack. see a dr now!
what causes an increase in resting heart rate by about 25 bpm? not dehydrated or anxious. went from 60 to 85. athlete
an elevation of resting heart rate can occur from fever overactive thyroid caffeine alcohol nicotine anxiety and certain stimulant medications or substances.
was diagnosed in jan. w/ new lbbb. stress test & labs normal no further testing. now have sob and pounding heart when lying down. 39 yo fem smoker.
you need to see your doctor. may need further investigation. they need to find the cause for breathing issues wile lying down as could be a sign of congestive heart failure anxiety or obesity. will need rest x-rays and blood testing. you are a higher risk given that you are smoker. please consult your doctor.
woke up with my heart beating fast but not with strength? blood pressure past few days been over 132 / 89 84. can poor diet make your heart weaker? feel like it's getting weaker day by day not pumping enough blood. did a stress and x-ray normal
i think that you may be suffering from an anxiety syndrome. poor di5 may make you feel weaker but would have to occur for a long period of time to affect your heart it will not diminish it's pumping of blood i think that you need to learn to relax and that will help to make you feel better
when lay on right side heart beats rly weird. either beats fast continuously or it will go two fast beats pause and repeat. stops if change position?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
went got all blood tests was normal / nuclear stress test normal / chest x-ray / catscan / colonoscopy / endo / pft / still feel tightness and like can't catch my breath and my heart beat gonna stop. getting worse and worse. cardiol said clear? lung?
yet you are still concerned. please continue to see your doctor. also your very real symptoms may be anxiety related. please see a mental health professional to learn some stress management techniques. one good one is clinical hypnosis (see www. asch. net) for referrals to licensed professionals. peace and good health to you.
when i lie on my back at night i feel my heart pounding in my chest and feel pulse in my back of head. why?
your heart is supposed to beat in your chest & its pulse wave travels throughout the body. at your age we all start to notice much about our bodies that we never paid attention to before. if you fixate on these sensations and believe they are new you become anxious that something is wrong. if you wonder if something hurts it doesn't. when something is truly wrong you'll know. now it's anxiety
why do i experience heart palpations while laying down at night? i have anxiety at times. i am 17 and male. no family history of heart disease.
some irregular beats during the day as well but are distracted by normal activities so you don't focus on them. at night when you are lying down and nothing else is distracting you they are more apparent and you are more aware. in addition when you are resting your heart rate slows which allows more time between normal beats for the extras to show up.
what does "minimal voltage criteria for lvh may be normal variant" on ekg mean? hr 103. athlete
or internist. might be athletic heart. but athlete heart has slow rate. why hr 103? anxiety? need clinical correlation for best interpretation.
heart arrhythmia/pain after marijuana use felt like passing out/lightheaded. should i bring it up with a dr or just stop using and forget it happened?
too much thc too quickly can cause the symptoms you describe. some are very similar to an anxiety of panic attack. the difference is the cannabis is causing those symptoms of heart palpitations and light headedness. some people are very sensitive to the effects of even small amounts of thc. good luck!
have a dull pain fullness my left side chest squeezing on lungs & heart beat? been 5 months and getting worse. tests should get. full cbc blood norm
for full evaluation and for peace of mind i recommend an evaluation by a cardiologist since you're also complaining of? palpitations. my impression is that your symptoms are not heart or lung related however. chest wall strain tension or anxiety are common causes of these complaints.
how do i know if im having a mini heart attack or that i have anxiety or panic attacks?
the symptoms for both may look the same. please go to your doc to rule out any medical condition and then see a mental health pro who treats anxiety disorders. he/she can teach you strategies to deal w/panic if that is what's going on. peace and good health. see www. relaxationresponse. org for some self-help.
have severe anxiety&cardiophobia. my doctor nurse practicioner prescribed this can 37. 5 dosage of venlafaxine effect heart rate high blood pressure?
venlafaxine can increase the bp but the dose you are on is too small and the bp increase is also not much really. don't worry!
hey i am 28 my blood pressure seems to fluctuate from a low130/89 to a high 149/100 my resting heart rate is about 93.
are you measuring your vital signs after complete rest for 10 minutes? 130/89 is slightly high (normal resting bp is <135/<85). 149/100 is high and if sustained should be lowered. while a hr of 93 is "normal" it's unusual to see that at rest in a healthy young man. there are many factors that could cause it including anxiety fatigue lack of sleep inadequate nutrition anemia pain fever etc
heart palpitations for years. 24 hour tape years ago. all good. 50+ ecgs in last year. one last week. all good. palpitations constant today. dying?
palpitations (the sensation of a rapid or irregular heart beat) with lightheadedness fainting shortness of breath or chest pain should be evaluated promptly. anxiety about palpitations can become very debilitating. if no medical cause is found then mental health therapies are indicated.
how can i determine if i have atrial fibrillation or panic disorder? during anxiety 100-137 bpm. relax 75-85 bpm. take place only during panic i think.
needs to come first. medical causes need to be ruled out before it can be stated that the problem is solely psychiatric in origin.
i am experiencing lightheadedness (worsened by: anxiety). walked into my kitchen and was suddenly overwhelmed by lightheadedness no other symptoms?
there are many possibilities such as blood sugar fluctuation blood pressure anxiety etc. please start by seeing your doctor. he/she will provide a diagnosis and then possible treatment and peace of mind can follow. peace and good health.
i have excessive burping indigestion heartburn and chest pain for 6weeks. what could be causing this? im in the middle of having a lot of tests.
involuntary belching after a meal is normal caused by release of swallowed gas after distension of the stomach with food. magenblase syndrome is postprandial epigastric fullness & bloating relieved by belching. aerophagia (accumulation of gas due to air swallowing) is common with anxiety hypersalivation from gum chewing smoking drinking oral irritation. in some belching can become habitual.
i have really bad anxiety but recently i can't shake the feeling like i'm about to have a heart attack because my left arm hurts to touch and move and sometimes my left breast hurts what should i do?
do you have a pattern of getting really anxious about your health or even minor symptoms? if yes seeing a therapist might help. however if you are suffering from significant pain of unknown cause than medical assessment may help to figure out what is going on.
i'm currently on citalopram 40mg daily and propanalol 20mg daily can i take the kalms night sleeping tablets too? anxiety reasons
you may take kalm which is valerian root herbal supplement however it may cause increased side effects of dizziness confusion drowsiness.
i have anxiety but dont have panic attack. chest pain near sternum thingling fingers are muscle weakness fatigue headaches burning sensations when i wake up diziness blurred vision brain fog. ekg ul. sound stress t. ok. so maybe is fibromyalga or costo?
in may ways. once can mentally obsess over things that frighten the person or do behaviors to keep danger away e. g. ritual behaviors checking and re-checking. physically there can be heart palpitations shortness of breath sweating sleeplessness etc. please go to a mental health professional for support if you think you have an anxiety disorder. see your doctor first to rule out medical.
i have anxiety but dont have panic attack. chest pain near sternum thingling fingers are muscle weakness fatigue headaches burning sensations when i wake up diziness blurred vision brain fog. ekg ul. sound stress t. ok. so maybe is fibromyalga or costo?
instead of having doctors tell you what isn't wrong ask what is. if they don't know follow their recommendations on what next diagnostic steps to take. in any case you should work closely with your primary care doctor/gp for these concerns. if you're having current symptoms call your doctor or go the the er.
i have anxiety but dont have panic attack. chest pain near sternum thingling fingers are muscle weakness fatigue headaches burning sensations when i wake up diziness blurred vision brain fog. ekg ul. sound stress t. ok. so maybe is fibromyalga or costo?
your doctor can assess for costochondritis or fibromyalgia but these symptoms can also be associated with an anxiety disorder.
i have a phobia with my hr. i have no heart problems but when i work out and feel hr high scares me i panic and cause anxiety/panic. what to do?
that's too bad since so many great activities in life would elevate one's heart rate. since you already know that you have a healthy heart you might wish to consider some cognitive behavioral therapy sessions to get beyond this.
i have lupus and kidney problems. i have been drinking one rockstar energy drink a day to help with fatigue. is it harmful?
watch out for: increased blood pressure heart palpitations anxiety and panic attacks diarrhea increased urination dizziness irritability nausea nervousness jitters per <link> caffeineinformer. com/energy-drink-side-effects. what's your age pertinent to your question of possible harm?
i had an ekg done. it said nsr heart rate 72 can not rule out anterior infarct. i have anemia. hgb 9. hypothyroidism. and anxiety. i've never had ch?
please resubmit.
i have ptsd; infrequent migraines high blood pressure and anxiety and chronic depression (yeah what a cocktail haha) i am medicated; propanalol ma?
please resubmit and insure that you question is clear & specific.
ive been experiencing mild sharp chest pain when i breath on my left side shortness of breath along with anxiety and vertigo could my anemia be back?
it is not feasible to provide a meaningful opinion without taking additional history physical examination and may be some tests. it would be prudent to see your doctor as your symptoms warrant an evaluation. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk prodfor good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex if you have sex. get hpv vaccine
just wondering started paxil (paroxetine) for my panic attacks 10 mg it's been a week and my heart rate is very rapid when i'm at work. i'm a carpenter?
it takes two to four weeks for you to see full effects of paxil (paroxetine). initial common side effects are some stomach upset and may be head aches rarely it can cause activation; feel activated restless and energetic than usual. perceived heart racing is common in anxiety but if it persists contact your physician.
just wondering started paxil (paroxetine) for my panic attacks 10 mg it's been a week and my heart rate is very rapid when i'm at work. i'm a carpenter?
while paxil (paroxetine) is usually not agitating it occasionally causes paradoxical anxiety or agitation especially at first. it's also possible that you are dehydrated; it's generally a good idea to drink lots of water with such medicines especially if you do physical labor. if the problems persists consult your prescribing doctor.
just got a skipped / extra beat while laying in bed to sleep super scared. is this normal? i feel there's a link btw not having a bowel m. and pvcs
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
just had a skipped heart beat after a few minuts of anxiety should i be worried? my tests are all normal
i think you should have a basic ekg and possible 24 hr monitor to check heart rate variability. i f these are normal you should keep an eye if it recurs for further evaluation.
jerking sensation. with/without anxiety. had whole life. heart races. not panick attack. ekg came back normal. 39 week pregnant currently?
could represent "cardiac awareness " a benign condition or else could be some type of arrhythmia. most common of these at your age would be symptomatic pvcs (a benign condition very common in which extra heart beats occur) or possibly svt (supraventricular tachycardia). this latter condition is a circus re-entrant rhythm disorder which is annoying but rarely dangerous. i'd get checked out after p.
jerking sensation. with/without anxiety. had whole life. heart races. not panick attack. ekg came back normal. 39 week pregnant currently?
how many illnesses can be cured by having a baby. . of course the reverse is true! seriously i would just be a little more patient until the baby comes and then see how many of your symptoms still persist and how many resolve. you'd be surprised as to what having a baby can do to the rest of your medical oddities that suddenly popped up just because you were pregnant.
just went to e. r for feeling short breath xray and ekg came out good diagnose was anxity still short breath what can it be? asthma?
is a relatively common symptom of anxiety. the relaxation response a book by herbert benson can be helpful for you. also see a mental health professional to help you manage your anxiety. peace and good health.
just had my son 3 weeks ago today my heart flutters have been bad could it be the hormones? since i've had i ln depth heart tests and im heart healthy
your hormonal changes may be contributing but stress anxiety and sleep deprivation should be considered as well!
just had sudden weakness feet/hand cold sensation palpitations sensitive to light/noise dry mouth and this burning tingly feeling allaroundbody i'm 18 took aspirin and nothing isit anemia? anxiety?
i can't diagnose you at a distance but i'm wondering if you didn't just have a panic attack. if this happens again and becomes a problem get with your personal physician. check your blood pressure now if you are able. best wishes.
just got a skipped heart beat after an emotionally intense day. should i be worried? i normally don't get any!
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
just had physical blood work everything came out good so wonder i'm 30 someone at my age having heart attack stroke and cardic arrest common and why?
can happen at any age but probability is lower when young like yourself. the anxiety you mention in your history may be the real issue. please continue being followed by your doc and consider getting support for your anxiety w/a mental health care professional. treatments such as biofeedback clinical hypnosis and meditation are all helpful tools. peace and good health.
just had flu havr slight cough no pain/chest issues no stuffiness. do have seas. allergies. i feel like i must breath in deeply. is this allergies?
have trouble breathing in is from upper airway obstruction or anxiety. if this becomes a recurrent problem then you need to make sure that your anxiety is resolved (with psychiatric counselling as well as medications) and consult an allergist or ent to evaluate your upper airway area (vocal cord dysfunction is one possibility. )
just upped my dose of nortriptyline from 5mg to 10mg and experiencing some increased anxiety from it. racing heart jittery nervousness. is this normal? i had no side effects intially and it has helped my migraines. wondering if it will go away.
in general anytime you increase the dose of medicine it is possible to have side effects. usually if a side effect will go away it will do so after a week or so. you can also try to increase the dose a little more slowly. best wishes.
just upped my dose of nortriptyline from 5mg to 10mg and experiencing some increased anxiety from it. racing heart jittery nervousness. is this normal? i had no side effects intially and it has helped my migraines. wondering if it will go away.
first thing to do is to notify your doctor. may be to much medicine for you. if you are having symptoms may be better to go back to original dose. then see your doctor and talk about the other options for treatments of headaches
just curious how is a panic attack any different than cardio exercise on the body? both stress the heart elevate heart rate and bp etc.
panic attack stems from anxiety worry depression and is emotionally situational and comes and goes until what's causing the anxiety state is resolved or under control. . cardio exercise is temporarily controlled state that is willfully purposely being driven and after this controlled state( exercise) is stopped everything such as hearty rate pulse rate goes back to normal.
keep going dizzy and thinking my heart rate is slower than usual then i felt faint and blacked out and woke up 45 minutes later exhausted cause?
your symptoms & your age speak to the possibility of a seizure type of problem. heart problems can also be considered a possibility in anyone who feels dizzy and faints but if your timing of 45 min. to wake up is accurate then a heart issue becomes less likely. have you ever been seen by a neurologist for these episodes because i notice you suffer from anxiety as well? what has your doctor said
klonipin. 5mg tid with propranolol 10mg in am for anxiety. the klonipin is too mild and does not help the severe anxiety with hr 110bpm rest valium?
rather than looking to other benzodiazapines - would ask if you have been tried on a ssri or snri? what about psychotherapy?
klonipin. 5mg tid with propranolol 10mg in am for anxiety. the klonipin is too mild and does not help the severe anxiety with hr 110bpm rest valium?
i understand you need for relief from anxiety. propranolol is used for heart rhythm disorders. see a cardiologist for diagnosis of hr 110 per minute at rest. klonopin is for anxiety; its effect lasts 12 hours. the effect of valium lasts for about 8 hours. treatment of anxiety is more beneficial by a psychiatrist with therapy medication relaxation music breathing relaxation and visual imagery.
keep having chest pain above left breast upper chest. had to go to er nothing found. what could it be? worse w stress. throblike. stress test fine mos ago
spasm of muscles of your chest wall from anxiety. try moist heat or advil (ibuprofen) and see if that helps
low bp on home monitor 90/62 and bp at doctors while ago 130/70. which is accurate. heart palpitations and chest pain doc says anxiety 19 year old femal?
provided any physical cause is thoroughly ruled out for your symptoms let me ask you have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
low bp on home monitor 90/62 and bp at doctors while ago 130/70. which is accurate. heart palpitations and chest pain doc says anxiety 19 year old femal?
you are likely more relaxed at home and the lower reading is likely to reflect that. at the office you are likely more anxious and that could raise it some. make sure the batteries in your home unit are fresh & it is good to take you level 3 times over a 5 minute period & average the nuber. these devices are seldom as accurate as the ones at a docs office.
left chest pain when briskly walking or uphill exercise. had ecg at hospital and was normal. jolts during sleep too as if my hearts stopping. worried. ?
most likey anxiety but get ultrasound of heart to make sure it is not life threatening hypertrophic cardiomyopathy disease leads to sudden death.
left side chest pain for over a year now. comes & goes but been here for 2 weeks recently. normal ekg + chest xray. doc says anxiety? could b heart?
your chest pains are unlikely to be caused by a heart problem in view of a normal examination your age and normal ekg and chest xray. a common cause would be a pinched or irritable intercostal nerve or chest wall muscle which causes sharp shooting pains with a deep breath or certain chest movement. inflammation of the joint between the sternum and a rib is another cause and tenderness is common.
my pulse for the first time is 100 and my bp is 132/82 and iam 57?
a true resting heart rate is measures after 15 minutes of laying down or sitting in a chair without anxious thoughts in your head. walking up to the pharmacy's machine and pressing a button doesn't count. that being said if your resting heart rate is truly elevated try to find the cause. if there is no prior heart history rx may not be needed. propranolol for anxiety & tachycardia often used.
my pulse for the first time is 100 and my bp is 132/82 and iam 57?
why are you checking it? do you feel ill? those are otherwise ok vital signs. lots of things will raise your pulse- including anxiety about your pulse. speak to your doctor if you feel ill.
my doctor told me to stop taking the propanolol 60mg er after a month what kind of side effects are there and will they be bad? it's been two days
it depends on why you were taking it. if for palpitation they may return if for high blood pressure it may go up unless you are on other medications if for anxiety it may return. if you have asthma and propanolol was making it worse your asthma may improve. would call you doctor and discuss the reason why he stopped it and if you should slowly taper it off rather than cold turkey. .
my doctor told me to stop taking the propanolol 60mg er after a month what kind of side effects are there and will they be bad? it's been two days
withdrawal from chronic propranolol(a beta blocker) can cause some anxiety symptoms faster heart rate or a rise in blood pressure. tapering off it is preferable rather than abruptly stopping it. you were not taking a strong dose however and i'd be surprised if you have serious effects from stopping it.
my heart rate generally sits around the 80s to 90s but on occasions as is happening now it it goes up to 109. i am not exercising but sitting watch?
109 is considered tachycardia but is not extremely high ( 90 is also a bit high) there is always variation. do you drink caffeinated beverages or take pills with caffeine? heat stress/anxiety can also raise hr would followup with cardiologist to have your heart assessed ekg echocardiogram stress test since you are 65 and insure that there are no other issues like abnormal rhythm
norm stress test & echo eval by cardiologist. i was having anxiety attacks for weeks. stopped now. is that early sign of incoming mi? age28m. no fam hist.
it sounds like your anxiety attacks have just stopped. this is probably not connected to your heart. at your age and with a normal stress test on your heart and evaluation by cardiologist heart attack is very unlikely.
norm stress test & echo eval by cardiologist. i was having anxiety attacks for weeks. stopped now. is that early sign of incoming mi? age28m. no fam hist.
your anxiety is poorly controlled. you should be reassured that your heart is healthy; however you are concerned re: mi. it is time for counseling therapy and cbt. please consult a psychologist and/or a psychaitrist.
nightly i can't sleep due to my heart pounding when lying down and my hr going up to 110. when i rest my resting hr is 100--not normal. causes?
tachycardia too numerous to list them here. assuming that you have sinus tachycardia most common causes are external stimuli (drug side effect stimulants) hyperthyroidism or anxiety reaction. but there are many many more possibilities. get to a doctor for accurate diagnosis and proper treatment.
normal pulse and bp ekg was normal as well. i am having chest tightness 2 weeks and am not hungry/when i eat i'm full very quickly. thoughts?
chest wall muscle spasms from stress or anxiety may be the cause. may need further tests such as echocardiogram. see a heart specialist.
normal ekg holter monitor and blood work. symptoms of chest pains short of breath palps see black when standing up too quickly(19 y. o)doc says anxiety?
anxiety is a possibility but without seeing the physiology or trying to reproduce the physiology with observations of the patient standing up too quickly i can't rule out other possiblities.
nausea b4 sleep no food for 12h. wokeup to pvc then kinda paniced palpitation with pvc feet/hand tingle/numb faceflushed lightheadedness(faint) had juice felt betterafter then rusheder ekg/bp normal
given your young age and the history you provided this does seem like you had a potential anxiety response. your are using term "pvc" i presume you have had some evaluation to suggest you had this in the past. pvcs are very common and symptoms from pvcs are very variable. reduce caffeine take multivitamin consider further evaluation if symptoms recur: labs echocardiogram etc.
nerve pain all over body all the time. anything i can do to heal nerves? i take benzo for anxiety and seems to help but not sure if it's making worse.
when someone describes a symptom that is "all over" i usually find clues on lab work if this is a new thing for you. i would order cbc with diff and plt liver tests (ast alt alkphos bilirubin (total & direct)) full thyroid panel (tsh t3 t4 free t4) vitamin d homocysteine b12 & folate fsh lh estradiol testosterone and progesterone. also keep symptom journal for any daily changes.
normal ekg echo holter thyroid&cbc checked last year for heart palps/chest pains. still have fluttering feelings in chest is it my heart or anxiety?
i may be wrong but i strongly recommend that you set up an appointment with a psychologist! please keep me informed.
nagging chest pain when laying in prone position or on left side. recently had chest infection. causing anxiety. pericarditis?
pericarditis. sounds like you should seek an in person evaluation in person.
normal blood tests rule cancer? my brother died lukemia every doc is saying anxiety. heart doc tests echo / holter / stress echo / ekg lung doc bronchosco / ct scan and full gastro workup / all scopes endo colons capsule. headach daily weak pulse
if normal blood test/normal work ups then i agree anxiety is the culprit of your headaches. recommend sleep at least 8 hours meditation yoga tai chi and iso metric exercises to get your pulse back to being strong!
normal blood tests rule cancer? my brother died lukemia every doc is saying anxiety. heart doc tests echo / holter / stress echo / ekg lung doc bronchosco / ct scan and full gastro workup / all scopes endo colons capsule. headach daily weak pulse
normal blood test (blood cell counts "cbc") no fevers and a normal physical exam are good news. symptoms of leukemia include fatigue weight loss frequent infections and easy bleeding or bruising.
never exercised started going on 40 min. walks past 3 days get out of breath just had normal ekg 4days ago should i worry? very scared i have bad heart
i understand your distress. feel good about normal ekg and repeat that many times. be concerned not scared! make commitment to see your physician to discuss: •follow up of “bad heart” and if it is due to hyperlipidemia and type 2 diabetes •acidity due to stress •balanced diet 1500 cal/day •exercise program therapy with a psychiatrist for • anxiety • to deal with stresses of life • coping skills
on meds for anxiety/panic disorder so why is it my heart rate is still fast and chest and heart hurts dr said its my anxiety. heart dr said heart is ok?
doesn't automatically mean that your symptoms will be well controlled. have your medications been optimized? are you using non-pharmacologic techniques as well? there are a # of ways to address anxiety: cognitive behavioral therapy behavior modification individual psychotherapy group psychotherapy qi gong tai chi acupuncture acupressure homeopathy meditation yoga & exercise program.
opinion of beta blockers (tenormin) for regression of anxiety induced hypertension mild lvh?
a good choice as your doctor evidently did also. give it a try for a few months i think it is a good idea.
other causes for my tachycardia? all normal causes seem to be ruled out heart structure is normal blood test shows normal ranges too thyroid fine.
often anxiety can cause palpitations and tachycardia even when you're not feeling stressed. thyroid issues may contribute. it sounds like you have seen an internist or cardiologist for this. i would follow your doctor's recommendations.
other causes for my tachycardia? all normal causes seem to be ruled out heart structure is normal blood test shows normal ranges too thyroid fine.
depends upon the type of tachycardia - psvt / a fib/flutter / sinus tach? psvt is an electrical problem in the av node of the heart. in a young male afib is iikely related to alcohol use and sinus tach is likely related to anxiety.
on propranolol for anxiety. when on it my heart rate goes up to 100bpm when anxious but can drop to 48 at rest. is that too low?
those numbers are fine as long as you are feeling okay
over 2012 i've had many ekgs an echo a stress test and blood work. everything comes back ok except i have a fast heart rate. why am i so fatigued? !?
will need to see a good doc to make you and your doc have covered the bases. if nothing can be found after extensive testing then you must consider depression / anxiety.
okay i guess i need to rephrase my question my son had been sitting in the car for a 4 hour trip to see his behavioral specialist and as usual the check is heart rate blood pressure weight height and that's when i was informed that he had a very fast hear
rapid heart beat can be due to anxiety. other possible causes in children are arrhythmia or hyperthyroidism. see your primary doctor first. bp should also be checked. cardiologist next.
on benicar (olmesartan) 20 & lopressor 25 2 x daily for high blood press & high pulse. i'm also on ativan 1mg for anxiety. could the ativan cause cardiac arrest?
should reduce your anxiety--definitely will not cause cardiac arrest.
on benicar (olmesartan) 20 & lopressor 25 2 x daily for high blood press & high pulse. i'm also on ativan 1mg for anxiety. could the ativan cause cardiac arrest?
but it can decrease your breathing although unlikely with this low dose check with your doc!
off and on chest pain for months. dx anxiety. been feeling sternum pain when i take a deep breath. echo ekg stress holter fine. is my heart ok? anxiety?
what you know is that your heart is not diseased. without psychiatric/psychological evaluation by a mental health professional it is impossible to diagnose on the internet. i also would need a complete history as your question suggests these symptoms are relatively new. go get a referral get evaluation and follow recommendations for at least 2 months and see if symptoms get better or go away.
off and on chest pain for months. dx anxiety. been feeling sternum pain when i take a deep breath. echo ekg stress holter fine. is my heart ok? anxiety?
speaking with a therapist to discover the source of your anxiety makes sense. if all the physical tests point towards anxiety it is worth exploring what is at the core of your problems.
occasional heart palps seems correlated w/ big carb-rich meals & maybe anxiety. ecg machine says normal but im abroad w/ no good docs. advice? worry?
occasional palpitations can many reasons. anxiety stress and increased caffeine intake are most common. please hydrate your self and consider over the counter magnesium if possible.
ormy daughter has a implanon for birth control. what are some side effects and could it cause an elevated heartrate or panic attacks?
since it secretes hormones this may have some affect on autonomic nervous system most likely preexisting anxiety/ your board certified ob should have explained risks and benefits prior to implant.
on full dose of biso beta blocker but heart still at 95-115.? any advice.?
thyroid? anxiety?
ok i had an eco and a ekg on my heart within the past 6 months still have chest psins sharp but i think it's anxiety cause both test were fine?
it sounds like you've been working with your doctor to assess your physical health and feel clear now that anxiety is most likely the cause of your chest sensations. your next step is to find a good therapist who knows cognitive behavioral therapy -- and possibly mindfulness-based cbt also -- to work with. these therapies can be very effective and may help you more over time than clonazepam.
ok i had an eco and a ekg on my heart within the past 6 months still have chest psins sharp but i think it's anxiety cause both test were fine?
other medical causes been completely rule out? if yes would consider psychiatric evaluation to determine if you do in fact have an anxiety disorder. this can lead to a helpful treatment plan. take care.
olmesartan when started worked fine it was 115 / 75 but within 7 days gradually both sys and dia reached at 150 / 90. is this normal?
you list amlodipine atenolol and chlorthalidone - are you taking all 4 drugs every day? in particular your olmesartan will be more effective if taken with a diuretic. also is your bp being measured by a validated cuff at complete rest for 10 minutes? is the elevated pressure an average or an isolated finding? always take it 3 times and average -this helps reduce reflexive anxiety interference
occasionally having fast heart beat little respiratory trouble and sweating. should we worry seriously about the heart? cn it b side effect of medicine?
if you are getting these symtoms on exertion then you should get echo and stress test anxiety will also produce similar symptoms
over a few weeks- experiencing a hunger for air like something is stopping my lungs expanding heart palpitations and a strange sensation in my head?
if these symptoms occur at rest but not with exertion they may be due to anxiety. if however they occur with physical exertion then anxiety may not be the issue. use this as a guideline and consult your physician accordingly.
on xifaxan (rifaximin). i took zofran slept woke up everything looked blurry. heart racing very fast agonizing cramps. is it dehydration reaction or anxiety?
you are taking more than one drug and the side effects can overlap. why are you taking xifaxin this is usually for liver disease or people with travelers diarrhea. can also cause diarrhea of itself. both drugs can cause nausea and either can cause cramps. i would eliminate the zofran (ondansetron) as this is very expensive and used mostly for people on chemotherapy. heart racing may be anxiety best wishes
on metoprolol tartrate (25mg) but my anxiety/panic still causes arrythmias at times. is this dangerous?
hi jackie709 probably not jackie as these are usually of a supraventricular tachycardia type (palpitations) or benign atrial ectopics (pacs) or pat paroxysmal atrial tachycardia but i cannot be sure unless i can see an ecg taken while you are having an attack. could you upload one for me to comment on. thanks
on lorazepam for 2 weeks for anxiety quit cold turkey went through w/d for a week seem normal now except when i stand up my heart rate gets to 100-120?
a temporary rise of your heart rate to 100+ can occur on standing especially if you are behind in your fluids. try drinking more water (especially important in the summer). if you feel light headed or faint on standing please see your doctor for an evaluation.
on and off sudden feeling of fear/dread (the feeling when u make an irreversible mistake? ) sweating but no heart palpitations. what's wrong?
sounds very much like an anxiety reaction. if this is frequent and/or bothersome follow up with your doctor. it is not an emergency.
obsessively checking heart rate. i battle anxiety. can i cause my heart to race by constantly checking it?
tends to make it bigger so focusing on your heart rate can raise it and make it more of an issue for your. see your doc to rule out medical conditions. then see a mental health professional to learn ways to manage your anxiety. see www. relaxationreasponse. org for some self-help.
on paxil (paroxetine) propranolol tried neorotin trilptol hydroxyzine and just about every antidepressant for anxiety and panic any advice?
i understand your frustration. paxil propranolol neurontin hydroxyzine are not specific medications for panic symptoms. antidepressant medications and neurontin can cause anxiety. go to a state or national park to feel the wonders. feel blessings of 3 million air sacs in your lungs giving breath of life every 4 seconds. discuss with psychiatrist ativan xanax (alprazolam) therapy relaxation meditation
on paxil (paroxetine) propranolol tried neorotin trilptol hydroxyzine and just about every antidepressant for anxiety and panic any advice?
are difficult to endure and treat. if medications provide any relief in frequency intensity or duration without bad side effects then take them as directed by prescriber. inositol may help. avoid caffeine alcohol recreational drugs smoking. get good sleep nutrition exercise. psychotherapy meditation mindfulness yoga support groups may help. best regards.
occasionally feel flutter or double heart beat. last less than one second. heart rate is normal before and after this happens. have anxiety as well. ?
this appears to be related to anxiety see your pcp
occasionally get anxiety but lately i keep waking up with heart beating fast and anxious feeling for no reason. am i subconsciously anxious?
is needed. anxiety may be the issue or part of the issue. there may also be something medical happening like thyroid imbalance or other hormones. please see your doc. he/she can test diagnose etc. if anxiety is a major factor a mental health professional can help w/stress management. peace and good health.
on/off pulsating pain on left side of chest. happens at least once a week. normal ekg 2 years ago while in treatment for anorexia. anxiety?
based on the limited information i can tell you that at the age of 21 it is almost impossible to have heart related chest pain and other life threatening causes of chest pain. it is likely muscle skeletal pain although anxiety can be the cause too. recommend see a doctor for this for proper diagnosis and treatment
often i have tachycardia chest pains and sigh a lot. is sighing connected to the palpitations?
when you breathe in (inspiration) your heart rate increases physiological especially notable in young individuals. the other symptoms of chest pains and sighing a lot may be due to anxiety you need to see your doctor for reassurance about your heart condition and counseling about anxiety best wishes
prescribed 10 mg propranolol for test anxiety. trying it out tomorrow to see how i'm affected. how long will the effects last/ when can i drive?
hello~ this is a minute dose of beta - blocker and you wont feel any side effects. you can drive immediately after taking it. besides b blockers only make you tired and a tad drowsy in high dose. you'll be just fine on that dose! thanks
prescribed 10 mg propranolol for test anxiety. trying it out tomorrow to see how i'm affected. how long will the effects last/ when can i drive?
short acting propranalol will be mostly out of your body after 8hrs. small amounts will remain for 1-2 days but negligible with a 10mg low dose. no problems driving if you feel fine an hour after taking it.
post pregnancy im having anxiety i become anxious its diff to sleep when i wake up i get fast heart rate ecg ok. anemia or hormonal problem?
hello ~ if this is your first baby anxiety is very much the norm with a new mom because this is a very precious package and it does not come with assembly instructions and now all that reading during pregnancy is having to be enacted. get as much support as you can from mom dr and nurses and never be scared to shout for help. be careful this is not a prodrome to depression. get help early if so
psychiatrist wont address anxiety probs. says that i may have high bp ekg was normal & bp is 116/78. psych & dr. won't do anything to help. advice?
often is possible without medications. you can seek a therapist who can assist you in this regard or find a book including the anxiety and stress reduction workbook by mckay et al. if these measures are not sufficient or anxiety is debilitating then seek a different physician. consider a healthtap virtual consultation. best regards for good health.
protruding heartbeat after a round of biaxin ( 3 months ago). this 24/7 & i can see & hear my chest move with each beat ( hr normal). many ekg's stress test x-ray's blood fine. sometimes i get extra beat the doc said benign pvc and anxiety. i?
yes anxiety and excess caffeine and smoking may cause extra heart beats.
pounding heart beat feel in neck. chest and stomach move. feel very hot. pulsating neck and body. can see pulsations in neck lying down. ?
your symptoms can be seen in overactive thyroid or elevated blood pressure certain cardiac disorders or chronic anxiety states. i recommend that you get evaluated by a physician who will take a history perform a physical examination and order any appropriate tests needed to make a diagnosis.
pain in right upper breast and shoulders blade feels like a heart beat in my throat?
given sparse details of the patient the range of possibilities is vast from anxiety to severe cardiac disorder this needs detailed formal evaluation
pulse at 111 bpm but has decreased. slight tightness on left side of chest. heart stress/ekg test all great results. i have anxiety/panic disorder.
unlikely that you have heart disease. highly likely the anxiety/panic needs to be addressed. there are pharmacologic (anti anxiety agents) and non-pharmacologic (biofeedback t. m. acupuncture) ways of dealing. good luck. be well hope this helps! dr z
pain in chest after pvc going into left arm. cardiologist said can be normal all tests done. still it hurts. ?
but it sounds like its a bit anxiety based since premature beats generally cause no symptoms or occasionally a "flip flop" feeling! suggest that you (with your physician's ok) start a gradual exercise program to condition your heart (while-assuring yourself your heart is ok) and possibly eliminating the pvc's! hope this helps! dr z
palpitations dizziness chest pain sore throat/ears ring doctors say virus 7 mths not getting better. ruled out cardiac blood tests mri negative?
if you already had a full cardiac work up most likely your symptoms are from stress and anxiety. need to find a way yo relax like meditation or talking to a friend about things that bothering you or talk to a therapist may be anti anxiety medicine in addition to meditation or prayer in addition to counseling might solve your problem
previously stressed severely for months. can prolonged stress/anxiety cause chest damage? i've had pinches&pulls since march. echo ekg xrays blood ok.
however prolonged stress can lead to issues with mind body functioning such as ulcers headaches or migraines stomach aches hair loss body pains. also the cortisol hormone is produced in the brain with prolonged stress and there are negative effects to this including medical and psychological conditions.
pulsating upper abd. pressure in sternum inverted twave palpitations? hosp sent me home without imaging and said i was 35 w anxiety. gave me norvas
to be sure just see cardiologist; they probably at elast did cardiac enzymes troponin i to see if you were having a heart attack and ekg so if not yet still symptoms get tested more fully big question is; do you smoke? if so foolish for heart lungs and cancer stop now. how tall and heavy are you? if overweight lose it slowly. if drink alcohol only healthy if red wine 100% grape at 4-6 oz/d
pressure/squeezing sensation upper midleft back. same on topback of head and also above forehead. sinus pressure l chest palpitations. comes & goes?
any history of heart issues in you or family? any drug or smoking history? anxiety? consult with us to help solve this issue. meantime follow "low inflammatory diet" at eyedoc2020. blogspot. com to see if diet change makes it go away which might help.
pain in r shoulder for 4 days hurt this am pain went away completely. some tightness in chest/dull ache in lower l back. anxiety or concern for pe?
the symptoms you described do not suggest pulmonary embolus. these seem to be usual musculo-skeletal pains. you may take an over the counter pain medication as needed. regular exercise would do you good. raising core body temperature through exercise relaxes muscles. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk prodfor good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex if you have sex.
resting heart rate is 75-80 bpm. i take 12. 5mg of atenolol for anxiety. is this a good number for resting heart rate?
there really is no optimum resting hr. everyone is set a little differently. normal is 60-100. the dose of atenolol is really small for your age. it is clearly not suppressing your heart rate much.
random episodes of dizziness & lightheadedness/fainting with brain fog. bp & heart rate normal. ct scan & all blood work normal. what can it be?
what a waste of money and resources doing all those tests on a 19 year old with history of anxiety especially if liver disease is under control. if its positional you have bppv o/w vestibulitis but there is no fainting. you have "panic attacks". i know most doctors practice defensive medicine especially in er.
resting heart rate suddenly between 80-95 over the last week. have mitral valve and anxiety but take atenolol?
atenolol is a beta blocker which can interfere with many metabolic pathways including the conversion of t 4 to t 3 (thyroid). it is better to meditate exercise (with caution) have a heart friendly diet (grass fed meats organic produce avoid gluten (which will wreck the gut leading to all sorts of autoimmune diseases and other diseases) and avoid gmos. cardiac risk factors include hi small ld
recent er trip becuz of radiating discomfort inmy shoulder/left arm/jaw. neg ekg and work up. neg ekgs and blood tests in past. could this be anxiety?
at age 24yrs. anxiety disorder is a definite possibility especially with 'negative cardiac work up'
rapid heart beat bp up. xanax (alprazolam) isnt helping like it use to. is there something stronger than xanax (alprazolam)? my anexity is causing eating & sleep problems?
you need to verify that anxiety is the cause of your rapid heart rate with a medical check. there are a number of different and probably more effective medicines for anxiety compared to xanax (alprazolam). you need to be seen for an assessment to find the one that is best for you.
re anxiety/costochron. had lots of body aches started 5-htp now better. also had fine ekg. lastsymptom is pressure/tightness in arms possible anxiety?
maybe but to conclude that all symptoms are due to anxiety would require that other medical conditions be ruled out. take care.
randomly i will exhale really hard and it happens every 3 or 4 mins. and my chest gets tight when running?
insufficient information to help you;range of differential diagnoses is vast- from anxiety to serious illness:try health tap concierge or a local md
reason for a higher than expected resting heart rate in an athlete? mine is about 80-95. used to be in the 60's? i drink tons of water
that is an abnormally rapid resting heart rate for a healthy young person. causes include overactive thyroid fever anemia caffeine alcohol nicotine anxiety cardiac arrhythmias and certain stimulant medications. i recommend an evaluation by your physician and appropriate tests will be ordered.
sudden heart palps tightness in chest nausea irritable rapid breathing dry cough. panic/anxiety attacks?
attacks. please see your doc to rule out or identify medical conditions. after that consider seeing a clinical psychologist who specializes in treating panic attacks. lots of reason to be hopeful. peace and good health.
suffer depression+anxiety. is this combo safe? metoprolol 25mg for bp bupropion 300mg prozac 20mg xanax (alprazolam) 0. 5mg(5 times/week). no seizure history.
please have your doctor refer you to a psychologist. it will take some time but the psychologist will be very helpful!
should pvc's be a cause of concern after a normal echocardiogram and ekg? when they come and go should i be concerned when they come? everytime they act up it makes me want to run to the er
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj
sometimes i get a mild pain in my left side next to breast. could this be angina or related to my anxiety?
chest pain outside the nipple line is rarely cardiac in origin. more likely is intercostal muscle pain or radiculopathy or irritation from a pulmonary source if you have pain when taking a deep breath in. you are also a young woman and unlikely to have angina without significant history or risk factors. please see your md for a physical exam.
sometimes at night i will feel nervous and my heart will start beating up to 130bpm and slow down gradually in 5 to 10 minutes. is this svt?
occurs before the rapid heart beat my bet would be on sinus tachycardia (normal response of the cardiovascular system to anxiety) rather than svt (an "arrythmia" abnomal rythm ")
since last week i have had what feels like acid in my throat and tight chest. i suffer anxiety and depression and it's making me anxious?
might have esophageal reflux. this would give you the sensation in your throat and a tight chest. make an appointment with a health care professional for evaluation diagnosis and treatment. it will probably be easy and inexpensive to treat.
shortness of breath at rest since this morning plus unusual fatigue. and tightness in chest. no other symptoms. does it warrant an er visit?
although those symptoms may well be noncardiac they deserve evaluation in the hospital emergency room where prompt evaluation and proper testing can be obtained. anxiety and chronic stress may account for the symptoms but cardiopulmonary pathology must be ruled out first.
sharp pain under left breast like air pocket. worse when i breathe in. been under a ton of stress. no racing heartbeat. possibly dehydrated. stress?
sharp pain under left breast like air pocket. worse when breathing in. under stress no racing heartbeat possible dehydration. need to have an office visit. could be very serious like blood clot or possibly anxiety which could be treated successfully with medication. need labs xray. please get medical attention soon.
so i'm 29 years old and i been having really bad anxiety for the last week chest pain nod in my throat feeling like i'm going to faint or pass out and?
good diagnosis by you. please discuss with your health care team.
taking zoloft (sertraline) for about a month. started having weird heartbeats and nausea is this normal? will it pass?
zoloft (sertraline) is used for treatment of depression and anxiety. it can cause nausea and palpitations. it can also be due to anxiety discuss with psychiatrist: • diagnosis of depression anxiety or both • intensity of symptoms and impairment of functioning when zoloft (sertraline) was started • improvement in symptoms and functioning now • decrease the dose • take zoloft (sertraline) after the meal • therapy for stresses.
two nights woke with pounding and fast heart rate and one night with nausea. should i be concerned or could this be anxiety? ekg was neg morning after
anxiety is one of the reason you may have this symptom bu can not ignore as it is a sole cause. ekg when you not symptomatic is not going to be diagnostic either. you need some work up for that rule out over acting thyroid and cardiac monitor to rule out intermittent arrythmia. see your primary care who will coordinate your plan of care
today at the pharmacy i found out my resting heart rate has been high lowest heart rate was 108 bpm highest was tonight. 123 bpm any advice?
a true resting heart rate is measures after 15 minutes of laying down or sitting in a chair without anxious thoughts in your head. walking up to the pharmacy's machine and pressing a button doesn't count. that being said if your resting heart rate is truly elevated try to find the cause. if there is no prior heart history rx may not be needed. propranolol for anxiety & svt is often used. ttyd.
the pulse is just above were my thumb would end i'm confused weather it's not my pulse or what is it? as i have my self in panic mode as i can see it
our body has a pulse all over - pulse points are easier to evaluate and some especially so. the location is not a problem. if it is consistently too fast you may want to ask for an exam but some variation is normal too. your own 'panic' will cause a vicious cycle but at 1st that's not dangerous. it is a reason to consider cbt therapy to manage anxiety and understand yourself better. best!
tightening of hand and left arm along with anxiety. increased heart rate. is this anxiety related or more serious?
it is important to exclude serious pathology before ascribing to anxiety;go see a physician asap or connect via health tap prime concierge
tightness in chest and slightly sore throat. feels like as if i just ran and i'm in light. is this normal?
no. not normal. at your age unlikely a heart problem. perhaps anxiety. best advice see your md to rule out serious problems.
threw up blood 5 times last night major headache and my heart beat steal feels like it's getting weaker. seen a physco he said there's nothing he can help me with said i'm normal and it's not anxiety or depression. need to see what more tests to do?
31 m notes: threw up blood 5 times last night major headache and my heart beat steal feels like it's getting weaker. seen a physco he said there's nothing he can help me with said i'm normal and it's not anxiety or depression. . need to see what more tests to do? ans: it is never normal to vomit blood. see a real dr. and tell your story and ask what the problem is.
twice in two days felt skipped beats and a few really quick beats together after that lasted for a few seconds. holter 2 yrs ago normal
skipped beats are pretty common. common triggering factors are caffeine alcohol anxiety overactive thyroid hypertension and coronary artery disease. a normal holter monitor rules out other arrhythmias.
told i have sinus arrhythmia. told not to worry about it. but others tell me it's dangerous. i'm scared. my doctors won't send me for further tests. ?
is it sinus tachycardia? if you have no symptoms and pulse rate is not overly elevated - that might be why your doctor wasn't particularly concerned. i see that you suffer from an anxiety disorder. sometimes heart rate can be elevated with anxiety. education is often the best source of comfort. see: <link>
tight chest heart pound so fast left arm feels tingling dizzy cold hand and feet sweating suddenly stiff at neck & shoulder. heart attack or anxiety?
you are a 30 year old female - don't know if you have any risk factors for a heart attack. however if you have never had a medical workup and had medical causes ruled out than having it assessed is prudent. it may be a panic attack but we can't diagnose it.
under extreme stress and experiencing very fast heart beat often leads to throw up feeling tight chest pains dizziness. how to deal with stress?
anxiety disorder. . cognitive behavior and/or medication may be useful. talk to your physician.
use computer 5h/day. left chest pain rapid heartbeat when anxiety. gum bleeding. headache in the afternoon better with rest. what should i do?
stopping stressors would be the way to go. but given the symptoms and your age - check a ekg and echo to make sure you have a structurally normal heart. check blood work to make sure you don't suffer from bleeding disorders. check your vision. best wishes.
upper body feeling tight tingling in face. normekg stress echo 24holt. age28 nofamhist nonsmoker. f/u cardio said heart is healthy. anxiety? still heart?
congratulations! . there is nothing wrong with your heart. time to move on and look for other causes reflux musculoskeletal anxiety etc. and correct me if i'm wrong but haven't you asked this question several times already?
under huge amount of stress for months. bloody noses and heart palpitations. worry? or is it just the stress?
bloody noses may be due to dry air. palpitations may be significant. if they are sustained you should seek evaluation and treatment at your physician's office or the emergency room. it could be from anxiety but there is no way to tell unless you have them checked out
very active 36 yr old female. at night i have a flutter in chest occasionally and heart skips a beat. could it be anxiety or true heart issues.?
you should be evaluated medically for any underlying cardiac abnormalities. once ruled out or in if you have symptoms of anxiety tha should also be assessed and treated.
very anxious and completely inactive for months now and noticed that i get extremely tired and weak when i try to do anything + pvcs. why? !
please get help. you need a complete physical and an ekg with possible cardiac work-up. physical therapy and eventual exercise will be necessary to get yourself reconditioned and then psychotherapy and possibly psychiatric interventions to get your anxiety under control. best wishes for a quick recovery.
venous tos chronic subclavian dvt. can i use propranolol safely (for anxiety symptoms) or does it reduce blood flow increasing likelyhood of dvt?
in one study of propranolol users 15 out of 1 309 experienced a dvt. this is 1. 15% though it is possible to experience a dvt on propranolol it's not likely. hope this helps. ref: ehealthme. com
very sore upper back causing slight chest pain i'm extremely worried what could this be?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
very protruding heartbeat(more noticeable leaning back). happens in episodes. dont have anxiety. hr will be in 90's. shake w each beat body pulsates.
you will need a full medical exam and ekg additionally you may need a 24 hr. heart monitoring recording.
what causes atrial tachycardia w/aberrant conduction in a young person?
causes of atrial tachycardia in a young person but most likely this is a physiological response to some form of stimulation. anxiety excitement dehydration fever can all be associated with this. the aberrant conduction is a reflection of normal physiology if the heart rate is fast enough or could represent a minor abnormality of the conduction system.
what can cause a new left bundle branch block in a teen athlete? and can stress and anxiety maybe cause it?
of possibilities including ekg read incorrectly newly recognized rather than new lyme disease viral cardiomyopathy. stress and anxiety will not cause it. it would be appropriate to see a pediatric cardiologist for more evaluation.
why do i have tachycardia every time i eat dinner out and after a while without eating? and always on the same day of week!
different types of fast heartbeats (tachycardia) the first step in diagnosis and management is to define the nature of your tachycardia and then correlate it with your symptoms. ask your health care provider to schedule you for an event recorder or long term monitor to start the evaluation. it may just be anxiety if it only happens when you go out to eat.
what tests or doctors do i need to see other than lung and heart? ruled those out with bunch tests. shallow breathing sometimes won't inhale for 15 seconds. with headaches daily for months. breathless weak heart beat lump feeling throat clicking nois
u and i get to meet and speak. . much here going on. most headaches come from neck issues and so excellent physical therapy is essential to start. ump feeling in the throat may well be anxiety as all of this may be. low-dose indeeral/propranolol may help you a great deal. i would probably want you to have an upper g. i x-ray. i would have you start icing and internist possibly a neurol ogist luck
what tests or doctors do i need to see other than lung and heart? ruled those out with bunch tests. shallow breathing sometimes won't inhale for 15 seconds. with headaches daily for months. breathless weak heart beat lump feeling throat clicking nois
may all be anxiety related and if that is the cases you are caught in a vicious "circle" your symptoms cause anxity which causes the symptoms which cause anxiety etc etc etc. . this circle must be broken. ask your pcp for a referral to a mental health professional. you have obviously ruled out the "bad stuff" heart lung disease take the next step! be well! hope this helps. dr z
which of these two betablockers best for treating anxiety panic attacks sinustachy nsvt and ectopics. bisoprolol 2. 5mg or propranolol 2x 20mg a day?
both are effective depending on the dosage. depending of the symptoms your dr. can adjust the dosage of your medication
what's if mean when my lips are numb n iam light headed n keep going dizzy n head feels right light and chest feels tight and blur vision?
if your dr finds no medical abnormality then you are breathing too much due to anxiety. the low co2 caused by this will produce these symptoms. you might do an experiment by breathing hard until you reproduce similar symptoms. you may also feel that your heart is beating fast or hard. you may feel that somehow you feel that you are not able to breathe deep enough. breathing in a bag makes worse.
what is relationship between hashimotos and heart palpatation? 27 yo female with palpatations for 11 years hashis dx for 7yrs. originally told it was anxiety so i ignored it. dr recently put me on event monitor and said it could be related to thyr
atrial rhythm disorders are common;thyroid disorders are common;both may occur in the same individual & sometimes the latter is causal in the former
what is relationship between hashimotos and heart palpatation? 27 yo female with palpatations for 11 years hashis dx for 7yrs. originally told it was anxiety so i ignored it. dr recently put me on event monitor and said it could be related to thyr
thyroid disease more commonly hyperthyroidism but with hypothyroidism on occasion as well has been associated with cardiac symptoms including palpitations. treatment may include thyroid treatment as well as symptomatic treatment of the palpitaitons. the event monitor is an appropriate step. f/u/ w/ your doc and cardiologist <link>
what is relationship between hashimotos and heart palpatation? 27 yo female with palpatations for 11 years hashis dx for 7yrs. originally told it was anxiety so i ignored it. dr recently put me on event monitor and said it could be related to thyr
patients with hashimoto's thyroiditis often start off with symptoms like palpitations anxiety sweats and diarrhea due to overproduction (excess) of thyroid hormone. as thyroid burns out from autoantibodies destroying it patients transition to symptoms of low thyroid (hypothyroidism). your doctor should be able to to order lab tests +/- radiologic studies to confirm diagnosis and treat you.
what is relationship between hashimotos and heart palpatation? 27 yo female with palpatations for 11 years hashis dx for 7yrs. originally told it was anxiety so i ignored it. dr recently put me on event monitor and said it could be related to thyr
hashimoto's thyroiditis causes an underactive thyroid and doesn't generally affect the heart rhythm unlike an overactive thyroid which often does raise the heart rate and may cause palpitations. since hashimoto's thyroiditis is normally treated with thyroid supplements palpitations can result from higher than needed doses. caffeine alcohol nicotine heart valve abnormalities and anxiety can.
when my bpm reaches 120/130 i can see my heart beat in my chest with clothes on. i can also feel it in my throat. is this normal? i also have anxiety
sounds like you are experiencing what is called palpitations an anti anxiety drug may be helpful. ekg and possibly what is called a holter monitor would be helpful to exclude various abnormal heart rhythms as the cause in which case a beta blocker drug might be prescribed. probably normal at your age.
why while standing waiting for a bus or in a queue does my heart race at 96 bpm or more is it emotional perhaps had for many years and even after op.
have you considered the fact that the very measurement of your pulse rate is provoking anxiety? try ignoring it! seriously just a thought! hope it helps! dr z
worried it's giving me bad anxiety when i workout and i can't feel that pounding heart beat? just walking to my car short breath bad. lump throat feeling constant. + metha challeng airway disease pft. heart/lung doc ct bronchosc echo stress tes fine
see a psychiatrist soon given that all the tests you ran ruled out organic cause for your troubling symptoms. if you don't have a direct access to a psychiatrist consult your primary doctor good luck
worried it's giving me bad anxiety when i workout and i can't feel that pounding heart beat? just walking to my car short breath bad. lump throat feeling constant. + metha challeng airway disease pft. heart/lung doc ct bronchosc echo stress tes fine
if your doctor has advised you that your medical workup is normal consider that anxiety might be causing these symptoms. if that is the case consider working with a psychotherapist. take care.
why is my big toe nail gray colour is it to with my anxiety im takeing beta blockers?
this should have nothing to do with beta blockers. did you injure the toenail?
why is my big toe nail gray colour is it to with my anxiety im takeing beta blockers?
minocycline is a medication that has been shown to cause gray nails. if this in not applicable to you then graying can also be caused by the nail separating from the nail bed. this causes air to get under the nail plate and cause a gray color. a nail fungus can also cause a similar discoloration. to remove all doubt have your toe evaluated by a specialist that treats nail disorders.
what is the difference between carvedilol and propranolol? why is propranolol much use for panic or anxiety attack? thank you.
blockers have different effects on the receptors (beta and alpha) that they act upon. there is a lot more data and experimental studies with the use of propranalol ("inderal") (one of the "first" beta blockers ever used) and its effect upon anxiety (eg "stage fright") hope this is helpful dr z
what is the difference between carvedilol and propranolol? why is propranolol much use for panic or anxiety attack? thank you.
carvedilol is both alpha and beta blocker less sedating more effective for blood pressure control. propranolol is more sedating less effective for blood pressure more effective for hyperventillation rapid heart action tremors panic symptoms.
woke up with racing bpm 98-102 while still in bed. it went back to normal a min later. i've been having anxiety about my heart rate could this cause?
remaining focused on this may actually exacerbate it. 102 is a little bit elevated -are you have pounding or fluttering sensation. if you have the latter and it is occurring often - get evaluated. in the meantime- if you can find a quiet place - do so. breath in slowly & deeply through your nostrils. fill your lungs with air (but not to the point of discomfort). hold for a count of five then
woke up with racing bpm 98-102 while still in bed. it went back to normal a min later. i've been having anxiety about my heart rate could this cause?
there are many reasons for a fast heart rate some are metabolic some are hormonal some are secondary to uncontrolled stress and anxiety and some are simply circuitry issues within the heart itself. in young adults suffering from anxiety and whose symptoms include waking up with a racing heart it is wise to rule out cardiac issues. usually with an ekg and at times thyroid hormone testing.
why am my constantly being plagued by a variety of symptoms that come and go resolve in a few weeks e. g. palpations lightheadedness balance anxiety?
anxiety is a sub-type of anxiety disorder. you should have a complete medical exam and blood testing and certainly you need to see a certified psychologist for ongoing cbt (cognitive behavioral therapy). a team approach including physician. therapist and possibly a social worker is a good starting stategy for mental hygiene.
xanax (alprazolam) isn't calming me down. feels like my heart is racing but isnt. a little bit of tingling in my right arm. chest pressure?
xanax (alprazolam) is too short acting in my opinion to be used for anxiety disorder. as a behavioral neurologist i see a lot of people with head injury dementia mood disorders epilepsy and anxiety disorders. rebreathing carbon dioxide using a small paper bag helps many people with panic attacks / hyperventilation. long term therapy includes cbt clean meds simplification of meds etc.
xanax (alprazolam) isn't calming me down. feels like my heart is racing but isnt. a little bit of tingling in my right arm. chest pressure?
you most likely are experiencing a panic attack your tingling is due to hyperventilation 2/2 anxiety. i'm wondering how often this happens you might benefit from ssri treatment. please see your psychiatrist.
can constantly checking your heart rate make your heart race? i'm always checking mine and freaking out about it.
it sounds like your symptoms are related to anxiety. you should see a psychiatrist/ psychologist. if there's a concern about palpitations or skipped heart beat you should see a cardiologist.
what's a hypertensive crisis? if i notice a spike in my blood pressure what should i do?
extremely high blood pressure — a top number (systolic pressure) of 180 millimeters of mercury (mm hg) or higher or a bottom number (diastolic pressure) of 120 mm hg or higher — damages blood vessels. they become inflamed and may leak fluid or blood. as a result the heart may not be able to pump blood effectively. causes of a hypertensive emergency include: forgetting to take your blood pressure medication stroke heart attack heart failure kidney failure rupture of your body's main artery (aorta) interaction between medications convulsions during pregnancy (eclampsia). a hypertensive crisis is divided into two categories: urgent and emergency. in an urgent hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high but your doctor doesn't suspect you have any damage to your organs. in an emergency hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high and has caused damage to your organs. an emergency hypertensive crisis can be associated with life-threatening complications. signs and symptoms of a hypertensive crisis that may be life–threatening may include: severe chest pain severe headache accompanied by confusion and blurred vision nausea and vomiting severe anxiety shortness of breath seizures unresponsiveness. if you experience a severe increase in your blood pressure seek immediate medical attention. treatment for hypertensive crisis may include hospitalization for treatment with oral or intravenous medications.
are my symptoms all a result of anxiety/depression? for last 3 years: - decreasing energy and immunity - episodes of abdominal pain daily - frequent urination - sleep 12 hours daily and get a cold regularly - episodes of fast heart rate ear noise and ch
although many of these symptoms might be explained by depression and anxiety they could have other causes. that is the reason that your medical health needs to be checked out before just assuming it is from a mental health problem. for instance: is your vitamin d level normal? is your carnitine level normal? is your thyroid level normal? if you are male - is your testosterone level normal? are you anemic? do you have a urinary tract infection? this is a tiny sampling. i recommend that you have a thorough physical examination and if none of your symptoms are explained by medical conditions then follow through with a psychiatric evaluation. take care.
pressure/bloating 3" above belly button. feels hard to breathe. happens b4 i even eat. feels like i'm gonna stop breathing. anxiety?
belly-button (umbilical) pain may originate locally due to infection or herniation or be "referred" from another abdominal location like the appendix. signs/symptoms of concern include: local redness ; drainage umbilical bulging that can't be reduced with gentle pressure fever vomiting change in bowels generalized abdominal tenderness (suggests peritonitis) worsening pain. get checked pls.
shortness of breath on mild activity and sleeping on chest side cxr echo pft normal thyroid cbp normal my weight is ideal wt to do now?
shortness of breath on mild exertion & sleeping on left side of chest may be caused by congestive heart failure copd cad cardiomyopathy hypertension thyroid disorder anxiety neurosis pleuritis pe anemia sleep apnea. diagnosed by physical exam x-ray chest echo pft stress echo ct of chest with pe protocol cvc sma24 tshtreat the cause.
can tight scalene s cause pressure feeling jaw neck and shoulder. hist eds3 pots gerd anxiety. recent ekg echo normal. paranoid it's heart related?
referred pain is a common phenomenon. a massage therapist experienced in working with these muscle trigger points probably can bring about changes in such pain. it is not a d. i. y. task - you could cause trouble if it is done by an amateur. jaw neck and shoulder pain is worth trying this if you know a professional who claims to know the procedure. w/ a normal cardiac exam heart is not a worry.
symp-nervsys. sets of in xtreme way after doing small things like standing up or walking small stairs should i avoid traning? hr and bp gets xtreme
exercise should eventually help you but you may need to progress more slowly! your medications may not be optimal to control your anxiety disorder. we have newer and much more effective meds now than paxil! you also may need a higher dose of metoprolol! i would talk to your physician about these medicines and if he is not aware of newer and better therapy including biofeedback perhaps seek an
chest-pains really lightheaded especially after walking and slightly dizzy. im a 27yr old male what could be the cause? er said ekg xray are fine
symptoms are indicative of anxiety worry over health. however chest pain is not too common in anxiety. are you ok when at rest? why not check with your dr which may give you peace of mind. good luck.
chest feels tight with uncomfortable pressure. resting heart rate is 66 per min. feels like someone is squeezing my heart. what is wrong?
there are many reasons you may have an uncomfortable sensation in your chest. have you been sick lately or been feeling anxious? anxiety and respiratory tract infections are common causes of chest discomfort. consider seeing your doctor for a proper history and physical exam.
chest pain feels heart beating fast as if just ran a race throat feels tight her age is going on 13 yrs?
may have rapid heartbeats in association with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
situational stress and maybe performance anxiety not sure but felt panicky went home from work given lorazapam passed out woke confused and worse why?
it is possible that you have underlying sleep apnea and that the lorazepam impaired your breathing and resulted in lower oxygen levels. that could cause you to wake up feeling confused. i think it would be reasonable to see a sleep disorder specialist. performance anxiety is best treated with psychotherapy and if necessary with a beta blocker. have a happy new year.
possible to have chest pain triggered by stress or anxiety? what to take for it?
but first you must rule out significant illness by seeing your primary care practitioner. you may need an evaluation by a cardiologist. once it has been determined that stress/anxiety is the trigger of your symptoms there are many things you can do to help yourself! anxiety is often triggered by thoughts beliefs. a psychotherapist counselor or mind-body medicine practitioner can help you.
possible to have chest pain triggered by stress or anxiety? what to take for it?
stress can cause pain how ever you need a complete cardiac work up first this could be serious you may have coronary disease check with your physician.
can severe anxiety and panic attack lead to heart attack with physical signs and symptoms like chest pain? i have normal 2d echo with doppler ecg resu
it can. but fortunately it rarely does it just feels that way. you would have to have significant cardiac disease to begin with to actually have a heart attack during a panic attack.
can severe anxiety and panic attack lead to heart attack with physical signs and symptoms like chest pain? i have normal 2d echo with doppler ecg resu
no not likely if the diagnosis was anxiety & the workup was normal.
couldnt breath & pain in left arm- all test came back neg- ct scan of lungs ekgs bloodwork- no heart attack per dr. - 24 hrs still having same issues?
to your doctor or emergency department. your symptoms could be serious. however many non life threatening issues such as anxiety can present similarly.
can severe palpitations and high pulse for a few hours be caused by panic/anx attacks or could gas also cause this. eventually subside?
panic attacks involve a crescendo of anxiety that results in an outpouring of sympathetic stimulation (high adrenalin state). the symptoms resemble angina although there is typically an overwhelming "sense of dread" that something bad is about to happen. the heart races a tight throat and chest might appear along with shortness of breath with hyperventilation. beta blockers and anxiolytics help.
can the flumist vaccine cause heart palpitations?
generally no unless there is an anxiety problem.
constant pressure in my head like a balloon blowing up inside me skull and a heart rate of 109 while sitting. 22yr old female always dizzy and head aches and fatigue?
you could have blood pressure problems cardiac problems migraine anxiety drug effect anemia etc etc. see your doctor for a proper assessment.
can a rapid heartbeat be a sign of old drug use?
chronic methamphetamine ecstasy & cocaine use can lead to cardiac damage a sign of which could be tachycardia (rapid heart rate). chronic lsd pcp psilocybin and mj use in susceptible individuals can lead to brain thinking distortions that can trigger anxiety that can show up as tachycardia.
sometimes i would have chest pain all of a sudden. and when that happen i'll be sweating a lot. pain last fr abt 5 mins. should i be worried?
anxiety attack can produce such symptoms. talk to your physician to rule out more serious condition and get help with symptoms.
symptoms are numbness around the nose and mouth and chest pains. found that it could be linked to depression and paresthesia. thoughts?
anxiety and depression generally are not immediately life threatening problems. your heart is. you need to get your heart evaluated asap you may not have a second chance.
symptoms are numbness around the nose and mouth and chest pains. found that it could be linked to depression and paresthesia. thoughts?
first step is to get a physical check up to rule out heart disease vascular neurological etc and then to consider paresthesias related to anxiety and depression.
since last saturday i've been having constant anxiety attacks and its now been a week and my heart seems to be calm when i lay down but when i get up and walk and begins to beat faster. what could be the problem and what could i do to solve it? .
while it sounds like it could be anxiety it is important to check in with your doctor to rule out an underlying medical condition. to treat the anxiety your doctor may want to prescribe anxiolytics; however the long term solution is to treat with psychotherapy & improve self-care. strategies for reducing anxiety include deep breathing relaxation techniques practice of yoga and meditation.
since last saturday i've been having constant anxiety attacks and its now been a week and my heart seems to be calm when i lay down but when i get up and walk and begins to beat faster. what could be the problem and what could i do to solve it? .
the mere fact of walking (exercise) will cause your heart to beat faster. check with your doctor if concerned.
since last saturday i've been having constant anxiety attacks and its now been a week and my heart seems to be calm when i lay down but when i get up and walk and begins to beat faster. what could be the problem and what could i do to solve it? .
check in with your doctor to rule out a medical condition. as an additional resource: free smart phone apps: 1) mycalmbeat 2) stresscheck 3) tacticalbreather 4) lifearmor 5) breathe2relax 6) biozen 7) binauralbeats therapy <positive_smiley> instant heart rate.
why could someone's heart feel fluttery?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
sometimes my chest will hurt so bad i feel like i can't breathe how can i tell if this is anxiety induced or costochondritis something i've had befo?
only a thorough medical exam consisting of a thorough history of symptoms complete physical exam and possibly additional lab and/or imaging tests with a competent physician can determine the precise cause of your symptoms of chest pain.
sometimes my chest will hurt so bad i feel like i can't breathe how can i tell if this is anxiety induced or costochondritis something i've had befo?
chest pain can be due to many causes. left sided chest pain can be due to heart problem and can be associated with difficulty in breathing. it can come from lungs and pleura which is the covering membrane of lungs it can come from gastr esophageal reflux and of course chondrochondritis and sometime due to anxiety and panick attacks. you should see you doctor and find out what is causing and get treat.
sometimes i can't breathe so i start shaking and sweating profusely. am i just being incredibly nervous?
while these symptoms may be related to anxiety you should see your health care provider to make sure you do not have a more serious health condtion.
sometimes i can't breathe so i start shaking and sweating profusely. am i just being incredibly nervous?
it sounds like you have panic attacks which in a sense is just being incredibly nervous. anxiety causes the release of the fight or flight hormones which cause trouble breathing shaking and sweating. have a psychiatric evaluation as this is easily treated.
would drinking caffeine & sugar make me feel very anxious in crowds and depressed sometimes for hours at home? or do i have an anxiety disorder?
unlikely unless prodigious amounts of unaccustomed caffeine are being consumed. neither is a vital nutritional agents so simple elimination for an extended period should enable u to answer your own question.
why could someone's chest hurt really badly?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what would cause a spike in high blood pressure? from normal to 220 -103
stress anxiety pain sleep deprivation anger during resistance lifting(some of the highest blood pressure recorded have occurred during power lifting maneuvers) missing blood pressure lowering medications. each case needs to be look at in detail to have a better sense of the possible cause(s).
what can cause extreme difficulty breathing?
heart (congestive heart failure blockage of arteries) kidneys (fluid overload) lungs (copd/ emphysema bronchitis) hypertension anemia anxiety and panic attacks alcohol to excess and drugs of any kind. smoking! and also complete lack of physical fitness (being out of shape) and several more!
what can fatigue tiredness weak body (spacing out not knowing what's going on heart chest and body pains and tingles be symptoms of?
in a young female with such symptoms i might look for an anxiety disorder but not till i rule out some things with labs first particularly an anemia possibly caused by a vitamin deficiency or even sickle cell type. really best to get checked out as a young person doesn't have to feel this way and a cause can likely be found and managed. go see you health provider. and feel better. zmd
why is every time my blood pressure is high my face feels very warm and warm to touch but no fever?
high blood pressure is usually not associated with symptoms. your blood pressure could be high at other times too when you haven't checked it. blood pressure can rise with stress and anxiety.
weird pressure feeling on left side of chest and i feel relieve when i put pressure on it. can this be a heart problem or anxiety!?
your age and the fact that pressure externally relieves the chest pain make this highly unlikely to be heart. probably this is some chest wall pain.
weird pressure feeling on left side of chest and i feel relieve when i put pressure on it. can this be a heart problem or anxiety!?
if you feel relief when applying pressure it is less likely to be a cardiac problem. nor does it sound like anxiety. without further information i cannot say what it is but do feel you should get an exam from your primary care doctor.
what to do if i have pulmonary embolism and anxiety?
get your pe treated appropriately and discuss the diagnosis and treatment with the doctor treating you. if you still have anxiety discuss it and the particular anxieties you have with your doctor who knows you.
went to the er rm 3 days ago with lung/chest discomfort everything came back normal. having lung/chest discomfort still with some shortness of breath
see your doctor. may need more test such as pulmonary function test an echocardiogram 24 hours holter monitor. if everything else turns out to be negative then it is probably due to anxiety or hormonal changes due menopause.
what causes 15 second pain between neck and left shoulder? also felt as if left arm and upper chest were numb. pcp says heart ok. severe cardiac anxiety
a pinched nerve can cause that kind of pain usually more persistent than 15 seconds but possible.
woke to a 30 sec. burning squeezing pain between breasts. now same feeling in upper abdomen and ribs below bra line. pcp says heart ok. what causes this?
a heart attack is rare in a pre-menopause without underlying heart condition extreme obesity familial elevated cholesterol or triglycerides spasm marfan's use of cocaine amphetamines. causes of atypical chest pain are reflux h pylori elevated thyroid level mitral valve prolapse esophageal spasm anxiety food intolerances gallbladder. talk with a doctor consider antacid/omeprazole
why do i have bad circulation at 42? i get it in my legs when i sit on the toilet or my hands when i hold them up above my arms i'm 42
life-style habits: smoking alcohol poor diet poor posture obesity diseases: diabetes high blood pressure cholesterol stress anxiety there are more. you're right to think it is more common in older folk - but you are what we once upon a time thought of a middle aged. i know - if 60 is the new 40 40 is the new 20!
woke up from a nightmare and my heart was pounding so much it hurt. took 5to10 min to stop. hist pots gerd and anxiety. should i worry?
i don't think you should be too worried at least about the heart pounding. that is pretty normal after a realistic seeming nightmare. nightmares cause a significant adrenaline release which increases the rate and force of contraction of the heart. a normal response.
woke up from a nightmare and my heart was pounding so much it hurt. took 5to10 min to stop. hist pots gerd and anxiety. should i worry?
there are nightmares and night terrors. usually nightmares are more toward the end of one's sleep like at 3-4 am and are part of rem or dreaming sleep. commonly one remembers they woke up with a bad dream. night terrors ususally occur more toward the beginning of sleep like before midnight and often one doesn't remember dreaming. both are common in kids. both are harmless.
what is the typical dosage of propranolol given to someone with anxiety/panic disorder?
first thing is be clear that you have panic disorder versus panic attacks due to a medical cause. next the doctor needs to know that you do not have asthma or diabetes or any trouble with your heart ryhthm. when i use it with my patients i sometimes start at a low dose twice per day. if one starts off with a large dose it can cause slowed heart rate low blood pressure and fatigue.
what causes an intermittent pinching sensation in the lower inside of left breast where it meets the sternum? cardiac anxiety. pcp says heart ok.
you may have myofascial syndrome or costochondritis - both are forms of arthritis and are very common issues. neither are serious.
what causes a burning sensation in left breast? mostly to the outside near the armpit. pcp says heart ok. constant fear of heart issue.
you should work more with your mental health professional(s) on your anxiety problem. perhaps there is a way to control your symptoms better.
what to do when heart is sinking and tell me what to do when your head is spinning and u feel lyk fainting?
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. some times no treatment is the best treatment. see your pcp for evaluation.
what to do about heart/breathing issues for the past 2-3 days?
any issues of this type should be seen by a dr. to see what the cause and importance are. sometimes they are caused by anxiety but serious physical abnormalities are also posssible.
what to do if i'm 18 and having chest pain?
at 18 years of age chest pain (other than born with conditions) is most likely musculoskeletal or anxiety. more information is needed to suggest a cause foer your pain. is if increased with activity? due you have a degree of anxiety. a doctor visit to assist you in managing the symptoms is appropriate.
what is vasovagal syncope and what causes it?
vasovagal syncope is the most common type of fainting that occurs when the blood pressure drops suddenly reducing blood flow to the brain. it is often caused by dehydration or becoming overheated. stress and anxiety can provoke it as well.
what could cause my head to feel like it has butterflies and kinda numb and my chest to hurt?
sound like anxiety however should make sure heart is ok. need bo chk ecg blood test - if abnormal then echo. fhx for cardiac dz is very important.
when i feel anxious it feels like my heart sinks in my chest. what's really happening that causes this sensation?
anxiety is common condition and its quite possible you feel your heart sinking. rule of thumb if heart really sinks its not compatible with life. if you are living and heart sinking you can safely ignore symptoms. especially taking your age into consideration you should not have major heart problems.
what to do if heart problem caused by drug use or just anxiety?
it depends on the drug. cocaine use has been associated with heart attacks in otherwise healthy people. anxiety can be treated by your doctor with anti-anxiety meds. you will need to see your doctor to sort out which drug (or med) is causing a problem.
what to do if i am scared how likely is it that i will have a stroke?
at age 36 the risk is low. it sounds like your anxiety may be the bigger problem?
when u dream fear was it real during sleep? i dreamt i put my hand over my heart & felt it palpitating but didn't feel weird. should i be worried?
you can experience anything in a dream. it has no special significance. i see you are taking xanax (alprazolam) and zoloft which suggests that you are being treated for anxiety. if so see a psychologist for psychotherapy. medication alone is not good treatment. psychotherapy should address the causes of your anxiety (not just the symptoms) and help you overcome it.
woke to ache in left breast/chest. shoulder blade pain later. then stabbing pain from shoulderblade through to breast. muscular? nerve? cardiac? fear of mi
the pain description sounds musculoskeletal. if you have cardiac high anxiety you should have a discussion with your doc about your cardiac risk factors and do your best to minimize them to minimize your risk.
what is the treatment for chest pain caused by anxiety?
the treatment is that of the underlying anxiety disorder and a psychiatric professional should be consulted to help with this if a symptom like chest pain is being produced.
what is the treatment for chest pain caused by anxiety?
speaking with a therapist to discover the source of your anxiety makes sense. if all the physical tests point towards anxiety it is worth exploring what is at the core of your anxiety and learning stress managent techniques (relaxation hypnosis).
what symptom are these? pain in right side abdomen pelvic area hard when pressed. left side is okay. dizzy headache&chest pain sometimes.
checked for problems related to ur intestines pelvic organs etc. likewise migraine blood pressure problems stress and anxiety are other possibilities. consider taking a mini vacation. have fun!
was it suitable to measure your bp in nervous or anxious and get a correct reading?
if you mean by "correct" - representative then no hopefully not. if the device is an accurate one and you used it and read it right then yes it was correct for that point in time. it showed you what your body deals with under the strain of anxiety. good reason to learn ways to lower stress and anxiety wouldn't you say? take a bp reading when you feel calm to see the range of difference.
what type (kind of pain) of chest pain has been recorded for anxiety? also how long and severe are they on average?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it. needle pricking pains are usually musculoskeletal.
why do i feel a heavy tight feeling in the middle of my chest when i'm really stressed?
sometimes stress can cause feelings of severe anxiety which can manifest as physical symptoms such as a tightness in the chest rapid heart rate and rapid breathing. in these cases it is good to try deep breathing progressive muscle relaxation meditation or other relaxation techniques.
wake up gasping for air & shortness of breath sometimes during the day. recently feels alone and nothing is right. heart failure or anxiety?
first rule out sleep apnea as this is very common and could be causing your symptoms. it could very easily be anxiety as well. you should start by seeing your primary care doctor.
wake up gasping for air & shortness of breath sometimes during the day. recently feels alone and nothing is right. heart failure or anxiety?
can't tell without examination so see a doctor. non-specific symptoms can be only sign of congestive heart failure and hypoxemia.
ways to help reduce my anxiety until i can see a psycho therapist to help me? natural remedies. anything? i want to exercise but my heart races
first do you do any stimulants? caffeine nicotine rx otc street drugs etc? if not get a complete physical with bloodwork to r/o medical cause for anxiety and racing heart. i take it u have apt. with therapist. consider yoga breathing exercises and possibly vallarian root as it is a herb that has been used for insomnia & anxiety. max dose 400-450mg. start low dose and gradually increase.
ways to help reduce my anxiety until i can see a psycho therapist to help me? natural remedies. anything? i want to exercise but my heart races
<link>
what causes stress chest pains? wakes me from sleep. ibuprofen helps. all cardiac tests are normal.
cardiac tests normal. stress & anxiety can create chest pain.
wouldn't have been better to switch me first from lisinipril which can cause anxiety which i hav in am instead of putting me on hydrochlorothiazide?
hydrochlorothiazide is a very ineffective blood pressure medication and it is not used much for first line treatment of hypertension now adays. . unlike twenty years ago. lisinopril is one of the safest medications available and very unlikely to cause anxiety.
woke up with sharp chest/heart pain shortness of breath and hands getting cold. what causes this? and is this normal? got better later on in the day.
are you using drugs alcohol or other recreational aids? lf you're otherwise healthy my first thought would be anxiety. if it's more complicated you should see your doc for a full evaluation.
what is the cauce of having heart beat faster?
exercise anxiety caffeine over the counter decongestants. . are a few.
what is it called when you have pain in and around your heart?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
why am i breathless after quitting marijuana?
if you were anxious before smoking marijuana you may have an increase in anxiety one symptom of which can be shortness or breath or feeling breathless.
what usually causes chest pain on the left side of chest?
anxiety can cause excess cortisol os adrenaline secretion which can cause a number of symptoms including dizziness lightheadedness rapid heart beat palpitations chestpain headaches etc. try calming yourself down by concentrating on slowing down your breathing over a few minutes if this doesn't help see your primary provider for further evaluation. good luck!
way would cause it eyes to not dilate to light? dehydration or anxiety cause it? freaking out. bp is 125/62 pause 70. just feel bit light headed.
the pupils constrict in light not dilate.
way would cause it eyes to not dilate to light? dehydration or anxiety cause it? freaking out. bp is 125/62 pause 70. just feel bit light headed.
your eyes are not supposed to dilate when exposed to light. they are supposed to constrict or get smaller.
wat would cause eyes to not respond to light. (shrink) bp is 127/52. paulse is 70. anxiety play a role?
or fear can cause pupils to dolate.
what are possible reasons that my heart beats so intensely?
heart pounding at rates below 100-110 usually is from adrenaline rather than a heart problem. the body can overproduce adrenaline due to anxiety lack of sleep or other stress or a medical issue like anemia or overactive thyroid. anxiety-related beating tends to be worse at night when everything is quiet & people start listen to their heart. if it goes away when you are busy that's a good sign!
why is my heart beating so fast even though i did not do any physical exercise?
different things could cause tachycardia including anxiety anemia cardiac problems and many other causes. visit your doctor for an evaluation. www. otwithmd. com.
what does it mean if my heart is flip flopping a lot lately?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what four things do you feel before heart attack?
usual sub-sternal crushing severe durable sustained anxiety producing with clammy skin pallor and radiation to left upper arm with a squeeze. much variability!
what does heart attack feel like? i am a 44 yr old female just wondering what the pain is like?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what can someone do to tell a heart attack may be eminent?
there may be feeling of anxiety impending doom chest pressure or pain. or there may be no warning signs at all.
when i have anxiety my blood pressure gets high. how can i control this? is there anything i can take?
normal response but relaxation techniques may have benefit.
what would cause dyspnea 4 days despite 98% sp02? went to er and they said anxiety even though my pulse was <90. feels hard to inhale. ex-smoker.
viral uri.
when having a panic or anxiety attack does it make chest hurt and have hard time breathing and lips go numb and arms go numb? and i get light-headed
you just gave a very accurate description of a panic/anxiety attack.
when having a panic or anxiety attack does it make chest hurt and have hard time breathing and lips go numb and arms go numb? and i get light-headed
the symptoms. . hyperventilating and surging stress hormones such a epinephrin and norepinephrine can reduce the blood flow to your heart and brain giving you a feeling of impending doom. with all said and done you need a proper medical work up to ensure that you have a healthy heart!
will i be able to smoke weed in the future my heart starts racing my throat gets tight my sinuses swell up my ears feel funny is this anxiety?
don't smoke weed especially if you have anxiety.
will i be able to smoke weed in the future my heart starts racing my throat gets tight my sinuses swell up my ears feel funny is this anxiety?
doesn't it sound a bit obvious that weed isn't for you?
will i be able to smoke weed in the future my heart starts racing my throat gets tight my sinuses swell up my ears feel funny is this anxiety?
sounds like your body is sending you a message not to smoke weed!
will i be able to smoke weed in the future my heart starts racing my throat gets tight my sinuses swell up my ears feel funny is this anxiety?
you are having reactions to weed and you may in fact wind up having an allergic reaction. why need to push it?
went to hospital a week ago got out all test were fine i'm having chest pains pain in my jaw and burning in my chest sometimes what do i do?
re a cardiac diagnosis would suggest that in addition to ecg's blood tests that a stress study be done (if not already). if continued symptoms a chest ct angiogram of the coronaries might provide addl information. supporting history would include symptoms provoked by exertion. other possibilities-gerd musculoskeletal pulmonary or anxiety driven.
which type of heart problems cause anxiety?
people with anxiety get it from all kinds of heart problems. people without anxiety disorder generally get anxious when they don't understand their heart problem or for the life threatening ones when they do.
what are some early indicators of a mild and major heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death !
what can be causing very strange bloodshot eyes that is related to panic attacks breathing problems dizziness anxiety? why are my eyes always red?
this can be caused by an adrenaline rush along with the anxiety attacks or may siimple be an issue of allergy or dry eyes.
what can i take to overcome fatigue? . is there some herbal medicine w/o side effects? i am taking 200 mg sertraline amlodipine & atenolol.
one needs to look for what's causing fatigue before looking for herbal or non herbal treaent as it could be side effect of your medications both amlodipine and propranolol are known to do it. on the other hand anxiety or depression not treated fully can cause fatigue too.
wat is social anxiety disorder? i fear evrythg luv n ppl around m wanna hurt m my heartbeats vry fast n i feel sucidal i think cause is my pcod
there are many anxiety disorders. an element of fear is present in all of them. they are very common and usually respond well to treatment. if you are suicidal you should seek immediate medical attention. if the urge is great go to the nearest er now.
wat is social anxiety disorder? i fear evrythg luv n ppl around m wanna hurt m my heartbeats vry fast n i feel sucidal i think cause is my pcod
symptoms are cognitive (overly self-conscious in social situations leading to stuttering & sweating etc. ) behavioral (fear being embarrassed or humiliated leading to avoidance) & physiological (sweating nausea difficulty breathing shaking heart racing).
what causes me to suddenly want to take a deep breath and can't and then i feel sob afterabit lightheaded and a lil chest pain then it all disappears?
your symptoms do not point to a particular problem. suggest to see your doctor for thorough evaluation. there might be an element of anxiety as well.
would it be possible for depression to lead to cardiovascular diseases?
anxiety depression and certainly personality traits such as type a can contribute to increased risk and worse prognosis for cardiovascular disease (cvd) which can increase risk for comorbid depression and anxiety. for further discussion see: <link>
what is the definition or description of: caffeine use?
caffeine is a stimulant substance found in many beverages such as coffee tea and cola; some medications such as excedrin contain it also. some feel it increases attention & concentration. it can cause jitteriness insomnia and anxiety -- also produces a withdrawal syndrome when someone stops using it. many people are habituated to caffeine and don't realize it until they miss their dose.
why my blood pressure rises everytime i go see a dr but when im home and test its normal?
fluctuations in bp like you describe is likely due to increased adrenaline levels due to anxiety. this however is more likely what your bp is doing throughout the day when you are rushing to a meeting someone cuts you off on the freeway you are struggling to meet a deadline etc. get a 24 hour ambulatory bp monitor to see what your bp is doing throughout the day you will be surprised.
why do i have constant shortness of breath? and could this be cured? i have digestion problem and heartburns and also tend to have anxiety at times.
for shortness of breath we have first to rule out lung disease if u don't have it and have no medical problem that can impact u lung than u have anxiety. u need to see u physician for evaluation.
what can cause chest and upper back pain i've had it for over a week now and it's a lot worse at night when i'm layer down worried of heart problems?
it may be anxiety as it is occuring with higher intensity at night when one has time to think (and worry). i see this a lot as a physical symptom of annxiety. if there are no medical findings associated with these symptoms stress and anxiety need to be explored.
what can i do to lose more weight? i eat only poultry and fish vegetables and fruits egg beaters. but take geodon (ziprasidone) for depression and anxiety.
exercise and caloric limitations. geodon (ziprasidone) can increase weight gain but if you drop your portion sizes and increase your exercise activity you could lose or at least stabilize your weight. carbohydrate excess is the major cause of weight gain with geodon (ziprasidone). watch your carbs.
what is a normal bpm? i checked mine the past few days and it was 95-100. my blood pressure is usually on low side. should i worry?
the theoretical peak heart rate for a 28 year old is about 192. a hr of 192 would be normal for you during peak exertion. a normal resting hr is generally somewhere in the range of 60-100. mild exertion anxiety fever anemia caffeine etc could keep it in the 90-100 range. during sleep heart rates often dip very low even into the 40s. low bp is good if you're otherwise feeling well.
what causes daily fluctuations in blood pressure?
so many factors: stress anxiety caffeine meeting deadlines too much salt intake. also it is normal for bp and heart rate to change depending up the situations you are facing : good bs bad day!
what're some negative effects of habitually drinking caffeine?
some are anxiety addiction increased blood pressure reduced control of fine motor movements & stimulation of urination (also refer to diagram).
why do i feel the need to take excessive deep breaths? it causes me to get light left side back pain n light chest pain & lightheadecan it be anxiety?
anxiety can involve mental emotional and physical symptoms. these commonly appear in respiratory system as well as cardiovascular gi and neurological systems too. for thoroughness it's a good idea to have a checkup with your primary care doctor. but your anxiety can be treated with a combination of psychotherapy and medications if those are needed. a psychiatrist & psychologist can help.
why do i feel the need to take excessive deep breaths? it causes me to get light left side back pain n light chest pain & lightheadecan it be anxiety?
you have multiple symptoms before labeling it as anxiety go to your doctor make sure you do not have anything else.
what causes discomfort in center of chest on and off for days. sometimes worse if under stress.?
many possibilities including anxiety gerd musculoskeletal or something more serious. get evaluated by your phtsician.
when im in a crowded place i feel like fainting. but i don't faint.?
you could be having anxiety or panic attacks. in people who have these it's not uncommon to for them to happen in crowded places from which escape might be difficult. feelings of faintness as well as dizziness shortness of breath rapid heart rate sweating and sometimes nausea are some of the other physical symptoms of panic attacks. a psychiatrist and psychotherapist can help you.
why do i feel dizzy everytime i stand up followed by a headache and shortness of breath? could this combo be related to a bad anxiety disorder?
this confluence of symptoms sounds cardiac in nature. you should see a cardiologist to determine if your blood pressure drops when standing. it's called orthostatic hypotension.
what are the effects of not consistently taking propanolol?
if taken for high blood pressure headaches and fluctuations in blood pressure occur. if taken for anxiety changes in pulse rate and some apprehension may occur. this is more likely if medication was taken on regular basis.
what would cause a ounding heart at night time?
possible anxiety medications health issues.
what can cause feeling faint while driving?
stress anxiety possible heart irregularities. why not see your local doctor and describe the things that bring this on.
why am i waking up to a pounding heartbeat after i drink a lot?
if you mean drinking a lot of alcohol the most likely reasons are dehydration low blood sugar and/or that alcohol for all its pleasant side effects is still a kind of poison. asian & first nations heritage also holds a genetic defect that makes alcohol even more toxic. it also does not play will with other medications especially for depression or anxiety. ask your doc. don't drink until then.
what are the symptoms are characteristic of unstable angina?
chest pain not relieved by rest. please note that there are many instances of atypical presentations and it may range from vague feeling of discomfort pressure on chest shortness of breath anxiety sweating feeling of impending doom nausea vomiting. if you suspect unstable angina get to an er asap call 911.
when i get upset my heart beats very rapidly i get light headed and shaky and it takes hours to feel normal again. it also keeps me from being able to sleep at all if it happens at night. shortness of breath heart pounds. it also feels and sounds like
hello. i can not diagnose the cause of your symptoms. it could be consistent with panic attacks. panic attacks are usually brief. they often last a couple of minutes to around ten minutes. symptoms can include a sense of severe anxiety or panic as well as chest tightness or pain and a rapid or pounding heartbeat. there could also be areas of numbness or pins and needles type sensation. a person can experience hot flashes or chills and perspire heavily. there may be a tickle sensation in the stomach or nausea. when a person has a panic attack they may feel dizzy or faint and may become physically shaky. the person may fear that they are going crazy they are out of control or that they are about to die. there can be a sense that you feel unreal (dissassociation called depersonalization) or the sense that everything around you feels fake (derealization). it is very important to have a full physical evaluation to rule out possible underlying medical problems. if you are not found to have a medical problem causing your symptoms then recommend that you see either a psychiatrist or a psychologist to get help with this.
what is the link between anxiety and hypertension?
anxiety can cause hypertension ie high blood pressure and in some cases hypertension (due to other causes) can lead to anxiety too. anxiety causes the "fight or flight response": stress hormones are released and the sympathetic nervous system is activated. these cause blood vessels to squeeze tighter & the heart beats harder thus increasing the blood pressure within those vessels.
what might the cause to of sudden breathlessness during sleeping?
a number of problems could be going on. a night terror or bad dream could bring on acute anxiety and then feeling of breathlessness. sleep apnea -abnormal sleep state with prolonged pauses of breathing then suddenly and loudly (sneeringly) starts again; there is repeated awakenings and then somnolence during the day to point of falling asleep. see internist and/or pulmonologist.
what are the tip-offs that you might have coronary spasms?
coronary spasms are not common. sometimes anxiety and caffeine can cause them but reflux is a much more common cause of angina pain. try heartburn treatment first. if you still have pain see your doctor. medication called calcium channel blockers are used to treat the spasm.
whenever i get stressed out i get light headed and have some trouble breathing. i get dizzy and really tired. normal?
stress leads to anxiety. as dr abe suggests your symptoms are suggestive of hyperventilation which can be secondary to anxiety. if you are frequently hyperventilating you may need treatment for anxiety. your symptoms are related to an decrease in carbon dioxide when you breath too fast. one treatment is to breathe into a paper bag.
what can cause shortness of breath when albuterol doesn't work these are real physical symptoms not anxiety. have tried albuterol corticosteroids allegra-d nexium prozac muscle relaxers and claritin-d. have seen doctors and specialists inluding pul
well presence of allergies hyper inflated lungs on cxr and dyspnea suggest asthma. you can have normal pfts (pulmonary function tests) ad still have asthma. i am not sure you have been tried on but usually you need blood test or skin test for allergies and a total ige level ( blood test). you could try inhalers on regular basis for example advair or dulera (formoterol and mometasone) on twice a day basis and see if this will help you symptomatically. some times treatment of asthma can become difficult and will need some patience at your and your doctors end. hope this helps.
what are a few safe medications for severe anxiety for someone with a significant cardiac history?
the typical treatment for anxiety is not contraindicated for patients with cardiac diseases - short-term benzodiazepines (diazepam clonazepam etc. ) or ssri/snri or wellbutrin (bupropion) can all be good choices.
what are a few safe medications for severe anxiety for someone with a significant cardiac history?
difficult to give advice when not knowing what heart condition u have or what heart medications u are taking. review with your doc.
what are a few safe medications for severe anxiety for someone with a significant cardiac history?
current treatment of anxiety disordeds is safe for patients wit history of hear disease including ssri's snri's and benzodiazepines.
what can you tell me about pre-ventricular contractions (heart)?
premature ventricular contractions occur due to an abnormal electrical rhythm in your heart. often these are benign but are annoying to the patient and cause anxiety. there can be serious reasons for them to occur. all of this will depend on your overall health risk factors medications habits tobacco alcohol and drugs (even caffeine). you may need a monitor study and see pcp/cardiologist.
when i get stressed i feel sharp chest pain and can't seem to breathe properly. is this normal?
either hyperventilation from severe anxiety or else angina. need to consult with your doctor.
what is diabetic heart disease? are dizziness shortness of breath cold tips of finders and chest pain strong indicatros of diabetic heart disease?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
whats might be the cause of my difficulty breathing? well i am 17 years old and ever since i was in the fourth grade i've had trouble breathing. i went to the doctors multiple times and they have all told me that it was anxiety but i do not believe tha
aside from an allergy work up you should have an intense cardiac work up. you mave a n occult cardiac lesion.
whats might be the cause of my difficulty breathing? well i am 17 years old and ever since i was in the fourth grade i've had trouble breathing. i went to the doctors multiple times and they have all told me that it was anxiety but i do not believe tha
you may have asthma. you do not need a referral for pfts you can either get it done at one of the pulmonologist in your area or at a local hospital.
why am i short of breath if my oxygen saturation is good?
in most cases adequate oxygen saturation indicates that your lungs and blood work well to supply oxygen to your organs. some evaluation may still be necessary but feeling air hunger when objectively none exists usually indicates anxiety. if th proves to be correct treatment may involve anti-anxiety medication nutritional supplements some herbs or homeopathy whatever is best indicated.
what conditions are associated with pheochromocytomas?
and also high heart rate sweating anxiety.
what other illnesses have similar symptoms to pheochromocytoma?
anxiety panic attacks essential hypertension hyperthyroidism illicit drug use carcinoid syndrome cardiac arrhythmias menopause preeclampsia - to name a few.
what other illnesses have similar symptoms to pheochromocytoma?
anxiety and panic attacks hyperthyroidism use of illicit substances (drugs) carcinoid syndrome cardiac arrhythmias menopause preeclampsia un controlled hypertension.
which non-invasive treatments can be used to treat abnormal heart rhythms?
depending on the cause & severity of the arrhythmia relaxation techniques (medication yoga tai-chi) may be useful. some anti-anxiety medications can be helpful as well. beta-blockers are often used. serious anti-arrhythmic agents are available but some rhythm problems especially in younger patients may be amenable to electrophysiologic rx like ablation rather than lifelong drug therapy.
which kind of heart disease can stress/depression give you?
high blood pressure is number one. and most important. if your anxiety depression has led to using tobacco then you're at even greater risk. please see your docotr to deal with anxiety depression.
what is the significance of transient hypertension?
if the elevated blood pressure is truly transient it may just be "white coat hypertension" induced by anxiety or stress. although not entirely benign it is certainly less serious than persistent high blood pressure. home bp measurements with a calibrated bp device or better ambulatory 24 hour bp monitoring can sort it out. night time bps if elevated may convey greater risk.
what does it mean to go into hypovolemic shock?
is an emergency condition in which severe blood and fluid loss make the heart unable to pump enough blood to the body this type of shock can cause many organs to stop working anxiety or agitation cool clammy skin confusion decreased or no urine output general weakness pale skin color rapid breathing sweating moist skin unconsciousness the greater and more rapid the blood loss the more severe is.
will smoking weed affect raynaud's disease?
there is a reason for thc to be illegal. thc causes chronic amotivational syndrome depression psychosis paranoia anxiety weight gain hypertension and decreased testis size. it takes any motivation out of you. worse it is the gateway drug that will push you into morphine heroin etc. thc clinics are good for terminal aids and cancer cases. is raynaud's one of them? of course not.
what is the prognosis for patients with orthostatic hypotension?
this can lead to significant distress and even disability. it's important to remember there is nothing dangerous or life-threatening about this. however if it happens often it can cause significant anxiety and avoidance of certain situations. if routine measures (e. g. oral hydration) and meds don't work rehab exercises to retrain the veins and arteries to self-regulate can be very helpful.
what systems affect cardiac output?
cardiac output is affected by heart rate and the volume of blood pumped out of the heart in each heart beat (stroke volume). factors that increase the heart rate (anxiety fever walking) increase cardiac output. similarly factors that increase volume of blood that heart pumps with each cycle increase cardiac output. high level athletes have very high stroke volume because of conditioning.
what are some drugs that cause hypotension after surgery?
any of the drugs that are used to treat hypertension can cause hypotension. diuretics for instance cause an increase in urine flow and can lead to hypotension. but more importantly if a patient has a low blood pressure following surgery one should consider that the patient may be bleeding. also some medicines used to control pain or anxiety could lead to hypotension.
what factors does the final result of a cardiac rehabilitation program depend on?
important patient factors in determining success of cardiac rehab are motivation to make healthy lifestyle changes and compliance with advice from medical professionals. psychological factors e. g. depression and anxiety are critical factors that influence this. having a personable and invested therapist who takes an interest in you as an individual is paramount as well.
why does hypertension occur?
overweight high sodium intake genetic inherence stress/anxiety as well as lots of pathological situations.
what is a cure for mitral valve prolapse?
in general this condition is benign. it may lead to palpitations shortness of breath migraine anxiety. mitral valve replacement may be needed if there is severe mitral regurgitation or a leaky mitral valve - rare cases for mitral valve prolapse.
why could my systolic pressure change but not my diastolic pressure?
some patients have both a high systolic and diastolic blood pressure but either can be elevated with the other being normal. the systolic pressure many times tends to be somewhat more variable and more affected by anxiety. certain conditions such as a leaking of the aortic valve tend to elevate one (in that case the systolic) more than the other.
what role does a psychologist play during a cardiac rehabilitation program?
psychologists can be integral to cardiac rehab by: counseling on weight loss including the obstacles and how to overcome them; working on smoking cessation including hypnosis when appropriate; and providing guidance on stress reduction techniques as well as ways to control depression and anxiety all of which increase risks of disease and dying in cardiac patients.
what role does a psychologist play during a cardiac rehabilitation program?
one of the physical issues in cardiac rehab is pain. pain becomes a psychological issue when if experienced intensely and for a long enough period of time it puts the patient at risk for such mental health issues as anxiety and depression. this is where psychologists come in to try to help with pain management. imagine the anxiety and depression from cardiac surgery and accompanying pain.
what can sweaty palms salt cravings headaches tiredness chest pains flu-like symptoms indicate?
you are most likely having a panic or anxiety attack. alternatively you could be having flu too. try to relax take a few deep breaths. if you are not able to call your pcp for guidance.
what should i do? associated mostly with sitting down. extreme nervous feeling with the feeling of blood pressure spiking. when standing feelings are slightly relieved.
typically blood pressure (bp) that is associated with positional changes (orthostatic or postural) occurs when a person sits or lays down for a while then stands up and usually a drop is noted not an increase. since your symptoms are atypical i wonder if you are suffering from something else like anxiety or even a panic attack. this could cause you to feel your blood pressure rise and maybe sitting down calms you thus provokinga feeling of your bp lowering. regardless this is something that must be evaluated by your primary care provider. a complete history of your present problem exam and likely testing will be done to help detemine the diagnosis. good luck.
what should i do? associated mostly with sitting down. extreme nervous feeling with the feeling of blood pressure spiking. when standing feelings are slightly relieved.
seems like you have anxiety disorder. practice meditation. improve self confidence. if no improvement consult a physician for behavioral and medical therapy.
what r the signs of fibermyalga swollen feet muscle cramps stumbling slow moving headache jaws hurt skins is feeling like its a hotdog about to burst
signs of fibromyalgia are: muscle pain muscle spasms or tightness weakness in the arms and legs leg cramps fatigue difficulty sleeping stiffness once you wake up waking stiffness after staying in one position for too long problems remembering and concentrating abdominal pain bloating nausea constipation diarrhea headaches jaw and face pain anxiety depression numbness or tingling in the face arms hands legs or feet urinary changes a feeling of swelling in the hands and feet painful menstrual periods dizziness sensitivity to odors noise bright lights medications certain foods and cold (may not be to all things listed) as you see this is a pretty extensive list and a difficult diagnosis to make at times. please see a medical professional for an evaluation. good luck.
what should i do for my pain or go to the doctors? my heart area is hurting really bad. the pain has been going on off and on for the past 20 min. the pain lasts about 10 seconds and happens about ever 45 seconds. i've never had this pain before. im only
you need to let your parent or guardian know that you are feeling this way. a medical exam is definitely in order. you could be dealing with costochondritis which is inflammation between the ribs it causes symptoms much like the one you described. in addition lung issues like asthma or even cardiac problems need to be ruled out. lastly stress anxiety and depression can present this way. please visit your doctor or urgent care for an evaluation. good luck.
why does angina cause pain and breathlessness?
lack of oxygen causes pain in any muscle when oxygen demand out strips suply. in the legs its called cludication. as for the shortness of breath it can be due to the dysfunction of the left ventricle due to poor oxygen suply. much like an engine sputters if the fuel line is clogged. along with heart failure pain and anxiety can also cause shortness of breath.
why my heart pound when sleep?
when we are laying down to sleep we notice our heart rates more than while we are moving around during the day. if your heart rate is going fast that could be from different reasons like medications dehydration stress/anxiety thyroid disturbances. if there is any associated chest pain or problems breathing see your doctor for evaluation.
what are the concequences of stress?
a certain amount of stress is normal however unchecked stress can cause and contribute to disease. anxiety hypertension lowered immune response insomnia and even autoimmune disorders are all linked to stress. the best remedy for stress is mindfulness and meditation. try sitting & breathing yoga or exercise. whatever you choose sustained stress management is the best prevention.
why would i have such a dramatic spontaneous fluctuation in my blood pressure? what could be my problem? i' am a 28 year old male in fairly fit condition but for the last three years i have had episodes of dramatic fluctuations in my blood pressure. my no
the most important cause to rule out in situations like this is the presence of a tumor of the adrenal gland called a pheochromocytoma. even with these symptoms such a tumor is rarely found. the diagnosis can usually be made by analysis of a 24 hour urine collection or by blood tests. other possible causes of these types of symptoms include: panic attacks labile hypertension anxiety hyperthyroidism migraine headaches central nervous system lesions seizures carcinoid syndrome drugs (including cocaine lsd amphetamines and others) and tyrosine ingestion combined with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (which are a type of antidepressant drug). in many patients with episodic hypertension in whom a pheochromocytoma is not found the cause remains unknown and treatment is difficult. the symptoms most likely involve activation of the sympathetic system but the cause of sympathetic activation is unclear. it may stem from emotional factors that are repressed from conscious awareness. this condition is sometimes called pseudopheochromocytoma and most often includes rapid elevation of blood pressure; sudden onset of physical symptoms such as headache chest pain dizziness nausea palpitations flushing and/or sweating; and a lack of emotional causes such as fear or panic although fear can occur as a result of the worrisome physical symptoms. episodes can last from ten minutes to several hours; they can occur several times per day or only once every few months. between episodes the blood pressure may be normal or mildly elevated.
why am i suddenly faint?
the feeling of faintness is a sign that not enough fuel is getting to the brain. there are many potential causes a sudden drop in blood pressure for a variety of reasons dehydration low blood sugar anxiety and others. the likelihood of different causes vary by age and the setting in which the feeling occurs. you should see you regular doctor to discuss this further.
what does it mean to have a blood pressure of 150/100? how serious is it?
a single elevated blood pressure reading is meaningless because blood pressure can go up for a number of reasons including pain and anxiety. chronically elevated blood pressure needs to be addressed because it can lead to problems with the heart kidneys an brain.
what would cause my heart to pound rapidly when reasting?
there are many possible causes of abnormally fast heartbeat some medical and some psychological (e. g. anxiety or panic disorder). if it isn't clearly associated with being upset or anxious you need a medical examination.
what would cause my heart to pound rapidly when reasting?
a heightened sensation and fast heart beats from an adrenergic state (fear anxiety deconditining obesity anemia dehydration stimulants such as excessive caffeine overactive thyroid). rhytm abnormalities such as premature beats fast heart beats from upper chambers (supraventricular tachycardia) or lower chambers (ventricular tachycardia) are other causes. heart monitor helps.
when im afraid of something my heart hurts and i can't breath what does it mean am i have any problem with my heart?
while you may be having an anxiety or panic attack you should always make sure your heart is okay. if your heart is indeed okay by further testing you may benefit by relaxation techniques psychotherapy or medications for anxiety or panic attacks.
when im afraid of something my heart hurts and i can't breath what does it mean am i have any problem with my heart?
your symptom is more likely cause by anxiety than heart condition symptom of heart disease is usually brought by some sort of physical activity it is best described as tightness in the chest or breathing difficulty with exercise and relieved by rest. this is most suspicious in people with risk factors such as age high cholesterol high blood pressure or diabetes.
when im afraid of something my heart hurts and i can't breath what does it mean am i have any problem with my heart?
those symptoms from anxiety are not caused by anything wrong with your heart. although there is an unusual condition called taku sabo cardiomyopathy or broken heart syndrome anxiety will also not cause you to have a heart condition.
what is the best cure for ed without taking any pill?
ed can have multiple casues: obesity medication smoking anxiety age high cholesterol lack of exercise poor communication between partners alcohol intake. etc the solution is not always easy and sometimes requires a redirection in life. many men prefer to take a pill rather than giving up smoking eating fatty food exercising etc. life style changes are about as natural as it gets!
why is my heart irreglur like skipping hurting?
coffee. heart problem. anxiety. many posibilities see your doctor.
went to hospital for dehydation sat now having panic/anxiety attacks every evening . feel faint . disoriented. sweaty palms. arms feel heavy from forearms to finger tips. no pain anywhere. very scary. head feels funny can't focus. all i recieved a
i am not sure what the actual question is here. have you talked to your regular doctor since your were evaluated in the emergency room? if not i recommend that you do. your doctor can follow up with the symptoms that continue to arise. he or she can determine if you need any further medical testing. i can not diagnose you but the symptoms you are experiencing can happen during a panic attack such as feeling really nervous or anxious; feeling frightened; shaking; sweating feeling faint as well as your head feeling funny. pounding or rapid heartbeat and chest pain or tightness can be accompanied by difficulty breathing or rapid breathing. people can experience numbness or tingling in their fingers. you may feel very odd like you are outside of yourself or the world around you might seem unreal. the average panic attack usually lasts ten minutes or less. the problem that can occur once you start getting panic attacks is that you start focusing on the fear of getting another one. you might start to avoid people places or things that you think triggered a panic attack. please see your doctor to determine if any further medical evaluation is warranted. your doctor may suggest that you see a psychologist or a psychiatrist so that you can get help to nip your symptoms in the bud early on. good luck.
went to hospital for dehydation sat now having panic/anxiety attacks every evening . feel faint . disoriented. sweaty palms. arms feel heavy from forearms to finger tips. no pain anywhere. very scary. head feels funny can't focus. all i recieved a
the symptoms you are experiencing are serious and should be addressed. it could be as simple as anxiety or further dehydration but it could be a significant medical problem as well including thyroid problems. i would consult your doctor.
will i get any medicine for pain when i go for the arteriography?
you will get iv sedation to make procedure more comfortable and to decrease your anxiety.
what would cause ventricular irrability?
some of the causes that may increase irritability include anything that results in high adrenaline levels (fear anxiety dehydration pain anemia severe other illness etc. ) low potassium and magnesium levels high calcium levels medication such as cold remedies with decongestants excessive alcohol and caffeine inflammation or injury to the heart muscles as in heart attack and myocarditis.
why have i been feeling so faint? weak knees when standing feeling faint high anxiety under high stress 24 women smoker feels like my knees can't support weight light headed feels like im going to throw up when walking and standing im flying to ge
nobody can know what is going on with you just on the basis of that history - hundreds of things may cause all the symptoms you have and they certainly may just be related to your anxiety and stress. it sounds like you need a thorough history physical examination and probably some lab tests before anybody can give you a satisfactory answer and potential treatment.
why have i been feeling so faint? weak knees when standing feeling faint high anxiety under high stress 24 women smoker feels like my knees can't support weight light headed feels like im going to throw up when walking and standing im flying to ge
i can't tell by this info how stable or unstable you are right now. however i would not want to be hemodynamically unstable if i were going to fly. fainting on an airplane can cause a lot of commotion. if you are often feeling faint when standing don't recommend that you fly. i do recommend that you see your doctor to find out what your health problem is.
what are the most common side effects of heart bypass surgery?
depression and anxiety are two common psychological effects associated with heart surgery. you should discuss any psychological symptoms and seek a mental health evaluation in consultation with your pcp.
why is anxiety making me so ill? bp goes up over 100 for lower number.
your body is made to respond to challenges with bp increases and adjustments. learn to do mindfulness meditation; google this or find any short book on it and teach your body to relax. if your "lower number" is hitting 100 with or without "anxiety" then your blood pressure is not yet optimally controlled so keep working with your doc. allow any stressing over your bp numbers to disappear.
why is anxiety making me so ill? bp goes up over 100 for lower number.
i don't know if your high blood pressure reading is a result of anxiety. usually when anxiety effects blood pressure it increases the systolic value (the higher number) while the diastolic (lower) number is unchanged. you should work with your physician to control your blood pressure so you can avoid complications.
why is anxiety making me so ill? bp goes up over 100 for lower number.
have a reactive blood pressure. rather than asking why do make an appointment with a psychiatrist who can help you with the anxiety and therefore your blood pressure!
when im nervous i start breathing very fast and my heart starts to beat faster? what can i take to block that?
nothing negative meant; however i hope this helps you realize the best is to get a thorough psychiatric exam so that you may understand the cause as well as treatment choice. most likely discussion of combined use of med. : anti-anxiety and/or antidepressant + psychotherapy. a full physical exam should be incl. to check possible contrib. cause & effect.
when im nervous i start breathing very fast and my heart starts to beat faster? what can i take to block that?
first---if you were to try waiting and breathing it should pass that being said i would not take anything over the counter without checking with you doctor. benzodiazepines like xanax (alprazolam) are ok if used for the short term. for recurrent anxiety like panic attacks antidepressants like zoloft are used. for anxiety like speeches we use inderal a bp drug talk to your doctor about these.
what do you feel during an angiogram?
the most common symptom is anxiety just from being awake during a medical procedure. you usually get some medicine to help keep you calm. you should not feel pain due to numbing medicine. you may feel pressure while the catheter is put in and starnge feelings as it goes to the blood vessel being evaluated. when the dye is injected some folks feel flushed or warm.
will taking niacin help my anxiety? what vitimins will help my anxiety? i can't go to doctors. i have bad anxiety and i'm constantly tired.
as far as i know vitamin supplements do not treat anxiety. st john's wort supplement may help; it is one of the most commonly prescribed antidepressant in germany. it works similarly to meds such as zoloft/prozac etc. which may help with your anxiety. constantly tired maybe something else. lack of sleep anemia hypothyroid etc. please try to see a doc. some are quite nice/good! good luck.
will taking niacin help my anxiety? what vitimins will help my anxiety? i can't go to doctors. i have bad anxiety and i'm constantly tired.
niacin has many uses most commonly to help reduce cholesterol but by itself may not do much for anxiety. the b vitamins as a whole are called "stress vitamins"; so a b-complex vitamin that contains all of them may benefit your anxiety as well as provide some extra energy. b-vitamins are water-soluble & are depleted rapidly. take one (or eat b-rich foods) every day. exercise also helps anxiety.
will taking niacin b complex and st. johns wort everyday help my anxiety?
yes and no. many patients have the benefits using all was mentioned. i would like to recommend check causes of your anxiety determine any general medical condition and if all is fine those could help you also add yoga meditation acupuncture good nutrition psychotherapy etc.
will taking niacin b complex and st. johns wort everyday help my anxiety?
it's unlikely that any or all will be in themselves materially important there is no evidence they are reliably "anxiolytic" (ie anti-anxiety). but if you believe them to be empowering that may facilitate a positive self-fulfilling prophecy and enable you to make other attitudinal and lifestyle changes that do improve anxiety. be reasonable but do take charge of your mental health.
what blood pressure meds are good for people with anxiety?
beta blockers like metoprolol carvedilol can help with blood pressure and anxiety. talk with your doc to see if this is a good fit for you (not great if you have asthma or low heart rate). great question!
what are the long term negative effects of caffeine consumption?
long term excess caffeine use can increase blood pressure cause headaches lack of restful sleep palpitations tremors anxiety nervousness abdominal pain/cramps diarrhea. i tell patients 1 cup of coffee in morning and 1 caffeinated beverage early afternoon is unlikely to cause problems.
will treatment for an overactive thyroid stop my anxiety im on carbimazole proponolol buspirone i can't deal with these thoughts that are coming from my anxiety i don't believe them so why wont they go away please help
hello. hyperthyroidism can be a cause for panic and anxiety symptoms. correcting the thyroid problem can often cure or lessen the anxiety.
what causes unstable blood pressure?
blood pressure is not "unstable. " it is a physiologic response to a multitude of factors. blood pressure that varies "wildly" may indicate disorders associated with neurohormonal dysregulation and may be investigated with blood chemistry and noninvasive testing. often the cause is anxiety and / or the medications (including alcohol) we take.
what does all this mean? here are my abg results. what does it all mean? ph = 7. 426 pco2 = 30. 5 po2 = 112. 2 bp = 758 thb = 16. 0 o2hb = 93. 9 cohb = 4. 3 hco3act = 19. 6 thank you! methb = 0. 3 oxygen device = ra site = r radial source = arterial
the co2 is low which means your minute ventilation is high. either you are breathing faster or taking larger breaths than normal. there appears to be a metabolic compensation (low hco3) to maintain ph in the normal range. primary respiratory alkalosis is fairly uncommon. anxiety might cause hyperventilation but it's unusual for it to persist long enough that you would develop a metabolic compensation. also the oxygen saturation is on the lower end of normal but doesn't necessarily mean anything significant. the hemoglobin is a little on the high side at 16 which also isn't very significant on it's own. however those two things combined could indicate the presence of lung disease such as emphysema. not getting enough oxygen in the blood stream will result in a compensatory response by your body increasing the oxygen carrying component of your blood the hemoglobin.
will dalatas interreact with blood pressure thyroid celexa (citalopram) and welbutrin? i have high blood pressure thyroid disease depression and anxiety
is this a prescription medication? find the exact spelling of this drug or supplement and reask your question please. i cannot find "dalatas" as a prescription med or supplement?
what are the physical symptoms of williams syndrome?
unusual physical features:full lips & cheeks puffiness under eyes stellate (starlike) patterns in irises. congenital anomalies: supravalvular aortic stenosis renal anomalies stenotic arteries joint contractures. high calcium levels. distinct neurobehavioral profile: mild-moderate intellectual disability. adhd anxiety can't tolerate loud noises verbal better than visuospatual ability. wsa. org.
what are the side effects of adalat (nifedipine) retard can it raise psa level?
ankles skin flushing lassitude constipation. less commonly fainting dizziness indigestion rapid heart rate/palpitations anxiety urinary frequency erectile dysfunction insomnia swollen joints and visual disturbances. should not have any effect on psa.
what are the symptoms of coronary artery disease (cad) in men?
cad by itself may not have any symptoms but significant cad can cause angina (chest pain) possible arm or neck pain nausea sweating shortness of breath lightheadedness fatigue weakness anxiety and so forth. .
what triggers your heart to suddenly feel swollen and sore temporarily. how anxiety related is this?
people who experience panic reactions either due to traumatic experience or anticipatory anxiety will have feelings in their chest which may include shortness of breath hyperventialtion as well as the sensation of swelling and pain.
what triggers your heart to suddenly feel swollen and sore temporarily. how anxiety related is this?
there is a sense of a knot in your chest and heaviness accompanied by perception of heart beating fast. but nothing is actually happening to your heart. seek evaluation and treatment of anxiety.
was diagnoaed with major depression and put on effexor (venlafaxine) will this help with ocd dizziness chest pains coordination and headaches as well as eye flutt?
the effexor (venlafaxine) may help with mood and anxiety including ocd symptoms. it may or may not help with headaches sometimes it makes headaches worse and probably won't help eye flutters which are called blepherospasms. some of what you describe dizziness and chest pain sound more like symptoms of anxiety. effexor (venlafaxine) may help that as well. one common side effect of effexor (venlafaxine) can be high blood pressure.
what are the symptoms associated with unstable angina?
chest pain not relieved by rest. please note that there are many instances of atypical presentations and it may range from vague feeling of discomfort pressure on chest shortness of breath anxiety sweating feeling of impending doom nausea vomiting. if you suspect unstable angina get to an er asap call 911.
will micardis for high blood pressure and wellbutrin (bupropion) for anxiety have negative drug interactions?
shouldn't b a problem. wellbutrin (bupropion) isn't much help with anxiety.
what might cause a person with asthma to have shortness of breath but a consistently high peak flow (750+) and all of their cardio tests checked out fine?
in my experience when someone has a subjective feeling of shortness of breath palpitations chest tightness etc. but all the objective measures are checking out ok what you may actually be dealing with is an anxiety problem. but first you rule out the physical stuff.
what could be cause of a pounding heartbeat?
there are many reasons anxiety being the most common. however anything involving your heart is worth checking out. consider thyroid or adrenal diseases dehydration medications chemical imbalances. too much caffeine nicotine alcohol drugs stress and not enough sleep are other big causes. see your md.
what are the reasons and solutions for shortness of breath and chest pain sometimes numbness in hands and legs?
chest pains and shortness of breath (individually or both symptoms together) need to be evaluated by a primary care physician first and a diagnosis--which will likely take various testing--must be made before being able to treat. causes include heart (coronary artery or valve disease pericarditis) respiratory problems (pleurisy asthma) chest wall anxiety or neuro disorders. c ur doc.
which are the most common symptoms of raynauds syndrome?
patients with raynaud's have a problem with arteriolar spasm with cold or fear/anxiety. the condition varies in severity but you will typically see whiteness above your pips (second joint of the fingers) followed by pup=rple and then redness accompanied by pain.
what heart condition cause an abnormal heartbeat?
structural heart disease such as coronary artery disease hypertensive heart disease valvular disease and congenital heart disease can cause an abnormal beat. intrinsic conduction abnormality can cause an abnormal beat. premature beats can also occur in a structurally normal heart and be stimulated by ceffeine stress anxiety pain anemia etc.
what is best remedy for mitral valve prolapse?
if asymptomatic as far as heart function treat underlying anxiety.
white coat hypertension==what is it is it real?
there is a very nice review here: <link> webmd. com/anxiety-panic/features/beyond-white-coat-syndrome?
white coat hypertension==what is it is it real?
white coat htn is when a patient upon seeing their doctor in a white coat has an elevated blood pressure. this elevated bp comes from stress or anxiety. this elevated blood pressure normalizes when the patient leaves the doctor's office and is in a stress free environment. that is why it is always good to check your home bp's if possible.
what is the best way to treat mitral valve prolapse?
if asymptomatic as far as heart function treat underlying anxiety.
what causes high blood pressure during and after surgery?
the period surrounding surgery is potentially fraught with opportunities for adrenaline surges e. g. fear anxiety pain. this may be accompanied by fast heart rate high blood pressure irregular heart beats.
why does my wife have chest pains while she sleeps?
chest pain at rest needs a full evaluation. nocturnal aggravation of gerd or acid esophageal reflux is a common cause. cardiac conditions need to be rule out. finally anxiety disorder may cause chest tightness but it's a diagnosis of exclusion
why would blood pressure pulse and respiratory rate increased during a severe asthma attack?
respiratory rate increase due to not being able to breath well pulse goes up due to not being able to breath well possible low oxygen anxiety blood pressure goes up likely from anxiety from the stress of not being able to breath well
when i was thinking about something that made me feel depressed and stressed out i felt my heart flutter what does this mean?
it sounds like anxiety or what are known as panic attacks. it is possible though you could have another problem called mitral valve prolapse. or it isn't uncommon to have both. seek an evaluation with a qualified physician and good luck.
what causes slight flutters in the eyelids. how can they be stopped?
fatigue anxiety tension and stress have been associated with causing fluttering eye lids. resolving these issues usually allows this to abate. correcting a refractive error also will help.
what can cause a fast heartbeat and dizziness?
anything from anxiety or dehydration to a serious abnormal heart rhythm. a fast heart rate and dizziness is something that should be evaluated right away unless you know it's due to anxiety or it's from dehydration that you can fix by drinking fluids. it can be useful to measure your heart rate and to find out whether it's regular and steady irregular with a pattern or completely random.
why does anxiety cause shortness of breath?
during an attack there is overflow of adrenaline which stimulates rapid breathing which can be perceived as shortness of breath along with some narrowing of breathing passages.
when your mind wanders in and out and you have a racing heartbeat what could that mean bipolar anxiety add?
it is always advisable to seek a medical consultation prior to assuming a mental illness. there are any number of physical/organic conditions that may mimic/cause psychological symptoms. these should be ruled out first.
when your mind wanders in and out and you have a racing heartbeat what could that mean bipolar anxiety add?
could be anxiety or something organic. consult pcp first for medical clearance.
what could have caused me to have passed out at the orthodontists office all of the sudden?
orthostatic hypotension (drop in blood pressure with a sudden change in position resulting in decreased blood flow to the brain) could be one cause. other possible causes an irregular heart beat a drop in your blood sugar anxiety or receiving your bill.
what are some possible side effects from taking citalopram and propranolol?
celexa with inderal (propranolol) at therapeutic doses should not cause bad interaction. celexa helps with depression & inderal (propranolol) is a bp medicine that helps with tremors & anxiety.
what can i do if i have anxiety and chronic shortness of breath?
first see your pcp to rule out medical causes for shortness of breath and who can treat or refer for tx of anxiety.
why am i feeling faint and dizzy during rugby practice?
dehydration over-exertion stress and anxiety and last but not least how many times have you been hit in the head? seriously though the other thing to be concerned about is your heart rate and rhythm. if your pulse is in any way irregular you need to see a doctor and have this checked.
why do people's hearts beat really fast when they are nervous / excited?
have you checked your heart rate when nervous? many people who experience anxiety have the perception their heart is beating fast but when checked the pulse it is not increased. some times the pulse is increased and this is related to release of adrenaline in the so called "fight or flight" response. your mind/body is responding to a threat your muscles and brain need more o2 so your hr^.
what causes lightheadedness and tingling in the face?
there are many other possible causes but anxiety and hyperventilation is the most common.
what does it mean when i can feel a heavy heartbeat in my stomach?
this is a symptom that can be related to many conditions. the most serious of which could be cardiac in origin. if you have a cardiac history or if these symptoms persist please go to the nearest emergency department or call 911. these symptoms you describe can be related to gastrointestinal cardiovascular or even related to anxiety etc. please discuss these symtoms with your primary doctor.
why does my blood pressure spike out of know where?
i have a number of patients whose blood pressure is just fine except when they come to the office. anxiety can certainly elevate blood pressure. try to get multiple blood pressure checks. get your own machine take it to your doctors office to validate your results with the doctors. when i do that if the two blood pressures are about the same i will base my decision on the results they get at home.
what causes heart palpations?
palpitations is a common symptom but unfortunately the diagnosis is challenging. alot of things can cause it. it can be something simple as a anxiety or something much broader like abnormal heart rhythms. some abnormal heart rhythms are quite benign some are quite serious. so it's tough to say whats causing your palpitations without a thorough evaluation. good luck!
what is the use of propranolol?
for hypertension anxiety/panic angina arrhythmias myocardial infarction essential tremor prophylaxis of migraine or cluster headaches tension headache akathisias from antipsychotic medications aggresion in brain injuries glaucoma post-traumatic stress disorder.
what are the common causes of chest flutters or sinking?
anxiety & arrythmias would be 2 common ones. talk to your physician and get evaluated.
what is related to cardiovascular disease?
in addition to medical complications such as heart attacks strokes there are comorbid conditions such as anxiety disorder depression and even cognitive complications. psychological neuropsychological and psychiatric complications often go missed and impair quality of life and leave risk factors untreated. more: <link>
what can cause tightness in the chest and throat?
it can mimic heart disease. try and learn self relaxation techniques like meditation or self hypnosis. exercise regularly and avoid stimulants. get your sleep and eat small frequent meals. some people get anxiety reactions from certain foods and additives like msg. your doctor might prescribe an "emergency pill" for anxiety like propranolol or xanax (alprazolam).
what causes noncardiac chest pain?
many things can cause non-cardiac chest pain. anxiety and stress esophageal disorders stomach disorders reflux disease pulmonary diseases like copd asthma pleuritis pneumonia pulmonary embolism herpes zoster costrochondritis just to name a few.
what is the use of propranolol (inderal)?
inderal (propranolol) is a so called beta blocher that has many uses it is used for hypertension tremor migraine headaches mild anxiety excessive sweating and to reduce the chances of a heart attack. and tachycardia it is contraindicated in respiratory conditions such as asthma and bronchitis.
what is prazosin used for?
is used to treat hypertension ptsd panic & anxiety & for urinary hesitancy in prostatic hyperplasia.
what type of feeling should i get from propranolol?
propranolol is a non-selective beta blocker. that is it blocks the receptors that are activated by the beta agonist in our body namely adrenaline. common side effects are decrease in anxiety or fatigue. many people use them to cut anxiety like before speaking or doing an interview due to this calming of adrenaline effect. not surprisingly they are banned in the pga used to cut the jitters.
what could explain the tightness in my chest and throat that i feel when i get really angry and keep it in?
anger and anxiety can produce symptoms of chest pain palpitations tightness in the throat. however get checked with your doctor.
when i'm in a crowded place i feel like fainting but i don't. it also happens inside malls?
sounds like you might have an anxiety disorder panic attacks or possibly depression with anxiety attacks. you could get help by working with a psychiatrist -- along with a psychotherapist if the psychiatrist does not also do psychotherapy. there are very good treatments for these conditions.
why do i feel the need to take my blood pressure at home over and over to make sure it is good like 50 times a day i do have anxiety?
i agree with you and dr. kwok about the anxiety aspect here. people can focus on many things with their worries and from your many questions on this forum it sounds like it's your health for you. can you maybe see the hypnotist you like and add this worry as something to work on? it could be very helpful. anxiety meds may help too but not by themselves. a therapist can help you as well.
why do i feel the need to take my blood pressure at home over and over to make sure it is good like 50 times a day i do have anxiety?
a psychiatrist can evaluate and confirm your belief that you have anxiety. medication can be very helpful.
what cause chest pain?
there are many things that can cause chest pain but usually it is acid reflux arthritis of the ribs anxiety & much less commonly hardening of the arteries or inflammation of the heart coverings = pericarditis tumors splitting apart of the main outflow blood vessel of the heart = aortic dissection. get checked out by your primary care doctor or a cardiologist. hrs md www. thepmc. org.
what's a good drug for fainting associated with panic attacks?
adequate treatment of panic attacks should fix the problem. if it persists then further evaluation is necessary. there are many treatments for anxiety so talk to your physician.
what could cause wildly fluctuating blood pressure?
anxiety inadequate medication withdrawl effects from certain medications such as clonidine which may not be administered frequently enough to last 24 hours and excess salt intake are some of the causes. rarely conditions such as pheochromocytoma (tumours secreting adrenaline) can cause fluctuating and episodic high blood pressure.
what can cause high blood pressure if you have good blood test results of colesterol trygliceryd tiroyd etc. im 28 and have 155/96 i have anxiety <negative_smiley>?
high systolic bp can be caused by anxiety but your high diastolic bp unlikely. bp may be due to kidney or hormone related problems. needs to be worked up by your primary care dr. or a bp specialist possibly a cardiologist or nephrologist.
what can cause high blood pressure if you have good blood test results of colesterol trygliceryd tiroyd etc. im 28 and have 155/96 i have anxiety <negative_smiley>?
the diastolic reading of 96 is high. need to see your internist for workup and advise.
what can cause high blood pressure if you have good blood test results of colesterol trygliceryd tiroyd etc. im 28 and have 155/96 i have anxiety <negative_smiley>?
high cholesterol is not causally related to blood pressure. high blood pressure is usually without a known cause. sometimes related to alcohol or anxiety and rarely related to other causes? measure bp first thing in am for two weeks. treat average.
what can cause high blood pressure if you have good blood test results of colesterol trygliceryd tiroyd etc. im 28 and have 155/96 i have anxiety <negative_smiley>?
are normal. stressful situations and anxiety can cause elevated blood pressure. you need to relax calm down and get plenty of sleep at least 8 hours and eat healthy. if you need help please consult with your physician for pointers meds if needed and rule out other causes.
what can cause high blood pressure if you have good blood test results of colesterol trygliceryd tiroyd etc. im 28 and have 155/96 i have anxiety <negative_smiley>?
could also be your genetics. anyone in your family have high blood pressure? more to high blood pressure than just cholesterol. you did not mention your weight or any other illnesses. does the pressure drop after a while at the doctor when you calm down? lots of areas to explore still.
what can cause high blood pressure if you have good blood test results of colesterol trygliceryd tiroyd etc. i have anxiety <negative_smiley> the numbers are 155/96?
high cholesterol is not causally related to blood pressure. high blood pressure is usually without a known cause. sometimes related to alcohol or anxiety and rarely related to other causes? measure bp first thing in am for two weeks. treat average.
what sorts of problems make you feel light-headed or unable to think?
several possibilities come to mind including anxiety -- either temporary like having to give a speech or more chronic like an ongoing anxiety disorder such as generalized anxiety d/o or panic d/o. intoxication with alcohol or other substances is another. dehydration and medications which lower your blood pressure -- and standing up quickly with these on board.
why do i feel the constant need to take a deep breath? and when i can't take a deep breath i feel short of breath can it be anxiety?
anxiety in some people causes a tendency to hyperventilate. as you breathe rapidly your blood loses too much carbon dioxide and you start to experience symptoms which can include shortness of breath light headed ness tingling chest pain sweating. it is one of the rare situations where the body can feed you information (i am short of breath) that makes things worse - breathing even faster.
why do i feel the constant need to take a deep breath? and when i can't take a deep breath i feel short of breath can it be anxiety?
anxiety can be an explanation. sometimes anxiety causes over breathing which paradoxically makes you feel like you're not getting enough oxygen. breathing techniques such as diaphragmatic or belly breathing can be helpful.
what does it mean when it feels like my heart is beating on the outside of my body and a tingling sensation and heaviness
however it could be as serious as (pardon the pun) a heart attack or as common as stress or anxiety. another possibility is a phenomenon known as "cardiac awareness". this should be a valuated further especially if you're having other symptoms such as chest pain lightheadedness dizziness passing out or shortness of breath.
what would cause numbness of arms and lips. also discomfort in chest?
anxiety or hyperventilation. . talk to your physician for further evaluation & potential treatment.
why do i have trouble breathing the next day when i don't get much sleep?
problem only occurs after a night of bad sleep that to me strongly suggests anxiety. anxiety problems can both cause and be exacerbated by poor sleep. you should however discuss this with your doctor.
what can be the cause of my chest pain and headache?
headaches can come from fatigue sleeping too much or too little eye strain sleep apnea snoring being dehydrated having chronic sinusitis or allergies too much caffeine or over the counter headache medication high blood pressure or something more serious like a tumor. chest pain can come from skin/muscle/nerves/anxiety/heart/lungs/stomach. see your doctor and get checked.
why do i wake up gasping for air?
an important sleep disorder that involves waking up gasping for air and often also involves snoring is called obstructive sleep apnea. there is a temporary closing off of the airway during sleep that causes periods of no breathing and therefore involuntary waking. there are other conditions that can involve gasping including waking from nightmares night terrors anxiety attacks and others.
why do i have a burning sensation in my chest and feel neauseas?
it could range from heartburn or anxiety to heart problems. please see your doctor.
why does anxiety out of nowhere cause sudden brief dizziness head rush and slightly faint feeling?
fear or panic leads to release of adrenaline which causes fight-flight response leading to rapid heart rate rapid breathing & sweating. rapid breathing causes drop in carbon dioxide in lungs then blood which leads to shifts in blood ph (hydrogen ion concentration) leading to dizziness. another cause is adrenaline leading to narrowing of blood vessels to brain hence less blood flow to head.
why does anxiety out of nowhere cause sudden brief dizziness head rush and slightly faint feeling?
what u have described is a panic attack can be treated with medication and therapy.
what are common side effects of heart bypass surgery?
depression and anxiety are two common psychological effects associated with heart surgery. you should discuss any psychological symptoms and seek a mental health evaluation in consultation with your pcp.
what will happened if i don't treat hyperthyroism?
many issues depending on how severe. these may include: arrythmias such as atrial fibrillation hypertension cardiomyopathy and heart failure. other issues could also include weight loss elevated blood sugar anxiety hair loss shortness of breath and the list goes on. bottom line get treated.
what will happened if i don't treat hyperthyroism?
as untreated it can lead to arrythmia & anxiety to name just a couple of things.
what are some ways to reduce nervousness about seeing cardiologist for first time for a teenager?
very often anxiety (about anything) is made worse by reluctance to voice one's fears openly. it's a kind of holdover from childhood thinking when we imagine that by not seeing something it actually disappears. most people find that when they get over this "fear of fear" and express their worries the anxiety diminishes. if this is so for your teen make yourself available--tho w/o pushing.
why does my chest hurt whenever somebody is talking about something that makes me uncomfortable?
this maybe a symptom of anxiety. especially if you are uncomfortable with the conversation.
what is best drug to treat bp of 214 from normal saline infusion in ambulance? was hypotensive 92 yo who was dry; salt sensitive mild htn prior cva.
someone w/ low blood pressure en route to hospital by ambulance doesn't suddenly have increase in bp to 214 due to saline infusion. increase may be a reflection of underlying illness which necessitated transfer to hospital or anxiety about ride to hospital or fear of illness or other injectable meds received to raise low bp. treatment meds & parameters then depend on underlying acute illness.
what could cause mild chest pain?
heart lung pneumonia pneumothorax chest wall esophagus reflux lung anxiety my last choice.
which is safer and which works best- buspar (buspirone) or ativan for anxiety treatment? in someone with a heart condition which is safer?
ideally u should discuss this with u pcp and based on his finding he can recommend to u what to take. in general ativan can cause. more sedation and habit forming but can work better and faster than buspar (buspirone).
what are possible causes of arm chest pain numbness in hand as well as shortness of breath?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what causes dizziness and a feeling of not being well numbness in finger tips pain in thigh. stroke test negative vertigo negative?
the combination of dizziness malaise and numbness in the fingertips can all be due to hyperventilation/anxiety disorder. this is a diagnosis of exclusion however. there are neurologic disorders that can do this that are thankfully rare: multiple sclerosis comes to mind. stay under the care of your doctor until it is resolved.
what's the difference between heart burn chest pain and chest pain that could mean heart trouble?
heartburn is esophagitis gastritis reflux and related to diet timing bending over regurgitation better with antacids gi meds prilosec etc. sometimes belching. tends to be front and neck and " burning"! angina and heart attack tend to be pressure squeeze and sweaty clammy fearful- anxiety provoking fear of death!
why do i feal like i got all this stress choking my heart is like all pressured inside my chest no heart os gone i got it cheek out?
i'm sorry that i don't understand all of what you're asking -- your "heart os gone i got it cheek out"? anxiety and stress can show up as feelings of chest pressure in many people. if you've seen your physician and ruled out physical heart disease that's good. but a therapist may be able to help you sort out "all this stress" and help you relieve it. ask your doctor for a referral.
what's my chance of blacking out or fainting due to an anxiety or panic attack? i keep obsessing that will happen while i'm driving.
if you will practice conscious breathing technique and attach it to the relaxation response you can abort any "panic attack". think about the kind of breath you would take in if you were about to swim a long distance underwater. you would feel your chest and rib cage expand beyond that of a normal breath. take ten of these and release any tight muscles in your body- go "limp"! repeat until calm.
what's my chance of blacking out or fainting due to an anxiety or panic attack? i keep obsessing that will happen while i'm driving.
if you haven't passed out from a panic attack up to now it's unlikely. general fears are of passing out dying or going crazy. the chances of this are slim to none. but i would certainly recommend that you pursue treatment which is usually very effective for anxiety.
what's my chance of blacking out or fainting due to an anxiety or panic attack? i keep obsessing that will happen while i'm driving.
you need to have a consult with a coounselor whon can help you develop a comprehensive plan. you do not need just a bit of reassurance or a note that you should be concerned. a counselor who knows you can best advise you and help you put aside what is not likley and plan best for what is likely.
what can i do to reduce my anxiety at night and calm my racing heart so i can get back to sleep?
have you tried any sleeping or anti anxiety medications? you may want to ask your doctor if you are a candidate for these medications. there are some natural agents which may help sleeping. particularly valerian root and melatonin. tart cherry juice is supposed to have high levels of melatonin.
what can i do to reduce my anxiety at night and calm my racing heart so i can get back to sleep?
dr. nabeel farah md sleep medicine consultants of north texas 8220 walnut hill lane #101 dallas tx 75231 214 739-1200.
what can i do to reduce my anxiety at night and calm my racing heart so i can get back to sleep?
please see a sleep md. you are experiencing a classic reaction to your body not breathing. it is called sleep apnea and is very serious.
why i focus in my heart so much i feel lik it just gone stop why i feel like it i m so freaking out?
you may have a legitimate heart issue so get it checked out. but if that is all fine do you think you might be experiencing anxiety? anxiety is very very common and nowadays there are some really good treatments for it both counseling and medications. don't freak out solve the problem and see your doc.
while sex (with my wife) i m no reaction (hardness) no sex feelings so very dis hearted i think i make you understand ii'm not good in english?
it could be erectile dysfunction stress anxiety or several other things. continue to try and relax(remove stress). if it continues follow up with a doctor to determine if you need treatment for ed.
what to diagnose for "dyspnea relieved by excess yawning"?
you might be describing what has been termed air hunger or hyperventilation. if so it is sometimes due to a relatively increased rate of breathing resulting in excessive loss of carbon dioxide; this causes a shift of ones blood acidity toward the alkaline side. the brain senses this; the result is anxiety and further shortness of breath. the treatment is rebreathing into a paper bag.
what can cause water retention in the lungs? accompanied by fever. is a 68 year male diabetic patient. pain around the ribs and chest
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
why do i get choking sesncation in my left side of my brest like my heart is stress out but all testst are normal for heart evry test u can think is d?
you could be having anxiety problems and/or panic attacks. especially if all tests for physical pathology are normal. next step would be to consult a psychiatrist and/or psychotherapist about your problem to see about treatment that will bring you relief. however to do this you'd have to entertain the notion that emotional/mental issues can affect how you feel physically.
what is a over-counter pill that u can take for chest pain?
the first thing you need to do is to pick up the phone and make an appointment with your physician for a propr evaluation. chest pain is not something you can pass like a headache. if it is associated with shortness of breath and other physical symptoms may be go to er. after ruling out underlying medical condition anxiety often presents itself with symptoms mimicking heart attack.
why do insomnia increses the blood pressure?
sleep deprivation is often associated with anxiety which is accompanied by physiological responses. it is likely part of the stress response.
why heart beat fast at night when trying to sleep?
likely anxiety but you can get a holter monitor to be certain that its nothing to worry about.
what are the effects of getting a tattoo besides infections? can a cancer/ heart patient get a tattoo?
you're only nineteen and are being treated for anxiety. both are great reasons not to be inked right now. i'm a tattoo buff and have two of my own. wait a few years before you decide on what you want and when you get it. "no tattoos before 30" is a good rule unless it's your military unit's tattoo and no names of anyone who's still alive are also good rules. most anyone can get inked.
what causes severe and frequent headaches other than stress and anxiety and could low blood pressure be affecting my headaches and if so some ways of?
there can be many causes some quite serious and someone with severe and frequent headaches and blood pressure fluctuations should have their questions first adressed by their primary care physician or neurologist before dismissing them as due to stress or depression. muscle tension stress and depression can make headaches worse but proper medical evaluation is the first step.
why do i feel this? shooting chest pain profuse sweating dizziness&lightheaded paniky hyperventilating insomnia worry 24/7 avoid places cause of fear.
this could be many things with just the above: thyroid respiratory anxiety/panic prior traumatizing experience(s) etc. you should see a doctor (soon) for an examination possibly some basic tests and possibly referral to a counsellor and/or medication depending on what the dr learns when talks with and examines you.
what are the symptoms of anxiety and does anxiety raise your bp a bit?
restlessness feeling keyed up on edge easily fatigued difficulty concentrating irritability muscle tension sleep disturbances these are symptoms of general anxiety disorder.
what does it mean when you get a random chest pain and it feels like a stabbing? doesn't last long for about a minute.
difficult to discuss without knowing all details could be esophageal reflux arthritis ulcer gastritis anxiety among other problems.
what do you think about propranolol?
is a beta-blocker used to treat angina high bp heart rhythm problems migraines tremors & anxiety. caution if u have breathing disorder congestive heart failure diabetes liver/kidney/thyroid disease or depression.
what could be the reason why i feel like passing out after a blood test?
the most likely explanation is a vasovagal response -- an exaggerated response of your nervous system to the anxiety of having blood drawn trying to calm things down but working a bit too well. the result is a drop in heart rate and/or blood pressure that makes you feel like passing out. it's not dangerous -- lay down until symptoms pass. to prevent it keep yourself well hydrated at all times.
why does my heart pound when i'm having confrontations?
a stressful confrontation will often activate the "fight or flight" response that prepares you to defend yourself & evade danger. your pupils dilate to let in more light blood is sent to muscles & the heart works harder and faster to move the blood where it belongs. your awareness of your heart beat may vary with stress & anxiety - undetected while exercising but loud when upset.
what causes early morning anxiety? 5am my heart starts pounding for no reason. after i get up eat something get ready for the day it goes away.
it's possible that your worries concerns and fears are being processed by your brain during the night. perhaps this occurs while you dream. when you wake up you're carrying all this anxiety- provoking baggage and you feel anxious. when you prepare for the day your mind becomes involved in daily activities and the anxiety goes away. alternatively the tachycardia may be interpreted as anxiety.
what causes early morning anxiety? 5am my heart starts pounding for no reason. after i get up eat something get ready for the day it goes away.
you may notice anxiety like symptoms from hypoglycemia low blood sugar. i suggest you check with your primary care physician first. if this is not the case and he/she does not suggest another physical problem it may be the result of your trying to deal with issues through your subconscious through dreaming.
what's wrong when i can't hold food rapid weight los chest pains passing out and panic attacks?
anything cardiac or otherwise medical by consulting your regular physician. if all is well then what you describe sounds like intense anxiety with episodes of acute panic. the latter often leaves the impression of a heart attack to the peron in its grip. the former may arise from a growing fear that an attack may happen at any time. after medical rule-out see a psychiatrist.
what causes hihh blood pressure?
most prominent being genetics. if your family has/had high bp odds are you will too. obesity contributes. added salt can impact some people's bp. stress/anxiety and caffeine/stimulants can raise bp. see your dr if bp >135/>85.
what causes chest pain if chest x-ray is clear could it still be the lungs?
chest has many organs that can cause chest pain - lungs heart pleural and pericardial lining esophagus great vessels nerves bones muscles to name a few that are all potential culprits of chest pain. people with anxiety and panic attack can also experience chest pain. that's why evaluation by physician with detailed history and physical is critical in order to try to elucidate the etiology.
what causes high blood pressure?
most prominent being genetics. if your family has/had high bp odds are you will too. obesity contributes. added salt can impact some people's bp. stress/anxiety and caffeine/stimulants can raise bp. see your dr if bp >135/>85.
what can cause chest pain triggered by stress or anxiety?
possibilities include muscular pain cardiac psychological or stress itself. go see your dr for an ekg and blood test which will test for diabetes kidney liver ailments and cholesterol level. if there's strong family history of heart disease your dr may recommend a treadmill to rule out coronary artery disease. take care.
why does my heart race after i take a insulin shot?
hypoglycemia is the only mechanism other than pain or anxiety which could cause the heart to race after an insulin shot.
what are the symptoms of a panic attack? are they similar to heart attacks?
develop rapidly ; include: marked anxiety; rapid pounding heart beat; chest tightness or pain; shortness of breath with hyperventilation; hot or cold flashes; a sense of butterflies in the stomach nausea or even vomiting; tingling of mouth or extremities; increased sweating; feeling faint or lightheaded; headache or shaking. there may be difficulty swallowing or tight throat; a sense that you.
what can cause fast heartbeat breathing difficulty cold body and dizziness?
one could begin with common causes such as dehydration extreme anxiety or fright asthma abnormal thyroid function and some unusual problems such as rare tumors which secrete substances which can affect heart rate and blood pressure. the list is very long. however were you to undergo a thorough medical examination with appropriate blood and urine testing an answer would likely be found.
what's the difference between heart attack and anxiety panic attack symptoms?
panic attacks are psychologic reactions which can have symptoms which mimic those of heart attack. a real heart attack is caused by a heart blood vessel blocking off and damaging a part of the heart. heart attack can be fatal. panic attack usually isn't fatal but can be psychologically incapacitating.
what causes a sharp pain in the chest and down the arm besides a heart attack?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
why do hot flashes increase in at night in meno especially lying down. can't sleep more than 1-2 hour heart paps sweats anxiety desperate to sleep?
is a normal phenomenen due to "drying up" of hormones. it is the absence of hormones that trigger the classical symptoms in the lower brain which has to adapt. you can take hormones but it does not "allow" adaptation to occur and that takes time. sugar in diet delays the adaptation. thus if you do not wish hormone treatment you will have to adapt. you can help by stopping all forms of sugar.
what could cause rapid bp spikes (30-40/10-20) that isn't stress anxiety or diet related. been to 5 doctors including a cardiologist and no answer?
you have labile blood pressure. there is no particular cause but some people are more sensitive to external stress and their blood pressure will show it. it the upper ranges put you in the hypertensive range treatment may be indicated. see your doctor.
what distinguishes coronary heart disease in men from its presentation in women?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
what's the differencce between heart burn or a heart attack?
heartburn is esophagitis gastritis reflux and related to diet timing bending over regurgitation better with antacids gi meds prilosec etc. sometimes belching. tends to be front and neck and " burning"! angina and heart attack tend to be pressure squeeze and sweaty clammy fearful- anxiety provoking fear of death!
what kinds of diseases can cause shortness of breath besides heart related and blood clot issues?
shortness of breath (sob) can be a symptom of many conditions other than heart and blood clot issues. pulmonary conditions are a major example . asthma reactive airway disease copd bronchitis pneumonia etc anxiety can even cause sob. if you're sob see a dr. for an eval and work up. (if you smoke stop). good luck.
what could cause difficulty breathing dizziness heat flashes sweatiness difficulty concentrating and constant dull pain in my upper left chest?
the simple explanation would be hyperventilation with anxiety & your symptoms. if so breath holding for a few minutes will reverse the symptoms. alternatively hypothyroidism could cause a similar set of symptoms. you need to see a doctor and be examined.
what would cause paresthesia in right face/arm when massaging ache in top neck/skull base? no news back from spine x-ray last week. should i worry about aneurysm/tumors? always achy. dr says anxiety.
neurologically it wouldn't happen. a rare form of thoracic outlet syndrome could cause the hand symptoms. this can be tested for in the office by your doctor. nerves to the right face do not run through the neck. spine xrays will not be helpful. a careful neurologic exam of the affected hand and face during the symptoms will tell the tale clear enough.
what would cause paresthesia in right face/arm when massaging ache in top neck/skull base? no news back from spine x-ray last week. should i worry about aneurysm/tumors? always achy. dr says anxiety.
the massage is manipulating your spinal cord and/or cranial nerves! please do not continue that until you have seen a physician and possibly undergo a film study (x-ray mri etc)! unlikely tumor or aneurysm if that makes you feel better. please take my advice!
why would it be that my heart is pounding so hard and my limbs feel jumpy?
sounds like an anxiety reaction but not knowing any more about you you ought to get checked by the dr. to see what's going on.
what to do for anxiety? its better now(1x/week) lasts for a few sec but used to be an hr long(3x/week) with trouble breathing chest pain n dizziness
glad your anxiety is improving. continue your current treatment & review your progress with your doctor.
what to do for anxiety? its better now(1x/week) lasts for a few sec but used to be an hr long(3x/week) with trouble breathing chest pain n dizziness
there are many things to help anxiety- which will help most depends on the causes. try to eat healthy (avoid sugar caffeine) exercise meditate daily do yoga seek the counsel of wise people get enough sleep take b vitamins & magnesium drink tulsi tea take ashwagandha and/or consult with a homeopath. it may not be necessary to do all of these things but each is likely to help!
what are the signs of pulmonary embolism? i have bad anxiety and get chest pain most days.
sudden shortness of breath and chest pain. however if this is something that happens to you daily you have as your question reveals you already suspect an anxiety problem not a pulmonary embolus. there are many ways to lessen anxiety. good sleep and nutrition daily exercise yoga and meditation and medication.
what are the signs of pulmonary embolism? i have bad anxiety and get chest pain most days.
chest pain shortness of breath and rapid heart beat. your sx sound more like anxiety.
what are the signs of pulmonary embolism? i have bad anxiety and get chest pain most days.
while chest pain and a sense of anxiety can accompany pe typically an acute shortness of breath signals a major pe. if you have risk factors for clotting you should see your doctor.
why does anxiety give me chest pains?
anxiety is a very common cause for chest pains. it is thought that the chest muscles tighten to cause it. for some people it may cause actual myocardial ischemic pain but this is very uncommon in young folks.
why does anxiety give me chest pains?
stress hormones such as epinephrine and norepinephrine causes arteries to tighten and increase heart rat and heart muscle demand. all theses can lead to chest pain.
what is the best way to ontrol high blood pressure?
cornerstone of blood pressure control is diet (low salt) excercise (30 min walk three times per week) reduction of anxiety good sleep low caffeine and alcohol intake and weight maintenence near ideal body weight. beyond that is appropriate use of medications depending on the other medical conditions.
what are the risks of constant anxiety and almost a constant pounding heart?
i think you realize you need to take care of this see your dr. dr will check for hyperthyroidism and other conditions. if needed perhaps you can get some psychological help.
what should i do for recent anxiety attacks? had to call 911 cause i thought it was a heart attack?
once the heart is ruled out and other causes investigated medications such as xanax (alprazolam) therapy biofeed back meditaion to name a few.
what should i do for recent anxiety attacks? had to call 911 cause i thought it was a heart attack?
get psychiatric help .
what causes hypertension in a 110 lb 18 year old girl?
genetics smoking high caffeine intake (energy drinks) drugs (cocaine for example anxiety pheochromocytoma thyroid disease renal disease etc. etc. the point being there are many possible causes. have the 18yo assessed and treated after a full evaluation and proper diagnosis takes place and they should do well. best wishes.
what could cause hypertension/high blood pressure?
salt intake genetics toxins drugs smoking anxiety tumors.
why would anxiety increase a persons heart beat?
it causes the stress reaction to be in play.
why would anxiety cause shortness of breath or chest pain?
body secretes adrenalin in response to the anxiety and it can cause those t hings.
what are some emotional effects after a heart attack?
early depression usually resolves anxiety about future and into the future dementia may be identified.
what exactly does it feel like to have a heart attack?
usual sub-sternal crushing severe durable sustained anxiety producing with clammy skin pallor and radiation to left upper arm with a squeeze. much variability!
which blood pressure medication is good for people with moderate to high anxiety?
beta blockers offer certain advantages to anxiety patients.
what are some of the symptoms of a heart attack patient?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
week of excessive burping and gas pains in back and side. stressful week and now have elevated heart beat at rest.
burping gas pains and elevated heart rate can all have a variety of causes and may need evaluation by your pcp. however anxiety can also be a cause of those symptoms. when persons are anxious they often swallow air and have to pass it on. heart rate can often be elevated by anxiety. some form of anxiety is found in over 15% of the general public but is easily treatable by a psychiatrist or.
what exactly does it mean to have low blood pressure one day and then high blood pressure the next?
such high low pressure is common when you have anxiety anger and be very sensitve. take it easy.
would you please help describe the usual symptoms of a heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what causes you to have hypertension that is transient?
anxiety/stress medications illicit drugs illness. . to name a few.
what is a a hard heartbeat?
a hard beat could be any forceful heart beat such as with anxiety. an isolated hard heart is usually caused bu the first normal heart beat after a pvc (premature ventricular contraction) or early heart beat which originates from the bottom chamber of the heart. the beat is hard because the pause after an early beat gives the heart more time to fill thus the beat is more forceful.
what are some early signs of a heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what can be initial symptoms of heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what does it feel like when having a heart attack?
usual sub-sternal crushing severe durable sustained anxiety producing with clammy skin pallor and radiation to left upper arm with a squeeze. much variability!
weaning off paxil (paroxetine). episodes of shortness of breath with anxiety attack. no history of shortness of breath. can it be one of withdrawal syndromes?
anxiety can cause shortness of breath and cessation of paxil (paroxetine) can cause anxiety. if they come together then the shortness of breath is more likely to be from anxiety.
weaning off paxil (paroxetine). episodes of shortness of breath with anxiety attack. no history of shortness of breath. can it be one of withdrawal syndromes?
you need to talk to your physician never stop paxil (paroxetine) if you need to switch taper slowly may need cross tapering with other antidepressant. sometime even need as needed benzodiazepine for anxiety.
what does it mean when you feel your blood pressure in you feet and in your legs then feel a little dizzy on and off and heaviness in your chest?
heaviness in feet along with heaviness in chest and dizziness at young age is likely anxiety. please get a physical to make sure your heart and blood are fine for thyroid. also cut back on caffeine as much as possible.
why is it that chest pain is one of the symptoms of anxiety?
anxious folks tend to tighten their chest muscles.
what are the symptoms for men and women for a myocardial infarction are different. why is that?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
what are some early indicators of a heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what are the symptoms of a heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what might bring about my random shortness of breath episodes?
you might be allergic or have a totally different physical trouble - or anxiety may be a factor. this is one for your dr t sort out. when the causes are psychological it's usually paired with anxiety something you can usually improvewith therapy.
will having even a small anxiety or panic attack cause your blood pressure to go up for the rest of the day?
anxiety does cause bp to rise of course. but hypertension as a condition needing treatment typically begins as "labile" hypertension--high blood pressure than comes and goes. if an anxietry attack triggers persisting high bp it should be reviewed by a physician for possible treatment.
what beta blocker should i take for the physical symtoms of anxiety? propranolol or atenolol? im taking ativan (lorazepam) but want to add a bb for physical symptom
however make sure that you are not depressed. anxiety may be a symptom of depression and antidepressants may be more effective in controlling it than ativan (lorazepam).
whats the diference between atenolol and propanolol? what is better for the physical symtoms of anxiety? its true that atenolol work only on the heart?
both are in the same class of heart meds (beta-blockers). it is true though that atenolol works more just on the heart because it crosses into the brain much less than propranolol. this is what makes propranolol much more effective for other things like migraines anxiety etc. where the drug has to cross into the brain in order to work for these things. for anxiety i would use propranolol.
what are the signs when you get a heart attack in a woman in her 40's?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
when i feel anixty attack coming on i feel shortness of breath is this normal to feel this with anxiety & sometimes when laying down i feel this way?
the symptoms you describe could be anxiety or panic symptoms. with that being said it's still a good idea to first rule out physical problems by seeing your pcp. after that seek help with a therapist who works with anxiety (which is most of us).
why am i dizzy and shaky just counted my heart beats per minute and it was 90. is this normal?
could just be anxiety.
when in car my chest feels like there's something in it and breathing seems tighter i can then feel my heart pound harder is this my anxiety?
is this the only situation in which u experience these sensations? did u always feel this way about being in a car? if not when this this begin & did that follow some particular event? what would happen if u were given a *toy* car? without more clues we're left guessing & that's not helpful to u. the sensations are consistent w/those that arise when our brain sounds the "there's danger! " alarm.
what comes first anxiety or high blood pressure: meaning does high blood pressure cause anxiety or the other way around?
can operate in either direction.
what can you do to stop anxiety after and before fainting?
dear erica if you are having actual fainting spells it is important to be medically assessed. organic problems need to be ruled out.
what are the causes of the top number in your blood pressure to be high?
anxiety exertion underlying typical blood pressure thyroid llevels any of these can elevate the systolic blood pressure.
what are the symptoms for heart attack and diabetes?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
will paxil (paroxetine) 12. 5mg relieve my shortness of breath due to my anxiety?
check our website's tips on anxiety. try these- slow deep breathing exercises get enough rest and sleep humor positive thinking eating more fruits and veggies prioritize live each day! bless u!
why is nausea a symptom of a heart attack? what exactly causes the nausea?
nausea is not a major one but with right coronary abdominal pain and nausea may occur. similarly with low blood pressure or pulse nausea can occur. symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
will getting mad cause high blood pressure?
anger and stress can increase bp temporarily and chronic anxiety can do this long-term. be worth seeing a licensed psychologist for advice on anger and stress. however most people with high blood pressure also have a genetic background that means hypertension will not normalize with stress management. so drug therapy may well be needed too.
what are some signs off a heart attack?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
whst is right way to be calm down i have sugar and blood pressure and high colestrol
first make sure you take meds for the cholesterol bp sugar. the key for stress/anxiety is to avoid sedative drugs which just mask the underlying problem and can be addictive. there are lots of psychological interventions like yoga meditation cognitive behavioral therapy and acceptance-committment therapy that improve anxiety. recent studies have even shown that cbt can prevent heart attacks.
would a person who is considered a worrier always have hypertension?
worrying can be a sign of anxiety which is associated with increased risk of heart disease. this does not always manifest itself as high blood pressure though. there are ways to reduce the impact of worrying especially cognitive-behavioral counseling. if you are troubled by these symptoms i would find a clinical psychologist who can offer cognitive-behavioral or acceptance-committment therapy.
will depression and anxiety lead to people easily having heart attacks?
individuals with depression and anxiety have a higher risk of developing heart disease compared to those who do not. the exact connection as to why is still being researched. the bottom line is if you have depression or anxiety get treatment and take care of yourself. omega 3 can be helpful for both your mood and heart.
what is a normal pulse range qhen you take your blood pressure?
60-90 at rest and increases with exercise stress/anxiety intake of caffeinated drinks etc.
what can cause shakiness weakness light headedness and sudden tiredness?
reaction to medication hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) anxiety cardiac arrhythmia middle ear infection labyrinthitis panic attack anemia and dehydration are few conditions. if these are frequent symptoms should consult physician for physical exam and perhaps testing.
what exactly does it feel like when you are having a heart attack?
usual sub-sternal crushing severe durable sustained anxiety producing with clammy skin pallor and radiation to left upper arm with a squeeze. much variability!
what would cause chest tightness? hearts good n lungs are clear. no asthma. always anxious feeling. started suddenly. possibly panic attack cause it?
panic and anxiety can definitely cause chest tightness although unless you have a history of these symptoms with anxiety it is always good to get checked out because blood clots and other medical situations can also cause this even if you have no history of heart or lung problems.
what are the ups and downs of taking magnesium. im anxious a lot n think i had panic attack few months ago. been cleared of heart lung prob. no asthma?
one of the benefits of mag is treatment of insomnia depression and migraines. also use to treat or help in the treatment certain psychiatric illness. panic attacks anxiety stress. also help treat diabetes hypertension osteoporosis.
what to do if my blood pressure and pulse are too high to be going to the gym?
you may potentially benefit from so-named rate control medications as well as likely some degree of anxiety control. you definetily need to be evaluated by your doctor who will order treatment to help you start regular exercise.
what are the specific things to do when blood pressure elevates?
blood pressure that is consistently elevated should be addressed. bp that goes up and down is normal. very severe elevations of bp may be treated with medications. if the pressure elevation is related anxiety the best thing to do is relax - the blood pressure will come down when the adrenaline comes down.
what causes high blood pressure or low blood pressure please b pascifec?
high blood pressure is often idiopathic meaning we don't have a reason for it. cardiovascular disease renal disease and some endocrine diseases can cause it. pain anxiety and medications such as various stimulants can raise bp as well. low bp can be idiopathic or caused by cardiovascular disease endocrine disease anemia and dehydration.
when i eat gluten i have shortness of breath severe mental confusion and numb/tingling all over - - no anxiety normal cbc. why? i don't get it.
you may have a guten allergy and should be tested and or avoid gluten completely.
was a marijuana smoker until my last time. heart raced thought i was going to die. now when i sleep relax i feel intense shaking and sinking. anxiety?
if a bad experience helps you to change your behavior you can feel pretty good about your learning skills. this may be a good signal to find a therapist to talk with. anxiety can motivate making improvements and if you nip it in the bud it can help you instead of hurting you. don't ignore it or it will just become more intense to get your attention. relaxing should be relaxing not stressful!
was a marijuana smoker. last time heart was racing and felt like was going to die. now when sleep or relax i feel intense shaking and sinking. anxiety?
marijuana increases heart rate slightly & causes anxiety in some but any adverse effects should dissipate within several hours. it's possible what you smoked was adulterated. your current symptoms sound like anxiety but could have other causes like low blood sugar or hyperthyroidism. magnesium (glycinate or taurate) may help as can b complex exercise meditation & herbs like rhodiola. see comment:.
when tapering off of both ativan (lorazepam) an lortab slowly is it a side effect 2 go through periods of feeling very short of breath? how long will this last?
your shortness of breath is likely from anxiety related to withdrawal. make sure your tapering off of these medications is supervised by your physician.
when tapering off of both ativan (lorazepam) an lortab slowly is it a side effect 2 go through periods of feeling very short of breath? how long will this last?
if the shortness of breath is associated with any anxiety or stress then it is to be expected when tapering off benzodiazepines. however as you are on an inhaler (unsure of your diagnosis) then if you have a reactive airway disease this can be made worse with stress so indirectly it could be contributing. otherwise shortness of breath is not a direct side effect of discontinuing those meds.
what causes a painful lump underneath the top of your ribcage? had it for over a year chest pain and wheezing too.
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
will bisoprolol stop panic attack adrenaline chest pain? i believe this is the muscles in chest wall getting tighter? feels like angina but had tests
bisoprolol is a beta-blocker. that is it blocks the effect of adrenaline on specific organs. it may help reduce the symptoms related to anxiety. it is not effective on everyone. there are other medications more specific and effective for panic attacks. if not improving talk to your doctor about ssri's. also make the necessary lifestyle changes in order to prevent these attacks.
why do i wake up scared and gasping for air after having beers and having a hangover?
part of the hangover is short term alcohol withdrawal. anytime somebody has more than about 4 drinks they will go through a short period of alcohol withdrawal which shows up as anxiety shaking shortness of breath high blood pressure and a fast heart rate. the only good way to deal with this is a medication called beta blockers such as propanolol. you will need to see your doctor for that.
when i stand i feel short of breath. throat tight. muscles tense a little bit. i have high anxiety its only when i stand what can i do thyroid is fine?
thyroid has been evaluated and is ok then you need to work closely with your doctors to properly diagnose and treat your problems.
why do i get headache have difficulty breathing feel tired and have irritation between upper middle chest and throat a little pain during breathing?
many issues here:? anxiety but start by calling your md.
which beta blocker should i take for the physical symtoms of anxiety?
actually blocks secondary responses that come with the psychological anxiety. i'm not aware of a study showing one superior for anxiety. atenolol longer acting so can take less often.
which beta blocker should i take for the physical symtoms of anxiety?
if you are not asthmatic or diabetic and have no structural heart disease. inderal (propranolol) is the medication that has been studied most for this purpose.
when i take my bp my sys is always in the 130's but my dia is fine always in the 70's and pulse stays around70 is this ok just wondering about sys?
i presume it's your anxiety stress & worrying that contribute to the bp elevation. find ways to calm your nerves and relax your mind. do slow deep breathing engage in sports don't focus much on your bp & divert your attention to recreational activities try yoga or meditation stay away from obnoxious people and join the company of optimistic ones! cheer up and watch a comedy show this weekend!
what causes a heart murmur and why would i have one at age 40? can stress/anxiety cause one?
a heart murmur. a murmur is just noise. sometimes serious problems cause a murmur many times a murmur is caused by normal flow. patients often misctranslate what the dr. tells them.
why can i feel my pulse in every area of my body (fingers toes heart belly)bp/pulse okay. i have anxiety issues & also can't stay still &random pain?
if all your medical workup is normal i recommend a counselor experienced with cognitive behavior therapy to help u with your anxiety.
why can i feel my pulse in every area of my body (fingers toes heart belly)bp/pulse okay. i have anxiety issues & also can't stay still &random pain?
you need profession help with counciling and be tested for add. a lot of add patients have anxiety issues as well.
what are heart attack warning signs?
symptoms: chest and neck and left arm pain can all occur elephant sitting on your chest shortness of breath fatigue anxiety fear some are asymptomatic signs: cold clammy low pulse rate or fast irregular sudden death .
what could cause shortness if breath? cardiac cause? what tests are required.
is the shortness of breath at rest or exertion? the most common causes are poor condition and anxiety. certainly other more serious causes would be pulmonary (lung) or cardiac. have it checked out if it is causing you anxiety or discomfort.
when i go for a jog my heart beats way too fast and i get out of breath. no wheeze or cough & once i stop i'm ok. part of my anxiety?
exercise causes a release of lactic acid which can cause your heart to race if you have panic disorder. about one third of panic patients respond to exercise in this way. i would still recommend a visit to a cardiologist to make sure the problem is not cardiac in origin.
what are the symptoms of coronary heart disease.
pain left chest pain shoulder pain in jaw pain in back or stomach. shortness of breath indigestion choking heart burn nausea vomiting palpitation irregular heart rate. dizziness extreme weakness and anxiety.
what to do if i have a sharp pain from my heart and its affecting my breast too. what could it be?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what happens when you have a heart attack. does it stop beating. or start beating harder?
it can do variety of things. pain pallor diaphoresis shortness of breath weakness and anxiety are some items. cardiac arrythmia and arrest can occur. in heart failure with attack high blood pressure can happen.
what is a normal blood pressure for a 16 year old male that is 6 feet tall and weighs 150lbs. ?
there are two numbers involved when talking about blood pressures. an adolescent male of your size ideally has systolic (upper number) in the 110-120 range and diastolic (lower number) in the 70's. make sure pressure is taken properly - wrong size cuff anxiety all kinds of things affect readings.
waking up everyday feeling weak and entire body hurts. headache everyday when i wake up too. causes? seeing cardiologist for heart issues related?
include thyroid/ autoimmune condition fibromyalgia stress anxiety chronic medical illness etc. hopefully you'll get better soon. take care!
what's a reason for a healthy 18 year old female to have right-sided chest pains?
many things could be possible including anxiety a muscle sprain acid indigestion gall bladder issues etc. you need to see a dr. to get properly diagnosed and then the treatment would be tailored to the cause. best wishes.
which one of my meds could be causing tiredness weakness jet leg feeling skipped heart beats muscle weakness and shakey ness if i try to do much?
lyrica (pregabalin) can cause tiredness weakness. diazepam can do too. shakiness could be the symptom of anxiety or if you've not taken diazepam for a while and going through withdrawal. skipped heart beat - not sure.
what to do about my chest pains?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what is the reason im having heart pains?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what is the possible cause of unstable hypertension?
most likely is "white coat" or "labile" hypertension caused by the psychological stress of anxiety. thus it depends on the circumstances. there are medicaton hormonal and structural causes as well plus binge alcohol use. best to see your doctor and get a home bp cuff or an ambulatory b monitor to sort it out.
what causes right side upper chest pain?
anxiety can cause excess cortisol os adrenaline secretion which can cause a number of symptoms including dizziness lightheadedness rapid heart beat palpitations chestpain headaches etc. try calming yourself down by concentrating on slowing down your breathing over a few minutes if this doesn't help see your primary provider for further evaluation. good luck!
what is causing chest pains?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what are the symptoms of a heart attack for a woman?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
what happens if it is hard to breathe?
the miracle is the ease of breathing & staying alive all complex. from anxiety lung heart blood & continuous split second complex integrated (non-conscious) mind/brain control of all these functions the list complexity & quantitative interactions of all these issues still stumps many including sometimes physician specialists with best training available & decades of experience. specifics?
will taking strattera (atomoxetine) for only a month have any effect on my heart? also what are the pros and cons to taking strattera (atomoxetine)?
unless yoiu have an unusual reaction to strattera (atomoxetine) like an arrhythmia or allergic reaction the major heart change will be prolonged qt syndrome and excessivly rapid heart rate. the pros - help adhd mild anxiety relief possible mild anti depressant the dcons - most commonly: sedation headache irritability tachycardia prolonged qt interval and stomach irritation.
when i wake up in the morning i have mild shortness of breath that only lasts for a few minutes. what could it be. i feel good all the rest of the da?
as long as you feel well most of the day this is probably related to some anxiety as you welcome the unknowns of the new day. if your breathlessness is on light exertion or associated with other signs and symptoms then you should have it checked. out.
what causes trouble breathing but your pulse ox is perfect?
trouble breathing = problems with ventilation low pulse ox = problems with hemoglobin saturation. the majority of ventilatory problems such as asthma anxiety fatigue etc. will not actually cause a low pulse ox.
what can cause shortness of breath besides anxiety chf and lung disorders?
you have mentioned good causes some time acid reflux can do too.
woke up w racing heart hot flash no sweat no fever followed by diarrhea. could this be food poisoning? anxiety? happened during day w panic too.
sounds more like a panic attack/anxiety than food poisoning especially since it happened in different situations and you associate it with panic. would be worthwhile to visit with your pcp about this to rule out any other causes. good luck.
what is the definition or description of: mitral valve prolapse?
the most common valvular abnormality whereby the mitral value is abnormally displaced upwards into the upper chamber of the heart during the contraction phase of the heart muscle. causes of multiple and there are different grades of severity. it is diagnosed by echocardiography (ultrasound of the heart). symptoms include anxiety palpitations chest pain and or exercise intolerance.
what can be causing these heat flashes in my chest heart area not really painful but scary also chest always twitching what can it be besides my heart?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what is the reason of chest pain like needle pricking?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it. needle pricking pains are usually musculoskeletal.
what causes tight chest pains?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
wife scared that she has interstitual lung disease at 27 shes had normal chest xrays/ct of chest good flow meters just gets sob she has lupus/pots?
if all her cardiac and pulmonary tests are negative anxiety should be considered by her treating physician.
what are the signs for a heart attack in a woman?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
what to do when i have hot flashes especially when i can feel it in my nose feel like im having heart attack normal bp is it still anxiety"?
if you still has at least one functioning ovary at 32 hot flashes are unlikely. palpitation and abnormal feeling in nose or face are common with anxiety attacks. please see your therapist.
what could cause your bp to be under 120/80 sometimes 86/56 at home and in drs office higher than 130/90? htn and pcos provera (medroxyprogesterone) and lisinoril hctz
this is where your bp increases only at the doctors office and then returns to normal at home. more doctors are recommending that people learn how to use cuffs at home so that this artifact of anxiety is not unnecessarily treated.
why would my lungs feel like they are burning? i've felt this before but i don't have any trouble breathing like i have in the past.
' lungs feel like they are burning' without trouble breathing are likely symptoms of anxiety due to stresses. stresses of relationships unresolved conflicts and feelings stresses of school work and finances cause anxiety. please see your physician for diagnosis and treatment psychotherapy relaxation and meditation will be beneficial.
what is the 1 thing i can say to myself that will help to decrease anxiety just prior to having my blood pressure taken at my next office visit?
forget the doctor's reading. some people just have white coat hypertension. get yourself a digital unit and keep a log on your home bp readings. that is going to be much more valuable than a single reading in the doctor's office.
what is the 1 thing i can say to myself that will help to decrease anxiety just prior to having my blood pressure taken at my next office visit?
not sure. try to relax before you go back and you may ask to have it checked again before you leave to see if talking to the doctor calmed you some.
why does my pulse and muscules in my body feel shaky and jittery? can that happen whilst on tarceva (erlotinib)?
tarceva (erlotinib) has the potential for many side effects including anxiety rigors dizziness neuropathy myalgia and fatigue. it's likely that your symptoms may be related. it's always a good idea to review your symptoms with your treating oncologist or prescriber. good luck.
wake up at night time fast heartbeat 120 165/95 bp(normally 125/75)and feeling of panic. gradually goes down before episode stress and lack of sleep?
it's not uncommon to have panic attacks wake you in the night. lack of sleep and ongoing anxiety can worsen them. however this needs a full medical evaluation to make sure of what's going on so you can get the best help possible. there are good treatments for panic attacks with both medications and psychotherapy. please see your doctor.
why do i get paranoid while high? by that i mean like fralung someones after me or am going to die. also my heart starts to beat fast
high on what? i'm presuming you mean marijuana. anxiety ; paranoia are common responses to marijuana; while it reduces anxiety for most this is not unusual. it just may not be the right herb for you. a fast heart rate is a common effect. there are many strains of marijuana; strains higher in indica may cause less anxiety than sativa-rich strains but marijuana isn't good for any 16 yo-see comment:.
what can lead to shortness of breath?
your question is very open ended. there are so many causes. mostly heart problems and lung problems could cause shortness of breath. also anxiety disorder hyperventilation disorders also cause shortness of breath.
when a person really has white coat syndrome (normal at home) how high can that person's blood pressure readings actually go up to?
no exact number. when an object precipitates anxiety it could lead to increase in blood pressure. but there is no formula to calculate how high the blood pressure will rise to.
what does shock throughout body mean when you have anxiety? i'm very low on vitamin d. how to stop shock? what can i do? heart is not racing like usua
try some relaxation techniques. here's a good place to get started: <link>
what would cause upper body to vibrate strongly for a few minutes upon waking? pregnant pots migraines anxiety
more about vibrations confined to the upper extremities and lasting minutes. were you conscious during the entire event? are you sure that your lower extremities were not involved? did you have palpitations/fluttering in your chest? did your bowel/bladder habits change in association with this event or after? if awake did you try to sit-up/stand-up and if so did it change your symptoms?
what would be the safest ssri for a patient with heart disease(stents)?
it is my opinion that lexapro would be the safest. my rationale for this is that it has fewest drug drug interactions of all of the medications of its class. when you are having a cardiac condition there are a lot of drugs that can potentially interact with ssris. citalopram which is close to lexapro can cause potential difficulties with what is referred to as a prolonged qtc interval. it would be best to avoid that. zoloft paxil (paroxetine) luvox all have significant drug drug interactions that would be preferable to avoid. lexapro also has the advantage of working very well in generalized anxiety disorder which often accompanies cardiac conditions. best wishes.
why do i feel foggy and dizzy after sitting or standing for long periods of time? is it blood pressure? anxiety? it's worst in the sun and in public
you're question is somewhat complicated. you need a comprehensive physical exam and may need blood testing. also you're blood pressure and heart rate should be assessed laying flat and then sitting upright or standing. this is known as orthostatic assessment. significant changes in pressure laying or sitting indicates a potential problem.
what is the best remedy for shortness of breath/difficulty breathing?
if you're having true shortness of breath and not just anxiety then a check-up is needed to find the cause. some causes are lung problems heart problems poor conditioning or anemia.
why do my anxiety attacks seem to flare up everytime my sleep schedule gets messed up. stomach hurts throat feels agitated heart races every time.
everyone's tolerance to changes in lifestyle including schedule is different. it does seem you are having some anxiety. talk to your doctor or your psychologist or psychiatrist. sometimes a willing set of ears is all you need sometimes more.
why do my anxiety attacks seem to flare up everytime my sleep schedule gets messed up. stomach hurts throat feels agitated heart races every time.
sleep is needed to help reset your brain. make sure your schedule is consistent.
what exactly can numb hands shortness of breath and headache be?
at your age the most likely mechanisms linking these diagnoses would be anxiety. this is certainly not to say that something more sinister may be lurking but statistically those would be much less likely. if truly bothersome seek attention from your primary care provider since fairly simple tests can help you categorize these symptoms into either benign or more worrisome. good luck!
what do i need to eat and how much to maintain normal blood pressure throughout the day? i get anxiety cause i worry it might be too low or high
unless you have a bad family history unlikely any major bp abnormality. however why not allay fears by checking your bp a few times a day over a couple of days? wrist cuff is cheap and acceptable for screening and can be used by one person.
when i had went to the er previously for chest pain which was anxiety they said i had some inflammation in my chest but they didn't give me meds. ok?
or benign inflamation of the costochondral joints. it will go away in a few weeks.
what supplements are best for controlling depression and anxiety? i've heard of omega-3's sam-e and 5htp. can these be taken alongside meds?
especially if you are taking meds. these supplements can give you higher levels of serotonin which can be potentially dangerous.
will zoloft (sertraline) help with performance anxiety like in exams? or the only solution is propanolol?
propanolol has a common side effect of the short-term memory loss. zoloft (sertraline) (ssri) can take up to a month before anything happens if at all. rec. counseling for biofeedback cognitive behavioral therapy. fast results and no side effects.
why in some sites it says that pheochromocytoma can cause depression? what it causes this?
pheos produce a variety of hormones primarily adrenaline which can cause anxiety as well as high blood pressure. these are very rare tumors and i would be not worried about having one instead look for more common problems like anxiety and depression which are more easily treated.
why would i feel like my heart is beating faster whole i'm sleeping or wake up in the middle of the night?
anxiety is a great cause of this although there are others. if it keeps happening see you doctor!
when i'm having high anxiety bp is 150/98 when i relax it returns to 119/79 range could anxiety cause such a rise in blood pressure?
yes anxiety can impact your bp. some breath work might help. look up deep breathing techniques to learn how to regulate your breathing and slow it down. practice the techniques several times a day even when you're feeling ok. there are several other relaxation techniques(visualization muscle relaxation mindfulness music etc) find what works for you.
when i'm having high anxiety bp is 150/98 when i relax it returns to 119/79 range could anxiety cause such a rise in blood pressure?
you will want to consult with your general physician if not a psychiatrist. after that consulting with a psychologist would be in order to assess the psychological causes of your anxiety and begin developing management strategies.
when i'm having high anxiety bp is 150/98 when i relax it returns to 119/79 range could anxiety cause such a rise in blood pressure?
you are getting to see the possible physiological effects of anxiety first hand. if you can find a quiet place - do so. breath in slowly ; deeply through your nostrils. fill your lungs with air (but not to the point of discomfort). hold for a count of five then slowly begin to exhale through an open mouth. repeat at least 12 times longer if you need to. get evaluated for anxiety. take care.
what are common causes for very mild dyspnea at my age(1-2 seconds long? ) physical causes? i have anxiety but am curious as to other causes? benign?
it is not physiologic to become short of breath for 1-2 seconds. common causes of breathlessness are: asthma copd pneumonia blood clots congestive heart failure heart attack collapsed lung tumors and rare causes but all of the above cause prolonged periods of breathlessness. hyperventilation due to anxiety can be very brief. try some relaxation techniques-check this out: <link>
what can cause chest pain n a 21yr old cough runny nose & taking claritin (loratadine) d & robutissin dm no health problems known of! it's on the left side?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
why does my chest feel heavy and tight? i think it's because i've been stressed & sad lately is that true?
sometimes anxiety and depression can show up as physical signs such as chest pressure and tightness. in fact chronic stress has been linked to many psychosomatic and physical disorders not just anxiety and depression. it is good to be checked out by a professional to see if u might have a heart condition. young people can suffer from undiagnosed illnesses.
what to do if i feel shortness of breath and panick attacks?
even though panic attacks are known to present as shortness of breath but any one complaining of shortness of breath needs to be checked to rule out all organic causes of this symptom before a diagnosis of panic attack is made panick attacks are caused by underlying anxiety and have to be treated with tranquilisers and other anti anxiety medications and psychotherapy so get it cheched asap.
will mild anxiety cause heart papolation?
will activate a part of your nervous system that can increase your heart rate but there are other important causes that should be evaluated like circulation or heart or hormonal reasons. see your physician.
what does minor lower abdominal cramps & constant slight chest pains (on & off for weeks - the chest pains) mean?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
what is propranolol good for?
it is antihypertensive medication but people use for anxiety essential tremors and tachycardia.
what to do if i sometimes get a small nagging chest pain on the right side of my body about 2 inches below the nipple but im anybody know what it may be?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
what are symptoms of sarcoid of the heart? i have sarcoid and i fainted yesterday(now i'm panicking) i felt a lot of anxiety before i fainted
as it can cause conduction abnormalities to severe ventriclulr arrhythmias. see ur cardiologist immediately.
what does it mean when my shortness of breath is worse when walking than when working out?
shortness of breath could be a symptom of many diseases. exercise could worsen shortness of breath in many heart or lung conditions. if you walk uphills or upstairs and your shortness of breath is getting worse i would suggest you to have the heart and lungs tests with your doctor. if you feel good during your exercises but have shortness of breath when you walk it could be anxiety.
what are the different diagnosis of pheochromocytoma?
this is a rare but dangerous condition. make sure the diagnosis was made correctly. you should already have an endocrinologist on the team if you were diagnose with this. differential diagnosis include: drug side effects (legal and illegal) drug withdrawal (legal or illegal) carcinoids hyperthyroidism macrocytosis insulinoma panic attacks labile essential hypertension anxiety disorders.
why do my face get hot n red but im cold? is high bp? i do have anexity.
anxiety can cause that some hormonal shifts can cause those symptoms as well.
what could cause me to wake up from a dead sleep with a pounding heart?
anxiety and panic attacks can do that. as well as having bad dreams that you dont remember.
was at work startd 2 have heart palpatiations been having all night on and off witch in turn is making my anxiety really high what could be cause this?
other stimulants like add meds? you could have some sort of tachyarrythmia. you should probably go see a cardiologist who specializes in electrophysiology. they can do some simple tests to rule out the bad things and rule in the stuff can be fixed.
when i wake up in the morning my chest feels really tight. i get chest pains sometimes it hurts to swallow i get fatigued my chest would feel heavy?
or if having pain go to er. cardiac cause needs to be ruled in or out as a cause. you don't state your age. other causes could be pulmonary gerd anxiety.
which medicine is best for high anxiety before interview propranolol 40 mg long acting or clonazepam. 25mg?
both are effective. clonazepam is likely more so but may be more like to make one too sedated or disinhibited. its a small dose however.
which medicine is best for high anxiety before interview propranolol 40 mg long acting or clonazepam. 25mg?
a meditation called the relaxation response (see herbert benson's little book) will help you in this situation and beyond. peace and good health.
would ativan be a better choice than klonopin (clonazepam) to use along with cardizem cd because of the interaction between klonopin (clonazepam) and cardizem.
both drugs have interactions with cardizem. lightheadedness and dizziness for example. both can result in hypotension. the number of interactions are greater with klonopin (clonazepam) but that is probably because klonopin (clonazepam) stays in your bloodstream much longer than ativan. so if that is your only choice than ativan. best choice is to switch to anxiety drug from a different chemical structure completely.
went to family gp tension headache said its anxiety as bp ok. but i have pinkish mucus forehead ache & top face pressure for more than one month.
please communicate your new and persistent symptoms and include your temperature to your gp. it sounds like a sinus infection.
went to family gp tension headache said its anxiety as bp ok. but i have pinkish mucus forehead ache & top face pressure for more than one month.
tth tension type headache is your major problem. the management of episodic and chronic tth consists of psychological support physical therapy and pharmacotherapies. rec. : see an orofacial pain or headache specialist. pinkish mucus is second problem and can be a sign that you are at risk for or already have gum disease. rec. : see your dentist.
why can't i sleep on my left side? my heart pounds when i sleep on my left side? how come? when i go to my right side i don't feel it at all? any ideas?
our heart is much closer to the left chest wall and comes even closer if your turn on your left side. so if your heart is beating faster you are likely to feel it. find out why your heart is beating fast. are you under stress/anxiety? learn to relax yourself to calm down your mind and you can do this by taking deep breaths and focusing your mind on your breath for few minutes(mindfulness).
what diuretic has the least side effects? hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) gave me some weird side effects (lethargy chest tightness anxiety).
any medication can have side effects- if you need a simple diuretic ask your pcp to prescribe low dose chlorthalidone- if you cannot tolerate it you are probably sensitive to the entire class of diuretics.
what diuretic has the least side effects? hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) gave me some weird side effects (lethargy chest tightness anxiety).
hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) is a better blood pressure medication than a strong diuretic. side effects are usually minor. other diuretics are stronger with more side effects (furosemide bumetanide etc) i would strongly advise to ask your doctor why and what for is he prescribing diuretics.
weird painish in chest pain in entire upper abdomen ultrasound found polyps on gallbladder nothin else. always tired lots of anxiety any ideas?
please stop advil (ibuprofen) and ibuprofen unless there is a reason you must continue. these can irritate your stomach and esophagus. have you tried reflux meds yet? need more history on your pain - how long what is it like what makes it better what makes it worse. lab results? vital signs?
why do i always feel my heart beating? i really believe i have anxiety and i think i'm depressed. but i haven't been told by a doctor yet.
you may be experiencing anxiety which commonly presents with heart palpitations. make an appointment with your family physician and clearly explain your concerns about depression and anxiety. he or she should be able to competently screen you for both. if they believe a further consultation is appropriate they can give you the name of a psychiatrist you can consult for a more confidence.
when my heart beats can hear through stethoscope a lubwompdub is it normal to have a womp sound too? had echo and mri before so not valves etc?
it depends how you hear. hearing is very accurate process unless you are very experienced person. if your mri and echo were normal then i would say these sound you are hearing are normal. if this gives you anxiety or stress you want to see your gp.
why do we use morphine in acute pulmonary edema?
the growing body of evidence derived from clinical studies suggest that its efficacy may be simply from the decrease of anxiety that accompanies shortness of breath. reducing catacholemines and secondary vasoconstriction in this condition is indeed beneficial but this effect can be more safely addressed with benzodiazepines - less incidence of respiratory depression.
what could be wrong with my friend whos16 she has had chest pain on the left side going thru her left shoulder and back with rapid breathing and weak?
dr asap and get checked for heart lung condition ? clot/ pulmonary embolism musculoskeletal condition stress anxiety/panic attack etc. best wishes! <link>
what could be wrong with my friend whos16 she has had chest pain on the left side going thru her left shoulder and back with rapid breathing and weak?
that is anxiety. often called a panic attack.
what would cause me to wake up with a racing heart in the in the middle of the night causing me me to almost pass out? it happens in my sleep?
next time it happens try to take your pulse and time it: using a watch (a stop watch would be great) count the number of "beats" for a 15 second period then times that number by 4. thats your heart rate. a rapid heart rate(>100) while at rest is abnormal. it could be anxiety caffeine or other medications. sometimes this has to be evaluated by cardiologist especially if you get light headed.
would it hurt a 20 year old to take a baby aspirin? my heart races from anxiety especially during the 2 weeks before my period and i also get sad.
it would not hurt a 20 year old to take a baby aspirin but baby aspirin may not help heart racing anxiety or depression before your period. it may help lower abdominal cramping that is common in the premenstrual period though. you could be having other premenstrual syndrome symptoms and need evaluation for their severity. please consider seeing your physician about this.
would it hurt a 20 year old to take a baby aspirin? my heart races from anxiety especially during the 2 weeks before my period and i also get sad.
a baby aspirin is just low-dose aspirin so probably can't hurt unless you're allergic or have a contra-indicated condition. however your anxiety and sadness may be a symptom of an anxiety or depressive disorder or premenstrual dysphoric disorder -- it is very likely that a consultation with a psychiatrist and/or ob-gyn would be helpful.
what to do if i'm 20 years old and diagnosed with hypertension?
start by following your physician advise: low sodium diet quit smoking loose weight exercise regularly control stress/ anxiety take any medications as ordered by your doctor
when i stand in lines for something like a roller coaster my heart beats really fast until i feel like i'm going to pass out. that isn't normal.
prolonged standing in line can pool blood towards the legs and hence result in relative dehydration and low blood pressure. both of these can result in fast heart beat and dizziness. anxiety and hyperventilation can also have these symptoms. if symptoms persist despite maintaining hydration and breathing calmly then medical attention should be sought.
what's it called when i go anywhere that makes me nervous my bp goes up high?
reaction to anxiety.
when it is cold out my chest hurts in the middle of the night and/or in the morning. what could be the cause of this?
lying in bed increases the tendency to have gerd (acid reflux). however other possibilites (though less likely) include esophageal spasm triggered by acid coronary vasospasm and anxiety. it would be important to discuss such symptoms with ones doctor to enable an appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic approach.
what could cause an intermittent feeling of warmth in my chest and throat when i breathe in? there is no difficulty breathing just the feeling.
panic attack and this symptom could be part of anxiety and panic attack. i presume u already had some heart and gi work up. get reassurance from ur dr. take care and god bless u! <link>
why don't my bp meds prevent white coat syndrome. bp 115/65 at home but 150-160/80 at dr. appt.
your bp has been well controlled since bp at home is wnl. most likely at doctor's office you are nervouse and subconsciously keep reminding yourself: i am at doctor's office again now how about bp high again? the fear itself could facilitate the anxiety and cause elevation of your bp. suggest you smile and thinking about your happiest moment in your life while taking bp at md's office. good luck.
waking up with pain on left side gasping for air at onset of sleep. this is a nightly occurrence def not anxiety.
gassing for air before sleeping and asking up with cp seems to be a serious issue please see your pcp as soon as possible.
why does my chest hurts every time i wake up in the morning and have headaches thereafter?
due to gerd mitral valve prolapse anxiety. consider migraine headaches costochondritis.
what to do if i have high blood pressure or anxiety?
treat your underlying anxiety first to see it affects your blood pressure. exercise meditation medications may end up controlling both
what to do if i have high blood pressure after birth anxiety attacks and now baby blues has anybody suffered from any of these?
preeclampsia which is high blood pressure during pregnancy and post partum depression along with anxiety can occur in women. these all ma be related to hormone changes during pregnancy. i am uncertain whether there is a correlation and relationship between the former and the latter
when sitting or lying down i feel my heartbeat in my stomach. doctor said its normal can this be because of being fit and having a flat stomach?
if you are really thin it is conceivable that you might feel aortic pulsations. if you have anxiety issues that might "amplify" them.
when sitting or lying down i feel my heartbeat in my stomach. doctor said its normal can this be because of being fit and having a flat stomach?
this is perfectly normal. if it becomes annoying this could be caused by anxiety. being fit and having a flat stomach are great things and not the cause of this
what causes sharp stabbing pain directly between breasts. doc says heart is ok. some pain in middle and upper back. muscular? anxiety?
musculoskeletal. which could involve joints between vertebrae in the thoracic spine under stress from segmental misalignment could be rib pain pain from the joint between rib and cartilage or cartilage and sternum or could be muscular. need a good physical exam.
wanted to know if antihistamines cause tremor of the heart?
experience anxiety as a side effect of ah's.
what causes intermittent 5 second burning pain on left side of sternum near breast? no other symptoms. pcp says heart ok. fear cardiac issue.
heart pain occurs with exertion is relieved by rest lasts 5 to 30 minutes never 5 seconds. you likely have costochondritis myofascial syndrome intercostal neuritis or other musculoskeletal pain. all of these can be made worse by anxiety.
what would cause an odd stretching vibrating sensation directly between breasts? lasts 5 seconds. no pain. fear cardiac issue.
there a multiple things that cause an odd sensation in your chest. anxiety is a common cause and it seems you have had prior evaluations of your heart? risk factors for a cardiac etiology of your pain are family history smoking diabetes hypertension and high cholesterol. follow up with your doctor regarding results of above tests.
weird burning ache in left breast just to the right of nipple. lasted only a few seconds. what would cause this? pcp says heart ok. cardiac anxiety!
get yourself some help dealing with anxiety
what do you advise for heart starts racing at random times?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what causes pinching pains across the chest? 5 second pricks above the breasts below the collarbone. mostly direct in center of chest. pcp says heart ok
the type of discomfort that you describe is not characteristic of any significant cardiovascular disorder. one most often does not find a specific cause and hunting for a cause is usually frustrating. anxiety can certainly play a role.
want more opinions! breathless for a year. smoker. thick white or clear phlegm. lung burn morning. doc says anxiety. 2pfts. xrays. heart test. normal.
have you had nasal surgery? a condition called empty nose syndrome shows this. best to get a pulmonary function test. if that is normal ask your doctor about following the program in my book stressed? anxiety? your cure is in the mirror. m. grossan
went to the er 3 times for chest pain and they keep saying it's not heart related still have bad chest pain! what can it be?
only so much in your chest: heart lungs bones esophagus aorta. very unlikely for a women in her twenties to have coronary disease. more common things might be esophageal spasm or acid injury. stress/anxiety spells also cause chest pain and may be unrelated to stress in your life. anxiety is a diagnosis of exclusion no real blood test for that. sometimes bones/ribs get irritated & painfl
what to do if i have hypertension and hyperventillation?
33 from ca asks what 2 do if htn & hyperventilation. these sometimes go to gather in anxious people. holding breath may increase bp and hyper ventilation may lower it. 1 way 2 stop sx of hype vent (anxiety numbness around mouth and fingers rapid heart rate) is to get a paper bag. put it over your mouth and nose and breath into it till you feel better. hyper vent blows off c02 but stays in bag
what to do if i have hypertension and hyperventillation?
h. yperventilation does not affect your hypertension. if you are having symptoms you need to breathe in a brown bag to control the symptoms and need to be evaluated for the cause and most of the time it is due to anxiety and needs long term treatment by psychiatrist but if it is acute you need to be evaluated in er as it can cause metabolic alkalosis and hypocalcimia it is due to loss of co2 other m
when i get shortness of breath fatigue and chest pain right in the middle 2 mg of ativan (lorazepam) makes it go away in an hour or less is itheart or anxiety?
it can be extremely difficult and possibly consequential distinguishing between chest pain from a cardiac etiology versus chest pain from anxiety. presumably you have been diagnosed with with anxiety if you have been provided ativan (lorazepam). while taking ativan (lorazepam) could potentially make symptoms from heart pathology improve this is also less likely than improving anxiety. discuss this with your doctor.
what do you advise for heart skipping/feeling like it stops?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what causes 10 second feeling of fullness like a ballon inflating in left breast and chest? no pain. pcp says heart ok. gas? seek cardiologist?
a rising sensation that last 10 seconds in the stomach is either gas or abdominal epilepsy. with the latter one experiences a flip flopping or rising sensation in the upper abdomen and sometimes feelings of anxiety. autonomic epilepsy may also cause pilo-erection (hair standing on end) change in heart rate and altered mental status. its often overlooked or misdiagnosed.
what to do if heart problems help my hearts been jumping too much!?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what would cause a 5 second burning prickling sensation across chest. pcp says heart ok. fear cardiac issues. anxiety? gas? muscle?
yes probably chest wall strain
what do you advise for heart problem chest muscle acid reflux or anxiety?
an accurate diagnosis is the cornerstone of therapy. i would advise pursing an accurate diagnosis.
what causes a 5 second squeezing pain directly between breasts? no other symptoms. worry about cardiac issue. pcp says heartis ok. seek out cardiologist?
worrisome heart attack related pain most commonly is exacerbated by activity and relieved by rest. another common cardiac etiology is mitral valve prolapse related to a tugging of the mitral valve. common non cardiac etiologies include esophageal spasm (e. g. related to acid reflux food) or from anxiety with chest muscles constricting. cardiac evaluation will at least rule out dangerous causes
what do you advise for heart disease anxiety or allergies?
the 3 conditions that you describe are not necessarily related or treatable by one treatment; however a healthy lifestyle including regular exercise appropriate sleep hygiene health diet and stress management techniques is always a good starting point and may help resolve each issue. see your primary care physician regularly.
what could happen if i took 20 lorazepam 0. 5mg pills? htn pcos anxiety depressive disorder provera zestoretic ativan zoloft (sertraline)
obviously you could have serious side effects. the fact that you are asking this question means that you care about yourself and you want help. you should speak with a psychiatrist or other mental health professional. therapy does work. you may benefit by medication or a combination of medicine along with therapy. self experimentation with meds is rarely helpful
what could happen if i took 20 lorazepam 0. 5mg pills? htn pcos anxiety depressive disorder provera zestoretic ativan zoloft (sertraline)
have significant effects on you. if you are having issues talk to someone. do not take excessive amount if pills. if the regimen is not working. talk to your doctor about alternatives
what to do if i have been continously disturbed by nightly floating feeling and a bit gasping. my heart palpitating.?
you need a diagnosis and should consult your dr. to see if anything physical is wrong with you and what to do about it if the symptoms aren't anxiety related. if they are anxiety caused your dr. can help with that also.
what to do if i get sweaty weak and have trouble breathing?
with those symptoms get checked out. they could be anxiety or they could be something more physiologically serious.
when i go walkin i worry about stuff i can't help and i get really anxious then my heart and head start pounding fast and hurting?
anxiety is likely the cause of these symptoms. you have listed that you suffer from anxiety - are you seeing a therapist? it would advise that you have someone to talk your feelings out with. also have you tried other methods of relaxation - yoga meditation deep breathing? consider listening to a guided meditation the next time you walk to keep your mind off the things you "can't help"
when my blood pressure goes too high like 160/100 or higher in get bad anxiety and headaches. why? i don't check it until after symptoms start.
many people don't find out about bp issues until it's too late because often there are no noticeable signs. perhaps it is a good thing that your body is successfully letting you know. you need to pay attention. there are of course medications but also there are behavioral health strategies that are excellent too. a health psychologisy can also address the anxiety if it hits at other times too!
what causes a momentary sensation of tightness from the collarbone up the neck up to ears followed by sensation of lump in throat? pcp says heart ok?
it could be any number of things but if there are no abnormal medical findings and i were a gambling man i'd bet on anxiety. next time think back about what *immediately precedes* this sensation (whether an external event or internal thoughts and feelings) and see if you notice a connection. try *psychotherapy* (talk therapy aimed at understanding and insight) not just behavior therapy.
what causes a 10 second feeling of tightness and pressure at the top inside of left breast and sternum? pcp says not heart. fear cardiac problem!
esophagus spasms can do this as can breast pathology. one simple way to tell if its ur heart is to press the chest area and if it hurts its not you heart except in one condition-pericarditis which is inflammation of the lining capsule of the heart. but you have to press deeper instead of a surface press. otherwise anxiety is another consideration as this causes adrenaline and cortisol rushes.
what could cause me to feel my own heartbeat in my chest? it's not going fast it's just beating very hard. can anxiety cause this?
while anxiety is one cause a visit to a physician to exclude a physical cause would be a good idea.
what can be the causes of chest pain?
obviously heart disease (blocked heart arteries) but for someone as young as you that is less likely-- unless there is a very strong family history of early heart attacks. more common --anxiety/panic attacks acid reflux/heartburn. people sometimes also have chest pain from irregular heart rhythms or some leaky heart valves. you should see your regular doctor to discuss.
what can be the causes of chest pain?
including but not limited to heart (cardiac) issues chest muscle strains rib/musculoskeletal issues/inflammation acid indigestion causing "heart burn" arthritis in your back affecting the vertebrae where nerve is that innervates your heart anxiety etc. etc. so get eval to determine your cause. good luck.
what cause a 5 second sensation of pressure across chest / breasts. then feeling of lump btwn shoulderblades few burps. cardiac anxiety. pcp say heart ok?
could be gastroesophageal reflux disease
what cause a 5 second sensation of pressure across chest / breasts. then feeling of lump btwn shoulderblades few burps. cardiac anxiety. pcp say heart ok?
if you are young and in good general health and have a healthy heart it may be anxiety.
why is my stomach doing flips all the time? i have fibromyalgia acid reflux and ectopic heartbeats the omeprazole used to stop this but not now.
signals in the heart usually comes from the sino-atrial node but ectopic beats maybe coming from the atria or ventricles cause by alcohol anxiety stress caffeine tiredness smoking pregnancy recreational drugs cold medicines or menopause. see your doctor to reevaluate your treatment for acid reflux as well.
when can blood pressure or blood flow get high in upper chest and neck but not in arm? it feels as if i can concentrate and "stress" my upper chest?
if your blood pressure is normal in both arms sitting and standing then i doubt your symptoms are related to your blood pressure! more likely anxiety related. however if the feelings persist or if you have chest pain pressure shortness of breath you should seek medical attention immediately! i'm sorry my answer will not help your anxiety very much may make it worse! this is also treatable b
what do you advise for heart pounding and skipping it's taking over my life help?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what are the chances of a 22yr old females heart to just stop i have bad health aniexty and worried about my heart?
i assume you have had your heart checked and there are no physical problems. if this is accurate see a psychologist to overcome your anxiety and start living a fuller less anxious life.
what are the best ways to treat anxiety induced white coat hypertension: blood pressure pills anxiety meds therapy?
if the only time you have htn is in doc's office cognitive behavioral therapy is advised and is often short term.
why does heart flutter when trying to sleep and when i bend over sometimes? all heart tests normal. i also have anxiety flutters everyday.
ask your doctor for a 30 day event monitor to see if your flutters are pathologic or just cardiac awareness.
what do you suggest if my mother is having heart surgery at the moment and i am anxious?
for transient situations like an upcoming surgery non-medication interventions are best such as deep breathing guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation. in a pinch over the counter meds like benadryl (diphenhydramine) can ease anxiety in many people. but if the anxiety is overwhelming see your pcp. remember your anxiety can effect how your mom does during and post surgery.
what to do if i am 17 years old and have anxiety bad and worry about my heart and dying. could that be a reason why my heart bothers me?
panic attacks are characterized by extreme symptoms of anxiety (hearth palpitations dizziness shortness of breath etc. ) that are mentally accompanied with a feeling of doom and interpreted as a "heart attack" "i'm going to die". a physician should rule out any medical conditions first. if no other medical cause is found psychotherapy with cognitive behavioral treatment helps with the anxiety.
why do i wake up having to urinate every 3-4 hours profusely sweating and heart beating rapidly with anxiety? eyes & lips are severely dry as well.
you need an eval as paradoxically you are urinating more yet have some symptoms of dehydration to. get an eval for underlying conditions like diabetes thyroid disorders dehydration uti's etc. best wishes.
why do i wake up having to urinate every 3-4 hours profusely sweating and heart beating rapidly with anxiety? eyes & lips are severely dry as well.
because you have a kidney or other urinary tract infection. go to the doctor.
why do i wake up having to urinate every 3-4 hours profusely sweating and heart beating rapidly with anxiety? eyes & lips are severely dry as well.
based on the complaints that you have it sounds like you could be having increased blood sugars. you should see a doctor and get checked for diabetes. this may also be some other type of endocrinological abnormality.
what are the possible side effects of drinking caffeine while on fluoxetine 20mg?
fluoxetine (prozac) is an ssri medication useful for major depression and anxiety. the medication should not affect caffeine and vice versa. that being said excessive caffeine can produce adverse effects. also for patients with anxiety caffeine can sometimes make this condition worse. best.
what is the physiology behind stress and anxiety/stress causing daily jaw and arm pain along with chest pain? why does this happen?
holding your muscles tense tight and breathing irregularly or shallowly all add up to these symptoms. the body and the muscles grow fatigued. anxious patients often have to learn breathing techniques to relieve their tight chest and neck and facial muscles.
when i'm about to get erection my heart beats very fast and i lose erection. also when i wake up in the morning i feel my heart beats very fast.
is this increase in hr a "baseline" increase or episodic or normal physiological response to exercise anxiety or sexual stimulation. baseline hr incr shd have pulse and bp check. cxr (heart size) labs for cbc and thyroid function ecg. response to physiological needs like anxiety exercise or sexual stimulation are normal and do not need any investigation. loss of erection possibly anxiety.
what could relieve or lower anxiety when working with others? zoloft (sertraline) 50mg metformin 500mg
differs from other antidepressants in that it is the only antidepressant more selective for inhibiting dopamine reuptake than 5-ht or ne. take care.
what could relieve or lower anxiety when working with others? zoloft (sertraline) 50mg metformin 500mg
metformin is for diabetes type 2 and zoloft (sertraline) is an anti-depressant. speak to your pcp to address this with you and find the best solution. also doing deep breathing helps! breathe in for 6 seconds pause then breathe out for 7 seconds. will relax you and get the parasympathetic nervous system involved. do at least 10 sets. you'll feel better right away! no meds!
what to expect at first obgyn rei appointment? pelvic exam? nervous. <negative_smiley>
hi. most gyn's are aware that a first pelvic exam can provoke a little anxiety and are very communicative and gentle. if you're fertility has been a problem maybe you've had a pelvic before but for a fertility eval i would expect a pelvic. depending on your case the gyn endo may order any number of hormone and/or genetic/chromosomal tests. sorry i can't be more specific. good luck!
what are likely causes of: sudden eye and ear pain severe sharp chest pain clammy short of breath low bp higher pulse pain at base of skull?
most likely ans blockers (toxins pathogens allegens) are causing your symptoms. the base of the skull is the occiput. infection at occiput will predispose ha sleep dysfunction and perhaps anxiety issues. occiput pain projects to the back of the eye. ans blockers at the ear/tmj will cause ear pain. get checked
why can i constantly feel my heart beating in my chest and is it normal?
this sensation can be present with several conditions including anxiety abnormal heart rhythms or infections. you should go see your regular doctor to help narrow down the diagnosis.
what causes fatigue night sweats chest pain red painful wrinkled toes vitamin d deficiency and leukocytes in urine?
oh man these symptoms are too wide. night sweat is very common in anxiety disorder although any kind of chronic infection and inflammation blood cancer could do it i'm not too sure what painful wrinkled toe is. leukocyte in urine could be a sing of urine infection or inflammation of urinary tract low vit d is due to lack of sun exposure and it's very common.
what causes an ache in the right breast near the sternum? pcp says heart ok. pain is intermittent and lasts seconds. some back and neck pain.
pain near sternum with neck and back pain can be due to: muscle spasm (from heavy lifting trauma anxiety); gi reflux or gas can cause pain under sternum and back pain; back pain and neck pain should be evaluated for other unusual causes such as an aneurysm which is more common in older people.
what happens next after a lung function test is fine but have shortness of breath?
shortness of breath or dyspnea can be caused by several things including: physical exertion stress or anxiety asthma lung diseases including emphysema heart disease
when are most heart problems picked up. what heart problems could a 23yo female have?
rarely have heart problems and we do not routinely screen for heart problems at this age without severe symptoms. heart problems are picked when there is a significant history of undesired symptoms like chest pain non-lung related shortness of breath at rest or exertion lower extremity swelling or fluid in lungs. given your listed medical history- anxiety-related conditions are more likely.
with the type of hypotension when arteries are vasodilated. what type of medication are the most effective for bringing bp to normal?
hypotension may related to posture(standing) depression medications like symbicort (budesonide and formoterol)ventolin cipralex. . during hemodialysis in renal failure. may be treated with midodrine flourocortisone. may do cortisone level check blood pressure during standing sitting& lying down. check thyroid stimulating hormonehistory of anxiety depression.
what actually is that 'sinking heart' feeling?
usually nervousness sadness anxiety pain or a bad feeling caused by negative feelings or even when you are worried or scared
what actually is that 'sinking heart' feeling?
sinking heart feeling can be produced by various mechanisms including anxiety diffuse esophageal spasm bronchoconstriction pleurisy intercostal neuritis chest wall spasm esophageal reflux other musculoskeletal conditions. the mechanism can be reproduced by viscerosomatic or somatosomatic response by the body. consult your physician for further exam if you have persistent symptom(s)
while doing nothing or just talking i feel short of breath. however when i exercise i have plenty of oxygen why?
shortness of breath at rest but improved with activity is often due to anxiety. you absolutely need to see a physician to rule out any major medical issues but if all appears normal on physical examination often times anxiety is found to be the culprit. you need to discuss this with your primary care physician as soon as possible.
what causes a ten second feeling of pain and or numbness in the outside of left arm beside the bicep? pcp says heart ok. nerve? anxiety?
could be a pinched nerve in your neck at c5 or c6. if it bothers you enough or certainly if you develop any weakness in the arm i would see a doctor and you would likely start with neck xrays. the other possibility would be a rotator cuff muscle issue in your shoulder.
what does it mean if heartbeat is normal at rest but once it starts beating from stress or exercise it beats really hard and fast? no anxiety.
you are probably out of shape. in time after exercising your heart rate wont be as prominent when you get into better physical conditioning.
what vitamin can i take if i have hypothyroid cholesterol depression & anxiety?
the four conditions you are describing are serious medical conditions that need to be evaluated and treated by your physician. a general multivitamin may help and in some cases of hypothyroidism and depression vitamin d or one of the b vitamins may help. however these should not be a substitute for proper medical care and should only be taken with guidance from a physician.
when the cuff tightens during blood pressure reading my chest felt a little tight also. is that normal?
discuss with your provider. evaluation for anxiety may be indicated
what does chest pain from mitral valve prolapse feel like? and is it life threatening
chest discomfort fatigue shortness of breath and anxiety are common with mitral valve prolapse. the prognosis is considered to be benign with chance of complications at about 2% per year. if no complications (like atrial fibrillation heart failure infective endocarditis or embolism - blood clots - to the brain) then not to worry. do keep your regular checkups. hope that helps.
why wen i get dental work done i have heart palpation when they lay me back. is it anxiety?
first if it is related to the anesthetic try taking glutathione tabs prior to any injection. . if it is related to an anxiety disorder see a neurologist. abeta titres above 300 nanograms will make a person susceptible to anxiety. . also rule out pathogens present at your heart causing the potential for heart palpitations with your pcp.
what is a safe dose of propranolol that doesnt produce many side effects and can this treat anxiety/migraine/nerve twitching?
propranolol was one of the first "beta blockers" released and is very safe. the average dose is 20-40 mgm. iot does block the rapid hear beat associated with anxiety and for a while was used by actors to relieve "stage fright" talk with your prescribing doctor and between him/her and you an effective safe dose can be reached without side effects! hope this helps
what is a safe dose of propranolol that doesnt produce many side effects and can this treat anxiety/migraine/nerve twitching?
ten mg would be a safe dose
while in drs office bp spike over 200/shortness of breath dizzy. what can cause this?
there are certainly many causes for these symptoms but the clue you provide (being in your doctor's office) raises the likelihood of hyperventilation/white coat syndrome - basically anxiety. were you feeling apprehensive by seeing your doctor? you wouldn't be the first!
what can i eat if im anemic have cholesterol hypothyroidism infection in the ear anxiety & depression?
there are no specific foods for hypothyroidism ear infection anxiety and depression. high cholesterol? you can avoid red meat fatty foods cheese egg yolk. anemia? depends upon what kind of anemia you have. if it is an anemia due to iron deficiency you can eat more food rich in iron like grapes dried fruits spinach and many more. best thing is talk to a dietitian.
what causes a feeling of pressure where the sternum meets the collarbone? right in the center at the base of the neck. pcp says heart ok.
for you two likely candidates. it may be your heartburn. you are on a medicine for this but maybe it is not controlling it adequately. look at your diet consider increasing to twice a day (pantoprazole) for a few days. if not that maybe it is anxiety acting up (lump in the throat) and maybe your zoloft (sertraline) is not at the proper dose.
what causes burning sensations from xyphoid area all around chest (where the bra underwire is even without bra on)? pcp says not heart. cardiac anxiety
you are right you want to rule out more concerning life threatening cardiac(heart) pathology but it's possible that anxiety gastrointestinal pulmonary(lung) or even plain dermatologic(skin) related issues could be driving your symptoms. you should make sure you feel like your doctor is exploring all possibilities.
when i have an onset of chest pain and dyspnea i try to take rapid deap breaths and things get worse. is hyperventilation cause or result of it?
chest pain can make you feel anxious and breathe faster. having anxiety and breathing faster can cause chest pain. the best suggestion is to be examined by your doctor for a more complete history and exam to give you the best answer. good luck
when i try to fall asleep my heart starts to beat faster what could cause this?
your heart may start to beat faster from anxiety. discuss the problem with your doctor
what are causes for severe hypertension episode (12 hours) >200 in a person that does not have hypertension?
there are too many possibilities to list: you need a full evaluation. the list includes but is not limited to: stress anxiety exercise fever infection kidney stone urinary obstruction adrenal tumors headache licorice various drug interactions excessively salty meal spurious reading incorrect measurement technique and many others. treatment is based on average bp.
woke up middle of night feeling like i was underwater. skin felt cold and smooth but was not sweating at all. heart problem? immune system problem?
this suggests that you have vasoconstriction in the peripheral blood vessels in the skin. i suspect that this may be from anxiety or night terror. thus you do need to consult your doctor to make sure that there is nothing more serious.
what causes short pinching pains in chest above left breast below collarbone? pcp says heart ok. cardiac anxiety! shoulder and neck tension!
depending on what if any testing your pcp did to come to his/her conclusion the general characteristics you describe are not primarily cardiovascular. musculoskeletal or less likely gastrointestinal causes may be the culprit. not likely warranting a stress test but for your anxiety may be considered (though your insurance company may disagree. keep that in mind)
what to do if can't sleep heart anxiety?
asleep is often associated w/anxiety while waking up early and not returning to sleep is associated w/depression. periodic waking is associated w/overall light sleep. please see you doc who may order a sleep study. a psychologist can help w/stress management. peace and good health. try not to nap in daytime or limit it to a cat nap of 15 minutes.
what to do if over worrying about angina for most of the day?
sounds like you have an anxiety disorder which may require psychologic or psychiatric help. .
will inderal (propranolol) 40mg twice a day for aniexty and hypertension cause you not have a full on erection been taking for 2 years?
most beta blockers may affect sexual performance thats a common side effect. we have other choices for hypertension control like arbs or aces which have much less side effects. foe anxiety also there are other choices. best is to discuss with your doctor who knows you better. at the end of the day you have to decide what is more important for you.
waking up once a month with heart pounding & arm numbness? heart test fine at mayo. sleep study normal at mayo? brain mri norm? goes away within 5minute
waking up with arm numbness that resolves in a few minutes is a common and normal occurrence. it's due to compression neuropathy from positioning during sleep. getting up and moving around relieves it. for your heart pounding ask to wear a 24 hour holter (heart) monitor to see what your heart is doing when you awaken. many people have a. m. anxiety which results in fast but normal hr till calm.
what causes stich like pain in my back bones and pain in chest also stich pain in back of head and pain in jaw had it for over a year.
symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include heart palpitations nausea tingling insomnia dry mouth speech impairment tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can provide you with treatment option
what effects does cannabis have on ur bp while smoking? why do my body react so extreme in stress response? super high bp and hr
the sympathetic nervous system is responsible for raisining heart rate and can contribute to elevated blood pressure in times of stress. some people who use cannabis will experience increased anxiety afterward. consult with your doctor to rule out an underlying condition.
what effects does cannabis have on ur bp while smoking? why do my body react so extreme in stress response? super high bp and hr
first stop smoking weed. next get examined and treated for anxiety. have your heart rate and bp monitored when not smoking weed! what is "super high bp and hr?
when i get an anxiety attack my chest hurts really bad. i then take an ibuprofen to get rid of the pain. is that ok? the attack can lasts for hours.
anxiety or panic attacks can present with chest pain shortness of breath or a feeling of impending doom as if you are going to die. ibuprofen is not the primary treatment for panic disorder and can cause bleeding ulcers if taken on an empty stomach. see your doctor - there are many effective treatments available including medication and cognitive behavioral psychotherapy. good luck!
when i get an anxiety attack my chest hurts really bad. i then take an ibuprofen to get rid of the pain. is that ok? the attack can lasts for hours.
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
when i get an anxiety attack my chest hurts really bad. i then take an ibuprofen to get rid of the pain. is that ok? the attack can lasts for hours.
please consult a physician for anti-anxiety medication and seek both psychological counseling (cbt) and psychiatric evaluation. you will also need a thyroid profile.
what could cause persistent non-cardiac related chest pain?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
why my heart some time runing fast without any movement?
if u notice any body functions they will look abnormal to u. these are signs of anxiety.
what's the risk of the aorta getting weaker in 2 months time with occasional bursts of extreme bp. maybe once a day.
i don't think you can find an answer for this one. doing this research would be very difficult. the likelihood is the risk is low however. those occassional bursts of 'extreme bp' would be more likely to cause other problems. i won't mention them as i suspect your anxiety would only transfer from the aorta to other things.
woke up feeling like i was choking. coughed and got my breath. felt heart pounding and pulse was 120bpm. this happens occasionally what causes it? i'm 28
it may be that while on your back your breathing gets harder and harder because your tongue falls back and obstructs the air flow. then you gasp for breath and in your case it gets so severe it wakes you up. that's called "sleep apnea. " if it happens more than"occasionally " have it checked out. if not that maybe it's anxiety/bad dreams or less likely a heart rhythm problem. let your doctor know
why does anxiety cause palpations chest pain dizziness weak legs back pain and twitching muscles?
nervous system. anxiety initiates and perpetuates a flight or fight response from your autonomic nervous system leading to all of the symptoms described. that is why for example yoga and meditation help. they counteract the autonomic response and relax you. so does slow deep breathing
what causes the blood pressure to spike and come back to normal on its own in a while. is it normal! help.
blood pressure is dynamic. it goes up and down depending on many factors during the day. when the cardiac output goes up as with exercise the blood pressure will generally go up some. likewise with anxiety stress isometric exertion and other things. how high(spike) it goes depends on many factors over 160 systolic is elevated as a rule
what can cause a sharp feeling in my heart?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what could cause pain running down my left arm and then numbness shortness of breath ringing in the ears?
not knowing your risk factors: anxiety cardiac and musculoskeletal disease are top in the differential. you should see your doctor.
what causes my chest pain?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what causes chest pains?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what is an episode of pheochromocytoma?
pheochromocytoma (pcc) is a rare tumor of adrenal gland tissue. when functional they cause adrenal glands to make too much norepinephrine and epinephrine. with hormone release there are usually has three classic symptoms headache sweating and heart palpitations in association with hypertension. other conditions that can arise are anxiety nausea profound sweating and severe headaches :
what causes 1. 5 yr intermittent pain left shoulder blade down arm to fingers ribs below breast. pcp says not cardiac. some pain in xiphoid chest.
there are many causes of symptoms described it is not enough to say its not cardiac go further to figure out what is causing the sensations eg pinched nerve gi causes anxiety etc etc. good luck.
what changes take place in the heart due to chronic stress / anxiety?
there are differences between stress and anxiety but here i'll focus on stress. chronic stress can be damaging to the heart and other organs raising blood pressure causing rapid heart rate increasing belly fat etc. ; but how you think of stress is also a factor. if you think of it as dangerous it will be. if you perceive it positively research suggests it won't be damaging.
would my blood pressure drop too much if i take. 5mg of xanax (alprazolam) while i currently take 25mg atenolol daily?
xanax (alprazolam) is an anxiety medication so unless you have severe anxiety that raises your bp than you should be fine. when you take any medications you should be monitored on them to assure you remain stable so be sure to keep regular appointments with your doctor.
why do i feel sick chest pressure tightness nausea when i take my regular medication at times however most of the time i have no problems?
is a sign of anxiety and one that can cause a great deal of distress. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can recommend appropriate treatment. see your pcp for evaluation and possible referral for cognitive behavior therapy.
when i'm really stressed i get a tight full feeling in my chest and i sometimes get hot or sweaty suddenly. i think it's heart related or angina. ?
sounds more like anxiety attacks take a deep breath and breathe slowly
what causes short shooting pains from ribs up into left breast from shoulder blade to left breast and left breast? pcp & cardiologist say not heart.
if cardiologist is reassuring that the pain is non cardiac then the pain either is musculoskeletal- skeletal or anxiety related or both. take some otc anti inflammatory and apply heat and cold alternatively for a few days and continue to do relaxation exercises.
what causes shooting pains from ribs into left chest under breast from shoulder blade to left chest and left chest? pcp & cardiologist say not heart.
of things. if your cardiologist ruled out cardiac involvement other things may include anxiety muscle/skeletal pains gastritis stomach ulcers among others. i would discuss with your pcp and ask for further work up or possible referral to other specialists that can help figure it out. best of luck.
whats wrong i have retetnion of fluid esp. on antidepressants. i am post menapausal. severe dizziness an high blood pressure. causin anxiety. help?
unfortunately you didn't mention/list your medications aside from omeprazole some of which can cause fluid retention. too much blood pressure medication can also lower bp excessively leading to dizziness which can then cause anxiety. so tell your family doc about your concerns and ask about adjusting your medication regimen. good luck!
why is no one answering my question. i feel pms an its causing anxiety. water retention from antidepressants makin me worse?
at 57 i would expect you to be post-menopausal and pms just happens right before your period. you may have the diagnosis wrong and it is unclear exactly what you are asking.
what's chances of dying of dvt after negative d dimer low risk?
emily p from the pattern of your questions you clearly are quite anxious. find a doc you trust and discuss all your concerns. if a physiological evaluation doesn't produce a cause of the worry you may need help for anxiety disorder by a professional.
what are some good treatments for my 13 year old son who had an anxiety attack yesterday and now has shortness of breath due to it. any exercises?
anxiety attacks is an indication of anxiety that has been going on for a long time. seeing psychologist who uses cognitive behavioral therapy to help turn negative thoughts into positive thoughts. using medications might be of help depending if the psychologist finds it hard to deal with your child's anxiety.
what are some good treatments for my 13 year old son who had an anxiety attack yesterday and now has shortness of breath due to it. any exercises?
cognitive therapy is the first and best way to find what anxiety triggers are in the child's life that brings on the behaviors. if there is a feeling by the treating doctor that there is an anxious child that generally is anxious by nature several anxiolytic medications such as ativan (lorazepam) and others can help on a short term basis with cognitive therapy to identify triggers and build coping skills
will getting upset cause anxiety symptoms to stay in lightheaded heart funny eyes funny head funny light motion feeling i think go to drs a lot?
it sounds like hyperventilating with your anxiety.
why might someone have severe chest pains?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what are the best supplements for thinning hair and hair health in general? fish oil? b complex.? how is zinc? how good is zinc for mens health?
disease: thyroid scalp infection formal vitamin defiviency testing stress tension anxiety or hormonal issues. is therea pattern of male baldness in your family? get a medical evaluation.
what is the difference between breathing problems caused by a panic attack and asthma?
asthma is a breathing out problem. panic attacks are a breathing in problem). asthma is relieved with albuterol inhalers panic attacks are resolved by relaxing. asthma is associated with allergic disease panic attacks sometimes with anxiety/psychological disease. you can get a peak flow meter from your doctor to check your breathing when you're having an attack and/or breathing tests in office
sometimes i start feeling dizzy and a little bit numb then i feel a pressure on my chest and my heart beats rapiditly. what is that?
although simple anxiety and panic attacks can cause the symptoms you describe it is incumbent on your doctors to make sure that you are not having a primary cardiac arrhythmia that is causing the symptoms you describe. a holter (24 hour) or event monitor (3-4 week) may be useful as well as an echocardiogram and stress test to see if the symptoms are inducible.
shortness of breath for couple months. just checked pulse it's 75. have been having headaches. also have history of anxiety so maybe i'm crazy. help?
it is important with concerning medical symptoms to rule out medical causes before attributing them to psychiatric cause. chronic sob is common with many medical conditions including congestive heart failure respiratory issues obesity pulmonary hypertension cardiac issues. see your pcp to have them work it up.
shortness of breath for couple months. just checked pulse it's 75. have been having headaches. also have history of anxiety so maybe i'm crazy. help?
your symptoms of headaches and shortness of breath can be secondary to anxiety. if you are not in therapy i would find some. there is a book "anxiety for dummies" that can help.
what could random chest pain in the center of the chest be from? i know it's not anxiety. i've been told i could have pot syndrome. could it be that?
it could be anxiety gerd gastritis cholecystitis. depends on the quality of the chest pain. but you are young so a gi etiology is more likely
should i ask my doctor for anti-anxiety meds for my flying induced panic attacks? i have flown once across the country and found my self in a serious panic. i couldnt breathe started shaking and felt like i was losing control of my heart. i have to fly
doctors often prescribe an anti-anxiety medication or a "cocktail" (mixture of medications) for very brief use if a person who is phobic to flying needs to fly. i know you have to fly again soon but after you come back; why don't you consider working with a psychologist to get past this. cognitive behavioral therapy or behavior modification therapy could help you to work through this so that you don't need medications or to be fearful in the future. take care.
should i ask my doctor for anti-anxiety meds for my flying induced panic attacks? i have flown once across the country and found my self in a serious panic. i couldnt breathe started shaking and felt like i was losing control of my heart. i have to fly
yes. get the pills.
somtimes my heart beats so hard it moves my whole body. even when im just sitting down. also i sometimes feel light- headed and my ears ring.?
there are may things that could cause these sensations. heart valve disease hypertension and anxiety are just a few. to sort this out and make sure that there is nothing seriously wrong you need to see a health care provider very soon.
speeding heart beats and irregular breathing is that anxiety attack?
increased heart rate and difficulty breathing can be physical symptoms of a panic attack. it would be a good idea to have these symptoms evaluated by your regular physician if you have not already done so. if there appears to be no clear problem related to your lungs or heart the the likelihood of panic attacks becomes even more likely.
stroke or anxiety? my father cannot control a car properly minor accident at times he loses control of the muscles in his left hand and cannot grip anything has trouble typing and making distance judgments with that hand/arm lost the ability to play g
these symptoms are concerning and medical evaluation is necessary. a stroke is possible but other causes should be investigated and excluded.
stroke or anxiety? my father cannot control a car properly minor accident at times he loses control of the muscles in his left hand and cannot grip anything has trouble typing and making distance judgments with that hand/arm lost the ability to play g
symptoms of clumsiness in one hand are not normally related to anxiety. stroke is a possible cause. sometimes the symptoms can be relatively subtle you are right to consider this diagnosis. there are other possible causes. this would be a good case for a neurologist to examine in person.
stroke or anxiety? my father cannot control a car properly minor accident at times he loses control of the muscles in his left hand and cannot grip anything has trouble typing and making distance judgments with that hand/arm lost the ability to play g
anxiety can cause trembling numbess and shakiness but loss of hand/arm coordination inability to play instrument and difficulty judging distances suggest something besides anxiety.
stroke or anxiety? my father cannot control a car properly minor accident at times he loses control of the muscles in his left hand and cannot grip anything has trouble typing and making distance judgments with that hand/arm lost the ability to play g
based on your description of your father's symptoms i recommend that he be evaluated further by a neurologist. the symptoms that you described could be caused by any number of neurologic disorders. because no other demographic information such as age or past medical history are included in your description this would be the best direction to go. anxiety would not explain all of his symptoms.
stroke or anxiety? my father cannot control a car properly minor accident at times he loses control of the muscles in his left hand and cannot grip anything has trouble typing and making distance judgments with that hand/arm lost the ability to play g
hello. this is being answered by a psychiatrist. i can't diagnose your father. however there are some symptoms here which would definately merit a neurologic exam
what could shortness of breathe and tightness in chest be associated with? have no other symptoms and i don't smoke. comes and goes.
shortness of breath and chest tightness can be due to a variety of conditions ranging from anxiety through pulmonary disorders gastrointestinal disorders and cardiovascular disorders; a prompt history and physical is critical 2 obtain an appropriate working diagnosis
what do cardiovascular exercises help you with health wise?
including reduction in coronary heart disease risk factors like improved blood pressure control increased hdl cholesterol(good cholesterol) decreased triglycerides reduced body fat and intra-abdominal fat and improved glucose tolerance. it improves your heart and blood vessel function. it also can help with mood and anxiety issues. and it can improve your sleep.
should i try to get pregnant and have a baby if i have high blood pressure high anxiety and high cholesterol?
this is a spiritual intellectual and emotional question that only you and your husband can answer together. two people have to come together to create a child and then raise it. remember that there are no crystal balls in this world and there is no way to tell what things your children will inherit from you and what things they will not.
should i try to get pregnant and have a baby if i have high blood pressure high anxiety and high cholesterol?
obviously these coditions can be contolled with and without medication. it is a matter weighing the risks and commitment to the process that is critical.
sudden chest pains right where my heart is. only 25 but under a lot of stress. some days i have 3 some i have 30. nauseated. feels vice squeezing heart?
may be only severe anxiety but best to see your fp or a cardiologist to be checked out. heart symptoms may include squeezing/ crushing chest pain profuse swearing nausea pain radiating into neck or arm. heart disease is possible even in 25 y/o; so get it checked out soon. if symptoms severe & don't ease call 911 to be taken to er for evaluation; do not drive yourself or have other drive you.
when i take atenolol 12. 5mg it works well for hr control due to anxiety. but when i take a magnesium supplement i feel like it wears of the atenolol?
im not aware of any interaction although you can always ask your pharmacist. a better question could be - why are you taking the magnesium supplement? or a hr/bp med for anxiety? talking with your doc may give you better options.
why just at night before i sleep my heart pounds very hard. im 25 and physically fit. whats wrong? is anxiet? .
it could very likely be anxiety. what you are describing is fairly common as sign of anxiety.
could heart palpitations be a sign of anxiety?
absolutely yes.
could heart palpitations be a sign of anxiety?
if all the physical/substance related causes have been ruled out then yes.
should you be able to feel your heart pound when you put your hand on your chest?
some people with thin chest wall can feel their heart pounding. some pts with lots of anxiety or pressure can feel their heart pounding.
what can i do to control my anxiety attacks? they happen at work; being over stressed out. hard time breathing fever like feelings flustered and upset
find a therapist and/or a psychiatrist to knock down the symptoms fast and get some control. then buckle down and begin to do the harder work of figuring out why you have panic. sounds like something at work is your current trigger. there's more. here's a reference: <link>
what's wrong with me? i'm sweating my hands are closed my breathing is fast and i have low blood pressure?
many things can cause those symptoms anxiety is the most common one but there are many other possiblities
can cayenne pepper trigger an episode of svt?
anything that can cause pain anxiety and as a result increase adrenaline release can trigger an episode of svt. some people are more prone to this than others and an individual can have a lot of variability in there own susceptibility. so you can have instances where you have the svt and have the same circumstances on another occaission fail to produce the same result.
shortness of breath and being dizzy?
could be anything from anxiety to chf to arrythmia. . get evaluated.
shortness of breath after simple tasks like brushing my teeth also easily irritated lack of patience. 29 yrs. 6'. 178 lbs male blood pressure 13<negative_smiley>82?
bp is wnl maybe a little on the high side for ur age; height/weight not bad. . how long r u brushing ur teeth for? 2 mins should do the trick. if ur brushing for like 20 mins (! ) that'd maybe explain out of breath. otherwise maybe chronic anxiety could be consistent w/ the symptoms u r describing. do u ever feel chest pains/tightness/pressure? if yes u could have anxiety disorder.
why might someone get short of breath very frequently?
possibilities include anxiety heart disease lung disease mechanical breathing apparatus dysfunction anemia and a number of other problems including just being out of aerobic shape.
what could be matter with me issues headaches arms numb if i'm prompted on get angry upset after clean house. could thus be nerves & blood pressure?
anxiety and frustrations could be the reason but more of a history and exam would be helpful.
can an increase of blood level cause palpitation?
palpitations that symptomatic deserve a prompt w/u: exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo andthe discussion of treatment options with your doctor. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety and hyperventilation can cause numbness.
can i smoke marijuana a few days after a anxiety/panic attack? 2 days ago i had a panic attack while smoking marijuana. i went to the hospital out of fear that it was a heart attack. i had an ekg done chest x-rays and blood work and the results came back
there are two major classes of psychoactive ingredients identified in mj: thc which induces hallucinatons and euphoria or dysphoria/panic--being stoned. cannabinoids which are not intoxicating and which may aid focus and pain relief. current cultivation of high thc plants has given rise to greater anxiety/panic/paranoia and psychosis in susceptible persons. negative circumstances can contribute.
can i smoke marijuana a few days after a anxiety/panic attack? 2 days ago i had a panic attack while smoking marijuana. i went to the hospital out of fear that it was a heart attack. i had an ekg done chest x-rays and blood work and the results came back
it is not safe to smoke marijuana if you are succeptible to panic attacks. this is because subtances in the drug can make people feel paranoid and confused - promoting more panic and anxiety. marijuana is an illegal drug and should be avoided.
can you tell me the normal heart rate and blood pressure?
a textbook normal bp is 120/80 in adults; children and young women are often lower than this. bp may be elevated with exertion or anxiety. there is no absolute cut-off for high but most agree that 140/90 or higher is too high. the resting pulse is usually 60-70 in adults faster in children and slower in very fit individuals. the "normal" range was formerly said to be 60-100 but now 50-90.
could baclofen from an implanted pump cause transient tachycardia?
anyone receiving intrathecal baclofen for spasticity likely also has autonomic dysfunction including abnormalities in regulation of heart rate and blood pressure. baclofen may decrease blood pressure and cause reflex tachycardia but if given by a pump should not cause fluctuating changes. see a sci specialist for evaluation; changes in posture dehydration anxiety or other condition possible.
can anxiety cause a silent heart attack?
yes severe anxiety can cause a silent heart attack especially if you have neuropathy due to diabetes or if you are distracted by other pains or are taking pain medications.
can anxiety cause a silent heart attack?
the data comes from the big 90s la earthquake. the week of and following that earthquake had several times the # of heart attacks as the weeks preceding it. that observation is cited as evidence that anxiety or stress causes heart attacks. not sure how many were silent but we know that 30% of heart attacks are silent (50% in diabetics). understand though that this is rare!
sometimes my heart hurts suddenly and beats very strongly and i get hyperventilation & little light headed then it goes away is it serious?
you might have an anxiety or panic attacks or it can be a heart problem you deffinately need to get it checked go to your doctor.
sometimes my heart hurts suddenly and beats very strongly and i get hyperventilation & little light headed then it goes away is it serious?
it's common for youngsters to experience missed heart beats but if its accompanied by hyperventilation and lightheaded ness it needs to be investigated further. your doctor might check ekg thyroid function tests blood sugar and rule high bp. if all is negative the symptoms you describe occur in panic attack too which is an anxiety disorder and can be effectively treated with medications.
sometimes i get a pain in my chest i don't no why. i have gone to the docs. they say i am worrying to much could that cause a pain?
anxiety can cause chest pain you are 22 year old unlikely to have coronary artery disease. however get checked with your doctor may be you will have some relief with an anxiolytic. good luck.
sometimes i get a pain in my chest i don't no why. i have gone to the docs. they say i am worrying to much could that cause a pain?
anxiety can cause chest pain and lots of other physical (somatic) complaints. talk to you doctor about anxiety and treatment.
short random sharp chest pain i am i diabetic high blood pressure and deal with depressiom
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
sometimes my neck get very tight and my scapula muscles get very tight giving me slight anxiety with shortness of breath. what's the problem? <positive_smiley>
what you mentioned happens to all of us. . however tight shoulders with shortness of breath could be a muscle spam problem. regardless of what the cause might be the solution is physical therapy neck messages etc. you are too young for motrin but you can do without it. .
some time i have too much heart beat my blood pressure always good why i ha e fee?
it may be anxiety or a thyroid problem ; if you not see a doctor latetly please see one to check out.
what can cause my intense heart pains?
do you have chest pain? how do you know it's your heart? there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
why could someone's heart feel like it jumps?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
could a heart rate of 200 beats per minute be sinus tachycardia?
in adults a hr of 200 is abnormal. in children the hr may reach 200 with vigorous activity or anxiety/distress. in infants the hr can often reach 200 with intense crying or with fever.
can anxiety cause a silent heart attack or angina?
stress does contribute to heart attacks but does not directly cause them. family history diabetes high blood pressure hyperlipidemia and smoking are the known risk factors. occasionally even people without cad will feel tightness in their chest when anxious hyperventilating or tightening their musculature. of course if their is any question one should seek care by their pcp or er.
can anxiety cause a silent heart attack or angina?
significant stress from any cause whether it be extreme physical exertion emotional distress or extreme anxiety can precipitate a myocardial infarction. this is especially true if there is a favorable substrate for such an event like pre-existing coronary artery disease or other known cardiovascular risk factors.
can stress w/o any other health issues cause you to have a heart attack? i suffer from anxiety but otherwise have a clean bill of health.
in order to have a heart attack you need to have some underlying issues that affect your heart such as cigarette smoking high cholesterol high blood pressure diabetes etc. anxiety can make you feel like you are having a heart attack but shouldn't cause one if you are otherwise cardio-vascularly healthy.
can stress w/o any other health issues cause you to have a heart attack? i suffer from anxiety but otherwise have a clean bill of health.
traditional risk factors for heart attack include older age male gender diabetes hypertension hyperlipidemia cigarette smoking family history of early heart attack obesity and physical inactivity. there are certainly some patients with heart attack who do not have any of these traditional risk factors. stress anxiety and depression can each contribute to a higher risk of heart disease.
can you list at least five symptoms of myocardial infarction in women?
1. none 2. left sided chest pain 3. right sided chest pain 4. chest pressure 5. heartburn 6. anxiety and palpitations. 7. sudden fatigue often symptoms come together.
sometimes my heart races at a million and i get shortness of breadth. why does this happen?
could be possible anxiety. however age poor health genetic predisposition could be other cause. you need a general check up.
severe chest tightness heaviness but no pain in the left arm. what could the other causes be? this has been going on for 6 yrs.
the good news is that heart attack would be near the bottom of the list for chest pain in a 26 y/o. other causes can be reflux esophageal spasms anxiety disorder abdominal issues like gallbladder and more. you should see a doctor. any chronic condition for 6 yrs should get looked at.
should i be worried about amniotic fluid embolism with my pregnancy my first pregnancy i lost my baby to placental abruption at 39wks?
i don't think anybody can predict this rare complication. sorry for your loss. the only suggestion i can give with your next pregnancy: try to get your future delivery done at the tertiary care facility. and keep on positive thinking otherwise your future pregnancy would be a nightmare filled with anxiety.
stress and or anxiety is preventing me from belly breathing. when i really try to belly breathe a lot of stick mucus comes up and my chest is tight.
wondering if u had chest x-ray recently?
why does the middle of my chest hurt?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is but one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it.
what causes a rise in blood pressure?
there are many ways to increase blood pressure (bp) such as stress & anxiety. excess salt in one's diet can do so too. common over-the-counter medications such as decongestants can also increase one's bp. smoking can temporarily increase bp while putting you at risk for many other issues. obesity & lack of exercise don't help either. in fact losing weight via exercise can decrease bp naturally.
when ever i go too long without eating even 3 hrs i get weak and start to panic and feel short of breath. what's wrong with me? !?
your blood sugar may drop too low. the only way to really know is to see a doctor for a blood glucose test. it's good to know and probably possible to correct fairly easily. make an appointment and avoid unnecessary anxiety/panic. while there ask about therapy for managing health anxiety/panic. it's a good thing!
