i am diagnose with aortic valve stenosis. my question is is it ok if i started the hcg 1234 drops diet plan? and also i am rh negative.
but anyway. make sure you get regular follow up for your aortic stenosis. you probably have a bicuspid aortic valve that may get worse over time.
i am female 71 with type 2 diabetes stage 4 kidney failure and obstructive sleep apnea. what would the prognosis of aortic valve replacement?
what condition of aortic valve do you have? if you have severe symptomatic aortic stenosis aortic valve replacement is the only solution. most people would have some comorbidities so your other medical conditions are not a contraindication for surgery. if the risk of surgery is deemed probihitiveby the surgeon there is a new procedure called 'tavr' which may be beneficial.
is there a solution for isolated systolic hypertension? diastolic normal resting hr 47. 54y/o very athletic normal bmi.
be completely evaluated including cardiac echo! subaortic stenosis (common in athletes) may be the reason for isolated systeolic hypertension! get this done soon! hope this helps! dr z
what is left ventricular hypertrophy with inferior myocardial infarction in a 15 yo boy?
this is rare many possible causes: congenital aortic stenosis hypertrophic cardiomyopathy abnormal coronary anatomy . . you should see a pediatric cardiologist.
what is icd-9 of aortic valve stenosis?
there is no specific code for aortic stenosis. there is only a code for aortic valve disease. there is also a code specifically for rheumatic aortic stenosis which is 395. 0 finally there is 395. 2 which is for rheumatic aortic stenosis and insufficiency.
is there a relationship between aortic stenosis and dilated cardiomyopathy?
the end stage of aortic stenosis is a dilated cardiomyopathy if the patient lives that long. serious aortic stenosis and dilated cardiomyopathy are relatively incompatible.
is there a relationship between aortic stenosis and dilated cardiomyopathy?
aortic stenosis may be linked to the dilated cardiomyopathy. many people with asymptomatic aortic stenosis are followed too long before being offered surgery. the heart then progresses to a dilated stage. aortic surgery has progressed to per cutaneous option. and will likely increase as technology grows.
is there a relationship between aortic stenosis and dilated cardiomyopathy?
as aortic stenosis progresses the heart is straining. one would like to replace the diseased valve before the heart fails by dilation. there are some other risks as well for coronary disease in the natural history.
i had a heart attack 5 years ago and i am 39 years old. is it ok to take cialis? i take plavix (clopidogrel) but no nitrates.
treatments for erectile dysfunction (ed) including cialis should not be used in men for whom sexual activity is inadvisable as a result of their underlying cardiovascular status. patients who experience symptoms upon initiation of sexual activity should be advised to refrain from further sexual activity and seek immediate medical attention. in other words be sure that your heart can keep up with other organs. pde5 inhibitors including cialis are mild systemic vasodilators. this means that blood vessel "pipes" can become wide open and drop your blood pressure. patients with left ventricular outflow obstruction (e. g. aortic stenosis and idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis) can be sensitive to the action of vasodilators including pde5 inhibitors. consult a cardiologist to evaluate your heart with an echocardiogram if any other physician has concern that you could have one of these above mentioned conditions. cialis was not studied and is not recommended in patients who have recently suffered a heart attack (within 90 days) or stroke (within 6 months) or patients with uncontrolled hypertension hypotension uncontrolled arrhythmias heart failure (new york heart assocation [nyha] ≥class 2 in last 6 months) unstable angina or angina occurring during sexual activity. this means that a patient should be refrain from using cialis until after a safe period of time has lapsed after a heart attack. potential drug interactions: cialis can potentiate the hypotensive effects (lowering of blood pressure) of alpha-blockers antihypertensives or substantial amounts of alcohol (≥5 units). cialis is not recommended in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) symptoms because efficacy of the combination has not been adequately studied and due to the risk of blood pressure lowering. caution is advised when cialis is used as a treatment for ed in men taking alpha-blockers. cialis for once daily use provides continuous plasma tadalafil levels. therefore daily use of cialis must require daily attention to avoiding the above mentioned drugs that can interfere with blood pressure. pde5 inhibitors such as viagra cialis or levitra (vardenafil) are generally safe and effective if used wisely and with common sense.
is it possible for a child or a teen to have a heart attack?
it is exceptionally rare for a child or teen to have a heart attack. having said that it is not impossible to have sudden cardiac death. unlike a lack of blood flow this problem is usually sue to a geneitc disorder known as ihss (idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis). it creates an obstruction to flow across the aortic valve. this is the kid who drops dead on the basketball court.
is an exercise stress test safe if i have coronary artery disease?
the risk of of a serious complication during stress testing is 1 in 10 000. patients with frequent and ongoing chest discomfort or aortic stenosis may not be candidates for stress testing as their risk is higher.
i had ecg done to find stomach pain cause(dx ulcers). i overheard them say maybe aortic stenosis but they didn't tell me can they not tell me?
they may be discussion possibilities. ecg is not a good tool to detect aortic stenosis. you may need further testing.
i had ecg done to find stomach pain cause(dx ulcers). i overheard them say maybe aortic stenosis but they didn't tell me can they not tell me?
many times people hear pieces of conversations not about them. ask your dr. about your concerns i'm sure he/she will be happy to explain to you what they are thinking.
what does rheumatic heart disease mean?
rheumatic heart disease means the heart disease caused by rheumatic fever. the commonest forms are mitral stenosis and aortic stenosis the insufficient forms of these valve abnormalities are almost as common.
is inderal (propranolol) good med for skipped beats and fast heart rate. my dr just put me on it. 10 mg twice a day. 48 year old female with normal bp.
management of hypertension; angina pectoris; pheochromocytoma; essential tremor; supraventricular arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation and flutter av nodal re-entrant tachycardias) ventricular tachycardias (catecholamine-induced arrhythmias digoxin toxicity); prevention of myocardial infarction; migraine headache prophylaxis; symptomatic treatment of hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.
what are causes of left bundle branch block?
the most common cause is hypertension. the next two most common causes are arteriosclerotic heart disease and cardiomyopathy. valvular disease like aortic stenosis is an occasional cause. heart surgery often results in lbbb. deposition diseases like hemochromotosis and amyloidosis are rare causes.
what is the chance of me having a sudden cardiac arrest is aortic stenosis?
severity of aortic stenosis impacts risk of cardiac arrest. also coronary artery disease is also associated with aortic stenosis thus also increasing the risk of cardiac arrest. however for mild to moderate aortic stenosis the risk is ameliorated.
what is the chance of me having a sudden cardiac arrest is aortic stenosis?
it will all depend on the severity of your stenosis. mild and even moderate degrees of severity do not necessarily place you at a significantly higher risk but severe degrees may particularly with vigorous exertion. you do need to check with your cardiologist who will probably want to perform an echocardiogram after exercise. it is important you know there are treatments available if necessary.
what are the chances that i could have a heart attack at the age of 21?
low unless using cocaine glue snuffing hydrocarbons have critical aortic stenosis severe pulmorary hypertension idiopathic cardiomyopathy accelerated arteriosclerosis uncontrolled diabetes hyperlipidemia or coronary spasm congenital heart deisease to include some.
how does someone know what hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is caused by?
hypertroph cardiomyopathy is a unusally thick heart and as a result makes it stiff and non compliant. . these pts also have trouble with salt and water as it can cause heart failure. some pts were born with this and it runs in familys. family should be screened. secondary causes are uncontrolled bp over long periods of time. and aortic stenosis
how can someone be fine one night then hours later die of heart attack?
a great number of heart attacks can be sudden and fatal. the incidence of sudden death is higher with age with organic heart disease and ejection fraction <=35% critical left main coronary artery stenosis critical aortic stenosis previous unrevascularized myocardial infarction territory acute aortic dissection specially in patients with marfan's syndrome pulmonary hypertension.
my dad is 70. he just had aortic valve replacement. does he need a permenant pacemaker?
assuming your father had aortic stenosis the need for a valve replacement is totally separate from any need for a pacemaker. a pacemaker's function is usually to allow a control of the heart rhythm in the case of the heart's normal rhythm being abnormal or undependable. most rhythm problems respond to oral medication but some require a pacemaker. valve disease is usually a separate issue.
had ekg and echo for routine aortic stenosis check up in june everything was fine. now i can feel heartbeat in stomach. could it be aaa? i am 26.
aaa is relatively rare at your age but if you're symptoms bother you that much go see your primary doc and discuss whether further testing is warranted. a ct scan or abdominal us may rule the aaa in or out for you.
how can doctors know when a person dies of heart attack?
the pathologic features of acute myocardial infarction from acute coronary thrombosis is straight forward on autopsy however cardiac arrhythmias without coronary thrombosis can occur and be fatal. cardiomyopathies electrolyte disorders tumors arrythmogenic ventricular dysplasias critical aortic stenosis all can result in cardiac death.
what can cause a whooshing sound in my head and hearing my heartbeat?
anything that is obstructing your flow and cause turbulence can explain this. not common but can - location of stenosis (coarctation of the aorta) - aortic stenosis - hocm etc
what is biphasic pulse? does this mean if you feel double beat in your carotid artery you have hcm? how is it detected? thanks
instead of just one aka pulsus bisferiens: <link> wikipedia. org/wiki/pulsus_bisferiens. hypertrophic cardiomyopathy hcm is only one possible basis by creating subaortic stenosis. detection is normally by palpation (fell) but this takes some practice & comparison with a similar location normal pulse to appreciate better.
please tell me could a defective valve be detected by an ecg?
aortic stenosis and left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiogram is a classic one.
my blood pressure has always been a little low never high and i'm only 26yo. so what could cause diastolic dysfunction?
studies show up to 40% of people with chf have preserved systolic function. hypertension is a common cause of diastolic dysfunction there are several other causes of dd that affect cardiac compliance including cardiac ischemia obesity nsaids pericardial disease myocardial disease endomyocardial diseases aortic stenosis etc. good to find this early find cause w/cardiology please & good luck
my dad (66) has lbbb since 4 yrs ago on several ekg's. his mom had cad. cardiologist did lots of test 2 times found nothing. cause? is it fatal?
there're quite a few causes of lbbb. aortic stenosis dilated cardiomyopathy acute heart attack coronary artery disease disease of the cardiac electrical conduction system long standing untreated hypertension lyme disease etc. even some viral infections can cause this. since his testing=negative he is not more likely to die than other men his age. regular follow up is advisable. good luck!
what does it mean when an ecg says borderline and extreme right superior axis deviation. slight high lateral repolarization disturbance consider ische?
consider ischemia which is not enough blood getting to heart because of blocked arteries or an aortic stenosis or old heart attack. would be good to know how old you are and what other problems you have to give better answer. happy to do 2nd opinion now.
what is severe subpulmonary stenosis due to mitral valve chordal apparatus with a peak gradient of 72 mmhg? can it be treated?
i think you mean sub aortic stenosis. you should clarify with the diagnosing doctor and ask about the condition and treatment.
should you be able to hear an aortic stenosis in your child without a stethoscope?
if you listen with your ear applied to your child's chest you may be able to hear the heart murmur associated with aortic valve stenosis.
should you be able to hear an aortic stenosis in your child without a stethoscope?
you shouldn't be able to hear it without a stethoscope. a murmur loud enough to hear without a stethoscope is essentially unheard of. if this is the case please have your child checked immediately.
should you be able to hear an aortic stenosis in your child without a stethoscope?
heart murmurs including aortic stenosis are detected by listening with a stethoscope. murmurs are graded or scored by the loudness from 1 to 5 (i to v). only grade 5 murmurs may be heard without a stethoscope. you might feel a vibration if you place your hand against the chest over the heart with a grade 5. in my 18 years experience i have only heard one heart murmur without a stethoscope.
should you be able to hear an aortic stenosis in your child without a stethoscope?
very rarely is aortic stenosis is sufficiently severe to be associated with a heart murmur that is audible without a stethoscope. you would still need to be very close to the individual's chest to hear the murmur.
what are the differences between aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation murmur?
the pitch is different. also each is better heard in a different location in the chest and the duration of the murmur during the cardiac cycle are different.
what do you advise for heart is beating harder than usual?
aortic stenosis aortic regurgitation mitral regurgitation hypertrophic cardiomyopathy uncontrolled hypertension thyrotoxicosis arrhythmias - they all can cause your heart to beat harder than usual. alternatively it can be simple cardiac awareness. an echocardiogram rhythm recording and blood samples are needed to sort out the cause.
waiting surgery for a blocked heart valve is it safe to walk up a flight of stairs about 200 in all or will this put to much pressure on heart?
don't look for trouble. obviously the hemodynamic measurements of your valve are not available to us but if your valve is bad enough to warrant surgery you should avoid exercise until it's been replaced. if you have symptomatic aortic stenosis exercise does in fact raise your risk of sudden death. rest.
what would be the forward and backward effects of aortic stenosis?
the heart must push harder which is a strain and causes "muscle bound" left ventricular hypertrophy and later heart failure. the muscle needs more oxygen to pump and coronary flow is interfered with causing angina or heart attack in some. low forward flow can lead to fainting syncope. it is related to degree if stenosis- narrowing of this door! think of it as a door which does not open fully.
why coarctation of aorta in infantile cause passes of the blood from pulmonary artery to the aorta through pda?
coarctation is usually associated with a small ao arch and/or aortic stenosis. if this is the case the only way blood can get to the body (or systemic circulation) is thru the pda. the pda is often associated with the coarctation and the narrowing may worsen as the pda closes. this is why the coarctation may be "ductal dependent".
what would be the ball park figure life expectancy of inoperable aortic stenosis?
there is not much "inoperable" as. however the patients overall frail condition such as in the very elderly with other health problems or perhaps a very damaged and poorly functioning heart may make this too high an operative risk. but it isn't the valve. per se that is inoperable. some folks would try a percutaneous valve placement in this setting.
what would be the ball park figure life expectancy of inoperable aortic stenosis?
life expectancy is very hard to predict. but first we need to understand the type of aortic stenosis. is this regarding a malformed aortic valve (i. e. seen in kids) or an initially normal aortic valve that has degraded with age (aortic valves calcify are damaged by atherosclerosis etc. ). knowledge of the type/mechanism of aortic stenosis and severity is required to estimate an answer.
would a valvuloplasty work on asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis patient?
it would work temporarily but you wouldn't want to assume the risks of this procedure in an asymptomatic patient. aortic valvuloplasty is largely considered palliative.
would a valvuloplasty work on asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis patient?
aortic valvuloplasty is only a temporary measure. it is used for the patients with severe aortic stenosis who's hearts and bodies are too sick for surgery. the valvuloplasty is done in hopes of relieving the obstruction long enough for the patients to temporarily improve enough to then undergo valve replacement. a patient without symptoms would not need valvuloplasty done.
what is the definition or description of: williams syndrome?
neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by loquacious personality abnormally sensitive hearing supravalvular aortic stenosis mental retardation elfin facies association with hypercalcemia due to abnormal sensitivity to vitamin d idiopathic hypercalcemia of pregnancy. due to deletion in elastin gene and probably several adjacent genes on 7q.
what is the average life-expectancy for aortic stenosis as?
on severity and specific symptoms. prognosis is poor once heart failure angina or syncope is present.
what is the average life-expectancy for aortic stenosis as?
50 % patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis will not survive more than two years.
what's the sign in physical exam with which we can say aortic stenosis in a case is not severe?
in order to evaluate the severity of aortic stenosis you must have an echocardiogram. several measurements are performed including jet velocity and aortic valve area that will determine the severity of stenosis. physical exam findings are not consistent enough to be used as a determining factor for the degree of stenosis.
what can i expect during and after aortic heart valve replacement surgery?
during aortic valve replacement you are under general anesthesia so you do not feel or remember anything. after avr it depends on the reason it had to be replaced. if for critical aortic stenosis it lowers sudden death rate and stroke in either stenosis or insufficiency excersise tolerance should improve and if timing proper ventricular remodeling will ensue.
what will be done to treat valvular aortic stenosis?
if aortic valve stenosis is critical will require an aortic valve replacement.
what is the treatment for valvular aortic stenosis?
surgical if it's really bad & the patient can withstand the surgery. if the stenosis is not severe medical management.
would echo scan show aortic insufficiency?
an echocardiogram will usually show if you have significant aortic stenosis or insufficiency.
what type of heart problem is senile calcific aortic stenosis?
restriction of opening of the aortic valve (valve between the heart and the circulation) due to deterioration of the valve over time resulting in calcification and decreased opening. common in older populations. severe cases may require surgery to replace the aortic valve.
what type of heart problem is senile calcific aortic stenosis?
as we get older our previously flexible and "soft" heart valves become stiffer and less flexible because among other things the deposition of calcium. this stiffening of the aortic valve may result in a limitation of its ability to open or close properly. usually echocardiography can help determine the extent of the problem. you should see a cardiologist.
what sort of problem is aortic stenosis?
it is a blockage of the valve leading from the heart. this can result in heart failure and a decrease in the ability of the heart to output blood to the rest of the body due to blockage in the aorta.
what sort of problem is aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is the inability of the aortic valve to open completely. the symptoms of aortic stenosis may resemble other medical conditions or heart problems. acquired aortic stenosis may occur after a strep infection that progresses to rheumatic fever.
what is the genome for idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis?
many genes code for this anomaly of sarcomere proteins: chr 14 in the beta-myosin heavy chain; protein c cardiac myosin. this error creates some degree of left ventricular hypertrophy involving the septum between the ventricles: asymmetric septal hypertrophy. lethal arrhythmias may occur. genetic testing is available. seek opinion of a cardiologist.
what is the genome for idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis?
ihss is caused by mutations in sarcomere genes and is the most common monogenic cardiovascular disorder.
which heart diseases leads to valvular heart disease?
in the past rheumatic fever was an important cause of valvular heart disease. today ageing is a common cause of valvular disease such as aortic stenosis. drug abuse can result in valve damage due to bloodstream infection called endocarditis. untreated high blood pressure can cause enlargement of the heart and leakage of the valves.
why there is no pain associated with mitral stenosis?
heart pain is usually associated with poor blood flow to the muscle of your heart. this can happen because of blocked arteries or thickened heart muscle from high blood pressure or aortic stenosis. mitral stenosis usually doesn't cause the pumping chambers to thicken. ms symptoms are usually shortness of breath and heart failure.
what are alternatives to minimally invasive heart surgery?
instead of minimally invasive cardiac surgery one could opt for normal heart surgery (with a thoracotomy) percutaneous intervention (stents if the surgery is bypass or tavi/valvuloplasty if related to aortic stenosis or mitral stenosis) or medical treatment. it depends on what the surgery is exactly as to what your options are.
what is considered low blood pressure?
this varies by age and symptoms. one important point is that a blood pressure that others consider normal /good (such as 110/70) could actually be too low in some medical conditions such as aortic stenosis. generally 90/60 would be a good official answer as the bottom limit but this is normal in conditioned athletes and kids. fatigue dizziness fainting are signs pressure may be too low.
what are causes of aortic valve stenosis?
perhaps the most common offending etiology in aortic stenosis in the us is atherosclerosis. just as this can affect the arteries in the body it can affect the tissues covering the aortic valve and then the plaque deposition and calcific degeneration of the valve leads to its problems. rheumatic heart disease not common in the us is another common cause in third world countries.
what is the size of the aortic valve?
the normal aortic valve area for a full-sized adult is 3-4 centimeters squared. once the aortic valve area is less than 2 cm2 a condition called aortic stenosis is present. once aortic stenosis is present the valve area can decrease by 0. 1 cm2/year. when aortic stenosis is severe with a valve area of less than 1. 0 cm2 cardiac surgery may be necessary.
why does renal or aortic stenosis usually cause hypotension?
renal artery stenosis usually causes hypertension. in fact it can be difficult to control. aortic stenosis doesn't cause hypotension until very late which can be dangerous if the heart has thickened. in my experience most of my patients with aortic stenosis have either normal or high blood pressure.
why does renal or aortic stenosis usually cause hypotension?
renal artery stenosis causes high blood pressure hypertension due to a hormone produced by the affected kidney. but aortic stenosis causes the opposite hypotension due to the low amount of blood released through the heart valves into the aorta.
what causes a fever when my child has aortic stenosis?
a child with aortic stenosis can get sick like anyone else. the most important thing is prolonged fever may be an indication of endocarditis (heart valve infection). if fever is persistent then blood cultures should be done.
what causes a fever when my child has aortic stenosis?
fevers in children can be caused by many things. simply having as does not make additional things potentially cause a fever. however if your child has prolonged or unexplained fevers then seek attention (preferably with the cardiologist) as it could be a sign of a serious (but rare) valve infection. please discuss your specific issues with your cardiologist.
what causes a fever when my child has aortic stenosis?
fever is the body's response to a viral or bacterial infection. sometimes medications can cause drug fever but an infection is more likely. having aortic stenosis doesn't change what causes fevers. when one has a heart valve problem it just prompts quick investigation and evaluation.
what happens if you don't have any treatments done for your son's aortic stenosis will it eventually resolve?
aortic stenosis does not resolve over time. however it can remain stable. there are some fairly decent established criteria for when to intervene (depends on echo measures and other symptoms/conditions). please discuss your specific issues with your cardiologist.
what happens if you don't have any treatments done for your son's aortic stenosis will it eventually resolve?
as in infancy is usually responsive to a catheter based stretching maneuver. if not done the lower chamber wall will gradually thicken & poor growth ensues. regular followup during infancy & childhood can prevent the rather silent approach of an enlarged heart & other issues that require other treatments. this does not go away if you ignore it.
what happens if you don't have any treatments done for your son's aortic stenosis will it eventually resolve?
aortic stenosis does not regress. it is almost always progressive. if left untreated it can place a significant strain on the heart.
what people are at risk for systolic heart failure?
many of the risk factors for heart dz is also risk factor for systolic heart failure. uncontrolled blood pressure heavy drinkers family history previous heart attack. post partum with history of systolic failure with previous deliveries. severe valve disease like mitral regurgitation and aortic stenosis.
what is scientific definition of idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis?
idiopathic--unknown cause hypertrophic-thickened enlarged sub aortic below aortic valve septal - inner wall of the heart between left and right ventricles stenosis- narrowing of the left ventricular outflow in this situation.
what is scientific definition of idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis?
idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis or ihss derives from an unknown etiology. usually the muscle along the left ventricular outflow tract beneath the aortic valve grows in size. it then can affect the flow of blood out of the heart because it forms an obstruction. the degree of obstruction correlates to symptoms and the degree of severity of the condition.
what are the disease leading to needing an open heart surgery?
critical calcific aortic stenosis severe aortic insufficiency severe mitral valve stenosis severe mitral valve regurgitation atrial fibrillation(maze) tetrallogy of fallot truncus arteriosus tapvr transposition of the great arteries ascending aortic aneurysm ventricular septal defect atrial septal defect sinus of valsalva aneurysm coronary stenosis cor triatriatum cardiomyopathy 2include s.
which heart valve is commonly replaced?
it is close between the two but the aortic valve is the most commonly replaced as aortic stenosis is common in older folks. the mitral valve is now often repaired rather than replaced. pulmonary valve surgery is usally for congenital problems and done in children while replacement of the tricuspid valve is rare.
what does aortic valve stenosis lead to?
aortic stenosis refers to the gradual destruction of the aortic valve. it is a progressive process that eventually leads to shortness of breath and lack of energy with exercise. untreated it will eventually cause congestive heart failure.
what does it mean to have a very narrow atrial valve? is this dangerous?
aortic stenosis is a narrowing of the aortic valve which lets the blood flow out of the heart to the rest of the body. if the valve is severely narrowed then symptoms of shortness of breath chest pain and passing out can occur. if these symptoms are present then the valve will need to be replaced either by open heart surgery or in certain cases percutaneously from the leg.
why sometimes i feel dizzy when i laugh strong?
sometimes laughing hard may momentarily drop your blood pressure and/or lower your heart rate. when this response is exaggerated it might make you feel lightheaded. i would see a doctor and undergo an examination to make sure there is not a condition known as hypertrophic subaortic stenosis. also perhaps recording an ecg strip as you laugh may help to see if you have a long pause in heart beat.
what predisposes someone to aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is most commonly caused by age-related progressive calcification of a normal (three-leafed) aortic valve (>50% of cases). other causes include calcification of a congenital bicuspid aortic valve (30-40% of cases) and acute rheumatic fever (less than 10% of cases). diabetes hypertension and hyperlipidemia may speed up the age-related calcification and degeneration of aortic valves.
what predisposes someone to aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is a narrowing of the aortic valve. this causes a characteristic murmur heard on the right upper chest near the breast bone. it sometimes happens with age or after infections such as endocarditis or sometimes rheumatic fever.
what predisposes someone to aortic stenosis?
three major causes of aortic stenosis: 1. bicuspid aortic valve (congenital) =born with it (two cusps instead of the normal 3 cusps) 2. rhematic fever sequelae (acquired after strep throat) 3. degenerative disease in a tricuspid valve (acquired).
want to get on with my life. how is aortic stenosis diagnosed? when can treatment start?
an echocardiogram with doppler will make the diagnosis. there is no need for treatment unless it is severe and causing symptoms.
want to get on with my life. how is aortic stenosis diagnosed? when can treatment start?
aortic stenosis is a narrowing of the aortic valve (the one that when open allows blood to leave the heart towards the body and when closed prevents it from returning). it can be diagnosed by physical exam and / or echocardiography. treatment will depend on the severity and can range from balloon stretching of the valve in a catheterization lab or surgery. see your doctor.
what happens to a child with an enlarged heart as he grows up?
all fat kids and all very athletic kids have enlarged hearts by the old standards from the 1950's when most folks were thinner and sedentary. be sure you know the cause before drawing any conclusions! if it's hypertrophic cardiomyopathy aortic stenosis or hypertension or you've been given the name of another disease follow it very closely.
what are the physical symptoms of williams syndrome?
transient hypercalcemia in infancy associated with elfin facies mental retardation and aortic stenosis.
what are the physical symptoms of williams syndrome?
unusual physical features:full lips & cheeks puffiness under eyes stellate (starlike) patterns in irises. congenital anomalies: supravalvular aortic stenosis renal anomalies stenotic arteries joint contractures. high calcium levels. distinct neurobehavioral profile: mild-moderate intellectual disability. adhd anxiety can't tolerate loud noises verbal better than visuospatual ability. wsa. org.
what is outlook for a patient with systolic murmur in the aortic area shortness of breath and chest pain at effort?
for aortic stenosis. .
what is outlook for a patient with systolic murmur in the aortic area shortness of breath and chest pain at effort?
sounds like symptomatic aortic stenosis. need to see a cardiologist and he will refer you to an excellent cardiovascular surgeon if the evaluation suggests a need for this.
what are the symptoms associated with valvular aortic stenosis?
from mild to severe. aortic valve stenosis signs and symptoms typically develop when narrowing of the valve is severe and can include: chest pain (angina) or tightness feeling faint or fainting with exertion shortness of breath especially with exertion fatigue especially during times of increased activity heart palpitations sensations of a rapid fluttering heartbeat heart murmur.
what are the symptoms associated with valvular aortic stenosis?
coarctation of the aorta is common in patients with some chromosomal abnormalities such as turner's syndrome.
what are the symptoms associated with valvular aortic stenosis?
during surgery the narrowed part of the aorta will be removed or opened. if the problem area is small the two free ends of the aorta may be re-connected. this is called anastomosis. if a large part of the aorta is removed a dacron graft (a man-made material) or one of the patient's own arteries is used to fill the gap. a tube graft connecting two parts of the aorta may also be used.
what are the symptoms associated with valvular aortic stenosis?
facet joints there are two joints between the vertebrae one called the disc and other called the facet joint when we inject the facet joint we called facet injection.
what are the symptoms associated with valvular aortic stenosis?
pulmonary valve stenosis symptoms vary depending on the extent to which the valve is obstructed. people with mild pulmonary stenosis will usually not have any symptoms. those with more significant stenosis often first notice symptoms while exercising. heart murmur shortness of breath chest pain loss of consciousness fatigue palpitations.
what are the common symptoms of williams syndrome?
williams syndrome patients have often growth deficiency. language ability is greater than cognitive ability. they are friendly have a hoarse voice anxious hypersensitive to sounds. often they have blue eyes with a stellate pattern in the iris prominent lips hypoplastic nails poor dentition. supravalvular aortic stenosis and peripheral pulmonary stenosis are common. renal anomalies as well.
what are the tests for aortic stenosis?
an ekg and echocardiogram.
what are the tests for valvular aortic stenosis?
echo-cardiogram comes to mind but some are doing cardiac mri's & even functional cardiac mri's.
what is the average lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis if not corrected?
patients with uncorrected aortic stenosis have a poor survival: half of the patients that develop angina (chest pain) will die within 5 years half of the patients that develop syncope (passing out) will die within 3 years and half of the patients that develop heart failure will die within 2 years. aortic valve replacement can pretty much normalize the life span and improve symptoms markedly.
when does surgery have to be done for valvular aortic stenosis?
the most important factor is are you symptomatic? if you have any symptoms surgical intervention is recommended. 50% of patients who develop symptoms from as will not survive more than 2 years. other parameters to look at are the mean gradient > 40 velocity > 4 m/s and aortic valve area <1 cm2. if any of these are met you should consider surgery.
when does surgery have to be done for valvular aortic stenosis?
when you have a val love area of less than 1 cm.
what is ihss heart disease?
ihhs (idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis) is a serious disturbance of heart muscle growth that leads to arrhytmias potentially fatal. this has become a very controversial topic--how do you reasonable screen for this to prevent sudden death from arrhytmia? the only effective tool we have is an echocardiogram (physical exam alone is not good enough) but you can't do one for everybody.
what is ihss heart disease?
ihss (idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis) known as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a condition where the heart muscle is thick and obstruction to outflow may occur. arrhythmias may occur as well. it is commonly inherited first degree relatives should be screened. patients may have severe symptoms or no symptoms. it is a common cause of death in young athletes who seemed completely healthy.
what causes someone to develop aortic valve stenosis?
bicuspid aortic valves are an anatomic variant seen in 2% of the population. they are prone to develop aortic stenosis. the more common is degenerative or senile which is seen in the elderly. the cause is likely multifactorial and may share some similarity to atherosclerosis.
what is valvular aortic stenosis?
the aortic valve is between the left ventricle and the aorta. it ensures that blood flows from the heart to the body and not backwards. when the valve is malformed it does not open fully and the ventricle must work harder to push blood to the body. the medical term for this condition is stenosis.
what does? mild valvular aortic stenosis with mild aortic regurgitation mean?
it means you may have a leaky valve perhaps from rheumatic heart disease.
what will be the interaction be between aortic stenosis and weight lifting?
symptoms of aortic stenosis are syncope (passing out) angina (chest pain) and heart failure. weight lifting may actually increase the heart muscle thickness (although the right heart may be affected more). with aortic stenosis the left heart gets thicker. weight training is probably okay but you need to discuss it with your cardiologist.
what is the difference between aortic stenosis and a? mitral regurgitation murmur?
typically tonal quality and location. i don't normally defer to the web but there are some great valve sound resources on the web check them out for a detailed explaination.
what is the difference between aortic stenosis and a? mitral regurgitation murmur?
aortic stenosis is a tight aortic valve mitral regurgitation is a leaky valve.
what is the average life span if someone that has aortic stenosis?
if your valve is severely steno tic you have a life limited expectancy of less than 5 years unless it is corrected by replacing the valve.
what are some treatments for aortic stenosis surgery?
options for aortic valve surgery today include replacement with full sternotomy or mini- sternotomy or percutaneous aortic valve replacement which will likely be the standard of care in another 5- 10 years. currently surgery is still the best approach with the longest track record.
what could cause an aortic stenosis with apico-aortic conduit?
this operation is rarely used but is done when the ascending aorta is too calcified to operate on.
why would someone with aortic stenosis be at risk for sudden death?
with aorttic stenosis the amount of blood pumped by the heart is fixed below a specific threshold as it cannot increase the output even with increased demand as with exercise etc. consequently the heart the brain or any other organ will not get the increased blood supply it needs and therefore sudden death from irregular heart beats myocardial infarction or syncope and brain ischemia can kill.
what's senile calific aortic stenosis?
as we age wear and tear on heart valves cause them to thicken and calcify. as this happens the valve become stiff and does not open very well. this partial opening is called a stenosis. it reduces blood flow to the body.
what is the meaning of "no hemodynamically significant valvular aortic stenosis"?
it means that there is probably some thickening of the valve or very early narrowing of the valve but not enough to actually block blood flow.
what is the meaning of "no hemodynamically significant valvular aortic stenosis"?
no hemodynamically significant stenosis indicates the amount of narrowing is not affecting the heart function. at this time the condition requires ongoing observation but no treatment. aortic stenosis tends to be progressive so not being significant at this time does not mean it will remain so.
what is the definition or description of: bicuspid aortic valve?
normal aortic valve has three leaflets. bicuspid aortic valve developmental abnormality that has two leaflets instead of three. looks like fish mouth. prone to disease over time does create murmur frequently. calcium deposits on valve can cause aortic stenosis limited excursion restricts flow. can be higher risk for infection.
what is an aortic stenosis?
aortic valve by calcification causing fixed restriction of blood flow out of the heart.
what is an aortic stenosis?
the aortic valve opens when the heart contracts allowing the blood to flow from the heart to the aorta which supplies the body. when aortic stenosis occurs the aortic valve narrows impeding the flow of blood out of the heart. if the patients develops any symptoms surgical replacement is needed.
what is an aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is a hardening of the last valve in the heart; this valve is the last thing blood passes through before it is sent out to the body. as you would expect this valve is called the aortic valve. symptoms of aortic stenosis can include chest pain passing out and heart failure symptoms. the treatment of severe aortic stenosis is almost always surgical.
what is an aortic stenosis?
narrowing of the valve leaving the heart which is progressive has no cure besides surgery. once at least moderate needs yearly follow up.
what are reasons to get heart bypass surgery rather than angioplasty with a stent to open the arteries?
there are specific indications for surgery vs stents. 3 vessel disease in diabetic 3 vessel disease with decreased function left main disease severe disease that can't be treated with stent disease associated with other issues that require surgery like aortic stenosis or mitral disease. that's a start.
what is a heart click?
most commonly a click is a sound made by mitral valve prolapse. other causess would be an ejection click from aortic stenosis or pulmonary stenosis.
what are other ways to treat aortic stenosis besides valve replacement surgery?
unfortunately we are yet to find a non-surgical way to halt or reverse aortic stenosis. current technology however is advancing the placement of new aortic valves through a catheter avoiding having to open the chest.
what are other ways to treat aortic stenosis besides valve replacement surgery?
best treatment is surgical replacement. it can be performed through a full sternotomy a partial sternotomy or a small right anterior thoracotomy. the last two approaches are considered minimally invasive. another option is transcatheter aortic valve replacement only inoperable and high risk patients are candidates. also balloon valvuloplasty short term solution lasts approximately 6 months.
what are the complications that come with having aortic stenosis and being pregnant?
serious aortic stenosis is better to correct prior to pregnancy. if not that severe care at delivery is important. attention to weight and blood pressure throughout are important to success.
what are the complications that come with having aortic stenosis and being pregnant?
the complications of aortic stenosis and pregnancy depend on how ad is the stenosis. mild to moderate is tolerated fine usually with close medical attention. severe as is of concern. the reason is the amount of blood your heart has to pump when pregnant is much higher. this puts more stress on the heart. you should be monitored closely w/both your ob and cardiologist.
what is valvular inflammation?
it is an inflemation of the heart valve. the pathophysiology of aortic stenosis is incompletely understood and the relative contributions of valvular calcification and inflammation to disease progression are unknown.
with 2 previous heart valve replacements and a heart working at 55% what is the rate of survival? was born w aortic stenosis
there is no real answer to this impossible to predict. it is a really important question. i empower you to have open discussions with your mds. better question how long will my valve last? what is the risk of my next operation?
with 2 previous heart valve replacements and a heart working at 55% what is the rate of survival? was born w aortic stenosis
a long time. 55% ejection fraction is normal.
with 2 previous heart valve replacements and a heart working at 55% what is the rate of survival? was born w aortic stenosis
it is impossible to be precise about your individual situation without knowing the details of your medical situation. as a general rule if the heart function is normal ( as with an ejection fraction of 55% it sounds like it probably is) this is a good sign.
what are some treatments for the aortic stenosis?
traditionally surgical aortic valve replacement was the best method for treating significant aortic stenosis. some patients unfortunately were too ill for the procedure. transcatheter aortic valve replacement (tavr) has proven an excellent alternative for these patients. talk to your thoracic surgeon and cardiologist to see if you are eligible.
what are some treatments for the aortic stenosis?
the surgery replaces the valve with either a mechanical or animal tissue valve. this is done on a heart lung machine. the valve takes the place of the damaged valve and the patient lives their life with a new disease 'artificial valve' with its own set of problems. the obstruction or valve leak of the diseased valve is corrected by the artificial valve. sometimes blood thinners are needed.
what are some treatments for the aortic stenosis?
in most cases patients who are able to tolerate open heart surgery have the diseased valve removed and replaced with either a mechanical (metal) or a tissue valve. those who are unable to tolerate surgery now have option of tavr which is a tissue valve inserted through a catheter approach. not ideal for all but for some the only option. rarely a valvuloplasty alone - balloon to open valve.
what is the meaning of left heart failure and essential mailignant hypertension?
the heart consists of four chambers left and right atriums left and right ventricles. left heart failure means the left ventricle fails to work meaning failure to pump out the blood flow to meet the body demanding. it can be caused by cardiomyopathy severe aortic stenosis or severe mitral valve regurgitation etc. essential htn is opposite to secondary htn. that means no cause found now.
what would be the average lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis?
you need t know the gradient across the stenosis. high gradients require valve replacement as the left ventricle will begin to enlarge (hypertrophy) which can eventually lead to heart failure. echocardiography and/or left ventricular angiography performed by an interventional cardiologist can define the gradient then you both can decide on best treatment options.
what would be the average lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis?
slight stenosis and minimal pressure gradient can be tolerated for a long time. example congenital bicuspid valve patients can be aged. once symptomatic aortic stenosis with syncope angina heart failure the historic data suggest less than a year survival. that's why these patients are identified by murmur echo and treated surgically.
what is the procedure for repairing leaking heart valves in the elderly?
most valve replacement is open heart surgical replacement with an artificial valve of some type. a new method for aortic stenosis (not a leaky valve) is to fix it through the artery- kind of like a stent placement; this is not open heart surgery.
what would experts say? could a hole in your heart and aortic stenosis be a life threatening illness?
it depends on the size of the hole and the severity of the aortic stenosis.
what would experts say? could a hole in your heart and aortic stenosis be a life threatening illness?
both are common entities and surgically correctable. depends on size and location of hole and degree of valvular abnormality. other personal risk factors are important in assessing risks benefits options.
wha is a aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is a decrease in the size of the area of the aortic valve. this can be congenital (born with it) infectious acquired (due to atherosclerosis). treatment is medical (if possible) interventional or surgical.
wha is a aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is tightening of the aortic valve. there are more rare forms of sub-valvular (below the valve) and supra-valvular (above the valve) as well.
what are some good homeopathic medicines for calcified aortic valve/ aortic stenosis?
homeopathy is not the first treatment to be used in aortic stenosis. full cardiology evaluation -- and depending on how much the valve problem is impacting cardiac function and the patient's life possibly surgery -- is required. that said there are a few homeopathic remedies known to help. but you definitely need a professional homeopath for this. care should be collaborative w/cardiology.
what is the normal size of aortic valve mine is 1. 7 cm descending i'm a small 27 year old female. weigh 125 and height is 5'4. is this normal?
in general they classify area of 1. 5-2. 0 as mild aortic stenosis. obvously body size is in direct correlation with the aortic valve size. your size maybe on the smaller end but does not necessarily translate into being clinically significant. i would suggest you discuss with your cardiologist who performed your echo.
what does it mean when your aortic is dysplastic probably 2 cusps.
is one of the heart valves and commonly has three delicate cusps that open and close with cardiac cycle and flow. there are congenital anomalies of bicuspid valve and these may thicken and be abnormal on echo and produce aortic stenosis and symptoms over time.
what causes a heart to get structurally damaged?
could be a valve problem(e. g. mitral stenosis aortic stenosis mitral prolapse)or a heart chamber problem(e. g. atrial septal defect). you have listed "chest pain"& "normal ekg". i hope this answers your question. you are only 23. if it is you or a loved one i am sure help is being sought.
what will happen if pulse pressure is reduced to 20?
as in what the cause of a low/narrow pulse pressure is. extremely low pulse pressures like you mention can be related to congestive heart failure shock aortic stenosis(narrow of the major outlet valve of the heart) or other things like fluid around the heart affecting how the heart pumps(cardiac tamponade). in the end this can lead to poor blood flow of the organ systems of the body.
whether people with mvp primary mr have an increased chance of aortic stenosis? i hear an early click(s1) in my aorta. can it be a sign of bicuspid va
there is no evidence that individuals with mvp with mr are at an increased risk for aortic valve disease. sometimes there is a sound or click associated with a bicuspid aortic valve but clicks are also associated with mitral valve prolapse. both of these would be seen on an echocardiogram which is used to diagnose the mitral valve prolapse.
what is the typical lifespan of someone with aortic stenosis?
it is not just the presence of aortic stenosis but the arrival of symptoms that determine whether the condition needs to be treated aggressively. with the development of chest pain shortness of breath and syncope or fainting the need for surgery increases. otherwise medical therapy may be all that is necessary for a long life.
would a hole in your heart and aortic stenosis be life-threatening?
both vary separately and as a pair in their impact on the heart and circulatory system from minimal to life threatening.
surgery for someone with aortic stenosis?
there is surgery for this but is only indicated for a when stenosis becomes bad and your overall condition matters too. consult your doctor for a surgeons opinion.
surgery for someone with aortic stenosis?
usually surgery for aortic stenosis is aortic valve replacement.
surgery for valve replacement in someone with aortic stenosis? what are the different ways?
traditionally surgical aortic valve replacement was the best method for treating significant aortic stenosis. some patients unfortunately were too ill for the procedure. transcatheter aortic valve replacement (tavr) has proven an excellent alternative for these patients. talk to your thoracic surgeon and cardiologist to see if you are eligible.
surgery for valve replacement in someone with aortic stenosis? what are the different ways?
best treatment is surgical replacement. it can be performed through a full sternotomy a partial sternotomy or a small right anterior thoracotomy. the last two approaches are considered minimally invasive. another option is transcatheter aortic valve replacement only inoperable and high risk patients are candidates. also balloon valvuloplasty short term solution lasts approximately 6 months.
surgery for valve replacement in someone with aortic stenosis? what are the different ways?
depending on the patient risk and other comorbidities and need for concomitant surgery (other valve bypass) one can have mini aortic valve replacement (small incision 6 cm short hospital stay) regular valve surgery (classic incision) or percutaneous valve replacement (tavr in specialized centers). your cardiologist should be able to help pick the best one for your particular situation.
can you describe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy?
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is an excessive thickening of the heart muscle. hcm can be obstructive or nonobstructive. it is a genetic disorder. symptoms may be mild moderate or severe. sudden death may occur without warning from an arrhythmia. it was previously known as idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis (ihss).
