i have normal heart rate but the beats are very strong so i feel my heart is hitting my chest and back. what does that mean. im taking pristiq (desvenlafaxine) 50 mg?
it is possible that the pristiq (desvenlafaxine) is contributing to your symptoms. certain conditions cause abnormally storng heart beat. the classic one is aortic regurgitation (leaking of the aortic valve) so you should have an echo. excess thyroid hormone can also do it so you need blood work. often a change in position will help -lying left side down usually make strong heartbeat worse so avoid this.
i was diagnosed with pvc aortic regurgitation moderate mitral regurgitation tricuspid regurgitation hyperlipemia & adv diastolic dys. prognosi?
you have several valves which are leaking. you only mention moderate amount of mitral regurge. but more important is the size of the pumping chambers of your heart and the ejection fraction (how well it squeezes). you have had a stress test so did it show evidence of blockages? there are many people with mild or moderate leaking valves who do very well. you need to discuss with you doctor.
is a heart rate always high if your heart is pounding or can it happen when it's low to normal too?
heavy pounding of the heart relates more to the force of contraction which is governed by the amount od catecholamines (adrenalin) as well as the volume of blood put out with contraction. . often times this will lead to a faster heart rate but it doesn't have to. an example would be aortic regurgitation wherein the heart is heavily loaded (preload) from backward filling across aortic valve.
what do aml mr and al stand for in ecg reading?
ami: acute myocardial infarction mr: mitral regurgitation ai: aortic regurgitation now. . i doubt that you read ai or mr on an ecg (electrocardiogram) for these are diagnosis's made by physical exam and/or echocardiography.
i have a leak in my aortic valve. can a person be ok with this? this has been diagnosed twice on ecg.
mild and moderate aortic regurgitation causes no symptoms and is well tolerated. severe aortic regurgitation will eventually cause the left ventricle to enlarge and fail but it takes decades. severe ar should be followed with serial annual echoes. valve replacement is indicated if function begins to deteriorate (usually followed as ejection fraction and end-systolic dimension. ).
what could cause a peripheral bounding pulse?
a bounding pulse is a strong and forceful heart rate. a bounding pulse can occur in a few conditions such as hypertension anemia anxiety abnormal heart rhythm heavy exercise fever aortic regurgitation overactive thyroid pregnancy heart failure and chronic kidney disease.
my bp 132/46 heart rate 68 should i be concerned?
it's probably normal but your low diastolic pressure may be due to factitious reading severe aortic regurgitation av fistula severe anemia or thyrotoxicosis. .
i have mvp with a ballerina foot pattern and trivial aortic regurgitation. how likely is this to get worse? is the ballerina foot cardiomyopathy?
way to predict the progression of your mvp. the fact that you also may have aortic valve involvement would suggest on clinical grounds that you might be at more risk for progression than others but again there is no way to predict this with certainty. this is not a cardiomyopathy.
i've been told i have mvp and there are a few pixels of aortic regurgitation is this a normal finding or will it get worse?
answered. these findings do not have predictive value. repeat evaluations over the next several years will provide you with some indication of progression or stability of the valvular involvement but a single data point at this time will not be predictive.
had echo done last year and dr said in one of the films it showed a slight moderate aortic regurgitation-not during the entire echo. worried or not?
follow your dr's recommendations. if they were not concerned then don't worry.
have sinus of valsava of 3. 8mm with mild aortic regurgitation cardiologist ok'ed exercise is isometric exercises ok in moderation nothing to extreme?
need more details. which sinus because 2 of 3 are where a coronary artery originals. discuss with the dr. who did the testing as he knows which one. ask if you only have 2 instead of 3 as 2 more likely to have aortic regurgitation at your age. ask what is the reason for the regurgitation. you should probably take antibiotics before dental procedures but ask team.
when i exercise my body moves with each heart beat. is this some sort of disorder?
very severe aortic regurgitation can make people rock their head with each heart beat. other than that it's likely coincidence. (coincidences are common - when i read echoes (recorded hours earlier) and play rock music i often note the heart is beating in time with the music).
what are the signs of aortic regurgitation/leakage?
do you mean symptoms? (signs are physical findings your doctor detects during an examination). ar causes no symptoms for many decades but when it finally does start to cause symptoms it's congestive heart failure - shortness of breath with minimal exertion or at rest. less common symptoms are: angina (chest pain) and syncope (passing out).
what do you advise for heart is beating harder than usual?
aortic stenosis aortic regurgitation mitral regurgitation hypertrophic cardiomyopathy uncontrolled hypertension thyrotoxicosis arrhythmias - they all can cause your heart to beat harder than usual. alternatively it can be simple cardiac awareness. an echocardiogram rhythm recording and blood samples are needed to sort out the cause.
what to do if i have grade 4 aortic regurgitaion. is it okay for me to delay surgery for like 20 years or so?
if you have serious aortic regurgitation which grade 4 implies surgery would be indicated at some point. if surgery is delayed too long the heart overstretches and becomes irreversibly damaged. you should discuss this with your cardiologist and if recommended have the aortic valve surgery in the time frame your doctors recommend.
what is diastolic murmur like?
a diastolic murmur just means a sound heard during the diastolic filling phase of the pumping chambers of the heart. for example mitral stenosis causes a diastolic murmur as blood flows from la to lv during diastole. aortic regurgitation is a diastolic murmur as blood leaks back through the aortic valve.
what is the meaning of mild aortic regurgitation?
the aortic valve when closed prevents blood from rushing back into the left ventricle from which it has just been expelled by contraction of that chamber during systole. when there is some form of abnormality to the valve there may be leakage back into the left ventricle during diastole. therefore the blood is regurgitating back.
what do you recommend for aortic regurgitation?
if the ar is acute (eg due to infection or trauma) the problem is urgent. otherwise there is a period of many decades in which it should be monitored. mild ar may never cause symptoms or require treatment. serial echocardiograms done over the years will determine if the ar is leading to harm. treatment is replacement of the aortic valve. amlodipine may slow progression over the years.
what sort of problem is aortic regurgitation?
a herited or acquried valve disease a variety of methods to treat aortic regurgitation and to replace aorticvalves have already been successfully employed in patients.
what sort of problem is aortic regurgitation?
aortic regurgitation describes blood flowing backwards through the aortic valve of the heart because the valve doesn't close completely. this can be detected by listening for a specific type of heart murmur and doing an echocardiogram. depending on the severity and associated problems with heart function surgery may be necessary to correct some cases.
what happens if someone's bicuspid valve does not close properly?
if the bicuspid valve does not close properly one can develop aortic regurgitation which in time may lead to left ventricular enlargement and heart failure. depending on the degree of the regurgitation ('leakage') one can treat it with medications and at some point a valve replacement may be needed. you need to have this followed with echocardiograms at regular intervals to monitor progression.
what are enhanced external counter pulsation's contraindications?
moderate to severe aortic regurgitation active heart failure severe peripheral vascular disease and recent cardiac cath. also atrial fibrillation can be a problem.
what are symptoms of an aortic valve prolapse?
av prolapse results in aortic regurgitation. even if it's severe it may take decades before symtpoms occur if ever. symptoms when present may be breathlessness with less than usual activity anginal type chest pain or spells of passing out/nearly passing out.
which treatment works the best and fastest for aortic regurgitation?
lacking other abnormal findings for mild to moderate aortic regurgitation medical therapy with blood pressure medications is usually sufficient. for severe depending on symptoms size of heart and structure of the valve as well as overall patient condition surgery may be needed.
which treatment works the best and fastest for aortic regurgitation?
aortic regurgitation or a leaky aortic valve can be well tolerated but when severe will lead to heart failure. when significant and especially when the heart function is decompensating aortic insufficiency is treated with aortic valve replacement or repair.
what puts someone at risk for aortic regurgitation?
acute: blood infection leading to valve infection (endocarditis) trauma a tear in the aorta (dissection) marfan's syndrome. chronic: high blood pressure/aneurysm congenital bicuspid valve syphilis behcet's takayasu and reiter syndrome ankylosing spondylitis rheumatoid arthritis and idiopathic (cause unknown) - this is a board question!
what puts someone at risk for aortic regurgitation?
high blood pressure aortic anuerism aortic dissection. connective tissue disease congenital valve disease.
what is the best method for detecting aortic regurgitation?
an echocardiogram in the hands of a skilled cardiologist is probably best for detection of almost all cardiac valve disorders. sometimes an echo done "internally" through a scope into the esophagus is needed a trans-esophageal echo. in severe disease a heart catheterization will often be done usually if surgery is to be contemplated to repair a bad valve but not just for detection.
what does? mild valvular aortic stenosis with mild aortic regurgitation mean?
it means you may have a leaky valve perhaps from rheumatic heart disease.
what can cause severe aortic regurgitation?
acute valvular bacterial or fungal endocarditis trauma acute aortic dissection sinus of valsalva aneurysm acute deceleration compressive aortic valve injury trauma to include some.
what is the definition or description of: aortic regurgitation?
aortic regurgitation is reflux of blood through an incompetent aortic valve into the left ventricle during ventricular diastole (relaxation). during ventricular systole (contraction) blood is pumped from the left ventricle into the aorta. because of a leaky aortic valve the pumped blood returns to the left ventricle.
what is the definition or description of: aortic regurgitation?
the heart has flaps that help the direction of the flow of blood. the aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta (the big artery that carries blood to the body. ) aortic regurgitation means that blood is leaking back thru the aortic valve into the heart. this can lead to overload of the heart and heart failure. cardiologist can do sonogram of heart to see how severe the condition is.
what is the systolic pressure that should be used for the management of an aortic aneurysm?
i usually recommend beta blockers and aim for systolic less than 120. i also get echocardiogram to rule out bicuspid aortic valve and aortic regurgitation.
what would you say is the very best method/test for detecting aortic regurgitation?
exam by experienced cardiologist is often sufficient to tell if present or not. once diagnosed then echocardiogram to assess degree of leak and effects on the rest of the heart.
when does aortic regurgitation progress?
depending on the cause it may progress quite slowly unless there is further unjury to the valve from inflammation infection or uncontrolled hypertension. if it is already severe the main concern is to determine when the valve leak is putting to much strain on the heart and your doc has to monitor that.
what do you suggest if my dad is 75 years old his bp reading from 2weeks are 140/20 or 130/10 mm hg. what is the cause?
the cause is likely that he's 75 and has stiff arteries. alternatively he may have aortic regurgitation. the low diastolic bp is an artifact. if you placed a catheter in his his aorta the true measure of central bp it would be higher. his true diastolic bp is no doubt low but not that low. if he's feeling okay don't sweat it.
what is the typical life expectancy for someone who has an aortic valve regurgitation?
aortic regurgitation is well compensated for years usually. once congestive heart failure occurs due to aortic regurgitation survival is usually less than 5 years.
what causes an enlarged aorta? is it fatal?
high blood pressure a congenital condition like marfan syndrome or structural heart disease like having a bicuspid valve or aortic regurgitation. it can be fatal if the aorta gets beyond a certain size. there is debate and each patient is different but most surgeons would elect to replace an aorta that is bigger than about 50-52 mm in diamter.
son has aortic regurgitation and his md recommends blood pressure meds any thoughts about that?
ar is improved will progress more slowly and do less damage to the heart muscle when certain blood pressure medications are taken routinely even if the baseline blood pressure is not that high. this is well established through very well done trials. i would agree with the recommendation.
