i'm 21 years old non smoker and history of panic attacks. chest has been hurting for a week now could this be a heart attack?
symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include chest pains parasthesia dry mouth aphasia tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can recommend appropriate treatment.
i suffer from panic attacks with history of high heart rate. last night i had shakiness dry mouth and arm pain along with it. is that normal?
anxiety symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include nausea sob insomnia dry mouth aphasia tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can adjust your medication.
have light pain in jaw towards chin comes an goes sharp pains in chest to right changes to left sometimes 2 ekgs were fine the past 5 months anxiety?
symptoms are not a sign of illness they are the mind's ability to produce the "flight or fight" response which gives rise to many physiological changes include nausea sob insomnia dry mouth aphasia tremor and sweating. depending on the cause of your anxiety symptoms your health care provider can recommend appropriate treatment.
whats considered a severe stroke?
death unable to speak- aphasia. paralyzed- hemiplegic disabled decreases in mental functioning.
what type of aphasia affects the stroke patient's ability to understand sarcasm connotations etc?
whereas stroke in the left hemisphere can affect a patient's ability to speak or to understand the words of speech strokes in the right hemisphere (especially temporal and parietal) can affect the ability to understand the non-word aspects of language such as tone sarcasm innuendo.
what can i expect from a 'speech and language therapy assessment' after a stroke?
one common consequence of strokes is aphasia ( brain is affected) or dysarthria ( cranial nerve involvement ) or difficulty to pronounce words. the speech pathologist will stimulate the patient to pronounce clearly all words they simulate the language pathways and the cells that afect language. some patients recover very well others don't improve if the damage is too much
what is the difference between these stroke speech abnormalities?
two types depending on which part of the brain is affected or sometimes they can happen together. one is expressive or motor aphasia where patient can understand words but can not or have difficulty expressing himself or talking. second is receptive or sensory aphasia where patient talk but does not make sence. some other types like anomia where patient has difficulty naming. also global or mixed.
what are the symptoms of a "mini stroke"?
common to have numbness and tingling sensation and transient weakness of one side of the body and also transient slurred speech or aphasia. usually lasting 24 hours.
what are the symptoms of a major stroke?
"major" means life altering including paralysis blindness speech loss (aphasia) and death. one will have no difficulty in determining whether a "major" stroke has occurred. the problem arises in detecting milder or even asymptomatic strokes.
what is stroke speech therapy exactly?
actually speech therapy is much more than simply relearning talking. but mainly it deals with articulation (making speech sounds) loudness word retrieval syntax ability to comprehend spoken language reading. but also includes memory training organizational skills and more. very valuable for many things things besides aphasia (loss of speech).
which kind of stroke causes speech loss?
in general a stroke of the left frontal lobe can lead to speech loss or expressive aphasia. there are many different types of speech disturbances which can occur following a stroke. strokes of the temporal lobe can also lead to disordered speech and difficulty interpreting speech.
what is brain stroke?
a common term for the phenomenon caused by occluding an artery feeding the brain. the symptoms are caused by lack of blood supply to a region of the brain so the region doesn't function. the lfet middlecerebral artery feeds the cortex that controls the muscles on the right side and speech so one may not be able to speak the right words (aphasia) and the arm and leg weak/flaccid on right.
