if your appendix's is going out is it possible for the pain come from the left side and not the right side? background info she had gastric bypass a year ago this past may and a hystricrickme in december
pain from appendicitis can be midline rlq llq or back or pelvic depending on he location intra abdominal or retroperitoneal. with history of two other major abdominal operations i would be concerned about adhesions or obstruction depending on the exact symptoms and exam.
if your appendix's is going out is it possible for the pain come from the left side and not the right side? background info she had gastric bypass a year ago this past may and a hystricrickme in december
appendicitis usually causes right lower quadrant tenderness. however in some cases the patient may experience left lower quadrant pain as a referred type of pain. regardless abdominal pain needs to be evaluated by a physician. there are simple tests in order to determine the cause of the abdominal pain a doctor will determine what specific tests are needed. the most common conditions/problems involving left side of the abdomen are: divertivulitits irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) kidney infections/stones bowel adhesions/blockages all of these can be treated so prompt evaluation is necessary.
what are the causes of apendicitus? could it be a junk food i had before i got severe pain?
the appendix is a blind ending tube shaped organ. in most adults appendicitis occurs when a hard piece of poop gets stuck in the opening of the appendix causing a blockage. there is really no way to prevent the occurrence of appendicitis.
what are the causes of apendicitus? could it be a junk food i had before i got severe pain?
appendicitis is caused by a blockage of the appendix an outpouching of the beginning of the colon. this can be exacerbated by some foods but this takes time and is not caused by one specific food meal or snack. when the appendix gets blocked pressure builds up inside leading to inflammation. this can lead to infection and in serious cases bursting.
what are the causes of apendicitus? could it be a junk food i had before i got severe pain?
appendicitis can be caused by a few things including infection (vast majority) and cancer. junk food is not a known cause for appendicitis.
i have an intermittent sharp pain in my lower right abdomen is all good? i'm fairly healthy-no diseases recurring i'm not overweight work out often.
chronic appendicitis could cause intermittent pain in right lower quadrant of abdomen. i would recommend you to consult your physician.
is gastric bypass/lap band surgery elective since they should just stop eating?
means that the surgery is not an emergency surgery (like appendicitis). it has nothing to do with their eating.
what should i do with right lower quadrant pain that has been diagnosed as constipation with an x-ray. made changes to diet but symptoms worse?
is not appendicitis then you need to be aggressive with managing your constipation. changing diet is not going to give you a quick fix for long standing constipation! you need to take dulcolax or the like. see a gastroenterologist for management. you may need bowel cleansing initially for being impacted!
i have severe pain on lower left side of abdoman have had gastric bypass and gallblader removed 7yrs. ago can my pain be appendicitis?
it is difficult to assess abdominal pain with the few details that we have in your short question. however as a generalization appendicitis usually occurs in the right lower quadrant or mid abdomen not usually on the left. having said that there are other causes of abdominal pain which need medical attention that do occur on the left side. if it persists see your doctor. good luck.
my left side below the belly hurts is that possible for appendicitis? i did eat some junk food these days could that be the problem?
if you have left sided appendix it is possible appendicitis rarely cause left side only pain most of the time diverticulitis is the culprit you already know your problem stop eating jung food and see your doctor.
should overweight kids have surgery to help losing weight?
there are times surgery is indicated for many medical conditions. . appendicitis trauma cleft lips broken bones tumors etc. i am a believer that we should not mess with what god gave us unless medically indicated like above. and surgery to help one lose weight fits firmly in that category. i d o not think you could find a surgeon to do the bariatric procedure on a child. there are other ways.
i have a hiatal hernia but have not had pain in years. could propranolol or a head cold cause similar pain (sharp pains in & above bellybutton) & gas?
don't think it is due to meds. keep in mind sometimes appendicitis pain start around belly button.
i am experiencing headache and pelvic pain. the following also describe me: difficulty sleeping obesity light sensitivity vomiting and fatigue.
your questions was truncated so we don't have all the details but it sounds like you need to see a doctor and make sure you don't a serious problem like pid appendicitis or other problems.
after eating mcdonalds i have severe lower abdominal pain. i figured it was gas and i have had a bowel movement but it hurts to stand/move. help!
could be several things in your age group. it's possibly unrelated to the mcdonalds food specifically. appendicitis ovarian cyst irritable bowel syndrome constipation viral colitis are among a few. difficult to tell with short history. if you develop fevers chills and persistent pain you should go to the er. health tip: don't eat mcdonalds. ever! <positive_smiley>.
breast cancer lymphadema ovarian cysts fibroid atrophic kidney gallbladder polyps diverticula appendicitis osteoprosis ddd are they connected?
i would suggest that you seek a comprehensive medical evalaution: some gi symptoms may be related; however breast cance ovarian cysts kidney diease are all separate issues. get yourself in the hands of an expert or experts-asap.
if uv had ekg. ct. ultrasound. blood tests urine sample blood pressure took temperature. lots of times and all fine. can u still have apendix problem?
if the ct scan showed a normal appendix then you've pretty much excluded appendicitis.
i was treated for gonorrhea week ago. i'm still experiencing burning with urination and extreme tenderness with palpitation.
have resistant gc or a bladder infection or even something else such as appendicitis unrelated to gc. you should seek medical attention.
im 31. i have pain on the side of my abdomen by my hip bone. i press on my stomach i feel my heart beats? no appetite no sleep chills nausea headache
in an otherwise healthy female in 30s pain that is located in the right lower abdomen with symptoms such as fever/chills lack of appetite nausea should be evaluated immediately for possible appendicitis or ectopic pregnancy. there are many causes of right lower quadrant ab pain but these are two situations that should have emergent evaluation. recommend consult for appropriate next steps.
i have intense sudden pain in the ovary areas. the pain is so bad i've almost fainted. it makes me nauseous and shaky and it takes my breath away.
you have the classic symptoms of a ruptured ovarian cyst. most ovarian cysts are physiologic & develop around ovulation. when a cyst ruptures it can cause severe abdominal pain nausea dizziness. this is usually non life-threatening and do not require surgery. however you should seek medical attention to rule out other causes of pelvic pain such as ruptured ectopic pregnancy appendicitis etc
how is chronic appendicitis diagnosed? i've had ultrasounds of bladder/kidney/uterus/ovaries ekg cbc & colonoscopy for chronic abdominal pain.
a lot of american surgeon do not believe of chronic appendicitis. saying that there is such entity as a chronic pain in right lower quadrant get more complicated with female patient because the long list of differential diagnosis so by exclusion the situation end with exploratory laproscopy to explore the reason for pain and patient end up with appendectomy when no other pathology could be found.
how is chronic appendicitis diagnosed? i've had ultrasounds of bladder/kidney/uterus/ovaries ekg cbc & colonoscopy for chronic abdominal pain.
the most definitive non invasive test is an mri. the most definitive is laproscopic appendectomy and path exam
sudden pain r side lower back and area over ovaries radiating down inner thigh. stomach has sharp pains upon palpitation r side. worse laying down.
you should consult a physician if the pain persists you develop nausea or fever. major concerns urinary tract infection pyelonephritis kidney stones appendicitis ovarian cyst.
i have bad cramps in my stomach and my back on the right side it hurts to lay down on it. i also have chest pains as well. is it gas or appendicitis?
right sided abdominal pain has several causes. the pain from appendicitis tends to be more constant than crampy. pain that comes in waves is more in keeping with gas or could be kidney related such as infection or a stone. be checked if this persists soon! all the best. you also have an ovary and gallbladder on the right that can cause pain.
i have bad cramps in my stomach and my back on the right side it hurts to lay down on it. i also have chest pains as well. is it gas or appendicitis?
appendicitis often starts out with abdominal pain that is generalized. it can be associated with nausea vomiting or low grade fever. the pain will usually localize to the lower abdomen and especially to the right lower quadrant.
i have bad cramps in my stomach and my back on the right side it hurts to lay down on it. i also have chest pains as well. is it gas or appendicitis?
to diagnose your findings without examining you and obtaining some laboratory testing. your symptoms are not typical for appendicitis so it is more likely to be gas but this cannot be adequately assessed over the internet. please go see a health care professional as soon as possible for a thorough evaluation.
why is there arm or neck pain from heart?
the pain that some people have in their arm(s) during a heart attack is a referred pain. referred pain is when you experience in one part of your body when the problem is really in another part of your body. good examples of this would be how some people who have an appendicitis will complain of pain in their right shoulder.
what are typical side effects of gemfibrozil 600mg?
common side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea fatigue nausea/vomiting lfts elevated ck elevation more severe side effects: myositis myopathy rabdomyolysis cholelithiasis cholestatic jaundice acute appendicitis anemia thrombocytopenia leukopenia atrial fibrillation cataracts(animal studies) hypersensitivity rxn exfoliative dermatitis.
what are side affects of gemfibrozil?
common side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea fatigue nausea/vomiting lfts elevated ck elevation more severe side effects: myositis myopathy rabdomyolysis cholelithiasis cholestatic jaundice acute appendicitis anemia thrombocytopenia leukopenia atrial fibrillation cataracts(animal studies) hypersensitivity rxn exfoliative dermatitis.
what's situs inversus totalis?
the orientation of the internal organs are excatly the reverse of the norm. rarely associated with any kind of problem other location of pain if appendicitis should occurr.
server upper center abdomen pain in between diaphragm and belly button. the pain comes and goes no matter what i do.?
your symptoms could be multiple problems. you should seek medical attention. the possibilities include but are not limited to gastritis gallbladder problems pancreatitis appendicitis ect.
