should i be concerned about mold after a hurricane?
if your home was flooded assume it is contaminated with mold. mold increases health risks for those with asthma allergies or other breathing conditions. have the house inspected by professionals as soon as possible.
what medical conditions should i be aware of during a drought?
unless the drought is so severe that your water intake is limited i do not see any specific medical issues. if the ground gets too dry and dust storm becomes a problem it may affect those with lung diseases such as asthma. if you reduce your bathing significantly due to the drought this is a personal hygiene issue. most of the problem will be emotional especially re. aesthetics.
what are the medical problems during thunderstorms and lightning?
agree with dr wartenberg's assessment but for those who have asthma thunderstorm may cause an asthma attack as well.
with wildfire smoke in the area what can i do to prevent my asthma from flaring up?
you must avoid inhaling smoke or particles in any way you can such as staying indoors and/or wearing a mask. you may have to actually leave the area and go check into a hotel if necessary until your surroundings are all clear. of course you must be prepared to use your asthmatic medications and inhalers as needed and consult your pulmonologist also as needed.
with wildfire smoke in the area what can i do to prevent my asthma from flaring up?
1. stay indoors as much as possible and keep air clean inside (would keep air purifier with hepa filter indoors if possible). 2. if air quality worsens drastically keep mask on. 3. make sure to take all your meds especially - airway inhalers 4. if you feel the slightest signs of asthma coming start prednisone tabs especially if you think you are stuck in the area where you sense smoke.
with wildfire smoke in the area what can i do to prevent my asthma from flaring up?
first thing is to try and get out of the area. if not possible using a mask or a cloth to cover nose and mouth is key. having inhalers with you also is vital. albuterol or ipratropium is helpful. use air filter if u have access to one
with wildfire smoke in the area what can i do to prevent my asthma from flaring up?
purchase at amazon. com by 3m
do asthma symptoms get better or get worse then a thunderstorm rolls in?
thunderstorms can trigger the release of certain pollens. changes in humidity can sometimes trigger asthma and varies by individual.
i have a bmi of 29. 2 which is overweight and on top of that i have asthma i use the brand ventolin. ive been having issues of being shortness of breath when i do things. how can i lose this weight?
pizza potatoes pastries and pasta. eat more fruits veges and nuts.
when is nissen fundoplication recommended for asthma?
a nissan procedure is recommended for severe reflux disease or a hiatal hernia that is causing symptoms not adequately managed by nonpharmacologic means or with medications. because asthma can be caused by reflux it is possible a nissan may be recommended; but this would be very rare. reflux causing asthma is more common in children. long before surgery many treatments for such a problem exist.
what can i do to strenthen my lungs i have sleep apnea and allergy asthma pvcs and and like to do lung range of motion exercise with ambu bag and ewot?
sustained exercise. . pure and simple.
im overweight and have asthma. when i try to work out i get winded really fast. what are my best options?
overweight asthmatics find that their asthma is much more difficult to control and are frustrated that they can't exercise enough to lose weight. please read "why we get fat" by gary taubes. this explains that exercise is not the way to lose weight. developing a low-carb diet is much more effective. you'll find that your asthma will be much easier to control once you get your bmi under 30 or 25.
im overweight and have asthma. when i try to work out i get winded really fast. what are my best options?
take the right meds to prevent asthma attacks and have an inhaler to medicate before exercise.
will having a nissen fundoplication affect my ability to breathe normally?
a small subset of people with gerd have reflux of acid up their esophagus and down their trachea (especially at night) with symptoms that are similar to asthma. before proceeding with anti reflux surgery i have all of my patients undergo a 24-hr ph study. this can better assess whether any breathing problems are secondary to reflux.
what could be the possible benefits of bariatric surgery?
surgical weight loss is the single most effective tool at losing and maintaining weight loss especially if you have developed underlying medical conditions such as diabetes and htn. weight loss can improve or resolve diabetes sleep apnea heart disease htn reflux asthma high cholesterol and lipids improve fertility increase life span and decrease risk of some cancer(breast uterine colon) etc.
i want to have the slevee operation my bmi is 35 i have asthma and arthris in my hip bad i'm 43 and have untied health high deductible how much i pay?
make sure your insurance covers the procedure then make sure both the doctor and the facility where the procedure will be performed are covered as well as all the ancillary services that they require - psychological evaluation nutritionist etc. sounds that this operation will do you well good luck!
is atopic ezema and asthma in infant cause by diet eg. seafood peanut cold drinks etc during pregnancy?
a series of studies showed organic milk had healthier fats than conventional milk (more omega 3s for instance) that the breast milk of women who drank organic had even healthier fat profile than those who drank conventional & and that the babies born to women who drank organic during pregnancy & nursing had far less eczema. genetics sets susceptibility but there are also environmental triggers.
is atopic ezema and asthma in infant cause by diet eg. seafood peanut cold drinks etc during pregnancy?
asthma and eczema are allergic diseases that may be hereditary or not. in other words if you or the other parent of your child have allergies the child may inherit them. there is no data to show that if you are not allergic consuming any of the above may increase the chances of the child to be allergic.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
a new change on the cxr may be or may not be a "scar". expert consultation is indicated.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
you want to discuss this with your doctor.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
it most likely will not cause a problem but it depends on the extent and location of the scarring. long term scars of the lung may be associated with an increased risk of developing into carcinoma particulary with a history of smoking but this is relatively low incidence.
i have asthma. i am a male slightly overweight i have been told i snore alot very loudly. how can i fix this? i am driving people crazy please help
first you need a sleep study to determine if you have sleep apnea. a sleep study will determine its presence it's severity and guide treatment. if you have sleep apnea and you begin using either cpap or bibap your symptoms should improve and you should feel less tired in the daytime too. if you don't have sleep apnea there are treatments available to help with your snoring. good luck!
i have asthma. i am a male slightly overweight i have been told i snore alot very loudly. how can i fix this? i am driving people crazy please help
it is possible that you have sleep apnea. i recommend seeing your primary care doctor to discuss your symptoms and possibly have a sleep study ordered. weight loss will help with the snoring.
i have asthma. i am a male slightly overweight i have been told i snore alot very loudly. how can i fix this? i am driving people crazy please help
sounds like you may have obstructive sleep apnea. you should see your doctor for evaluation. you would benefit from undergoing a sleep study. in the meantime try lying down on your sides rather than on your back. it's also possible that you have allergic rhinitis as it is commonly seen in asthmatics. try using saline nasal spray or taking antihistamines at bedtime. work on weight loss.
i have asthma. i am a male slightly overweight i have been told i snore alot very loudly. how can i fix this? i am driving people crazy please help
snoring indicates that there is narrowing in the upper airway - the throat. very loud snorers usually have some degree of obstructive sleep apnea which can cause dangerous drops in blood oxygen during sleep. discuss this with your primary care doctor or consult a sleep specialist.
i have asthma. i am a male slightly overweight i have been told i snore alot very loudly. how can i fix this? i am driving people crazy please help
very loud snoring is one symptom of sleep apnea. typically patients with this serious problem have several symptoms - daytime fatigue inability to concentrate falling asleep while driving or watching tv waking unrefreshed in the morning waking up frequently at night. try to take off 10 pounds. then try really hard to keep it off. if snoring persists see your physician about a sleep study.
is an asthma inhaler an appetite suppressant?
unfortunately no.
is an asthma inhaler an appetite suppressant?
very little of an inhaler actually goes systemically so there are few if any systemic side effects like appetite suppression.
i am 26yrs old bmi of 60 (from uk) have severe allergic asthma due to have a gastric sleeve done. is this best for me? they say a bypass is to risky
again without examining you directly; commenting on your case is difficult. please get with your physicians and plot out the appropriate course for your weight reduction!
i am 26yrs old bmi of 60 (from uk) have severe allergic asthma due to have a gastric sleeve done. is this best for me? they say a bypass is to risky
the best option is diet & exercise for weight loss. if you have given it a serious try and failed surgery is an option. you have to be aware of the risks of the surgery; your surgeon can expand on that. if you can reduce your weight without surgery that would be your best option.
is sleep apnea related to copd and/or asthma? what are some effective treatments for someone with sleep apnea and copd - cpap bipap pillows?
no not related. treatment is with a c-pap machine are others as you listed. care is directed by someone trained in sleep disorders. you can have copd and other lung diseases but not related to sleep apnea. together they are difficult.
is sleep apnea related to copd and/or asthma? what are some effective treatments for someone with sleep apnea and copd - cpap bipap pillows?
sleep apnea can be present in any patient whether with copd or not. sleep apnea can make a copd patient feel worse and do worse. the treatment can be anything that you mentioned: cpap bipap. a sleep study will determine what treatment is best.
is sleep apnea related to copd and/or asthma? what are some effective treatments for someone with sleep apnea and copd - cpap bipap pillows?
sleep apnea is not related to copd or asthma. sleep apnea and asthma sometimes share a common risk factor: obesity. cpap/bipap therapy for sleep apnea can have the added benefit of providing additional support for people with advanced copd. cpap is not indicated for the treatment of copd in the home setting.
is obesity curable?
sorry but i believe another way of thinking about weight issues is the 70/30 theory. i believe we are only under control of about 30% of our eating decisions. just as i believe that asthma and hyspertension are treatable by by 30% lifestyle changes. we do not expect patients to do without appropriate "medications" to treat their hypertension;and when they stop their meds we label them noncompliant.
is it normal to become really out of breath while exercising (not overweight)?
becoming very short of breath when not exerting yourself hard like in a sprint is concerning. you should be able to recover well if not it could be due to exercise asthma possible palpitations structural heart problems use of stimulants/drugs. you should speak with your physician about this.
is a cellulite lotion which contains the asthma drug aminophylline safe to use?
aminophylline has been a useful drug for asthma. it is still used but not as frequently. when used by mouth or intravenously we are able to check the blood levels to avoid toxicity. it's use for the cellulites as a local application is quite safe. however the effectiveness is controversial. i guess there will be no harm in trying. please share your experience.
is a cellulite lotion which contains the asthma drug aminophylline safe to use?
cellulite is an annoying problem to millions of women. it is caused by an uneven superficial fat layer as well as tiny ligaments that hold the skin down. the only effective and fda approved treatment is called cellulaze by cynosure. it is a one time minimally invasive procedure that permanently removes cellulite. to find a provider in your area go to www. cynosure. com.
i've been having chest pains since early july. two ekgs a d-dimer an asa a chest x-ray and an esr have been "normal". my cholesterol panel from may showed trig/hdl ratio of 4. 8 (high) overall - 197 hdl - 52 ldl - 95 tri - 250. fatty diet bc pills
my guess would be asthma acid reflux or musculoskeletal pain. check for those.
i'm currently 18 and very keen on my gym and weight training but i hate the body fat so i am thinking about using clenbuteral any thoughts? dosages?
this is an anti-asthma drug that people use to suppress appetite. you've already proved you have the will-power to go to the gym. carry this over into excelling at cardio and in making responsible food choices (celery in place of ice cream a trip to the gym for entertainment rather than a trip to the buffet). this will build lifelong habits ; you might make friends too.
i've been diagnosed with hiatal hernia and gerd and lately my breathing problems got a lot worse. what are my options and best course of action?
about a third of chronic gerd suffers have an asthma-like presentation and about a third of asthmatics have gerd. as such many asthmatics show significant benefit from acid reducers when used over time. shortness of breath however can result from many causes that have nothing to do with gerd so get checked asap especially if your breathing problem is progressive.
im 21 yrs old and a diabetic and asthmatic. i try my best to eat healthy and walk when i can. i get enough sleep but im constantly tired all the time?
given diabetes and asthma there may be many reasons for your tiredness and your doctor can help sort that out. to name a few: it could be sleep apnea vitamin deficiency untreated allergic rhinitis/sinusitis cardiac reasons uncontrolled asthma uncontrolled diabetes. the list is long and you should seek a physician evaluation.
im 21 yrs old and a diabetic and asthmatic. i try my best to eat healthy and walk when i can. i get enough sleep but im constantly tired all the time?
make sure your diabetes is well controlled and your bronchial asthma. if both conditions are ok check your vit. d and vit b complex supplements. there are other causes of fatigue also.
i have severe asthma that is not under control but i want to lose weight. every time i exercise i have an asthma attack what can i do?
congratulations on wanting to exercise and lose weight! see an asthma expert such as allergist or pulmonologist. there are many medications available strategies to avoid triggers and evaluations to check for other issues that worsen asthma to get you back on track. don't give up on exercise!
i have severe asthma that is not under control but i want to lose weight. every time i exercise i have an asthma attack what can i do?
often taking your rescue inhaler before your exericise works. check with your physician before you try it.
i had fundoplication surgery dec 2011 for my chronic cough. it turns out i had at best(before the surgery) mild acid reflux. my cough was caused by a?
a nissan fundoplication is a surgery that's been done for years to treat acid reflux; now however it's often done laparoscopically. reflux can cause cough hoarseness wheezing heartburn etc. if your symptoms are better know that even mild reflux can cause symptoms. if the cough persists it's back to the drawing board. asthma sinus infections and/or allergies are frequent reasons. lgromko.
what are disadvantages of obesity?
obese people have a much higher incidence of diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol asthma sleep apnea heartburn and reflux blood clots heart disease stroke to name a few. obesity is the 2nd leading preventable cause of death (smoking is #1). on average obese people live 7 years less than non-obese people. the average life expectancy in the us is expected to decline because of it.
i need to lose weight but i can't diet cause i'm allergic to a lot of food. also exercise is hard for me to cause of my asthma. what can i do?
this is why there are primary care physicians. you owe it to yourself to have your asthma managed so that you can exercise -- this should be possible with today's medicines and it's your right. a dietician may help you cut down on portion size if you're this limited and an allergist may guide you regarding what you can and cannot really eat. getting slim is worth it.
i need to lose weight but i can't diet cause i'm allergic to a lot of food. also exercise is hard for me to cause of my asthma. what can i do?
carefully study answer: <link> healthtap. com/#user_questions/965823 including the comments.
what other illnesses do i need to test my child for if he is obese?
obese children can be tested for obesity-related medical problems such as: type 2 diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol thyroid hormone imbalances sex hormone or cortisol imbalances fat in the liver gall bladder (bile) dysfunction exercise intolerance exercise asthma heart disease etc. .
i'm 26 i weigh 210lbs i have asthma and other health issues. do u think hydroxycut gummies would work well for me or should i talk to my doctor aboutit?
talk to your doctor. he/ she can help you formulate a weight loss plan ( which should include diet and exercise) that is safe for you! good luck!
i'm 26 i weigh 210lbs i have asthma and other health issues. do u think hydroxycut gummies would work well for me or should i talk to my doctor aboutit?
because we don't get to know people on health tap the way their own physicians do your question can only reliably be answered by your own doctor.
what are the usual symptoms of a hiatal hernia?
not all hiatal hernias are symptomatic but can explain symptoms if present. commonly have heartburn sore throat in morning maybe even chest pain (from esophagus). gerd (reflux disease) may even make asthma worse. see your doctor. treatment usually starts with acid-reducing meds with further studies like endoscopy or radiograph ordered at your doctor's discretion.
what effect does childhood obesity have on his adult life?
there are not only physical effects but also emotional effects on children with obesity. some of the long-term health complications include diabetes high cholesterol sleep problems and high blood pressure. in some cases asthma may be worsened by obesity. the emotional effects of childhood obesity should not be overlooked. these concerns include depression bullying and poor self image.
what effect does childhood obesity have on his adult life?
obesity affects almost all body system in a human. some example: cardiovascular (cholesterol high blood pressure atherosclerosis) endocrine (type 2 diabetes polycystic ovarian syndrome) lung (asthma obstructive sleep apnea) psych (negative self image depression poor quality of life) reproductive (irregular menstrual periods lack of periods). liver (non alcoholic fatty liver).
why caution in administering alupent (metaproterenol) to diabetes patient?
beta-2 agonists for asthma such as albuterol can increase blood sugar by releasing stored glycogen from the liver and stimulating the adrenergic system (adrenaline). they should be used with caution when diabetes mellitus is present and discussed with your endocrinologist.
if you have pulmonary hypertension secondary to sleep apnea how long did it take to develop?
inadequate sleep prevents the body from healing itself which leads to inflammation in the body. inflammation is key cause of many health problems like asthma hypertension arthritis and auto-immune disorders have an obvious inflammatory component. treating sleep apnea helps to lower systemic inflammation which might prevent or help remedy some serious health problems.
i have been diagnosed with gerd hiatal hernia( maybe also asthma) 3 months ago i am also v stressed. could it be all from stress or worse from it?
although stress plays an important role in our health gastroesophageal reflux (gerd) disease is caused from numerous factors. some to consider: alcohol and tobacco use diet anatomy (hiatal hernia) obesity and medications. work up with endocsopy ph (acid test) probe xrays (upper gi) and possible manometry (pressure tests) are necessary. treatment begins with medication and lifestyle change.
what causes mucus plugs in asthma? i take mucinex (guaifenesin) in am & pm proactively. i also have ob. sleep apnea/acid reflux. other treatment options for mucus?
mucus production is one of the main symptoms of asthma. it is just a sign of airway inflammation generally from an allergen or even an infection. the latter is usually easier to recognize by the discoloration and other symptoms like fever and malaise. make sure you are treating the asthma. you likely need a daily controller inhaler. keep in mind other problems like copd can present similarly.
what causes mucus plugs in asthma? i take mucinex (guaifenesin) in am & pm proactively. i also have ob. sleep apnea/acid reflux. other treatment options for mucus?
causes increased mucous secretions in airway which consequently leads to "plugs" of mucous. mucinex (guaifenesin) 1200mg with adequate hydration is a good start you may also consider nebulized atrovent treatments as well as inhaled steroids to reduce the inflammation. these options should be discussed with your asthma specialist.
what causes mucus plugs in asthma? i take mucinex (guaifenesin) in am & pm proactively. i also have ob. sleep apnea/acid reflux. other treatment options for mucus?
asthma is due to an imbalance of the autonomic (automatic) nervous system. the commonest cause is poor diet (yes--- honest! ) and you need to see a physician who is conversant with the elements of good diet and appropriate vitamin therapy.
i just started snoring and experiencing shortness of breath when i play soccer especially when i run fast. i'm wondering what can be wrong with me.
two independent issues. the snoring could be heralding possible sleep apnea. the dyspnea when you run fast could be exercise induced asthma deconditioning etc. see a pulmonary doc that also specializes in sleep medicine and you could likely address both issues in a single visit. good luck!
i just started snoring and experiencing shortness of breath when i play soccer especially when i run fast. i'm wondering what can be wrong with me.
snoring shortness of breath (sob) lethargy can be signs of obstructive sleep apnea. sob with exercise could be exercise induced asthma (eia). several factors including your weight can play a role in both diseases as well. see a dr. as both conditions are easily dx and treated. best wishes.
is melatonin safe with asthmatic and diabetis type 2 patients?
if melatonin improves your sleep then it may even help type 2 diabetes. getting at least 7 hours sleep per night helps with weight loss and thus blood sugar control.
what is the difference between herbal ephedra and ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) hcl itself?
ephedra is an actual plant (aka mormon tea or chinese ma-huang) which contains the stimulating alkaloids ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) and pseudoephedrine. some dietary supplement products used for weight loss and to enhance athletic performance contain these alkaloids. synthetic ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) and pseudoephedrine are found in over-the-counter decongestants and cold medicines and are used to treat asthma.
when i started using the q- var for my asthma i never loose any weight even if i go on diet or exercise. is there any factor that using q-var can gain weight.?
systemic steroids can lead to weight gain but inhaled steroids are used because very little of it is absorbed systemically thus avoiding this side-effect.
when i started using the q- var for my asthma i never loose any weight even if i go on diet or exercise. is there any factor that using q-var can gain weight.?
any inhaled steroid can have systemic effects if taken in high doses. however another cause of your difficulty with your weight may be present talk to your physician.
when i started using the q- var for my asthma i never loose any weight even if i go on diet or exercise. is there any factor that using q-var can gain weight.?
q-var is very good medication for asthma. it is a steroid with very little absorption into your body. i would believe that there is very little chance of it causing a weight problem.
why is obesity important to care for or prevent?
obesity has been linked to 20 different medical conditions including reflux diabetes hypertension arthritis asthma cancer sleep apnea elevated cholesterol and depression. curing obesity improves or cures a remarkable number of medical illnesses. the cost of obesity to our country is over $100 billion a year. we can't operate ourselves out of this epidemic and there is no magic pill.
what does it feel like to have major respiratory conditions such as sleep apnea asthma or any other respiratory conditions?
some symptoms of sleep apnea include: loud and chronic snoring choking snorting or gasping during sleep long pauses in breathing daytime sleepiness no matter how much time you spend in bed waking up with a dry mouth or sore throat morning headaches restless or fitful sleep insomnia or nighttime awakenings going to the bathroom frequently during the night waking up feeling out of breath.
what does it feel like to have major respiratory conditions such as sleep apnea asthma or any other respiratory conditions?
this would obviously be related the the individual patient's perceptions. but generally speaking one feels short of breath is working harder to get a full breath often feels very anxious is scared and depending on the severity of the attack and were the treatment is going the patient might be sleepy lethargic or worse as the attack proceeds if the meds are not working.
i suffer from gord and hiatus hernia for almost 6 months now could this cause head pressure?
reflux can literally "go to your head" and cause sinus disease which may be your head pressure. also reflux may cause you to cough - even during sleep- after which you may be left with head pressure. gord can also be associated with asthma symptoms such as wheezing or shortness of breath so get it checked out.
why would a doctor ask a patient about past medical history of depression asthma hiatal hernia and migraine?
a comprehensive review of systems is often part of a visit with a doctor. it helps to understand more about the patient.
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
a hiatal hernia associated with gerd reflux of stomach contents up your esophagus can cause cough aspiration pneumonia asthma like pulmonary problems. you have choice about next step in care. you may benefit from medical care further testing egd. surgery only after good medical care. start with your regular doc. be well.
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
it is possible that large hiatal hernias (so called paraesophageal hernias) can cause some respiratory symptoms. the only "cure" is surgical repair and this should be done by a general or thoracic surgeon experienced in laparoscopic repair. a full evaluation is necessary to see if operation is right for you - it may not be. hope this helps!
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
hh is an anatomic problem we do not cure it. we have drugs to minimize esophageal reflux in symptomatic patients.
what are the symptoms of hiatus hernia?
bad heartburn fullness/pain in upper abdomen/chest (worse after eating) regurgitation of bitter fluid (especially when lying flat or bending over) sometimes difficulty breathing frequent pneumonias asthma attacks. severity of symptoms depends on how large the hernia is. most hiatal hernias are small and cause mild heartburn or no symptoms at all.
i get morning migraines heada%e7he from lack of oxygen due to sleep apnea induce asthma attack at night. cpap triger asthma attacks with coughing spel?
one of the chief complaints of cpap is dryness which may contribute to your asthma. humidification can be added to your cpap device and another comment would be about the proper cleaning of the unit.
i get morning migraines heada%e7he from lack of oxygen due to sleep apnea induce asthma attack at night. cpap triger asthma attacks with coughing spel?
most likely thing that is happening is that either cpap causing central events that is complex sleep apnea to cpap pressure is incorrect. you may need a cpap retitration in lab with attendant if it is done more than 1-2 years ago or never done. asthma fa less likely but not impossible.
i get morning migraines heada%e7he from lack of oxygen due to sleep apnea induce asthma attack at night. cpap triger asthma attacks with coughing spel?
osa frequently triggers asthma and migraines the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young &cpap can be difficult to tolerate. see ent for upp eval vs hyoid suspension. focus on weight loss stay gf wholeapproach. com. provigil&nuvigil help with fatigue.
is my shortage of breath from a hiatal hernia or asthma?
the only sure way to determine if you have asthma is by history and spirometry testing. see you physician and discus it with him/her.
i have type 2 diabetes and asthma. i've had a headache from about 5 this afternoon that has not subsided. pounding in the back and goes to my forehead?
you need to have it checked to see the cause of your headache don't delay call your doctor or go to a walk in clinic.
i have sleep apnea induced asthma and wondering if i can have nitrous oxide or general anesthesia for any procedures? i planning to have surgery soon?
sleep apnea and asthma don't preclude surgery either individually or combined. what it does change is the manner in which the surgery should happen (inpatient vs. outpatient) paying extra attention to triggers that can worsen each of the diseases for optimal post-operative outcome. as a patient you need to ensure you are as compliant and optimized on prescribed therapies as possible beforehand.
i have sleep apnea induced asthma and wondering if i can have nitrous oxide or general anesthesia for any procedures? i planning to have surgery soon?
you can. make sure your condition is optimized (don't schedule surgery if you are actively wheezing)). a good anesthesiologist will be able to care for you safely.
i have sleep apnea induced asthma and wondering if i can have nitrous oxide or general anesthesia for any procedures? i planning to have surgery soon?
the anesthetic technique depends on the surgical procedure you are undergoing. some procedures can be done with local anesthetic (numbing drug injection) and/or sedation without the need for a general anesthetic. nitrous oxide alone is usually insufficient for surgery.
what is obesity effect on the human breathing?
obesity can lead to sleep apnea or lapses in breathing at night. weight loss can reverse the changes. obesity can also cause reflux with acid in the esophagus. acid irritating the vagus nerve can also affect breathing and even trigger asthma like episodes.
i have asthma and i'm wondering if i could take slim quick fat burner or will it affect my asthma? i am taking it to lose some weight a. s. a. p answer.
however the best way to lose weight consists of regular exercise (including weight training) and a healthy diet. any other gimmick would provide only temporary weight loss often followed by even a higher weight gain later since a drastic program cannot be sustained.
what are medical used of ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate)?
ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) is an amphetamine-like substance that has been used medically for asthma as a decongestant cold/flu symptoms and to aid in weight loss. it has been banned in the us since 2004 because it can dangerously raise blood pressure cause heart rhythm problems and in rarely even death. there are too many risks and as there are so many other meds to use instead to use it any more.
i have antiphopholipid syndrome as well as asthma sleep apnea and low thyroid. what suggestions would you give for finding a new primary care doc?
find an internist in a multi-specialty group which has a rheumatologist and an allergist or pulmonologist in the group.
i am 25 years. i weigh 224 an i am thinking about doing a gastric bypass to lose weight. do u think that's a good choice for me?
that depends on your height. if you are 5'3" and have no medical problems you would qualify. if you are 5'7" and have medical problems like diabetes high blood pressure sleep apnea asthma gerd etc. you would also still qualify. it is all dependent on your body mass index (bmi). you need a bmi greater than 40 if healthy or greater than 35 if you have medical problems.
is it possible hiatal hernia and intercostal muscle inflammation can cause occasional daytime hypopnea? seeing pulmonary monday but just curious now.
my spouse an asthmatic for 45 years recently had surgery to repair a large hiatus hernia. her asthma has cleared! -- with regurgitation of stomach contents there is occas. aspiration causing pulmonary problems.
i planning to be adding oxygen to cpaps for sleep apnea induced asthma attack at night i having to us my asthma rescue med and have bad side affects.
you failed to ask a question.
i'm 45 overweight & a smoker. my husband has asthma & overweight. tried ovamit vit. e & ovulation kits but still can't conceive for 7 years now why?
are you sure it is not too late? that you may be in menopause! and you smoke? would you survive a pregnancy?
is there a fast way to lose 40 pounds i'm asthmatic and is hard to go on diets? can exercise and dieting be the only solution?
there is no healthy or safe way to lose 40 lbs fast. with a proper well-balanced diet limiting fatty & processed foods sweets/"junk food" and soda and with moderate exercise (especially cardiovascular exercise - walking running elliptical swimming) you will lose weight and get healthier at the same time. this will also potentially help improve your asthma.
i have been diagnosed with as small hiatal hernia after endoscopy. can this make me have bloating and breathing problems after a bowel movement?
about a third of chronic gerd suffers have an asthma-like presentation and about a third of asthmatics have gerd. as such many asthmatics show significant benefit from acid reducers when used over time. shortness of breath however can result from many causes that have nothing to do with gerd so get checked asap especially if your breathing problem is progressive.
i'm 21 relatively active and overweight by 10 lbs. i had good ekg chest xray and cardiac enzymes. can i pretty much rule out a heart problem?
at your age and with those tests being normal you are very unlikely to have a heart problem. further tests such as an echocardiogram or stress test might be considered if your symptoms persist. however serious disease is unlikely unless you have a close family history of heart disease in children or young adults. consider asthma gerd gastritis or ulcers as potential causes of your pain.
i suffer from asthma and sleep apnea. i brought a air purifier to remove smoke from neighbors. now my sinuses are dry even after using saline. help!
are you taking any antihistamine medication? i suggest a room humidifier to help and steam showers 4 times daily- deeply inhale the steam. stop any and all antihistamines and review current meds with your physician
i suffer from asthma and sleep apnea. i brought a air purifier to remove smoke from neighbors. now my sinuses are dry even after using saline. help!
see an ent to rule out the presence of any toxin pathogen or allergen making the asthma worse. esp rule out the presence of mold toxins
why am i obsessed with having the drugs i used to be addicted to? like ecstasy liquor xanax (alprazolam) etc. am i still addicted even if i never do it?
addiction is a chronic diseases that can never really be cured in the medical sense. however like other chronic diseases (e. g. asthma diabetes) it can be kept under control by maintaining good health and avoiding "triggers". triggers for addictive behavior include things that weaken judgment such as boredom lack of sleep alcohol or hanging out with others who continue to abuse drugs.
i'm obese can it cause tightness in my chest while laying flat on back? had ekg done everything came back normal.
causes would be pressure on the diaphram and stomach. this can directly cause discomfort and limitations on breathing and indirectly cause reflux secondary asthma (from reflux) esophageal spasm perhaps sleep apnea or epiglottal problems and probably other things. not eating directly before bed. slight propping up (contacting me on weight loss) and perhaps other studies.
what are the most fatal health problems are linked to being overweight?
over 20 different medical conditions have been linked to obesity. the yearly cost to the healthcare system is estimated at over $100 billion. the common disorders include hypertension asthma reflux diabetes arthritis sleep apnea hyperlipidemia depression and an increase risk of falls. life threatening conditions include heart disease certain cancers and blood clots.
what to do if i have asthma but don't like to take it because people say it makes you chubby?
i think you are talking about the steroids used in asthma treatment. this steroids are like cortisone and long term oral or injected use can casue this problem. however the inhaled steroids have little or no effect on weight gain (most of it is not absorbed into your blood stream but stays in your lungs. if you r physician feels you need this type of therapy- please listen to him/her. good luck
whenever i'm about to fall asleep i wake up gasping feeling as though my breathing has stopped. eliminated anxiety and sleep apnea. anything else?
do your symptoms happen only at night? do you have associated runny nose or heartburn? rarely asthma post-nasal drip and heartburn can cause you to cough or gasp for air while sleeping.
i'm on 10mg lexapro (escitalopram) and taking garcinia cambogia. am i putting myself in danger?
that garcinia cambogia contains hca which can cause liver problems especially at quantities that most diet pills pack in. it can also potentially interfere with medications like statins asthma and allergy iron and most notably psychotropic medicines including the ssris which is what lexapro (escitalopram) is. i would have extreme caution taking garcinia with lexapro (escitalopram).
my daughters sugar levelswere 8. 1 and she went for a fasting glucose test the following day but i was told it will be following day results in but 2nd day still waiting is this normal or is something wrong. she is a bedwetter and overweight with asthma.?
a blood sugar of 8. 1 mmol/l is elevated for anyone. however if your child also has asthma checking a blood sugar while on oral steroids could acutely raise blood sugar. a hba1c would be much more accurate for assessing chronic blood sugar control. chronic bed wetting not sign of diabetes. if she is overweight consider obstructive sleep apnea which causes this & it makes asthma worse esp w/reflux.
my daughters sugar levelswere 8. 1 and she went for a fasting glucose test the following day but i was told it will be following day results in but 2nd day still waiting is this normal or is something wrong. she is a bedwetter and overweight with asthma.?
if the test you are referring to is your daughter's hemoglobin a1c level then your daughter is part of the growing epidemic of children with diabetes. her asthma may well be due to her obesity. first you need the results of more tests because one single test could have an erroneous result. either way if your daughter is overweight the sooner you and she get educated about food the better.
why can't we take tramadol when we have sleep apnea induced asthma and a seizure disorder? what can happen if we take the max of 4 tramadol?
1. unresolved infection at the occiput makes sleep apnea more significant. 2. frequently seizures are the result of stage 2 lyme disease. 3. every significant case of asthma tests positive for mold toxicity. in my clinical experience. specialized urine testing to diagnose mold toxins
why can't we take tramadol when we have sleep apnea induced asthma and a seizure disorder? what can happen if we take the max of 4 tramadol?
tramadol has severe side effects which can affect your breathing. the difficulty is compounded if you were to take 4 tablets. considering your conditions of sleep apnea asthma and seizures your breathing would be further depressed and might lead to an early demise
i'm a 53 yr old female 210 lbs diagnosed with pulmonary hypertension # is 42 up from #33 edema sob on exerting no sleep apnea hx of asthma?
is a common condition that has many causes. longstanding asthma and obesity could be the causes for u but there are many possibilities. often sob and edema are treated with diuretic i. e. lasix (furosemide) or spironolactone. this is a good discussion of pulm htn best wishes. <link>
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
phlegm in the back of the throat that occurs during sleep can be caused by post nasal drip or acid reflux and may be related to sleep apnea. a sleep study would be helpful to sort this out.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
possibility as well as acid reflux post nasal drip anxiety/panic attack etc. get examined. god bless you!
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
nocturnal awakening with cough and post-nasal drip should be reviewed at a medical visit. gerd asthma sinusitis and sleep apnea are all possibilities that can be serious issues affecting respiration. tests physical exam and a thorough history are indicated.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
i would get to a dr. asap to give them a history and let them exam and run tests. hard to determine any type of source from your many symptoms. i would do this soon.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
waking up coughing and gagging with "stuff" in your throat suggests gastroesophageal reflux. after food enters your stomach certain muscles (the les or lower esophageal sphincter) contract to prevent stomach contents from regurgitating back into your esophagus. -sleep with body elevated using a wedge -no food or drink after dinner read about reflux just type: bit. ly/zquhbk in search box
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
your cough may be due to post nasal drip. use saline nose drops or an antihistamine like claritin before bedtime. use a vaporizer and sleep with several pillows or your head in an elevated position
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
gi reflux etc. given description mucous would? any sleep apnea issues with tongue falling back into pharynx enough to close airway or asthma. internalized grief/revulsion could drive the secretions issues most docs ignore. trail prilosec etc? sleep on side/prone avoid back to minimize sleep apnea. get a home 3 night or more sleep study for clues that you are closing off airway after asleep.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
you may have reflux esophagitis and also could be sleep apnea. you need to see your physician for a workup. please see your physician for your complaints. it's important that it be evaluated thoroughly.
what's a good diet and exercise regimen for an asthmatic with nafld? i already don't drink and avoid excessive tylenol (acetaminophen) use.
for eating plan on 1/2 your food being fruits and veggies (a little more veggies than fruits) the other 1/2 protein and whole grains (more protein than grains) and no sweet drinks. ideally 60 minutes of physical activity daily -- can be running walking biking yoga dancing swim etc. avoid tv computer games etc.
my mother is overweight. we are indians and she's asthmatic and takes steroids. how can i help her eat healthier?
calorie intake but unfortunately the steroids are working against her.
i have periodic sudden involuntary gasps of breath. i'm not asthmatic. i have no pain. i have been told i have sleep apnea. what might this be?
like sleep apnea if you have these episodes while you are sleeping. ask your doctor if you need to have sleep study.
what is generally the first physical health problem to arise when you are overweight or obese?
heart disease and stroke high blood pressure diabetes type 2 some cancers gallbladder disease and gallstones osteoarthritis gout breathing problems sleep apnea (when a person stops breathing for short episodes during sleep) and asthma
sometimes during the day my airway gets tighter and its hard for me to breathe but my lungs are fine and i also have sleep apnea. what could this be?
two possibilities that come to mind are asthma and an environmental allergy of some kind. but the only way to sort this out is to see a doctor for an in-person evaluation. the sleep apnea could be related or a separate problem.
what is the difference between[ephedrine pseudoephedrine phenylalanine and amphetamine?
they belong to precursors and drugs used for weight loss asthma and congestion. phenylalanine is an essential amino acid. ephedrine (ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) sulfate) is useful for bronchial asthma but pseudo ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) is useful in rhinitis. amphetamines are a group of stimulants useful for attention deficit and less frequently as a stimulant which can be addictive. ephedrine (ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) sulfate) and pseudo-ephed in synthesis of methamphetamine.
i have asthma i'm over weight and smoke. doctors are telling me i have my lungs blocked due to either over weight or lung disease. if i stop smoking?
it is very important to stop smoking especially with your medical history. the local chapters of the american lung association have several resources to help you
is tympanic membrane perforation a contraindication for cpap & apap use for sleep apnea what is the treatment for ear discharge from this condition?
cpap overview cpap (continuous positive airway pressure) is a tool which can be used to assist the oxygenation of several respiratory pathologies. cpap is not a r eplacement for any medicati on or procedure but a t ool which can provide a high level of ventilatory support without the need for rsi or intubation. patients whose condition is resistant to parenteral medications but whose respiratory effort does not yet require intubation should be considered prime candidates for cpap. indications? respiratory distress secondary to suspected congesti ve heart failure acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (asthma bronchitis emphysema). contraindications? unconsciousness? suspected pneumothorax? inadequate respiratory drive? shock/hypotension (bp <90)? chest wall trauma? persistent nausea/vomiting? has active upper gi bleeding or history of recent gastric surge
shortness of breath tachacardia hypertension on propranol ct clear from head to abdomen xray clear blood urine ekg echo clear no idea what?
propranolol is used to treat hypertension. it will generally lower your heart rate. a side effect however is bronchospasm (asthma) which could explain your shortness of breath. your propanolol dose is not sufficient to lower your blood pressure or heart rate but may be causing side effects so it shouldn't be increased. the best way to sort this out might be to try another antihypertensive.
strange on and off blodoshot eyes with dizziness that isn't allergies. it won't go away. lyme disease? thyroid? stress? also unexplained weight loss.
i would suggest a work up to include further evaluation of your asthma which is being treated with advair. the evaluation will include a pulse oximetry test with and without exercise. these symptoms may be related to uncontrolled asthma. in addition a tb test and cf screening test can be performed. a complete physical exam and history will determine other causes.
wanted to know if bronchodilators can make you chubby?
you're confusing bronchodilators with inhaled corticosteroids even the latter won't unless vey high doses for protracted periods. if you are an asthmatic please keep regular follow up with your doctor/asthma specialist wish you wellness
my daughter 9years old snores loud pitch and then suddenly starts to cough. is it sleep apnea for her?
associated with childhood obstructive sleep apnea (osa) include allergies asthma gastroesophageal reflux palatal muscle weakness & obesity. history physical exam & a video of her snoring will help her pediatrician determine if she needs an overnight sleep study & subspecialty referrals. osa can cause learning & behavior problems & symptoms of mild -moderate adhd in children.
spirometer test show i have trouble getting air in not out. could a hiatal hernia cause symptoms like this?
more consistent with asthma or chronic lung disease.
there is this diet pill called ez slimdia. made in korea with "natural" herbs. my friend who is 15 yrs old took this and now experiencing health issues over a year. the symptoms are palpitations trouble breathing(she doesn't have asthma) has mucus in he
i wanted to research what the ingredients of ez slimdia are but google warns me their websites "may harm my computer. " which is not a good sign. just because something is natural does not mean it is safe. most weight loss products contain stimulants which could cause the symptoms you describe. it is impossible for me to know if her problems are due to this but it's possible. she should see a doctor.
there is this diet pill called ez slimdia. made in korea with "natural" herbs. my friend who is 15 yrs old took this and now experiencing health issues over a year. the symptoms are palpitations trouble breathing(she doesn't have asthma) has mucus in he
your friend should consult a physician & see if there is a possible link between her current health problems & her use of this supplement. diet supplements are not a very well regulated industry & much harm has been caused by diet products sold at pharmacies & nutrition stores. many of these pills have already been taken of the market most notably those containing ephedra or ma huang.
waking startled feeling w/gasping breath sit up throw blankets off. at times covered in sweat w/lingering feeling of not able breathe. sleep apnea?
b"sd sleep apnea a prime consideration. if not that then peri-menopausal hormonal disturbance would be my second thought. additional hormonal considerations would be catecholamine (adrenaline) factors. cardiac conditions should also be considered (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). variant asthma a more remote possiblity.
i am experiencing shortness of breath when rushing around comes on suddenly i'm 19 stone. get a strange sensation in my chest when happens fine rest?
if you have chest discomfort which lasts for more than a few minutes and is concerning to you you should seek immediate medical attention. chest sensations and shortness of breath occurring with exertion may represent a heart condition asthma or being out of shape. there are many causes and some are not serious but others can be fatal so please get checked out.
my bmi says 29. 2 which means overweight. i been feeling uncomfortable because i have asthma and get easily out of breath. how can i lose this weight?
and great attitude! you listed "asthma pump" but not which name/brand. if it's a brand of albuterol eg proventil (albuterol) or ventolin need to ask your family doc or pulmonologist or allergist for controller/preventive inhaler eg fluticasone. perhaps add montelukast. ask about using albuterol right before starting exercise session. work w/your docs to develop asthma action plan w/your goals
my bmi says 29. 2 which means overweight. i been feeling uncomfortable because i have asthma and get easily out of breath. how can i lose this weight?
i would suggest reviewing your asthma plan with your physician. once they approve of increasing your exercise you can exercise regularly. joining a health club and formulating a routine cutting down on unhealthy calories eg soda will also help. the albuterol inhaler can be used shortly before exercise to make it easier to exercise.
obesity = asthma? i am over weight about 5'4" and 250 lbs. i recently went to the dr for another issue and began discussing how my chest feels. the only way i can accuratly describe it is that it kind of feels like i am getting a chest cold that never
obesity is associated with an increased incidence of asthma and there are multiple mechanisms for how this is thought to occur. the bottom line is to try and lose weight. doing so will likely improve your breathing and reduce your risks for high blood pressure high cholesterol diabetes sleep apnea heart disease etc.
obesity = asthma? i am over weight about 5'4" and 250 lbs. i recently went to the dr for another issue and began discussing how my chest feels. the only way i can accuratly describe it is that it kind of feels like i am getting a chest cold that never
there are many people of all body types thin or heavy that have asthma. obesity does not necessarily equal asthma. i am glad that you are under a doctors care and are being properly evaluated. weight loss can help breathing issues but obesity does not cause asthma.
my bmi ranges 30-34 depending on intensity of dieting & exercises i do in a year. healthy otherwise with bp & asthma. should i go for barriatic surgery?
bariatric surgery is reserved for individuals with bmi > 40 or with bmi> 35 and serious health problems linked to obesity. individuals with bmi> 30 and serious health problems linked to obesity can have gastric band. <link>
my bmi ranges 30-34 depending on intensity of dieting & exercises i do in a year. healthy otherwise with bp & asthma. should i go for barriatic surgery?
it may be worth considering bariatric surgery if you've given the earnest effort to lose weight as you've described.
need expert help here. what are the problems of children obesity?
diabetes type 2 exercise intolerance poor self image high blood pressure asthma . . many health problems can develop from obesity whether childhood or adult.
need expert advice. what health problems are related with teen obesity?
there are over 20 different medical conditions that have been linked with obesity. the damage is cumulative over time. they range from elevated cholesterol to high blood pressure to heart disease diabetes sleep apnea reflux asthma and arthritis. these over shadow the depression social isolation social dysfunction and anxiety all magnified as a teen and all related to obesity.
night cough no allergies no uri symptoms no allergies. nonsmoker. adult 63 module ratels obese. cause?
the most common causes of cough in ambulatory patients are asthma post-nasal drip and gastroesophageal reflux disease. reflux occurs more often in the overweight and obese and frequently occurs at night particularly after a large meal. medications including ace-inhibitors are common causes of cough as well.
over weight son with asthma having chest pains what to do?
asthma exacerbation could cause chest tightness from air trapping. consult your physician to adjust medications.
throat clearing from mucus. possible side effect of depakote or lamitcal? (1875mg &200mg)2ent's nasal scope neg. have nissen. history of asthma. tried meds
thick mucus is a sign that your nasal cilia are not doing their job of moving bacteria out of the nose/sinuses properly. to correct poor ciia movevement drink green tea with lemon and honey use pulsed nasal/sinus irrigation at a rate for restoring cilia. for the hydro pulse nasal/ sinus irrigator add two teaspoon of xylitol to the 500 ml basin irrigate 2x a day until clear.
swollen hands face and knees lymphodema low body temp hot red skin & headache every night. what could cause this? i also have asthma & raynauds.
i'd get a battery of general tests - complete blood count comprehensive metabolic profile and thyroid to begin with. also compliment those with a physical exam by a medical professional.
swollen hands face and knees lymphodema low body temp hot red skin & headache every night. what could cause this? i also have asthma & raynauds.
are you taking prednisone or other steroids? also sometimes raynaud's is treated with calcium channel blockers that cause leg swelling. can be hypothyroidism nephrotic syndrome heart failure. you need a workup.
have asthma sleep apnea woke during colonoscopy. is it too weird if i contacted anesthesia dept before surgery to tell them this? better to wait?
it is not weird if you have any questions for anesthesiologist inform gi doctor or nurse and they can have anesthesiologist call you before the procedure. normally for a colonoscopy you are only sedated so waking up can happen
have asthma sleep apnea woke during colonoscopy. is it too weird if i contacted anesthesia dept before surgery to tell them this? better to wait?
tell the anesthesiologist that will be taking care of you. they will talk to you prior to the procedure and usually ask about prior experiences with anesthesia.
have asthma sleep apnea woke during colonoscopy. is it too weird if i contacted anesthesia dept before surgery to tell them this? better to wait?
for a colonoscopy the patient is typically deeply sedated which means they are breathing on their own and may remember certain things during the procedure but overall they are "asleep". when someone undergoing surgery requires general anesthesia this means their airway is protected usually via endotracheal tube and they should not recall anything. medical conditions should be optimized prior
have asthma sleep apnea woke during colonoscopy. is it too weird if i contacted anesthesia dept before surgery to tell them this? better to wait?
usually pre-op you will have a consult with the anesthesiologist. this would be a good time to tell them this history
how does obesity affect your digestive system?
obesity affects digestive system by: 1) gastric reflux or heartburn from belly pressure. the acid reflux can cause asthma and even cancer in the esophagus (rarely) 2) fatty liver from obesity can cause cirrhosis in a few 3) when diabetes arises from obesity you can see delayed stomach emptying with vomiting.
how does an overweight diabetic exercise if he has exercise induced asthma?
take your rescue inhaler about 15 minutes before you exercise and then go to it!
how does an overweight diabetic exercise if he has exercise induced asthma?
but not too fast. as with all exercises you must build yourself up to an acceptable level a little at a time. exercise induced asthma can be helped be improved by not exercising when the weather is too cold (or too hot for that matter). . talk to your physician about prophylactic use of your inhaler before exercising
how does an overweight diabetic exercise if he has exercise induced asthma?
take 2 puffs of albuterol wait 10 minutes start walking or spinning. to optimize albuterol --> (1) empty lungs (2) shake & spray (3) inhale slowly for 5 seconds (4) hold breath 10 seconds (5) wait a minute & repeat.
how does an overweight diabetic exercise if he has exercise induced asthma?
exercise induced asthma patients can do exercise after using an inhaled bronchodilater prior to doing exercise. inhaler like albuterol or xopenex (levalbuterol) can be used. other meds you can take to prevent asthma related to exercise is chromolyn sodium by inhalation or montelucast(singular) discuss with your doctor and there is no reason that you can not exercise if exercise induces your asthma good luck
how does an overweight diabetic exercise if he has exercise induced asthma?
exercise-induced asthma can be treated thus allowing for exercise to be possible. treatment includes the use of a bronchodilator inhaler prior to exercise and again when exercise is stopped if needed. if this is not enough to control your symptoms see your doctor as there are other treatments that can be tried. good luck!
have had 2 positive d dimer tests mild cough (though probably asthma) am obese. ct (head and chest) and ultrasound negative. ankles swollen. next?
if the ct chest and us of legs are negative you don't have dvt/pe. there must be another reason for the d-dimer to be +. is your kidney function ok? have you had a recent injury surgery or something else that involves blood-clotting? how + is the test? you can consult a hematologist or just watch it and treat the asthma. talk to your doctor. good luck!
have had 2 positive d dimer tests mild cough (though probably asthma) am obese. ct (head and chest) and ultrasound negative. ankles swollen. next?
d dimer is a non-specific test meaning it doesn't really tell us anything espeically with a normal ct which would have picked up a pulmonary embolus. the most common cause of ankle swelling especially in obese people is venous incompentence. the valves in your veins aren't working and that leads to venous pooling in your ankles and feet.
how should i start an exercise program if i'm overweight have slightly high blood pressure and asthma?
before you start stressing your body make sure your bp and asthma are controlled by medications. once your doctor says you are all right to exercise start by walking a few minutes a day. you want low impact weight-bearing exercise assuming you can walk without major pain. increase gradually as you are able. the key is to do something regularly. wave your arms like an orchestra conductor!
how should i start an exercise program if i'm overweight have slightly high blood pressure and asthma?
first control your asthma. depending on severity you may only need bronchodilators like albuterol before exercise or you need to take controller medications like inhaled corticosteroids or montelukast daily. once the physician helping to manage your asthma & you feel that asthma is reasonably controlled start your program. take 2 puffs of albuterol tie your shoes and go walking. repeat daily.
can hiatal hernia affect my breathing?
large hiatal hernias can cause shortness of breath. the only solution for these large hernias is surgical repair. there are often other conditions however often present such a asthma or emphysema that can compound breathing problems. usually a large hiatal hernia can be diagnosed with an upper gi contrast study called an esophagram and upper gi series.
can my hiatal hernia increase my chance of an ulcer?
no but having a hiatal hernia may increase your risk of reflux into esophagus and perhaps increase your risk of asthma and esophageal ca if not properly managed by lifestyle and treatment. also one should check for h. pylori infection with hiatal hernia to make sure that one is not at risk for ulcers from this cause. and finally one should not eat within 2 hours of sleep to decrease reflux risk.
could corn syrup and high fructose contribute to asthma and allergies?
cause obesity and obesity does raise asthma risk.
could corn syrup and high fructose contribute to asthma and allergies?
high fructose corn syrup alters sugar metabolism and can definitely is associated with obesity but this does not affect the airways nor the immune system.
could you get asthma by eating too much?
reflux ("heartburn") is a known consequence of overeating and a known asthma trigger.
could you get asthma by eating too much?
i don't care what anyone says eating too much does not cause asthma. it can cause or worsen reflux. but is does not cause asthma. reflux is a known cause for cough. not for triggering asthma. nejm published data supporting this recently.
how does obstructive sleep apnea impact health?
the impact of sleep disorders is evident in a wide range of adverse health consequences including but not limited to hypertension cadiovascular diseases metabolic disorders such a diabetes gastric disorders such as gerd respiratory disorders such as asthma emotional and psychological disorders and even sudden death. there is a much higher rate of motor vehicle accidents as well.
can asthma in a kid lead to sleep apnea?
asthma in children or adults does not cause sleep apnea but obstructive sleep apnea can trigger nocturnal asthma attacks. therefore any suspicion of osa in an asthmatic patient warrants a thorough work up.
can asthma in a kid lead to sleep apnea?
asthma per se does not cause sleep apnea. however obstruction in the upper airways including tonsillar/adenoid enlargement or significant nasal obstruction may.
can asthma in a kid lead to sleep apnea?
have them check for adenoid and tonsil and possible remove them.
can asthma in a kid lead to sleep apnea?
sleep apnea is caused by multiple reasons. asthma is not one of them.
can a12 year old take diet pills she dosent have a heart condision she had ashama as a kid but not any more she dosent have serious problemsshe is just over weight
a teenager regardless of allergy should not be on diet pills. she should be on a reasonable diet preferably with the the help of a pediatric dietician regular aerobic exercise (including dance martial arts) eliminating soda pop fried food sweets and tv time. if necessary a family dietary program may be necessary. if asthma interferes with exercise she needs to see an asthma specialist.
can a 12 take diet pills she has no medical problems she had ashama when she was a child she weight about 195lbs
a teenager regardless of allergy should not be on diet pills. she should be on a reasonable diet preferably with the the help of a pediatric dietician regular aerobic exercise (including dance martial arts) eliminating soda pop fried food sweets and tv time. if necessary a family dietary program may be necessary. if asthma interferes with exercise she needs to see an asthma specialist.
could this be lack of exercise or something else? i was recently walking my dog in which she got loose and i had to chase her. im very inactive i do not exercise. i drink a lot of soda. and i sprinted for atleast 10 minutes as fast as i could run. after
without an examination or testing it's hard to say whether you have exercise induced asthma exercise intolerance from being out of shape or a little bit of both. you should give your doctor a call. they may want to do some testing to evaluate for exercise induced asthma send you to a specialist or may choose to provide you with an inhaler to treat the wheezing in case it happens again. at the very least you should discuss an exercise plan that can help get you into a little better shape for your cardiovascular health. good luck!
have mucus that comes up into throat i assume from my lungs as my sinus' are clear. it has been going on for 5 years now with no diagnosis. feel bad and sometimes a little short of breath more a heaviness feeling. have had pft and test for asthma foo
did you had allergy test done. do you have allergy symptoms. chest radiograph needs to be performed as well. are you a smoker? . chronic allergies chronic bronchitis other chronic lung conditions/ infections can cough chronic cough with chest congestion. you are having short ness of breath as well - need to get further work up done or be referred to a pulmonologist.
have mucus that comes up into throat i assume from my lungs as my sinus' are clear. it has been going on for 5 years now with no diagnosis. feel bad and sometimes a little short of breath more a heaviness feeling. have had pft and test for asthma foo
asthma is still possible even if pft doesn't show it. less likely if you have had metacholine challenge not sure if that is what you mean by test for asthma. acid reflux is another possibility as well as occupational exposures to fumes or chemicals that may irritate your airways without actually causing asthma. i assume you don't smoke; if you do that would explain everything.
can diet or exercise help improve asthma in adult?
while neither of thes directly improve the lung disease itself but being more fit you use less oxygen and use it more efficiently. weight loss and physical fitness improve the quality of life of asthmatics - which certainly helps.
can diet or exercise help improve asthma in adult?
exercise is very important in general and especially for asthma. all asthmatics should be able to do whatever they want to do -- including exercise. while exercise can be a trigger for some asthmatics in general exercise is very good for the lungs and helpful.
why does my breast implant feel hard? i've had my breast implants in for 3 years now and i've noticed that the right breast it feels hardened on one side. did it rupture? is this something to worry about?
when any implant is inserted the body reacts by forming a lining of tissue around it called the capsule. in some cases the capsule begins to shrink squeezing the implant that it surrounds. though the exact causes of capsular contracture are largely unknown there are factors that can contribute to this complication including: germ contamination during implantation seroma (the development of extra fluid around implant) hematoma (internal bleeding) infection smoking placement of implant above muscle (when placed bellow the muscle capsular contracture occurs with less frequency) depending upon the severity the breast can feel firm or hard become distorted and begin to cause pain. to cure or treat capsular contracture there are both surgical and non-surgical options. non-surgical prescribed antibiotics and vitamin e. while this is not always effective as a cure many surgeons will suggest that patients take a regular dose of vitamin e for the first year after augmentation as it helps to keep tissue soft. closed capsulotomy. the breast is forcefully squeezed in the hopes that the capsule pops or tears. this is not often done because it could cause the implant to rupture and may void the manufacturer's warranty. external ultrasound. may help reduce swelling and inflammation and does not involve any major risks. accolate. this anti-inflammatory used in the treatment of asthma has shown in minor studies to help regress capsular contracture. this is a relatively new and experimental treatment with no long-term statistical data. surgical open capsulotomy. the capsule surrounding the implant is surgically cut open in order to release the implant. after this is done however there is a chance of contracture occurring again. open capsulectomy. this is generally the most successful as well as the most intensive form of treatment. the entire capsule is removed allowing new tissue to form around the implant. in some cases surgeons will change the implant placement: for example if the implant is placed above the muscle the surgeon may place it underneath the muscle during capsulectomy in the hopes of better results.
heart rate at rest 120 on steroids due to asthma - overweight vicious circle of breathlessness = lack of exercise - how worried should i be?
yes. the oral steroid/asthma/under-activity/obesity cycle is easy to fall into and difficult to escape. however the tachycardia is not necessarily associated and may be a marker for other organ system(s)(cardiovascular) involvement. you need to see an asthma specialist and if you have see another one. otherwise this will only get worse!
heart rate at rest 120 on steroids due to asthma - overweight vicious circle of breathlessness = lack of exercise - how worried should i be?
depending on your physiologic stressors (asthma poor conditioning other? ) a fast heart may or may not be physiologically appropriate but chronic heart rtes in this range are not healthy. an ecg and perhaps ambulatory monitoring might assess for the possibility of arrhythmia. a good pulmonary program might help more with the asthma. once feeling a little better exercise weight loss
heart rate at rest 120 on steroids due to asthma - overweight vicious circle of breathlessness = lack of exercise - how worried should i be?
if you use proventil albuterol or alike quite often you can have tachycardia because of that.
can you let me know how many health problems sleep apnea could lead to?
inadequate sleep prevents the body from healing itself which leads to inflammation in the body. inflammation is key cause of many health problems like asthma allergies arthritis and auto-immune disorders have an obvious inflammatory component. treating sleep apnea helps to lower systemic inflammation which might prevent some of the other serious health problems.
could someone take imovane with sleep apnea?
imovane is a central nervous system depressant prescribed as a sleep aid medication (. because imovane can worsen symptoms of respiratory disorders people with sleep apnea emphysema asthma or bronchitis may not be able to safely take imovane. never take any sleep aid without the supervision of a physician.
can doctors tell me what does obesity cause to the human bodies?
heart disease high cholesterol and triglycerides diabetes insulin resistance gallbladder disease stress and strain on joints and their mobility back pain increased risk of certain cancers liver disease- fatty liver sleep apnea increased risk of stroke high blood pressure kidney disease asthma.
does hiatal hernia cause shortness of breath?
some people with hiatal hernias may develop gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) which usually causes heartburn. with severe gerd stomach acid can reflux all the way up the esophagus and then down the trachea causing asthma-like symptoms.
can you develop heart disease or diabetes type ii from a week or so of lack of sleep and interrupted anxious sleep? <negative_smiley>
not a direct cause of heart disease or diabetes. could worse the disease when establish. you mention you have chest pain and difficulty breathing and insomnia all symptoms of anxiety and/or depression. another possibility is asthma angina (doubt) gerd. see your physician for a better assessment through a physical and history.
can hiatal hernia cause shortness of breath on stairs?
hiatal hernia usually causes acid reflux and indigestion. it may be associated with asthma like symptoms in the mornings sore throat and inability to lie flat. however shortness of breath on mild exercise is usually a sign of heart or lung disease and should be evaluated by your doctor. it may simply be a sign of poor fitness but should still be checked out.
can i get some advice for mild asthma-sleep apnea and i feel nauseated?
your asthma may contribute to the sleep apnea. if you have been tested i recommend a c-pap to treat the apnea. not sure why you are nauseous unless you also experience a mild case of gerd.
hello i am 18 and i am a female. i am overweight. i become breathless and i gasp for breath expect ally when running for the publicly bus.
see your doctor about losing weight but also get checked for exercise induced asthma.
does flovent cause weight gain?
flovent is an inhaled steroid that helps the lungs get well (from problems such as asthma). it should not cause weight gain. if there is noticeable weight gain the primary care doctor can evaluate to look for other reasons for gaining the weight.
honest opinion on anti-inflammatory diet i. e. paleo diet as a lifestyle choice as well as alternative treatment for autoinflammatory disease.
advice and possibly a complement food allergy panel done since your history of idiopathic urticaria inhalers (asthma? ) and low hdl means you need to get a doctor involved with your diet! paleo can be a great start but if you eat too much meat proteins you may be stressing your kidneys. so proper guidance is needed and possibly working in tandem with a clinical nutritionist. may need to modify.
dr black recommended provent for sleep apnea. does this work during the day also? when pull up my forehead it seems to help tighten the nasal passage
proventil is albuterol which is used for the treatment of reactive airway disease and asthma. sleep apnea is a mechanical obstruction and either requires a cpap mask tonsillectomy / adenoidectomy or weight loss to cure. proventil would not likely help with sleep apnea at all in my opinion.
dr black recommended provent for sleep apnea. does this work during the day also? when pull up my forehead it seems to help tighten the nasal passage
provent is for asthma and copd if you have those conditions then yes you will breathe better at night.
are hot flashes and jitters side effects of a prednisone *injection* given for asthma attack? i am an overweight but healthy female 44 years old.
yes prednisone can make you feel jittery and uncomfortable. steroids have many unfavorable side effects. i would contact your doctor to let them know the trouble you are having and to determine if there may be another reason for your symptoms.
husband 57 copd asthma sinus problems over weight waist heaven drinker on statins slightly raised cholesterol blood pressure life expectancy?
the only conclusion is that it is likely to be considerably reduced with all of his health issues.
anyone know anything about the lungs and how obesity can cause asthma?
there is a lot of research going on about this topic actually. one of the things that is very common is that as abdominal and chest girth become more of an issue stomach contents can get pushed up into the esophagus and cause reflux. that reflux material and gas can actually wash down into the lungs creating bad reaction and asthma attack.
choices besides fundoplication for gerd/hiatal hernia? have asthma and need to be able to vomit if i get mucus build-up. protonix (pantoprazole) not enough for now.
you may need more frequent dosing of protonix (pantoprazole) and even addition of a h2 antagonist (ranitidine etc) plus lifestyle changes. you may also consider a linx device which requires endoscopic placement. obesity is one factor which worsens gerd and it is far better to work on this before contemplating any surgical procedure especially when it makes both the gerd and asthma worse.
cardiac ct stres tst holter cardiac echo all normal. feel tired w air hunger when walk pain left blade hand. mild reflux clear lungs. obese. reason?
it appears that all of your cardiac tests are normal and that is very good. i do not see that you listed any lung evaluations such as pulmonary function tests. this is a suggestion if you continue to have air hunger as pft can diagnose asthma or other lung conditions. this may be a matter of being out of shape because of your being overweight. see your doctor for an individualized exercise rx
can acute bronchitis/asthma trigger shortness of breathe when lying down? i have attacks after i get up from this. is it sleep apnea?
it could be the bronchitis or asthma that is triggering shortness of breath when lying down. with either condition you can have excess mucous which can build up when lying down and make breathing difficult. sleep apnea does not cause shortness of breath usually. see a doctor for treatment to relieve the shortness of breath.
am i at risk of having a stroke if i have sleep apnea?
inadequate sleep prevents the body from healing itself which leads to inflammation in the body. inflammation is key cause of many health problems like asthma allergies arthritis and auto-immune disorders have an obvious inflammatory component. treating sleep apnea helps to lower systemic inflammation which might prevent some of the other serious health problems like strokes.
can singulair (montelukast) cause weight gain?
however every drug can cause different side effects. if it is safe to stop it based on your allergies asthma then do and see it there is a difference. all the best.
breathing problems 3 months after pneumonia. the symptoms are overinflated lungs excess clear mucus bloodshot eyes fatigue weight loss back pain.
all sounds like asthma symptoms you need an inhaler.
does overeating put stress on the lungs? can overeating exasperate asthma?
obesity (being overweight) caused by overeating can definitely cause worsening of asthma and put undo stress on lungs. obesity can cause whats called a restrictive pattern on pulmonary function testing due to excess weight on chest wall. also asthma control can worsen with increased weight gain.
female 55 overweight asthmatic treated w/ seretides 50/250 mcg mild osteopnia extremely tired moody hair loss easily sick. tests ok but cortisol-u free 24h 233. 6 nmol/24hr before seretide 90 nmol/24?
steroid via inhaled steroid is low. if it were high cortisol would be suppressed in that your adrenal would be suppressed. osteopenia not disease it's a word keep an eye on density not from inhaled steroids. cortisol is up may need suppression test ask doc. sleeping at night? can u nap if given opportunity? may have a comorbid mood/stress prob. if snoring consider apnea. continue workup.
female 55 overweight asthmatic treated w/ seretides 50/250 mcg mild osteopnia extremely tired moody hair loss easily sick. tests ok but cortisol-u free 24h 233. 6 nmol/24hr before seretide 90 nmol/24?
hi madam you are very young see an endocrinologist who needs to more test that your adrenal gland is working in right direction and may be pulmonogist put you on singulair (montelukast) do go on calorie count drink alkaline water 15 minutes walk would help extra sun sitting would add benefit get your vit d-3 level.
feel awful since 1994-6 virus. no work last 3 yrs. meet cdc criteria cfs/me. normal endocrine heart gi lung neuro psy except asthma bp diabetes/2 minor platelet hi/lo sleep apnea/cpap. next?
being in cambridge you have access to the smartest doctors in the world. if you have exhausted all the medical diagnoses they can think of and no viral or autoimmune diseases have been detected it might actually be time to try something really different but definitely harmless like hypnotherapy or reiki. these types of healing may help you cope with your situation or may actually help you.
feel awful since 1994-6 virus. no work last 3 yrs. meet cdc criteria cfs/me. normal endocrine heart gi lung neuro psy except asthma bp diabetes/2 minor platelet hi/lo sleep apnea/cpap. next?
try a good cleanse and green juicing. then follow up with good gut bacteria. visit www. drnatura. com and www. effervess. com for more information.
feel awful since 1994-6 virus. no work last 3 yrs. meet cdc criteria cfs/me. normal endocrine heart gi lung neuro psy except asthma bp diabetes/2 minor platelet hi/lo sleep apnea/cpap. next?
with our polluted environment and poor diets this has become a common issue! find a functional medicine doc in your area at a4m. com using doctor locator function. they can help you find cause for fatigue - usually environmental toxins food allergens and metabolic derangements. then you can live a normal life rather than take meds that just mask symptoms and cause side effects! it is treatable!
always gasp for air when i sleep regardless the position i sleep on side & back. i thought sleep apnea occur when lying on back. why is it happening?
in general snoring or apnea may improve based on sleep position if mild but moderate to severe apnea will occur in any sleeping position. other conditions can lead to nocturnal shortness of breath. heart failure or asthma are examples.
dx w/sleep apnea & asthma 7m ago. using cpap nightly. cbc shows rbcs 5. 93 & hct 52. 7. what could be causing this? also have afib on coumadin.
of blood disorders that are unrelated to osa asthma afib or coumadin. you should check with your health care provider and see if you need a referral to a hematologist.
dx w/sleep apnea & asthma 7m ago. using cpap nightly. cbc shows rbcs 5. 93 & hct 52. 7. what could be causing this? also have afib on coumadin.
that high of a red cell mass means overproduction and erythropoietin is stimulated by low oxygen tension
dx w/sleep apnea & asthma 7m ago. using cpap nightly. cbc shows rbcs 5. 93 & hct 52. 7. what could be causing this? also have afib on coumadin.
chronic lung disease may also elevate hct. have you had a ct scan? pulmonary embolism should be ruled out.
every morning my boyfriend wakes up with violent vomiting. he is 30 years old a smoker used to drink a lot overweight and has asthma. it's scary!
needs to see his physician asap for thorough evaluation and help. vomiting every morning is definitely not normal. yes this would be scary for you -- and i hope you'll encourage him to see a doctor asap.
everyday i feel short of breath no matter what i am doing. yes i have asthma and sleep apnea but i don't like sleeping on my sleep apnea machine?
when things are easy to do often times their value is minimal. when things are hard to do then almost always results have important value. do you take your medication and follow directions of your doctor for your asthma? does "don't like sleeping. " mean that you don't use your machine as you should? then you will feel tired and be breathless. and nobody will be able to fix it. "just do it. "
even though i am not over weight (121 pounds and 5 ft 1 inch) can overeating irritate my asthma? i am a compulsive overeater.
a full stomach may exert pressure on your chest compressing the already tight airways another mechanism is through acid reflux but you might not suffer from so long you are not overweight moderation is the key frequent small meals better than less frequent big meals and you can gage yourself accordingly but watch out you can easily become overweight if you don't watch your calories
got diagnosed having diabetes type 2 since a year back. is there any way to may the sugar level normal as the criteria for military is to be normal?
it's not something i would try and hide from them just as i haven't recommended that other patient hide their asthma in order to get into the military. you're jeopardizing your health by not being honest with them.
i am having chest pain above right breast hurts when i inhale or raise right arm came on about an hour ago i am asthmatic inhalers not helping?
this may be muscle sprain from coughing or uncontrolled asthma. take some ibuprofen if that doesn't help go to urgent care or er anyplace you can get a chest x-ray these may be the symptoms of a pneumothorax. pulmonary embolism is also in the differential diagnosis.
i am having chest pain above right breast hurts when i inhale or raise right arm came on about an hour ago i am asthmatic inhalers not helping?
the pain with deep breath suggests pleurisy but the fact that raising your arm also causes it suggests that it's muscular or related to your rib cage. if it's making you short of breath you should go to the er. if not i'd try simple analgesics like ibuprofen.
can capsular contracture after breast reconstruction be fixed without more surgery? i'm worried about this possible side effect of breast reconstruction. my procedure will be two stages so between that and my original mastectomy three surgeries is plent
thei first goal is to prevent capsular contracture this is done by making sure the breast pockets are free of blood and infection. placing the expanders and subsequent implants under the muscle helps to reduce capsular contracture. early evaluation suggest that the use of accular dermal matrix may help reduce capsular contracture. appropriate drainage will help divert blood and other fluids that can lead to inflammation. i personally believe that early massage with a castor oil based serum is very helpful in maintaining soft pockets. this massage should be done for 4-6 weeks after each surgery. once a capsular contracture occurs it may successfully be managed early with massage castor oil based serum and the use of an asthma medicine such as singular or accolate (zafirlukast). surgery may be required in those patients who do not respond to non-invasive measures.
hi. i have what people call man boobs. is there a way to reduce them. my chest pouts too. any work out that won't trigger my asthma.? thanks!
man boobs and gynecomastia are equivalent terms and essentially represents a spectrum of breast fullness and associated skin fat and gland excess that vary from normal to markedly abnormal. although weight loss may he p surgery is usually the best option for maximal improvement.
hi. i have what people call man boobs. is there a way to reduce them. my chest pouts too. any work out that won't trigger my asthma.? thanks!
some men develop breasts during the teen years. most cases have no known cause and this condition is called idiopathic gynecomastia. there is no proven non-surgical treatment for idiopathic gynecomastia. the excess breast tissue can be surgically removed to reliably result in a more masculine appearing chest.
hi. i have what people call man boobs. is there a way to reduce them. my chest pouts too. any work out that won't trigger my asthma.? thanks!
depending on the reason for your gynecomastia it is first important to rule out hormonal/medical reasons for having gynecomastia. once this is done by your primary care physician then the surgical options considered by board certified plastic surgeons include: liposuction direct breast tissue excision and possibly a breast lift if left with excess skin.
does a history of lung problems make it a bad idea for me to have radiation for breast cancer?
it depends on your lung problems. radiation for breast cancer may cause some lung changes on x-ray and sometimes a cough. women with asthma or copd can have radiation therapy. women with lupus or scleroderma should not have radiation therapy. you should not have radiation therapy if you have had previous radiation to your chest. ask your radiation oncologist about your specific lung problems.
have lymphedema in foot/leg. when i take prednisone for asthma symptoms my lymphedema goes away! comes back when asthma starts acting up. related?
prednisone is a potent anti-inflammatory that acts on the entire body. you are young you should see a lymphaedema specialist to make sure you are appropriately diagnosed and being treated optimally to avoid future complications. you may have another underlying condition causing inflammation.
mediastinal adenopathy & left hilar adenopathy only with no other symptoms other than adult onset asthma 4 months ago? could this be cancer 51nonsmoker clean mamagram 2 please what else could it be
of causes of mediastinal adenopathy. inflammatory processes infections sarcoid and other granulomatous processes to name a few. unfortunately lymphoma and other neoplasms can do it too. you need to follow-up with your physician to determine the cause of the adenopathy.
mediastinal adenopathy & left hilar adenopathy only with no other symptoms other than adult onset asthma 4 months ago? could this be cancer 51nonsmoker clean mamagram 2 please what else could it be
hi. yes this could be cancer. you need tissue for diagnosis. lung cancer is possible (second hand smoke radon trapped in house etc) but so is lymphoma. your doctor will refer you for a biopsy (probably transbronchial) then you'll know if it's benign or malignant. good luck!
mediastinal adenopathy & left hilar adenopathy only with no other symptoms other than adult onset asthma 4 months ago? could this be cancer 51nonsmoker clean mamagram 2 please what else could it be
if you have no symptoms the radiologist is just commenting on a few big lymph nodes. there's no figuring out why one person gets a big spleen or a big set of nodes somewhere. these are very unlikely to be anything at all and if they are there's no reason to chase down an answer at risk to yourself to make the call early unless the masses are huge (your physician's call).
what is the definition or description of: chest pain on deep breaths?
it's the classic description of pleuritic pain. . pain resulting from inflammation or irritation of the pleura (the lining surrounding the lung); the inflammation is called pleurisy. but not all pain with inspiration is pleuritic. pneumonia bronchitis asthma tracheitis cancer. all can cause painful respiration. it's like saying "not all hoofbeats are from horses. some are from zebras. "
shortness of breath off and on for the last 6 hrs not sure if it's my asthma or it's heart related? i have an arrhythmia! not much wheezing either
if you do not have previous history of asthma it is not because of asthma. also lack of wheezing makes it unlikely to be from asthma. so it is either heart related or due to anxiety. either way you need to see your doctor.
my mom wants to know if there any of the effects of beta blockers in heart patients during the summer?
this is very specific question! during the summer you tend to get dehydrated and a b-blocker can prevent you from sweating but also it can prevent you from increasing your heart rate which is necessary if you get dehydrated- so that in the summer b-blocker can lead to an increase in dizziness or even passing out if you don't drink enough water. it might even exacerbate asthma more so.
what can cause resting heart rate to change. it usually is 50-60 but it's 90-122 when standing. er was not concerned but it has been going on 2 days?
causes. dehydration anemia cold medicine asthma medicine anxiety etc. . follow up with your pcp or if become symptomatic return to er.
wt loss of 20lbs over 1 week diagnosis w/flu. history asthma & hypokalemia. s&s: palpitations cough weakness. concerns? what should i be asking my doctor?
weight loss from flu includes fluid weight loss. any significant shift in fluids can cause electrolyte issues for example hypokalemia. hypokalemia can present as weakness and palpitations. this can be a life threatening situation. you need evaluation now not later. in a weakened situation you should not drive. best call your doctor and 911.
wt loss of 20lbs over 1 week diagnosis w/flu. history asthma & hypokalemia. s&s: palpitations cough weakness. concerns? what should i be asking my doctor?
this weight loss is excessive. you need a chest xray ekg and nutritional advice. you may have a bacterial infection on top of flu and need antibiotics. should get some blood work and look for elevated white count. make sure you drink enough fluids and recheck your potassium.
why is it that i wake up and can't breathe and when i try to go to sleep my heart beats fast and i'm always tired but can't sleep. what is it?
make sure you are suffering from increased stress and anxiety disorder. it is important for you to see a primary care physician to rule out asthma avid reflux sleep apnea etc and then focus on anxiety disorder.
why might it be that the nurse wanted to give ekg test for asthma?
chest tightness can be a symptom of asthma but also of heart attack and the nurse if probably making sure your heart is ok.
why might it be that the nurse wanted to give ekg test for asthma?
i suspect if you had some shortness of breath or chest tightness the office would consider an ekg to evaluate your heart rate and rhythm. it may be that an abnormal heart rhythm may be the cause of your symptomology.
what is the best form of magnesium to? take for? heart pvcs? and asthma?
the usual form of magnesium is mag sulfate but unless you are deficient in this substance do not rely on it as your treatment for pvc or asthma since there is little evidence that magnesium supplement can help.
what is the best form of magnesium to? take for? heart pvcs? and asthma?
magnesium glycinate is what i have researched and found to to be the most appropriate especially for the heart.
what tests would you do for 58-yr old female w/ confusion (diabetes asthma anemia apnea spider cyst on brain). had mri ct spinal tap ekg. ?
start with complete h+p and blood tests. would especially want to know: thyroid function tests b12 liver function tests kidney function tests etc.
what tests would you do for 58-yr old female w/ confusion (diabetes asthma anemia apnea spider cyst on brain). had mri ct spinal tap ekg. ?
sodium calcium urea ammonia illicit and licit drugs urinalysis urine blood csf cultures rarely heavy metals arsenic aspirin etc.
what asthma medicine can i take without heart rate side effects?
controller medications in general do not make the heart rate increase as much as bronchodilators like albuterol pirbuterol salmeterol and formoterol. inhaled steroids only make the heart rate increase rarely. singulair (montelukast) and its cousins accolate and zyflo also do not tend to have this side effect. mast cell stabilitzers like intal tilade don't either but no longer available sadly.
what asthma medicine can i take without heart rate side effects?
there are inhalers that are less likely to cause your heart rate to increase most inhalers to treat asthma do have this side-effect. see your doctor so you can try an inhaler that causes this side-effect less often.
i've been having heart palpitations for 2 weeks during night and sometimes in day. also short of breath when running. causes? stress? how to stop it?
get checked for thyroid/ heart condition viral illness autoimmune condition asthma bronchitis emphysema stress anxiety etc. treatment is geared toward the cause of the problem. take care!
i have an unusually fast heart rate for long periods of time. what is wrong?
what do you mean by "unusually fast hr"? causes of sinus (normal) tachycardia include:fever pain anxiety fatigue exercise dehydration caffeine asthma inhalers many other medicines and drugs hemorrhage anemia excess thyroid hormone; then there are abnormal rhythms such as atrial fibrillation or flutter pat/svt wpw and vt - there are many other possibilities. you need an ekg!
i had a ct of chest done and it showed hyperinflated lungs. which could be asthma-copd-lung disease right? could these cause atrial fibrillation?
not really there is not direct correlation. however you are more likely to mat (multifocal atrial tachycardia) with lung disease.
i had a ct of chest done and it showed hyperinflated lungs. which could be asthma-copd-lung disease right? could these cause atrial fibrillation?
yes in advanced and untreated copd can cause atrial fibrilation. changes in blood gases abnormalities in pulmonary function studies and hemodynamic changes due to pulmonary hypertension can cause a fib but it does not happen in every case of copd and is not very common cause of atrial fibrilation. stop smoking if you do and follow the tratment prescribed by your doctor.
i jog a 3-4 min. jog every day and 3/4 mi. once a week. its hard to breath and hurts my throat and lung/heart area. had bronchitis b4. idk athsma?
see an allergist or pulmonoligist for evaluation and testing. you could possibly have asthma which is poorly controlled and triggered by exercise.
i jog a 3-4 min. jog every day and 3/4 mi. once a week. its hard to breath and hurts my throat and lung/heart area. had bronchitis b4. idk athsma?
this is a matter that needs further evaluation especially if this is a recent change for you. the work up should consider heart related issues ruling out angina and chf. from the lung point of view a breathing test is needed checking for asthma and copd. blood tests to check for anemia thyroid problems. etc.
is asthma caused by rheumatic heart disease?
both are immune aberations but the two diseases are not related.
is asthma caused by rheumatic heart disease?
these are totally distinct illnesses.
is it possible to die from a heart attack during a dobutamine stress test?
all types of stress test have risks including the rare risk of death. other risks include arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation palpitations copd or asthma exacerbation and passing out. fortunately most are rare.
is it safe to take beta blockers for pvcs if alsi have asthma?
b-blockers result in bronchconstriction meaning the airways tend to close whereas b-agonists tend to bronchodilate or open the airways. so b-blockers may result in airway closure leading to acute asthma symptoms. (note: even b-blocker eye drops can have this effect! ) some b-blockers do this to a lesser extent than others so check with your doctor first.
is it safe to take beta blockers for pvcs if alsi have asthma?
the severity of your asthma & the severity of your arrhythmia dictate which course to take. there are some beta blockers that don't impact the breathing tubes much. discuss this with your doctor before you use the beta blocker.
i have a pacemaker. but i am having trouble breathing when i lay down. what could it be?
it may mean that you have congestive heart failure i. e. extrafluid build u p in your body with leg swelling. when you sleep flat the fluid creeps up to the lungs making you short of breath. if you have edema you will need to control salt and water and take your water pills. other options are lung disease like asthma emphysema or pneumonia. it is imperative to check with doctor before emergency.
i keep having chest pain with pressure that is unrelieved by pain medications (norco 5/325). nothing on stress ekg or ct tests hi starting in december of 2011 i had excruciating pain in my chest around the sternum and the between the shoulder blades t
this is a complex question with no simple answer. first of all stress tests although an excellent screening test can have false negatives. an excellent low risk test for coronary disease currently is a special ct scan called a ct angiogram or cta. is this the test you had? if so then your risk of coronary sources of your pain is probably negligible. secondly if you are having shortness of breath with a normal ordinary ct scan you probably don't have intrinsic lung (parenchymal) disease. this being said. there are other causes of shortness of breath. like asthma etc. some other chest diseases can cause chest pain and perceived shortness of breath like esophageal disorders. these are more common in patients with autoimmune problems like lupus.
i have long qt syndrome and asthma. i need a rescue inhaler. which one has been used most on people like me?
long qt syndrome and asthma pose some unique challenges. if one has both these syndromes then follow up is needed with both an allergist and cardiologist.
i have long qt syndrome and asthma. i need a rescue inhaler. which one has been used most on people like me?
i would probably prescribe levalbuterol (xopenex) for you but you should ask your physician as well.
i have asthma i get it from light exercise. i'm taking symbicort which gives me heart racing and anxiety. could i quit symbicort? my asthma is not severe never had it before.
your reaction could be do to many things. one possibility is an adverse reaction to formeterol the long-acting bronchodilator in symbicort (budesonide and formoterol). i recommend contacting the physiician who prescribed it. ask for an inhaled corticosteroid as an alternative. use albuterol if you have acute symptoms of asthma. see a physician in the next 12-24 hours to review symptoms & adjust your controller medications.
i have asthma i get it from light exercise. i'm taking symbicort which gives me heart racing and anxiety. could i quit symbicort? my asthma is not severe never had it before.
there are other inhalers that can be prescribed if you are having uncomfortable side effects. see your doctor and describe these symptoms and alternate inhalers can be tried.
i have asthma i get it from light exercise. i'm taking symbicort which gives me heart racing and anxiety. could i quit symbicort? my asthma is not severe never had it before.
first question to answer is whether you have asthma or do you have exercise induced bronchospasm. these are distinctly different but both cause exercise related symptoms. you should see a board certified allergist or pulmonologist for evaluation and appropriate testing to help determine the cause and level of control needed.
i have asthma i get it from light exercise. i'm taking symbicort which gives me heart racing and anxiety. could i quit symbicort? my asthma is not severe never had it before.
mild/exercise induced asthma usually doesn't need a steroid controller medication. think about underlying food allergens stored toxins in the body as a cause. look at the a4m. com website "doc locator" to find a local functional medicine physician who can do a more thorough evaluation of why you have asthma and help you "fix it" so you won't need meds. start a daily probiotic like florajen to hlp.
i am having some burning sensation down the back of my right leg. it move from my calf to my buttocks should i worry it moves and is never the entire leg. i am not short of breath but i am asthmatic. my blood pressure is good 106/76 and my pulse is 67.
you may have sciatica in your right leg. sciatica is leg pain caused by the sciatic nerve being pinched in the back. it sounds like the pain in the leg is improving. if it is nor improving or getting worse then i would recommend seeing your primary care doctor for further workup. please see my health guide on lumbar disk herniation and sciatica. good luck!
i've mild asthma under control. why shouldn't i take beta blockers to control mvp without regurgitation? i'm taking diltiazem.
most asthmatics have a form of albuterol inhaler (e. g. proair ventolin proventil) for rescue use and many have salmeterol or formoterol inhalers. all these medications stimulate what is called the "beta-adrenergic" receptor (beta receptor for adrenalin) which causes the muscles around the broncial tubes to relax. beta-blockers block the beta-receptors making asthma worse in many individuals.
i've mild asthma under control. why shouldn't i take beta blockers to control mvp without regurgitation? i'm taking diltiazem.
there are beta adrenergic receptors in the heart (beta 1) the arteries and the airways (beta 2). in the heart it slows down the heart rate. it dilates the arteries. these actions help lower bp. however it can constrict the airways when beta 2 receptors are blocked which can be problematic in asthmatics. talk to your doc re cardioselective beta blockers which do not significantly affect asthma.
is it safe to mix nadolol (beta blocker) with allergy medication?
beta blockers can sometimes make asthma worse and can also worsen nasal congestion but there are no serious drug-drug interactions with allergy medications i'm aware of.
i am a 23 year old woman. i been having chest pains since february. i don't want to consider it being a heart attack. last time i told my doctor this she said i'm too young to have a heart attack? if its not a heart attack than what could it be? i do not
differential diagnosis spans from serious problems like pulmonary embolism pneumothorax cardiomyopathy congenital disorders etc to things such as gastric acid reflux or musculoskeletal pain which are by far the most common. also asthma and anxiety. a thorough physical exam and a few simple tests should help you. and if you have had this pain since feb makes it less likely to be really bad.
i have a resting hr of 50 but jumps to 180 w/ min exercise ist r/o bp 94/60 asthma dx. i am 27 no meds. is it ok on my heart to get pregnant?
your family doc or a cardiologist and your asthma doc as you will need a workup of your heart lungs etc. before getting pregnant.
i have a resting hr of 50 but jumps to 180 w/ min exercise ist r/o bp 94/60 asthma dx. i am 27 no meds. is it ok on my heart to get pregnant?
you need to exercise more that will prepare your body better for your pregnancy as well. make sure your asthma is well controlled while you are pregnant. good luck!
i have exercise induced asthma and possible hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. when i exercise how can i tell which one of these causes a problem?
to sort out. see a cardiologist for further evaluation and testing.
i have exercise induced asthma and possible hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. when i exercise how can i tell which one of these causes a problem?
if you wheeze it is probably the asthma. shortness of breath may be either. cardiopulmonary testing can be done mostly at academic centers where they will be able to tell you what is the problem exactly.
i have graves disease im on 5mg of carbimazole but im still getting pulpitations i can't have beta blockers cause im asthmatic?
it sounds like hyperthyroidism is not being controlled medically. other alternatives include thyroid ablation with radioactive iodine versus thyroidectomy by surgery. should consult endocrinologist for recommendations.
i have graves disease im on 5mg of carbimazole but im still getting pulpitations i can't have beta blockers cause im asthmatic?
depending on how bad your asthma is i would suggest that you try a selective beta-blocker working together with your doctor. as often as not that may help your palpitations and not make your asthma worse. good luck!
i have graves disease im on 5mg of carbimazole but im still getting pulpitations i can't have beta blockers cause im asthmatic?
beta blockers as a class can cause bronchospasm and worsen asthma particularly the older generic ones such as atenolol metoprolol. the newer ones such as toprol xl (in the us) are more cardioselective and have less effect on the lungs.
i have been suffering from chest pain for 15yrs! it began when i was 18 years old. i was told its anxiety/costo. pain is reproducible and no breathlessness but hdl is155. my stress echo was perfect 5 years ago. thoughts?
asthma anxiety fibromyalgia systemic diseases bead through check up.
i am asthmatic & having palitation? what is the best drug?
palpitations would suggest a heart condition. a heart specialist would be the right physician to evaluate palpitations. the quick relief medication albuterol can lead to increased heart rate and possibly palpitations. for some people switching to lev-albuterol (xopenex) may help. controller medications like inhaled steroids do not lead to palpitations.
i have difficulty in breathing but my ecg and 2d echo results are normal my lung x-ray is also ok. but i have high level of bad cholesterol?
nothing you've got there has given you an answer yet. the most common answer of course are obesity and/or lack of regular exercise. if you exercise all the time and that's where trouble starts asthma or exercise-induced asthma is often to blame. cholesterol should have nothing to do with it.
i am an otherwise healthy 25 year old female with sinus tachycardia. i take nadolol to treat it. what could the underlying cause be?
usually this is due to a non cardiac problem like anemia over active thyroid or asthma. there are rare cases of unexplained tachycardia which can be treated with beta blockers like nadalol.
is possible for me to have respiratory problem and asthma even though my ecg is normal? i have frequent chest pain and dry cough.
yes the ecg is a test to assess cardiac disease only rarely will advanced lung disease manifest itself on an ecg.
is possible for me to have respiratory problem and asthma even though my ecg is normal? i have frequent chest pain and dry cough.
this is entirely possible.
i am atopic nd have asthma. using seroflo tabs for inhalation and mometasone furoate. chronic fatigue and palpitation. madical exam. cant study?
care by the people who are experienced it treating atopic dermatitis. please find a dermatologist who has the expertise in managing this dreadful condition! read this great article to find out more. good luck! <link>
i've had chest xray ekg n the doctor says heart is fine n strong but here lately i've had chest pains seems like the more i do it hurts?
chest pain associated with activities can still be heart condition acid reflux complicateted with esophageal spasm asthma/reactive airway disease chest wall pain. a stress test could be indicated even with normal ecg depending on your risk assessment. talk to your doctor.
i have asthma & have been having very frequent palpitations some days (like today). had ekg 4 days ago that was ok should i go see the doctor again?
your symptoms could be related to asthma or asthma medication but may also be unrelated. you should see your doctor again.
i'm having a ct heart angiogrami. i have been given ivabradine 5mg (mild asthma) i'm worried re my heart slowing down too much. i have brain aneurysm.
the pulse is slowed enough to gather good images of the mobile heart and arteries. they will watch bp and pulse carefully.
is it normal to have a rapid heartbeat &shaking unsettled unable to sleep &slight anxiety following a steroid cortisone 500 injection 4 asthma?
those are some side effects from high doses of steroids but can also occur with exacerbations of asthma.
i've been feeling a weird poking sensation on the left side of my chest. all my heart tests ekg echo ct angio and stress test came normal. i have asthma. what should i do?
poking doesnt sound like asthma. could be a muscle spasm or an extra heartbeat (usually harmless). it sounds like you've had enough tests. the ct scan would show if there's something out of place. maybe your body is telling you to lay off the cigarettes?
i've been feeling a weird poking sensation on the left side of my chest. all my heart tests ekg echo ct angio and stress test came normal. i have asthma. what should i do?
you are probably experiencing muscle pains from the chest wall. it is very unlikely that anything serious is wrong since your tests were ok. smoking however greatly increases your risk of developing serious diseases in the future.
i've been feeling a weird poking sensation on the left side of my chest. all my heart tests ekg echo ct angio and stress test came normal. i have asthma. what should i do?
pulmonary function testing and methacholine challenge testing and empirical treatment with electronic peak flow meter and bronchodilator are the main tests to check for asthma. discuss with your lung doc.
i've been having heart palpitations occasional skiped beats breathing deeply seems to alleviate them what causes this?
a good history and physical very important to find out the cause. could be just nothing. many people have skipped beats that after the million dollar work up turn to be benign. i have those. but possible causes are anxiety psychosocial stressors caffeine energy drinks hyperthyroid heart disease asthma side effects from medications. talk to your doctor.
i get bouts of tachycardia when overtired climb steep stairs/hills under stress or after hot showers. is this heart or asthma related?
your heartbeat to know if it is really tachycardia or just a pounding? it has to be over 100 to be true tachycardia. i see you have asthma so it could be your asthma and stress and activity sure could tip it off.
i get bouts of tachycardia when overtired climb steep stairs/hills under stress or after hot showers. is this heart or asthma related?
there are many possibilities: dehydration anemia asthma medication (albuterol) the asthma itself an unrelated heart condition and others. best to sort it out in person with your doctor.
i have lam disease -a rare lung disease. just diagnosed w/atrial flutter &prescribed metoprolol tartrate. any lung side effects from new med 2 watch 4?
in sensitive patients with reactive airway disease beta blockers may trigger airways spasm leading to asthma-like symptoms such as shortness of breath and wheezing.
what are the adverse effects of beta blockers during cardiac rehabilitation?
beta blockers are the drug of choice for cardiac patients for prevention of future coronary events. the drug can lower the peak heart rate during exercise. however patients can continue to get a good training effect even on the beta blockers. the benefits of the drugs far outweigh the potential risks unless the person has severe asthma that could be potentially made worse by the beta blockers.
in er for asthma while on monitor they said i had a short run of ventricular fibrillation it stooped felt flutter in chest. ovrnight no more. worry?
if they really meant ventricular fibrillation it can be fatal and will strongly recomend you to see a cardiologist for further evaluation with stress test and echocardiogram.
in hosp for asthma on monitr brief ventricular tachycardia overnight on monitor intermittent periods cardiac ectopy staying another night concerning?
part of your problem may be from over-stimulation from the beta agonist (brochodilator) use plus possibly oxygen lack and adverse effects from large dose of steroid given. but any arrhythmia especially ventricular tachycarida is of concern and you need a cardiologic evaluation after your asthma gets under control.
i have a pain in my chest. a tight feeling what should i do about it? could this be a heart attack? i am dizzy. feel tired and breathless
unlikely in your age. you could have asthma. or anxiety
is it always a problem for an asthmatic to have beta blockers before a ct cardiac scan to slow heart rate? thank you
it depends on how reactive or brochospastic your airways are. this is highly variable. some people tolerate beta blockers well especially the selective (beta 1) blockers. other people are exquisitely sensitive. also it depends on how long it's been since you've had an asthma attack. if you had one yesterday even if you feel well now you're not back to nl yet. if you've been well you're prob ok.
i have been short of breath at night and my heart rate at rest is 96 at night and i'm a 16 year old male. what does this mean?
asthma tends to be worse at night but you will have to be very short of breath to get a heart rate this fast. you need to see your doctor to get a check up which may include evaluation of your lungs heart and thyroid status. if you were female i would be more concerned with anemia.
what are the most common symptoms of beta blocker overdose?
airways and lungs breathing trouble no breathing wheezing (in people who have asthma) eyes ears nose and throat blurred vision double vision heart and blood irregular heartbeat lightheadedness low blood pressure heartbeat - rapid or slow heart failure shock nervous system coma confusion convulsions drowsiness excessive sweating fever nervousness weakness please call 911
what is my next move? shall i take her to a cardiologist for a second opinion? my 14 yr old daughter who has had asthma has been suffering from heart palpitations shortness of breath dizziness chest pains and fatigued for weeks. she has been off the as
palpitations are often nothing but teen years are when we see a spike in the diagnosis of svt. her asthma medicines will speed her heart rate anyway which might explain all but they could help trigger svt. a 24 holter monitor would really help if she is having palpitations on a daily basis. yes see a pediatric cardiologist.
what is my next move? shall i take her to a cardiologist for a second opinion? my 14 yr old daughter who has had asthma has been suffering from heart palpitations shortness of breath dizziness chest pains and fatigued for weeks. she has been off the as
if you are still concerned about your daughter then you should definitely see a specialist. it sounds as though her doctor has been pretty thorough with the testing he/she has ordered but if your daughter is still symptomatic it is worth looking farther for answers. call your child's doctor and ask for a specialist recommendation. good luck!
which one of these drugs can not be treatment for asthma-- metoprolol or zafirlukast.?
this is a beta blocker used to slow your heart rate. it has the potential to make asthma worse. zafurlukast is an oral drug used to treat asthma.
what are the side-effects of carvedilol?
most are not serious and may be a desired effect. slowing of the heart rate to make pumping of the heart more efficient as does lowering bp which the drug dose. at high doses it can cause bronchospasm of the airways so use with caution with asthmatics. in men it can cause ed although in a minority of patients.
icd 9 code for lower respiratory tract illness?
there are multiple different lower respiratory tract illnesses. bronchitis pneumonia copd asthma etc. etc. etc. you can probably pick your illness and simply google the icd-9 code. best wishes.
i have problems sleeping at night especially on a full stomach. i wake up gasping for air and heart racing. also a tightness in my chest. any ideas?
your symptoms are suspicious for a condition called sleep apnea which happens when your breathing pattern is disrupted during sleep. also asthma can present in a similar manner. sleep apnea is usually associated with overweight patients and asthma is normally associated with wheezing. luckily both are easily treatable see your primary care doctor for treatment options.
i am having arythmia palpitation and nervousness i don't want to take any albuterol or advair disc what other thing can i take?
albuterol may worsen palpitation shaking and nervousness. advair should not produce or worsen those symptoms. it is much safer than the oral pills for asthma.
i've been to er for ecg and doctor. 6 weeks after intravascular inject of lido/epi at dentist i still have shortness of breath. what could this be?
it could be many things such as anxiety asthma heart failure silent mi etc. the lidocaine and epinephrine is very safe when injected properly. if you still have sob you should definitely see a cardiologist rather than going to er.
i've been to er for ecg and doctor. 6 weeks after intravascular inject of lido/epi at dentist i still have shortness of breath. what could this be?
dyspnea or shortness of breath is an important symptom and before any other test understanding its circumstances is critical. have your been diagnosed with asthma? what were the circumstances that resulted in the lido/epi injection at the dentist office? is you shortness of breath continuous or intermittent? if intermittent are there specific circumstances to it: exercise anger pain?
is rightward axis and borderline ecg bad? arrhythmias for years 22 y old female asthma sleep eat well stressed tired could i have heartfailure?
based on the limited information it is unlikely that you have heart failure per se. however the arrhythmias asthma difficulty breathing weakness and borderline ekg needs medical further evaluation. please do seek medical evaluation as there are serious possibilities including blood clots in the lungs.
i have difficulty breathing and i can always feel my heart beat it shakes my chest and i saw a cardiologist but he said im fine i dont feel fine.
let your doctor know you continue to feel poorly. did you have a prolonged recording of your heart rhythm that correlated your symptoms with your rhythm? have you been checked for asthma? impossible to say what's wrong without knowing test results but even if "everything is alright" your doc can help with your symptoms. are you stressed? (anxiety can cause marked breathlessness).
i have copd and asthma i had a ecg done 2 weeks ago and had the results my left and right atrial are enlarged i am not on oxygen. any advice please!
it is very unusual just on the basis of copd and asthma alone to have both atria to be enlarged unless there is something else like an arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation which is not uncommonly associated with chronic lung disease. other causes like coexisting mitral valve disease would have been identified by the echo
i have copd and asthma i had a ecg done 2 weeks ago and had the results my left and right atrial are enlarged i am not on oxygen. any advice please!
an echo is the first screening test for "biatrial enlargement".
why don't we use beta blockers on patient with asthma and coronary disease?
because most asthma patients are on beta agonists (like albuterol) which open bronchial airways by relaxing smooth muscle in the airways. beta blockers do the reverse and would cause bronchoconstriction and thus worsen asthma or as least block the effects of the beta agonists.
why don't we use beta blockers on patient with asthma and coronary disease?
beta blockers generally exacerbate asthma as they block the receptors that open up the airways. think albuterol the mainstay of asthma treatment is a beta-agonist or exactly the opposite of the beta-blocker. however there are selective beta-blockers which act on the heart but not the lungs and may be used relatively safely in patients who have both problems.
whenever i feel short of breath i panic. i have been tested for asthma and have had lots of ekgs. but am almost constantly sob. what could it be?
panic can give you shortness of breath and vice versa. a number of young women suffer from vocal cord syndrome where their vocal cords contract and they cannot breathe. i wonder if you have been tested for that? see a good pulmonologist.
whenever i feel short of breath i panic. i have been tested for asthma and have had lots of ekgs. but am almost constantly sob. what could it be?
there are many conditions that are associated with a sensation of shortness of breath. it is best to continue to work through your physician to clarify other etiologies besides anxiety. for a list you can go here: <link>
why would a patients pulse rate increase when they're having an asthma attack?
because they can't breathe well they are hypoxic and the heart compensates by beating faster to get more blood volume through the lungs in the hope of getting it better oxygenated.
why would a patients pulse rate increase when they're having an asthma attack?
when faced with the onset of difficulty the stress response of the body kicks in. the adrenal glands kick in some cortisol & epinephrine. the epinephrine will raise the heart rate.
i have a tightness in my chest and neck and i feel like i'm going to have a heart attack. but the tests came back fine 3 weeks ago. what could be wron?
although you have had one normal work up there still does not mean you do not have a heart problem. other possibilities include lung problems like asthma infection or blood clot. you are young coronary disease less likely but other reasons for chest pain from your heart. anxiety and panic attacks can cause chest pain too.
why is propanolol or metoprolol contraindicated to patients who have asthma and copd?
they are beta-blockers and may cause bronchial constriction which exacerbates asthma and copd. we treat asthma with beta-agonists (albuterol etc) which are exactly the opposite. that being said metoprolol in particular is a selective drug and many asthmatics/copd-ers are able to take it if needed for heart disease without any ill effects. talk to your doctor.
why is propanolol or metoprolol contraindicated to patients who have asthma and copd?
these medications are beta-blockers which can act in many places in your body including your airways. the medications may worsen your asthma/copd by worsening lung bronchoconstriction (airway tightening). also makes it harder for asthmatics to respond to their rescue medications - which is a beta-agonist.
is there any danger in taking metoprolol and snoking cannabis? i know u shouldnt smoke but is there more danger with beta?
to be safe - legally and medically - keep this in moderation. that's a good thing in any case. the major risks for your medication are from classes of asthma drugs that have their effects increased to a dangerous degree. if smoking was to cause you to need asthma relief this might be significant. otherwise being moderate should keep you safe. best wishes!
what is the difference between cardiac cough and cardiac asthma? cough is not from medication or illness. have it with talking. have dcm.
cardiac cough can comes at night as part of the paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea from chf. cardiac asthma is bronchospasm/wheezing from pulmonary interstitial fluid accumulation from chf.
what is the difference between cardiac cough and cardiac asthma? cough is not from medication or illness. have it with talking. have dcm.
both refer to symptoms that are usually interpreted as pulmonary in origin but found to be from increased fluid in the lung from congestion from heart failure.
why am i freezing when air is set at 76-77 some shortness of breath. had ekg and chest xray. all good
go see your dr for a spirometry. you may have signs of asthma/ reactive airway or obstructive lung disease/ bronchitis or emphysema. if you smoke quit. best of luck!
why does the pulse rate increase during an asthma attack?
necessitates increased heart rate to deliver whatever oxygen is in the system.
i have high blood pressure and heart palpitations n paradoxical vocal cord disorder. i wk full time. everything plays up. what can i do?
i need more information donna. vcd mimics asthma and if you have high blood pressure and are on medication already there could be issues related to them causing your palpitations. i need to know what meds you are taking for both issues to make further recommendations. caffeine and alcohol could also be involved.
i'm 17 and i have panick attacks and anxiety disorder i have been prescribed 20 mg propanolol twice daily is this med safe for me?
discuss it w/ your doctor. if you don't have any condition that they warn against ie - asthma etc. then it is used for your conditions listed. these are not the primary purpose but that's common now. discuss why they chose this over other drugs for you - it's good to be informed about such choices by the doctor. best!
i have chronic asthma. i am on singulair (montelukast). i took flovent (2 puffs ) earlier this evening and my heart beat has been erratic. caused by the flovent?
this is not usually a side effect associated with flovent. it is definitely a side effect of albuterol( brand names proair ventolin for example). sometimes people gets confused which inhaler they are using when they have been prescribed more than one. double check on this since this is most likely caused by albuterol instead.
i have chronic asthma. i am on singulair (montelukast). i took flovent (2 puffs ) earlier this evening and my heart beat has been erratic. caused by the flovent?
is frequently associated with use of short acting beta agonist inhalers (sabas) such as flovent. this is generally fairly short-lived but it is possible that some patients may have more prolonged "palpitations" caused by increased heart rate (caused by beta stimulation) or irregular/skipped beats. if this is the case you should talk with your doctor about it asap.
i have chronic asthma. i am on singulair (montelukast). i took flovent (2 puffs ) earlier this evening and my heart beat has been erratic. caused by the flovent?
flovent is an inhaled steroid and does not cause palpitations. albuterol would be more likely to do so. now if the flovent is combined with another medicine (is there another word after fluticasone on the inhaler? ) then it would be a possible cause. if you have chest pain or dizziness with the erratic heart beat you need to be seen urgently.
i have chronic asthma. i am on singulair (montelukast). i took flovent (2 puffs ) earlier this evening and my heart beat has been erratic. caused by the flovent?
flovent is unlikely cause palpitations. it is a long acting steroid inhaler usually dosed 2puffs bid. the most important tool to monitor the asthma is your peak flow meter. take 3 readings am and pm average them and keep a record of the number. if your maintenance therapy of singulair (montelukast) and flovent are effective your # >450. if not your regimen needs reevaluation. ekg/ labs to evaluate palpitations
is severe ectopic heart beats dangerous w/ lack of oxygen to the heart w/ pulm stenosis h murmur and severe asthma? pulse is 120+ w/ heart medicine.
in general the answer would be no but your situation is quite complicated and you will need to discuss with your doc or cardiologist.
i've been diagnosed with cough-variant asthma clear xray and ecg. it presents primarily on the left side with wet cough and tightness. is this normal?
no cough perfect health is normal. cough variant asthma is more common than the public understands though. assuming the diagnosis is correct resist the urge to "throw antibiotics at it" and instead i hope your doctor is prescribing beta-agonists (albuterol) inhaled steroids (flovent etc) and maybe other adjuctive meds. if no improvement in a few weeks follow up with your dr.
what r the possibilities of chronic rapid heart beat near 100 and above in a 38 yr old female no heart condition at present?
i will recommend performing an ekg and a thyroid test to ruled our hyperthyroidism or graves dz more common in females. ekg to ruled out heart electrical conditions like pre-excitation syndromes like wpw. also be aware of excess in coffee and medications that will increase the heart rate. obesity and asthma will increase your resting heart rate too.
why has my doctor not checked for coronary artery anomolies excercise chest pain. had echo ecg stress ecg 24h ecg bloods. 21 male.
at 21 y/o with the above negative studies i can say with certainty that you do not have coronary artery disease. i will look for chest wall pain/costochondritis asthma induce exercise acid reflux that can mimic pressure chest pain like from the heart anxiety disorders. trust your doctor stay in shape do not smoke or drink eat healthy.
i went in for svt they queried p. e symptoms worsened repeated d dimer blood gasses low chest x-ray clear ecg clear today increase in breathlessness new pain when i breathe hence asking if d dimers can be false negative suffer aniexty which i'm being treat
good that you were checked but any blood test can give a false negative. nothing is 100%. however you had other tests that confirmed the lack of pe yesterday. could your problem be asthma? could it be costochondritis or pleuritis? since your symptoms have worsened you deserve further evaluation.
is it normal to have heart problems with asthma/acute bronch.? since i have been sick my heart beats fast when i lay down and it makes me feel weak.
it maybe a side effect (se) from your asthma medication. albuterol inhaled is very frequently used for asthma and frequently gives se of tachycardia ( rapid heart beat) and palpitations. talk to your primary doctor about it also you may have another associated condition that needs further evaluation and treatment.
i've been taking ventolin blue inhaler to control asthma but it makes me feel shaky and get palpitations. what should i do?
levalbuterol or xopenex (levalbuterol) inhaler tends to cause less tremor and palpitations than albuterol inhalers such as ventolin proair proventil. it is more expensive.
i've been taking ventolin blue inhaler to control asthma but it makes me feel shaky and get palpitations. what should i do?
commonly causes jitteriness and rapid heart rate but this effect is usually transient. if you are especially sensitive and bothered talk to your doctor about alternatives such as levalbuterol or ipratropium bromide.
why dose my heart hurt sometimes? i've been to a hospital because of my heart rate was to high and had to stay for 4 days then they said i was fine?
heart pain is probably your symptom. a common cause of cp in young males is chest wall pain/costochondritis acid reflux asthma pneumonia bronchitis. if the hospital said you were fine probably you don't have a heart disease. stay with your primary care doctor to find out the cause of your cp.
what causes rapid heart beat headache fever muscle aches and tender on right side of neck. i am 39yrs old female with asthma and high blood pressure?
it appears you have a viral upper fespiratory infection. . see your doctor for a throat culture to run out a strep throat.
how can i tell if i am having a heart burn or heart attack? it seems that symptoms of heart burn and heart attack are very similar how can i tell the differences and the warning signs before it's too late
there is no single test that distinguished one from the other. a heart attack is more likely if you are a man older than age 55 or a woman older than age 65 if you smoke have diabetes high blood pressure or have high levels of total cholesterol. it is more likely to be a heart attack if you have relatives who had a heart attack at an early age (men before age 55 or women before age 65) or you have had a heart attack previously. a heart attack is usually a feeling of pressure behind your breast bone which may radiate to the arms associated with exertion (activity) and relieved with rest or nitroglycerin. it may be accompanied by nausea vomiting sweating or feeling faint. it is less likely to be a heart attack if the pain is sharp or stabbing occurs due to a change in your position or with taking a deep breath. heartburn is a burning sensation in the chest that may radiate into the back jaw neck or arms and can be accompanied by a cough hoarseness difficulty or pain with swallowing vomiting and lung problems including asthma and pneumonia. it may resolve on its own or with the use of antacids. it occurs after you eat especially if you lie down soon after if you eat a lot of chocolate or peppermints if you smoke or drink coffee. because these types of chest pain are difficult to separate if you think you might be having a heart attack call 911 use nitroglycerin if you have it and chew on an aspirin while you await 911.
how can i get heart palpitations under control?
get plenty of sleep avoid stress don't smoke or use alcohol caffeine or energy drinks. avoid colas mountain dew dr. pepper diet pills and short acting asthma inhalers. if that doesn't work see your doctor for further testing.
is it normal to feel your heartbeat even when it's at 68 bpm and i've had all tests holter monitor stress test and echo and bloods and all was normal i also get sob so what could it be? .
do you have overweight problem hypertension or asthma? you can consult me or one of us for more info. .
is it normal to feel your heartbeat even when it's at 68 bpm and i've had all tests holter monitor stress test and echo and bloods and all was normal i also get sob so what could it be? .
not so common yet does not mean a problem. people commonly ignore their heart beat consciously. yet given intensity of the muscle contraction including resting rates & heart outputs becoming aware not that difficult with practice & focus. study: <link> for some basics of heart function. better able to monitor than oblivious. sob c/w anxiety ? asthma etc. stress tests=zero value
what can i take for arythmia palpitation and nervousness if i don't want to take albuterol or advair?
you should talk to your doctor about managing your asthma with other medications that have less side effects. there are other options for you.
is cardura (doxazosin) a reasonable second bp drug with lisinopril when ccbs diuretics beta blockers are not well tolerated? also on b-agonists for asthma.
cardura (doxazosin) or another alpha blocker type drug is an option when the other classes of drugs mentioned are not well tolerated. alpha blockers can cause dizziness so they are best taken at night to minimize this effect. the dose needs to be increased slowly. make sure you are exercising and minimizing salt alcohol and caffeine as well.
will gerd cause asthma and heart palpitations?
gerd can cause wheezing and palpitations.
why does my heart rate rise to 110 beats per minute when i eat gluten it's normally 60?
this is a classic sign of food allergy in fact arthur coca md wrote a classic book "the pulse test " describing a fast pulse after eating a food as one of the best ways to diagnose food allergies. gluten sensitivity is an extremely common problem that can cause fatigue insomnia asthma depression anxiety etc. see <link> consider a trial of gluten avoidance for several weeks.
went to er getting pvc's about once every 6 beats. took blood count great. electrolytes/kidney function great. do these test mean my arteries r good?
more than 5 odd heartbeats per minute is worrisome. i trust you've got coffee use limited and aren't using an asthma inhaler. i'm less worried about your coronaries electrolytes & kidneys than a possible channelopathy or conduction pathway defect. if this persists a cardiology consult may be in order; a holter monitor and/or a special ekg may be in your future. stay proactive.
how is vasovagal syncope related to the autonomic nervous system?
your autonomic nervous system (ans) controls virtually all the organs and systems in your body. if your parasympathetic (pns) is hyper you could have urgent urination diarrhea gas bloating watery eyes allergies asthma low blood pressure. the vaso-vagal response is caused by excess pns tone which will lower pulse and bp at the same time. the vagus nerve is a major player in pns.
heart symptoms worse with beta blocker-what is this?
beta blockers slow the heart rate and reduce the force of contraction of the heart. in cases of slow heart rate and weakness at baseline or low bp these meds could make a person symptomatically worse. this might also happen in cases of acute asthma.
heart racing hard to breath weak rib's sore headache asthma dizzy no equallibriam?
you really need to be evaluated immediately. you should go to the er so you can be evaluated and treated. shortness of breath especially with your other symptoms can be life-threatening so go to the er so this can be diagnosed and treated urgently. good luck!
heart racing hard to breath weak rib's sore headache asthma dizzy no equallibriam?
you sound as if you are quite ill. strongly recommend going to nearest emergency room and be seen quickly.
i am experiencing burning in my chest at night similar to breathing cold air with chest tightnes. i also feel random sharp chest pains. i have had 4 ablations in 18 months for afib.
in view of your history of afib cardiac causes of chest discomfort and possible blood clots(emboli) to the lungs must be considered. your cardiologist who knows all your findings is best qualified to evaluate and advise you. noncardiac causes include pinched intercostal nerves asthma equivalent or other lung or esophageal issues.
i have a tightness in the middle of my chest when i laugh sometimes. i have seasonal asthma and recently has perfect ekg. is this my asthma? anxiety?
pain in the chest with inspiration or cough is usually a pulmonary issue. see your md to make sure
why does your pulse go up when you have a cold? i have asthma and i feel like my heart pounds when i have a cold?
fever almost always increases heart rate. your pulse probably goes up because you have a fever.
how to get a fast heart beat besides exercising and drinking caffeine?
fever anemia pain anxiety panic/fright asthma inhalers amphetamines cocaine hemorrhage excess thyroid hormone infection epinephrine dehydration congestive heart failure carbon monoxide poisoning - there are many more: i can't think of them all!
i've had chest pain for the last 2-3 years. i am going to the cardiologist this upcoming monday and get an ekg. i'd like an idea of what this is. thx!
given your age and how long this has been happening the likely cause is asthma related. you will certainly need a complete work up to rule out anything dangerous. anxiety can also cause chest pain as well.
why when i get a pvc i feel a quick instant loss in breath and sometimes cough? this is so scary and starts my worry and anxiety
actually the underlying lung issue (copd asthma bronchitis or emphysema) can be one of the causes of premature ventricular contraction which is the result of the left ventricle of the heart contracting too early before receiving the expected signal from the sino-atrial node. hypoxia or a lack of oxygen in the blood can lead to this issue.
what causes taccycardia and a feeling of restlessness?
the list of things causing tachycardia and restlessness is much longer than this space allows. for instance -- the effects of many drugs like asthma medications being hyperthyroid withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines etc. heart arrhythmias can cause these also. please see your own physician who knows you and your medical history. if these symptoms are acute and severe go to an er.
how come the nurse wanted to give an ekg test for asthma?
if you were in an emergency room and showed up breathless even if you say you have asthma they need to make sure it is not your heart making you ill or asthma plus a cardiac condition.
how come the nurse wanted to give an ekg test for asthma?
ekg is typically not needed for evaluation of asthma. it may have been indicated for something else. for instance if a patient presents with asthma exacerbation but also has a rapid heart or complains of chest pain physician may order an ekg to rule out a cardiac reason for these symptoms.
i have had asthma since a child. i am using salbutamol 4mg every night and also the ventolin inhaler. i have had an ecg and it shows sinus arrhythmia?
you need to be first evaluated by a cardiologist and please mention that you've got asthma then you need to be put on an asthma controller medicine when seen by an allergist or a pulmonologist good luck
i have pots heart failure and asthma. i sleep with my head raised about six inches. i am short of breath when i lie down. why?
this is typical for heart failure. . when you lay down the fluid in your lungs accumulates in the lower parts of the lungs so it gives the feeling of shortness of breath. the treatment is taking the heart medications regularly including the water pill. its ok to sleep on many pillows or raise the head of your bed.
why does postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome cause fast hr if the blood pressure stays normal? doesnt make normal physiological sense.
if it made sense it would be physiologic. it's not. it's pathologic. for example: breathing passages that swell up when exposed to smoke makes no sense but when it happens we call it asthma.
with carcinoid syndrome is flushing constant and is diarrhea and pain present. i have facial flushing +palpitations menopause 9 yrs ago?
carcinoid syndrome causes episodic flushing diarrhea and palpitations. other things can cause these symptoms and you mention one of them-- menopause. i notice you have asthma and if you use albuterol inhalers they can definitely cause those symptoms. steroids like prednisone can also cause this as can anxiety dumping syndrome and a host of other things. see a doc to get this sorted out!
what causes the heart rate to escalate when coughing? i have asthma pneumonia and bronchitis. am being treated with inhalers and antibiotics
coughing can cause this. this could be related to the valsalva maneuver which is brought on by coughing. there are different phases of the valsalva and in brief this affects the heart rate. also if you have breathing problems are medication for this is confect heart rate cost to go up.
heart rate 153 how danger? can my heart stop if continue fast? also i'm asthma and most of the time i can't breath normal. plzzz help
this is a dangerous heart rate. go to the er now you need immediate help. have somebody drive you if there is no one available call 911! good luck!
heart rate 153 how danger? can my heart stop if continue fast? also i'm asthma and most of the time i can't breath normal. plzzz help
the causes of a fast heart rhtyhm needs to be evaluated first some may be due to abnormal circuits in the heart or may actually be due to normal variants ie inappropriate sinus tachycardia. maintaining an elevated heart rate for a prolonged periodof time can put you at risk for a tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure. you must seek evluation for this.
when i take my rescue inhaler it makes my palpitations worse and i get fluttering. i take a beta blocker daily. now my hr is so high 197 chest hurt?
rescue inhaler like albuterol can raise your heart rate but not up to 197. why are you on beta blocker. usually beta blockers are contraindicated in patients with bronchial asthma. you also had echocardiogram. beta blockers are only used i asthmatics who have co morbid cardiovascular disease. go to er
when i start to' run my chest gets very tight and mi short of breath. i've had an ecg and bene checked out everything came baci normal. what copule it?
the most common disease that would cause your symptoms is asthma. many people have "exercise-induced asthma. " typically this can be successfully treated and prevented. see your doctor and ask about exercise induced asthma.
when i start to' run my chest gets very tight and mi short of breath. i've had an ecg and bene checked out everything came baci normal. what copule it?
you need to get systematic work-up to rule out myocardial ischemia on exertion or exercise induced asthma or exercise induced pulmonary hypertension. consult a cardiologist and pulmonologist.
have idiopathic dcm & bi vent icd. ef was 38%. have a bad cold and heart feels strange short of breath but don't want to go to er due to cost. norma?
many times people with weak hearts think they are having a cough and cold but are really in chf. cough especially at night may be cardiac asthma. call your doc. tell him if you have gained any water weight he may try to increase ur water pills but if that doesnt work may have to admit you.
i have chf and take coreg (carvedilol) for blood pressure. can i take ventolin hfa for asthma?
yes you can if you have asthma or copd
i have chf and take coreg (carvedilol) for blood pressure. can i take ventolin hfa for asthma?
those drugs are often used together but be aware that you are subject to side effects such as rapid heart rate atrial fibrillation and other arrhythmias - so always use the smallest effective dose. also: coreg (carvedilol) can make asthma worse. metoprolol might be a better choice for you because it's somewhat selective whereas coreg (carvedilol) is not but metoprolol can also make asthma worse in some people.
i have ige level of 637. how can ii reduce it? it sometimes make me feel of breathlessness. and heart palpitations.
ige gets elevated in allergy your difficulty breathing is part of respiratory allergy like reactive airway disease or asthma. you need to see an allergist to find the cause. please visit us at www. ehacstl. com to learn how cause can be found. with treatment your symptoms can be controlled but ige may not come down
is it ok to take albuterol as needed while i take prozac (fluoxetine)? i saw on the drug interaction checker this can cause arrythmias? i have bad asthma.
if you need albuterol for rescue treatment don't avoid it because you are taking prozac (fluoxetine). if you are requiring albuterol frequently make an appointment with primary doctor so that you can get your asthma worked up sounds like you are poorly controlled. you might need to step up therapy with controller meds. good luck.
what to do if i'm having an asthma or heart attack?
if you have an asthma attack use an inhaler (if that was given to you by your doctor) if you have a heart attack you belong in the er. however: this is not the right question to be asking on the internet but you need a diagnosis and evaluation by your doctor
have had sudden horrible asthma for a couple weeks and heart palpitations. today i started coughing up mucus. can it be caused from asthma?
bronchospasm and inflammation in the airways can cause the symptoms you describe. the mucous is typically from both the bronchospasm and airway inflammation. the heart palpitations can be the result of shortness of breath due to asthma low oxygen level or even the bronchodilator inhaler medications commonly prescribed. if symptoms are worsening see your doctor or go to the er.
have had sudden horrible asthma for a couple weeks and heart palpitations. today i started coughing up mucus. can it be caused from asthma?
asthma and heart failure can sometimes look alike. you should go see your doctor and be checked to see what's going on.
hi! sometimes i feel like short of breadthe but my blood pressure 102/62 and heart rate was 66. is this normal? thanks!
shorness of breath can come from asthma anxiety indigestion as well as cardiac reasons. your vitals are good but see your doctor and find out why you are getting out of breath.
i have been using seretide for almst 3 weeks alrdy. last month i was hospitalized for cap+asthma w/exacerbation by my doc. is palpitation side effect?
seretide contains both an inhaled steroid and a long-acting bronchodilator the latter is the likely ingredient causing the palpitation. talk to your doctor about adjusting your medication. hope your asthma is now under control.
i was taking formoterol (in a spray) in the same time as clarithromycin (twice a day). now i'm worried about prolonged qt but i feel very well. should i be frightened? my heart was always healthy.
although clarithromycin may cause problem for people with prolonged qt the incidence is quite low. if you don't have this ekg finding don't worry about it. millions have used this combination without any adverse effect but it is good that you are aware of this potential problem. clarithromycin does not work on a viral infection. if you have asthma exacerbation you need more than formoterol.
why do bronchodilating drugs (such as albuterol) cause rapid pulse nervousness and anxiety even when used as directed?
the medications you mention do that as part of their intended action. that's how dilation works. it's not an asthma cure but rather symptom relief. it mimics the release of adrenaline effects on our body that increase heart rate and breathing capacity to allow us to fight or flee is what it does. the tightness opens but our heart also races and it's like we're being threatened. ok?
why do i have skipped heartbeats? is that because of stress? how can i protect against stress? thanks <positive_smiley>.
stress is a factor. other possibilities include: nicotine caffeine lack of sleep asthma meds. understand: everyone has skipped beats everyday but we normally don't notice them. if yours aren't improving over the next week get checked by your doctor to be sure there's nothing else going on. there are meds if you need them that can help.
hr 108 shortness of breath and chest pain what could be the cause? history: hyperthyroidism until july 20 2011 hbp and palpitations no thyroid meds
get checked for heart/lung condition asthma anxiety irregular heart rhythm etc. i presume u had all the necessary tests done. have your thyroid function monitored. cut down on caffeine/soda intake minimize exposure to smoke. get checked for pheochromocytoma. take care!
is this too much magnesium? i took 450mg total from supplements. i am 5'0 and weigh 102lbs. did i overdose? how can i get rid of mg from my body?
the kidneys are very efficient at eliminating magnesium and a one time dose of 450 mg should not be a major problem considering that when we use magnesium for patients with acute asthma ( who are in the intensive care) we use 2000 mg every 6 hours for upto 24 hrs
wanted to know if beta blockers like nadolol (corgard) really lessen the effect of the albuerol treatment for asthma?
betablockers can precipitate broncospasm and they antagonize the beneficial bronchodilatory effects of medicines like albuterol.
what to do if i have hypertropic cardiomyopathy and asthma and i smoke. how harmful is it to me?
smoking is just about the worst possible thing you could possibly do. in addition to making your asthma worse you increase your risk of a fatal cardiac arrhythmia (which is what people with hcm die of) about 300-500%
hoping you can tell me is high heart rate dangerous?
high heart rate more than 100 beats per minute can be a sign of lack of physical conditioning endocrine disease like hyperthyroidism sign/symptom of heart disease dehydration lung disease like asthma/copd drug induced like to much caffeine/ energy drinks chronic disease like liver and renal insufficiency etc. you need a history and physical to evaluate the reason.
what causes a fast heart rate of 110 or above upon standing?
dehyration - it's summer in north america. are you drinking plenty of water? (caffeine nicotine asthma meds and some other medications can do it too).
what to do if i have been experincing arythmia palpitation and nervousness i don't want to take any albuterol or advair disc what other thing can i take?
if this isn't as a result of taking your asthma medication & isn't a normal experience for you - would consider medical assessment.
i'm always having shortness of breathing when im actived. palpitation dizziness and fatigability?
33 female with shortness of breath palpitations dizziness and fatigue on exercise. need to see a doctor. check for anemia by blood test check for exercise induced asthma and check your heart. i am available for second opinion if needed.
i have a prolonged qt. i was in a car (windows closed) with asthmatic friend. she used her blue pump (albuterol). can second-hand inhalation hurt me?
in fact if the albuterol made your heart rate increase it would automatically make your qt interval decrease. it is highly unlikely that any of the medication was released into the air in the car or that you breathed in or absorbed any of it.
what causes shortness of breath warm sensation all over and sweating with rapid heart beat and weakness?
many things can cause these symptoms from anxiety asthma heart disease thyroid disease chemical imbalances etc. . please talk to your primary care physician about your symptoms as it can be serious.
had pvc's. only 2% of heart beats were those. why is stress echo necessary if i have had no sypmtoms for 3 weeks and cholesterol is amazing. ?
pvc's are common and assuming you had holter monitoring more than half would have asymptomatic pvc's. if you use albuterol for asthma it can cause palpitations and pvc's by increasing your heart rate. stress echo at your age is being done as an added test to evaluate for any structural abnormality (eg mitral valve) or hypertrophy of left ventricle may unmask inducible arrhythmia.
i'm on buspirone for anxiety and was just prescribed 40mg twice a day of propranolol to help with my gad and heart rate. my dr knows i have asthma. ?
which can increase heart rate. buspirone is for anxiety. having propranolol with buspirone may have headache dizziness lightheadedness fainting see a physician for asthma; psychiatrist for diagnosis medication interactions benefits and side effects dose triggers of asthma and therapy for stress in your life.
i'm on buspirone for anxiety and was just prescribed 40mg twice a day of propranolol to help with my gad and heart rate. my dr knows i have asthma. ?
propranolol probably won't exacerbate your asthma in any significant way. if you have moderate or severe asthma it may be more of an issue. you can give it a try and see if there's any problem. or ask your doctor if you can try a calcium channel blocker instead (not as effective).
i'm on buspirone for anxiety and was just prescribed 40mg twice a day of propranolol to help with my gad and heart rate. my dr knows i have asthma. ?
in addition to your physical ailments i hear a great deal of anxiety and worry in your question. are you seeking psychotherapy? medications only work up to a point. the real work comes in the consulting room of a reputable psychotherapist.
my son is tachycardic heart rate 120 for 4 hours now what to do? my son is 7 years old
a normal resting heart rate for a child under 10 years of age can be anywhere from 70-130 beats per minute. however your son's heart rate being on higher end for 4 hours is concerning. many things can cause a fast heart rate such as: -an arrhythmia such as supraventricular tachycardia or wolf-parkinson-white syndrome -anxiety or stress -medications such as cold remedies or asthma medicines -caffeine -pneumonia or other lung disease -thyroid disorder -heart failure if your child appears ill or is having other symptoms such as chest pain fainting dizziness fever swelling of hands and feet or difficulty breathing you should take him to the emergency room or call his doctor immediately.
my 11yr old daughter is having chest pain when she inhales. what is it her heart rate is 60bpm?
most chest pains in children are respiratory in nature such as a tight cough. bronchitis asthma etc. best to have your child seen to rule out other causes and more serious medical issues.
why does lack of sleep cause heart palpitations?
many things can cause heart palpitation. are you taking too much caffeine? are you takeing red bull or mountain dew? depends on the type of inhaler that you have as this can cause palpitation and can cause you to stay awake. if you are wheezing have you been told you have asthma see your doctor
i have occasional full body aches with shortness of breath and slightly elevated heart rate(94-100). should i be worried about this?
shortness of breath i can be assured symptom seek front of valuation with a physician face-to-face. shortness of breath can i have many causes they can be serious like a blood clot like pulmonary embolus or pneumonia or asthma or heart trouble it can just be anxiety. general body aches are very nonspecific they can occur with chronic fatigue anxiety stress or other condition
my heart rate is beating fast tightness of chest and hard to breathe. what do i do? i took diphenhydramine 4 times this week last night was 600mg night before was 700mg others were 500.
i don't know the cause of your symptoms. it could be a heart attack an asthma attack a panic attack etc. with the limited info provided - recommend that you call 911 and request an ambulance. symptoms of a mycocardial infarction (heart attack) can include: chest pain tightness squeezing or fullness. however the pain can also present in the upper back the upper middle abdomen jaw head teeth or in the arms (left more than right). one could have nausea vomiting or it could feel like indigestion or heartburn. feeling short of breath sweating and just feeling out of sorts can also occur. about a fourth of people have no significant symptoms during a heart attack.
what is my constant deep cough? cough since 0<negative_smiley>13. especially when exercising - shortness of breath too/recently cough when eating/heart palpitations
sounds like you should see a physician for a proper diagnosis. could be a viral infection pneumonia bronchitis asthma sinusitis or heart problem. hard to tell without an examination.
what is my constant deep cough? cough since 0<negative_smiley>13. especially when exercising - shortness of breath too/recently cough when eating/heart palpitations
sounds like it might be infectious asthma. your doctor will want to know if the cough keeps you awake at night is associated wth sneezing and runny nose or itchy eyes. an inhaler would be helpful and he might give you a breathing treatment. further tests might be a specaill breathing test or xray. the doctor will help
what classifies as 'stress related illness? ' sx:muscle tens fatigue irritability hrt palps. complete workup. no clinical illness. this is dr's dx.
illness is a broad term. examples of conditions which can be impacted by stress include: irritable bowel syndrome chronic fatigue syndrome asthma tension headaches migraine headaches etc. changes in heart rate may occur with anxiety/ panic.
i'm 30 year old female i wheeze lots at night and i chest pain like a shock and rib pain i get neck pain right before my skull could it be lung cancer?
do you have asthma? are you over-weight? it would be prudent to consult a doctor as your symptoms warrant a more detailed history physical examination and may be some tests. if you are over-weight try losing some weight. (easier said than done).
i'm 25 years old and do lots of exercise in the gym. however psst few months i've been really struggling to catch my breath whilst walking outside even when at a slow pace?
any shortness of breath on exertion at any age is not normal and needs to be evaluated it can be due to anemia respiratory diseases like exercise induced asthma to other conditions and also cardiac conditions i suggest you get it checked by your doctor asap and refrain from any strenuous exercise till cleard by your doctor
i'm 25 years old and do lots of exercise in the gym. however psst few months i've been really struggling to catch my breath whilst walking outside even when at a slow pace?
this is an unusual complaint particularly if there is no limitation in the gym. given that it is cold one might consider cold induced asthma or other allergen triggers and would see your doctor about provocative pft testing
my 10 yo has had several episodes of near fainting: pale sweating trouble breathing rapid heartbeat. blood tests fine. could it be heart related?
yes it can. what blood tests were done? i would definitely get an ekg but it also might be anxiety asthma and few other problems needs some workup and good physical.
my problem is sometimes at night i feel shortness of breath and dry eyes i feel like my heart going to drop on the floor<positive_smiley> i am taking metoprolol 50mg?
beta blockers like metoprolol can cause dry eye increase in latent asthma and slow heart rate as well as fatigue stuffy nose and sontime nighrmares. see the doctor that prescribed this for altenative treatment.
why does increased heart rate after i use inhaler?
depending on the inhaler you are using there are possible side effects. albuterol which is a common rescue asthma inhaler can cause your heart race to increase. discuss this with your physician.
why shortness of breath happens during gerd attack & why do you feel spasms that mimic heart palpitations?
gerd is a known cause of bronchospasm/asthma and causes cough and shortness of breath in susceptible people. the association with palpitations is weak. i suspect you either have coincidental palpitations or another cause which isn't evident from this brief encounter.
how long does a beta blocker stay in your system? i took atenolol for a month 25 mgs twice a day. i discontinued it 3weeks ago asthma flared up!
atenolol half life is about 6-7 hours. a few of days after stopping the medication almost all of it is cleared. after 3 weeks there should be no trace of this medication in your system.
i have costochondritis and it's been acting up lately more then ever before. i am also a heavy weed smoker. does the weed cause my chest pain?
is it costochondritis and not asthma? costo you press and feel pain asthma you fell short of breath. any inhalant can irritate the lung and if you have asthma can exacerbate it. also there may be impurities since it is not fda controlled that are irritating the lung. try a few days off also get evaluated for asthma. f/u w/ doc <link>
i am on lopressor (metoprolol tartrate) 25mg bid for pvc. still having the pvc and tiredness throughout the day while on the medication. bp 90/40 what could be occuring?
u have 3things. bp is low. lopressor (metoprolol tartrate) short acting & for arrhytmias should be taken 3x a day. (metop succinate 1x or 2x a day does a better job). second metoprolol goes to brain & can effect ur feeling fatigued beta block like atenolol doesnt go to brain but has other problems. can activate copd & cause wheeze (copd from asthma or smoking). i know not your hx.
i am having trouble with my breathing. i am using my asthma inhalers more than i should. i also have chest pain. what should i do. 19 female?
when a known asthmatic has persistent breathing problems unrelieved by usual medications and or inhalers it's an indication to go to the hospital emergency room for evaluation and treatment. it's important not to get to the point of severe respiratory distress and fatigue.
my 3 year old has asthma and is wheezing heavily. his pulse is around 130 bpm. is this normal or should i take him to the er?
hopefully by now you have already done so.
have ectopic atrial tachycardia. is it someting u are born with or can it develope over time? if the latter what can cause it? came after extreme stress
if it is truly ectopic atrial tachycardia as opposed to reentry tachycardia it is something that just happens over time and is usually due to extreme stress and/or cardiac stimulants such as nicotine/caffeine/asthma meds/amphetamines. a betablocker often will help. reentry tachy requires that you're born with the predisposition & can be treated with meds or ablation.
i've been having chest pain. it's heaviness feeling (not sharp) and i'm always tired (extreme fatigue) threw out the day. when i wake up in the morning i'm in slight pain only in my chest no where else on my body what could it be?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it may be of a serious nature and you should discuss it with your doctor.
in the mornings i will cough till i am sick often. chest xrays appear clear. i passed a lung test after inhalers but asthma not confirmed. chest pains?
lots of possibilities including esophageal reflux allergies and inhalant reactions among others. see a lung specialist to work through them if primary care doc limited.
my 8 yr old has passed out two times and she has asthma a pituitary mass and nystagmus. her asthma is really bad and her endo said ask for ekg?
syncope (fainting) in an 8 year old child merits an evaluation by a pediatric cardiologist in addition to the assessment of the pituitary mass by your endocrinologist.
heaviness in my chest feels like someone is sitting there had an ekg done nothing was found could it be anxiety? or what can it be?
many things cause chest pain including anxiety. other non-heart related causes include acid reflux asthma lung infections muscular pain blood clots. discuss your ekg with your doctor. knowing more about the type of pain -how long it lasts what makes it worse or better-is helpful so your doctor can help figure out why you have the symptoms and what can be done about it.
having chest tightness for a week and dry cough had recent ekg it was ok had a follow up chest ct for a nodule 4months ago no changes question can something change in short time in chest or what els?
yes things can change in the lung in 4 months. not cancer etc but a respiratory infection asthma etc can come up anytime. see a doctor if concerned.
i'm only a month pregnant and i can't breathe! my chest hurts and i feel total discomfort. i have asthma and was able to control it. now i can't!
see your doctor right away as your symptoms need treatment for you and your baby's safety
is it normal for a 23 year old female to have a heart rate of 149 bpm and breathlessness along with chest pains?
absolutely not. that's a very fast heart rate. without knowing more details i would worry about pulmonary embolism a pneumothorax a new heart issue or a lung problem like asthma. you should seek care right away.
i am wheezing for 3 days when i inhale with chest tightness. test results show no asthma. i tested ana positive could this be from an autoimmune dis?
autoimmune diseases often can affect many other organ systems in the body including lungs. other considerations would be tobacco use or medications. methotrexate can cause lung problems. without knowing all your history difficult to speculate but hope this helps and hope you feel better.
i sometimes suddenly start experiencing chest pressure sob as well as coughing. my chest pains a lot what it could be?
i would suggest developing an asthma action plan with your physician. this form may be found online. asthma symptoms vary and in general using albuterol inhaled with a spacer device in addition to your budesonide will help to control the symptoms. avoid smoke and any allergic triggers use mattress and pillow covers. an inbox consult is available also.
my heart rate is 70 to 80 normally but at random times i have a weird feeling in the heart area so i check it and it between 100 to 120. why?
if you have asthma treatment with beta agonist inhaler may increase your heart rate. dehydration may increase your hr. are you having any associated symptoms with the palpitation like chest pain shortness of breath ? occur you changes in position like sitting/standing position? do you drink coffee soft drinks with caffeine energy drinks? all above can increase your hr.
wheeze upper chest cough non specific changed t waves on ecg normal bp and oxygen help?
this is most likely a pulmonary issue possibly asthma or an upper resp infection (viral vs bacterial but unless fevers and chills - probably viral). the nonspecific t wave changes are just that and likely unrelated to this acute episode unless you have other chf symptoms (fluid overload decreased energy level etc)
ive had mycoplasma pneumoniae infection for two months im being treated with doxycilyne. how long for tachycardia and chest pain to go away?
first one would expect the organism to be long gone by two weeks. however the inflammation will likely stay. anti inflammatory asthma medicines like monteleukast maybe also inhaled steroids are rapidly helpful (days). but one can get this infection multiple times.
my doctor says i might have low magnesium. palpitations daily up to 2 hours at a time feel very cold too. how dangerous is this?
magnesium is a essential for the function of over 300 enzymes & needed for muscle nerve & heart function. low magnesium can cause or aggravate muscle spasms anxiety insomnia migraine headaches hypertension fatigue palpitations constipation asthma osteoporosis etc. the best magnesium supplements are magnesium taurate glycinate citrate & aspartate. see <link>
my heartrate is 124 at rest & can feel it beating. last week at the dr my bp was 109/77. labs came back as elevated wbc. any thoughts why hr so high?
i see in your profile that you take albuterol do you recall taking it the day of your exam? this will make your heart beat fast. if your asthma is not controlled well you should have your doctor adjust your asthma medications. you don't say how high is the wbc count this is relative and may or may not be concerning.
my doctor told me my heart palpitations are benign but they have gotten worse since then. they even keep me up at night and cause difficulty breathing?
that decision? ekg holter test stress test thyroid test? are you having anxiety attacks? here is few causes of benign heart palpitations: excess caffeine energy drinks cold medicines dehydration pots( palpitations appearing after assuming standing position from sitting) streets drugs like marihuana asthma/allergies hyperthyroidism (associated with sweating tremors headaches).
metropolol vs. digoxin. which will cause shortness of breath?
if you have asthma and or have copd you should not be using the medicine.
may ventolin be taken together with a beta blocker? what are the consequences if i already take both of them together?
most beta blockers work 12-24 hours but if you have asthma then you should be avoiding beta blockers if you can or have your doctor measure your lung via puulmonary function test if it affects you. recent data still shows that it can exacerbate asthmatic attacks but if you have tolerated it for a long time then your md will weight the risk and benefit.
metropolol and now coreg (carvedilol). sinus issues. why do beta blockers cause this. any suggestions as to one that may not?
beta 1 is found in the heart b2 receptors are found in the lungs and respiratory system. if one takes a beta blocker that it nonselective it can act on the heart and lower the blood pressure but can act on the lung and potentially cause a cough. this is why beta blocker can potentially cause coughing in asthmatics. you should talk to your pcp if symptoms or side effects continue. good luck.
wheezy chest heart rate is fast. every time she coughs she vomits. can't stand for too long what shall i do?
take her to a physician asap urgent care or er. she may have asthma pertussis heart failure pneumonia. time to get an exam and xray. keep her hydrated with fluids. vomiting losses need extra fluids to make up for them. in the er iv fluids can be given and at least anti-emetics to ease the nausea and vomiting and anti-tussives to ease the coughing.
what is used calcium and glucose in case of faintness state (with tachycardia respiratory insufficiency pallor poor view and hearing) for?
in the short term low blood sugar is more dangerous than high level and so rapidly giving sugar for suspected symptom is a safer bet. i doubt that u had low calcium--as u likely would have experienced muscle spasm etc. but giving u some may reduce the risk of cardiac rhythm trouble. i would recommend checking with doc to see why u had trouble breathing.? asthma? good luck
iam 68 years old great health runner never smoked. been having periodic shortness of breath and some chest pain. first xray diagnosed copd?
though copd is more common in smokers it is not exclusively a smoker's disease. your job environment improperly controlled asthma may also contribute to copd.
had huge thunder storm and lightning an hour ago which sent me in shock and my pulse still high at resting 108bpm and also asthmatic which chest still constantly playing up finished oral steroids?
you need to focus on trying to calm yourself down. first off do you have an inhaler for your asthma and can you or have you used it? please do so. then focus on taking long slow and deep breaths continuously and close your eyes and try to think of something that is soothing to you. if it helps to lay down with a blanket or pillow for comfort please do that as well. i hope this helps.
i get shortness of breath when standing up. sometimes i get chest tightness. and very rarely mild chest pain. i am 18 with normal echo and ekg. is it cad?
could be gastritis. try ranitidine/ prevecid. normal echo/ ekg eliminates lots of conditions- abnormal heart wall thickness mitral valve prolapse abnormal rhythms. did you have a stress echo test? that may tell a bit more as you see heart response to stress/hyperactivity. check pfts for asthma and tilt table test for autonomic dysfunction like orthostasis or tahycardia (pots). f/u w/doc
my palpitations are sometimes feeling like airway is tightened wen they happen for a sec. should i get second opinion 4heart disease? i hav anxiety 2.
check with a pulmonologist. you may have asthma.
would it be safe for me to go scuba diving when i have a heart condition and palpitations leaky valve and a prosthetic heart valve and asthma?
we can often provide some medical advice based on the information you provide in the question. however the question you ask would require that we have a full history exam and list of meds. becoming certified to do scuba would likely require medical clearance before a reputable source would let you rent the equipment. talk to your treating docs and see if they think it is wise/possible.
would it be safe for me to go scuba diving when i have a heart condition and palpitations leaky valve and a prosthetic heart valve and asthma?
without knowing the specifics of your 'heart condition' the valve situation and asthma i would have to caution you against diving. it is best that you check with your own cardiologist for questions like this.
would it be safe for me to go scuba diving when i have a heart condition and palpitations leaky valve and a prosthetic heart valve and asthma?
i don't think so but review your cardiac disease with your cardiologist who knows your heart. you might stick to snorkeling. all the best.
i had an ekg and pulmonary test done which came back fine. i was a little winded during pulmonary test. doctor on here thinks it's allergic asthma. can i have that without it showing up on my test?
when you have a problem it is going to show up on the test. there is a possibility any mild problem may not show up on the test
i had an ekg and pulmonary test done which came back fine. i was a little winded during pulmonary test. doctor on here thinks it's allergic asthma. can i have that without it showing up on my test?
didn't mention what kind of pulmonary test you had possibly spirometry. being little winded during the test is common but a single measurement just an indication for possible further testing like giving a bronchodilator and comparing the results before and after. another could be a challenge test or exercise testing. keep the follow up with your doctor/asthma specialist to rule it in or out
i had an ekg and pulmonary test done which came back fine. i was a little winded during pulmonary test. doctor on here thinks it's allergic asthma. can i have that without it showing up on my test?
it would be a good thing if what you experience as a little winded is not severe enough to be a finding. that means even your 'bad' is not very bad. do take it seriously to avoid allergen (if possible) and use tx as directed or do alternative breath work etc. good news possibly!
i wake up with a heavy chest which always goes away within a few hours i also have a mild cough. i have anxiety could it be that?
anxiety always a possibility but usually i do not make that call till other possibilities considered. could be some type of asthma or possible gerd.
i have tomorrow party with my parents&i have social anxiety. can i take propranolol without asking a doctor cause there is no time? plz answer thnx
is very safe. as long as there are no medical contraindications! these include a slow heart rate and asthma or chronic obstructive lung disease! hope this helps! good luck with the visit! dr z
short of breath for 3 weeks now. ekg d-dimer normal. fev1 95% fvc 110% asthma diag neg or mild. similar problem 10 years ago. avid runner. 48yrs.?
shortness of breath x 3 weeks. mildly asthmatic and a runner. can it be exercise induced asthma? please consult a pulmonary specialist.
short of breath for 3 weeks now. ekg d-dimer normal. fev1 95% fvc 110% asthma diag neg or mild. similar problem 10 years ago. avid runner. 48yrs.?
see your pcp or cardiologist about a stress test like running on a treadmill while your heart is monitored.
why did propranolol give me a bad cough a hard time breathing? atenolol does not give me these symptoms why did the 2 have different reactions
propranolol is not selective for b1 and b2 receptors while atenolol in lower doses only affects periphery ( b2) receptors which doesn't work on your heart that much. do you have asthma? propanol is even worse for people with asthma.
what would cause shortness of breath in a supposedly healthy 23 year old female? the air feels hard to breathe in. most likely not asthma related. heart rate is 60 and spo2 is 98%
or hyperventilating can try breathing in a paper bag or a bronchodilator if still having a problem need to rule out cardiac causes too
what would cause shortness of breath in a supposedly healthy 23 year old female? the air feels hard to breathe in. most likely not asthma related. heart rate is 60 and spo2 is 98%
it would be helpful to review your symptoms in more detail. an appointment may be booked at healthtap. com/dosanjhmd code: ncyhpz some possible conditions include pulmonary arterial hypertension.
heart fluttering for a few months and now triggers coughing fit. chest feels tight. mirena (levonorgestrel) implant. past asthma. strange pain in legs. nausea. tired?
with multiple nonspecific symptoms it is impossible to sort out your problems with a limited answer in an online forum. you should see your primary care provider a more complete evaluation. hope this helps!
i get severely vomitish and nauseous after 5 minutes of intensive exercise. my heart echo was fine. what else could be the reason?
there are a number of possible causes of exercise intolerance. heart disease lung disease (eg asthma) and anemia might all cause poor tolerance of vigorous exercise. however the most common cause would probably be deconditioning (i. e. being out of shape. ) a gradually increasing exercise program would be the answer to that problem. for a personalized review consider a consult on healthtap.
i get chest pains after i eat ice cream. i don not have any conditions with heart or blood. nor am i allergic to it. i have asthma though.
it could be bronchospasm or esophagus pain. slow down when eating cold things
my 13 yr old girl has cheat pains and dry throat. ekg and eco were normal last month should she have a chest x-ray?
i would recommend a pediatric allergist for formal alllery tests and lung testing for check for asthma.
my 13 yr old girl has cheat pains and dry throat. ekg and eco were normal last month should she have a chest x-ray?
it is probably not likely that anything will show on the xray. a persistent dry cough and chest pain in that age child is more likely to be signs of some type of bronchospasm (asthma). i would recommend a pediatric pulmonologist. <positive_smiley>
slight chest pressure after light activity 2 normal stress test over 12 normal ecg 2 normal echo's should i do coronary angiography or its gerd?
unless there is a family history of premature heart disease or you take meth or cocaine you likely have asthma anxiety or reflux. you have at this point demonstrated that it is almost certainly not your heart try other approaches.
seeing pulmonarologist tomorrow for sob. chest x-ray ekg and blood work all normal. could it be asthma copd or emphysema? gp said lungs sound clear
many people with significant asthma copd/emphysema can have at rest clear lungs. there can be other causes of shortness of breath.
seeing pulmonarologist tomorrow for sob. chest x-ray ekg and blood work all normal. could it be asthma copd or emphysema? gp said lungs sound clear
a full pulmonary function study with diffusion studies a vo2 stress test and a high resolution ct of the lungs may be nedded to completely evaluate you shortness of breath. a simple cxr and physical exam is necessary but incomplete.
seeing pulmonarologist tomorrow for sob. chest x-ray ekg and blood work all normal. could it be asthma copd or emphysema? gp said lungs sound clear
it could be anything asthma copd emphysema or congestive heart failure etc. good that you are going to a pulmonologist for thorough check up.
why long acting asthma medication (servent and flovent. ) make my asthma worse add bad side effects like fast heart r. is that normal?
labas (long acting beta agonists) can produce those side effects in some patients if making your asthma symptoms worse please stop taking them and talk to your doctor at times they lead to paradoxical bronchospasm rather than dilatation and should not to be used during an asthma attack take care
why long acting asthma medication (servent and flovent. ) make my asthma worse add bad side effects like fast heart r. is that normal?
first your problem may not be asthma at all especially if your problem is with breathing in and not out. some people's asthma are irritated by the powder form of this type of inhalers. if so a hfa preparation may work better. i hope you are under the care of a b/c allergist who can guide you to the right path.
wondering why i get wheezy during intercourse? never been diag with asthma and heart problems have been ruled out. neg stress echo. diag w/ hbp! help!
bronchospasm can be the case it can happen with any activity inhaled bronchodilator administered before physical activity helps preventing such problem see your doctor for evaluation spirometry and bronchodilator prescription if needed take care
when i lie down i have chest pain palpitation shortness of breath dizziness and feel like drowning. when i wake up i have very severe palpitation?
on the basis of your symptoms it seems that you could have some kind of heart irregularly or even a lung problem like asthma. however the biggest cause is some kind of stress or anxiety. please go and see family doctor. he can perform some tests to make sure your heart and lungs are the cause or not. he can then treat you with proper medicine or send you to a specialist for further treatment
i get chest pain after walking to school i feel like i can't breathe during the first class after that i'm fine for the day. pulmonary embolism?
the pattern you describe is rather suggesting walk induced bronchospasm or exercise induced asthma. pulmonary embolism is always possible but based on what you describe is less likely.
my heart rate is 113 and my sp o2 is 91 i'm 27 year old femal is that normal? !
hi the heart rate is slightly high which could be due to stress anemia activity etc the o2sat is slightly low but who checked this was the pulse oximetry attached right was your finger cold r u wearing nail polish a lot of moisturizing cream what altitude r u living? do you have asthma?
still having back/chest pain/cough. chest xray blood work ekg bone scan blood pressure all normal what should i do next and really worriedit bserious?
normal chest x-ray usually eliminates serious possibilities such as tumor large consolidation and cardiac enlargement. if chronic cough are several possibilities. physical exam would hear wheezing related to asthma. a common problem is walking pneumonia or mycoplasma pneumonia which many radiologists do not recognize subtle interstitial findings on radiograph. see dr. for appropriate antibiotic.
sensation of fluttering and skipped heart beat on waking up after intense night of vivid dreams. should be worried? lasted about 2-3 seconds.
to play it safe i would get an anafranil (clomipramine) level to make sure it is not above the therapeutic range and an ekg as a baseline and to rule prolonged qtc interval. also see you family doctor and see what he recommends re: your breathing difficulty and shortness of breath. pulmonary function tests to rule out asthma may be helpful and gerd should be ruled out as a cause for chest pain ; breathing d.
i have athsma but could i take a beta blocker for driving test anxiety and panic attacks. no antidepressent medication has helped with this.
and may flare up your asthma which may increase your anxiety. you are on symbicrt which contains a long acting beta agonist which isn't a good combination with beta blockers also your thyroid problem may be contributing to your anxiety. confer with your psychiatrist/doctor and have a list of your medications for possible interactions/contraindications other techniques may be helpful goodluck
i've been feeling stress in my stomach area tight chest. what causes this?
please be more specific - do you mean pressure or pain in your stomach area? there could be several causes for this including acid reflux ulcers hiatus hernia asthma. you need to see your dr for further workup
i took rainbow light prenatal vitamin and i have had chest pain. like a squeezing sensation in middle of chest. what is this?
chest pain during pregnancy may be caused by several disorders. among these are reflux associated pain pulmonary embolism irregular heart rhythms asthma and infection. an inbox consultation may be booked online and a visit with your physician is suggested.
my symptoms are (5 months): extreme shortness of breath chest pain pain while breathing very high heart rate blue nails. normal hearttests d dimer?
these symptoms can be lung related if indeed heart tests are normal. the heart tests needed are a stress test and echo. lung tests would be a x ray lung function tests to rule out asthma copd or other primary lung disease. also need to rule out other problems such as anemia or other systemic diseases. suggest pcp and pulmonary consultations to start
slight chest discomfort when playing basketball. i do have mild asthma but never wheeze. i had 4 clear ekgs should i ask dr. for stress test? no family history of heart disease. normal cholesterol.
a stress test at your age can be misleading. it is less accurate in women than in men. it may still be a good option. you should discuss your symptoms with your doctor before deciding the next step. a good history and physical examination can often help determine the source of the pain and/or the best way to determine the cause.
slight chest discomfort when playing basketball. i do have mild asthma but never wheeze. i had 4 clear ekgs should i ask dr. for stress test? no family history of heart disease. normal cholesterol.
you can probably tell better than anyone whether your chest discomfort is chest-wall pain from the body movements of the ball game cough-variant asthma (i have this and recognize the discomfort in the chest it can cause on exertion) or the real fear-inducing pain of coronary disease. i'm assuming you have no heart murmur to suggest hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and are cocaine-free.
seen 3 diff docs alrdy but the weird feeling in the chest still bothers me. ekg xray and blood are normal. what other tests should i take?
you need a complete history and physical examination with a clear exposition of your symptoms. it is not at all clear what you are feeling and thus speculating on tests without specific information isn't a good idea. you should discuss your situation with the doctors who've seen you and have an idea of what your symptoms may be. you mention wheezing and asthma may be an explanation.
have a cough for 6+ weeks with chest pressure and pain fatigue. had a ct it came back normal. lungs sounded clear one week ago. what's going on?
chronic cough has multiple causes defined as a cough lasting more than 8 weeks. post nasal drip gi-reflux disease asthma medications bronchitis including lung or thyroid cancer. details of the history such as clearing throat symptoms after food symptoms with exertion are all useful to sort out the cause and requires a detailed history and physical by a lung specialist or internist.
have a cough for 6+ weeks with chest pressure and pain fatigue. had a ct it came back normal. lungs sounded clear one week ago. what's going on?
could be as simple as a cold that would have cleared but with residual irritation/cough. as likely may be rhinitis due to infection or other chronic condition such as allergy creating post nasal mucus drip and subsequent irritation. it is sometimes due to acid reflux undiagnosed asthma (although your lungs sound clear breathing test can confirm) or vocal cord problem. or medication side effect
hi so i've had a chronic cough for a long time and sense october it's been really frequent and i taste blood when i cough and i have been diagnosed with acid reflux. why do i taste blood and my chest hurts as well.
its possible the chronic cough is traumatizing the airway and you indeed are tasting blood. in any event get a workup why the cough allergy severe reflux asthma etc alst take the reflux seriously and start taking medication to reduce acid production. i think you should be in close contact with either your pmd or a gastroenterologist
hello so i wanna go to the doctors because i'm having chest pains. but on friday couple of friends wanna go out i probably will drink a little. but?
go t o get checked out today it is 3 days before friday. could be reflux gerd costochondritis asthma as well but may be cardiac and need to check that out. go to er/ urgent care today so you will be well enough friday to go out. .
i have had a cough for over a week now and it is now hard to breath without coughing. i taste blood a lot too? i take atenolol for fast heart beat
you may have an infection symptoms of asthma or another underlying cause related to your cardiac condition. it would be advisable to see your pcp for an evaluation. if you are producing mucus it may be sent to the lab for analysis. have you had a flu vaccination this year? do you have a fever? testing may also include pulmonary function tests and a chest radiograph to help determine the cause.
if you have difficulty breathing/chest tightness from reflux is it possible for it to respond to rescue inhalers. (not sure if i have asthma yet)?
if you do not have asthma a rescue inhaler is unlikely to help you. on the other hand reflux often co-exists with asthma and treating the reflux often reduces the chest symptoms without improving the lung function.
my doctor performed an ecg test and found i had short run of pac. she referred me to a cardiologist. what could cause this? is it serious?
it is not a disease. everyone has pacs - sometimes we put them together into runs. if your heart is otherwise healthy (as your cardiologist will determine) then it's not at all serious. alcohol nicotine caffeine lack of sleep stress cold medicines asthma medicines are all common causes. rarely xs thyroid hormone is the culprit. in the majority of cases there is no reason at all!
mild asthma occasional nighttime wheezing given dulera (formoterol and mometasone). put on propanolol for migraines. med interaction. a better med for longterm asthma treatment?
you may want to consider using an inhaled steroid and the albuterol as needed if these medications control your asthma. you can also take an oral steroid for a short period of time. the combination medication has a longer acting medication. a follow up appointment: healthtap. com/dosanjhmd code: ncyhpz
mild night asthma given dulera (formoterol and mometasone). seem to be better options for asthma maintenance meds please recommend. need to avoid interaction with beta blockers?
unless b1 selective which should be used with caution too also delera is a combo medicine contains inhaled corticsteroid in adiition to a long acting beta agonist (laba) which are better avoided if not extremely needed while on b blockers generally those labas better be discontnued once asthma is controlled with other maintenance meds please talk again to your doctor take care
shortness of breath for 2 months clear echo a year ago clear chest xray/ekg/d dimer in december. could this be lung cancer or asthma/allergies?
lung cancer would be exceptionally rare at your age (31). asthma is very common. in medicine there is an old adage "common things happen commonly. if you hear hoof-beats don't look for zebras. " pulmonary function testing with methacholine challenge if necessary is indicated.
shortness of breath for 2 months clear echo a year ago clear chest xray/ekg/d dimer in december. could this be lung cancer or asthma/allergies?
these symptoms are nonspecific. depending on the type of cough productive or nonproductive will help determine the cause. chest ct should be considered since other tests are normal. best to talk to your doctor to get to the bottom of the cough
was standing and suddenly had tightness in chest heart felt like it was pounding and nausea with sweaty palms and hands and a cough and gagging?
more info is required in order to advise appropriately. symptoms like this in female in 30s could be related to anxiety asthma infection etc. however with recent onset of chest pain in people that are potentially unstable based on history family history appearance or vital signs should be immediately evaluated in an emergency dept. in stable pt a consult would help to determine next steps.
what would cause chest pains and shortness of breath each time i get the urge to pass urine or faeces?
urination activates parasympathetic nervous system. that system can causes bronchoconstriction. it may be hyperactive in you. would check for asthma with pfts as it may be exacerbating asthma check echocardiogram for heart abnromalities and follow up with a neurologist or cardiologist that specializes in the autonomic nervous system dysfunction (vanderbilt univ- autonomic dys center )
hyperthyroid endo prescribed 10mg of propanolol i am only 95lbs and pretty sensitive to meds is this a high dose?
b"sd no its the smallest dose. dose is titrated based on lowering of the pulse (so does not get too low) also need extra care with asthma - may exacerbate with severe bronchospasm. otherwise it is the best beta-blocker to protect heart from excess thyroid hormone levels. also added benefit with propranolol is that it blocks conversion of t4 to t3 (liothyronine) (the active form of thyroid hormone. )
have tightness and pressure on left side of chest gets worse when driving and feel out of breath sometimes get pvcs have digestion problems?
your symptoms all could be from the gi tract itself may be associated anxiety. you need thorough history and physical to address your problems. you may have asthma anxiety any gi problem or really heart related which should be considered in the diffreential
i'm 16 years old and i have asthma. when i woke up this morning i had chest pain and it hasn't gone away. i slept partially my stomach and side.
if it persists despite simple pain killers or you feel tight chest and short of breath please seek medical advice at the emergency department
i'm 16 years old and i have asthma. when i woke up this morning i had chest pain and it hasn't gone away. i slept partially my stomach and side.
i would suggest an evaluation. do you have an asthma action plan? the plan will detail how to respond to symptoms. if you are experiencing chest pain you should be seen right away.
i have eoe and asthma: its awful! . when i get asthmatic symptoms though i feel shortness of breath chest tightness also rib muscle twitches. why?
i would suggest reviewing your asthma plan during an inbox consultation. if you have not had pulmonary testing this can be performed at your physician's office.
i can tolerate propranolol but is it better on the body as crosses brainbarrier unlike bisoprolol which metabilizes in the liver depleting enzymes?
what is your question. you are taking propranolol for prevention of migraine. but you also seems to have bronchial asthma. prpranolol is a beta blocker and can make your asthma worse. discuss with your doctor if you should continue propranolol
i can tolerate propranolol with mild asthma which is the best for sinus tachycardia bisoprolol or propranolol? as bisoprolol is metabolized in liver.
and asthma bisoprolol would be relatively safer in asthma than propranolol as bisoprolol is more selective to act on heart receptors. as for sinus tachycardia your cardiologist would answer you better on which drug to use to control it. bisoprolol isn't used for migraine best wishes
i can tolerate propranolol with mild asthma which is the best for sinus tachycardia bisoprolol or propranolol? as bisoprolol is metabolized in liver.
beta blockers may worsen asthma a cardio-selective beta blocker is preferred over a non-selective one like propranolol.
i'm experiencing upper chest pain with swelling in both legs at times and also sometimes swelling in my hands.
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. if you are having symptoms currently go to the emergency department now!
i have a tightness in chest under ribs in middle. no pain just discomfort. feel like i need to take a deep breath sometimes. ?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as aortic problems respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis lung collapse infections) esophageal spasms and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. depending on the duration it would be worth seeing a doctor.
my son is 4. he is congested wheezing lungs sound bad no fever but his heart rate is at 122 bpm and he is sleeping. should i be worried?
please take him to er or urgent care asap he might have pneumonia or severe asthma and could be drowsy not sleeping
propranolol 60 mg er vs toprol (metoprolol) 25 mg er. which lowers blood pressure most?
but the important thing toprol (metoprolol) is a more specific drug and won't affect your lungs if you have asthma also
please answer! could my heart-rate be increased by allergies and elevation?
unless you are in shock or having breathing problem secondary to an allergic reaction your heart rate should not be affected. however taking a decongestant for nasal swelling or a bronchodilator for asthma may increase your heart rate.
sensation in left side of chest. happens during both activity and rest. not constant. ekg stress test enzymes and xray all good. heart issue?
does "sensation" mean discomfort or does it mean palpitations? if the latter then asthma meds can trigger premature heartbeats which can be felt. normal ekg and stress test should be reassuring however. getting more specific about your symptoms and then discussing with your doctor would be a good idea.
some people experience palps after eating heavy meals that are rich in carb sugar fat high level of msg nitrates & sodium (webmd. com). why could?
carbs and sugar effect changes in insulin and blood sugar levels which when abnormal can cause palpitations. smg and sodium causes salt and fluid retention high blood pressure and heart failure with palpitations. nitrates cause asthma and allergies in some. i'm not aware of fat causing immediate palpitations.
sean is 7 has fever achy chest congestion ans runny nose. cough also rapid heart beat. we gave him otc meds should we go to er?
if he has a past history of asthma treated with singlair the that would be a good plan. mild asthma can progress rapidly into something much worse sometimes without treatment. does he have a nebulizer with albuterol available at home? is he short of breath or breathing fast? can he talk without breathing in between words of a sentence? it may be better to be seen by a physician now.
took pseudoephedrine for stuffy head - taking buspar (buspirone) metoprolol hztz and metformin - feeling warm and mild chest pressure - pharmacist said should be no problem but getting concerned about how i am feeling now.
the chest pressure is the most worrisome symptom. i agree with the pharmacist regarding no major drug interactions as far as i am aware. chest pressure can be cardiac in origin or be a result of a lung issue (bronchitis pneumonia asthma). if you are still feeling chest pressure regardless if it is only mild you need to seek medical care especially with your history of hypertension and diabetes. all the best.
things with lactose causing heart palpitation. is it possible that it could just be that i'm lactose intolerant? is it for sure an allergy?
very similar symptomatology. lactose induced diarrhea getting better with avoidance of lactose products. milk cheese. but allergy associated with rash itching asthma possibly palpitations stuffy nose. different pathophysiology. see doctor for better options for treatment.
in 65 y/o female with asthma and previous cardiac arrest w/rosc during pulm. embolectomy w/ cpb. which is safest method for pericardial window?
you ask a very complicated question about a complex medical history. the 1st thing to ascertain: "why do you need a pericardial window? " normally they are for recurrent cardiac effusions; despite the dramatic surgery & event effusions aren't typical after cardiac arrest. 2nd need to know why pulm embolism developed. ttyd or use healthtap prime to find answers/specialists. not enough space here.
i take atrovent-two puffs as needed. even though it does help long-term i feel chest tightness sometimes after use. no pain or wheezing. reasons?
a virtual inbox consultation is available to further detail management. from your description if you have asthma albuterol inhaler can be used for chest tightness and i would recommend pulmonary function testing with and without a bronchodilator. in addition an allergy evaluation is suggested.
i am experiencing chest tightness (quality: dull or achy). the following also describes me: chest pain or discomfort. what should i do?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. if you are having symptoms currently go to the emergency department now!
i have fluctuating oxygen readings. at the er on the monitor and at home on my pulse ox. what would cause this? i am scared some bad going to happen.
unless you have airway obstruction or intermittent asthma the likeliest cause of fluctuating oxygen saturation is that you hold your breath as it's being checked (this is very common! ) as your mother perhaps used to remind you "don't forget to breathe! "
i feel tightness in my chest along with breathing difficulties. dull chest pain and anxiety problems. i am 20 years old.
you should be checked for asthma. if you have no hx and it's not present when you're examined a provocative test called a "methacholine challenge" can be useful. sometimes anxiety alone will account for your symptoms but asthma should be excluded first as anxiety as a cause is a diagnosis of exclusion.
i inhaled one puff of ventolin and i'm not an asthmatic my heart is racing and i have a pang in my chest when will this feeling go and will i die?
what you describe are known side effects of the inhaler. the sensations should resolve in about 20-30 minutes. this is why you should never take someone else's prescription medication including inhalers. if your symptoms worsen go to the er. this will not cause you to die it will just be uncomfortable until it wears off. good luck!
i inhaled one puff of ventolin and i'm not an asthmatic my heart is racing and i have a pang in my chest when will this feeling go and will i die?
those are common side effects of albuterol the active drug in ventolin. you will not die from this. the drug lasts for up to 4-6 hours but the panicky symptoms should start to ease after an hour or so. if it does last for more than 6 hours or if you become dizzy you should be seen. i do have to ask though if you don't have asthma why inhale the medication?
my son has the flu. his pulse is 140 and rapid breathing. he has asthma so im a little concerned?
sounds like he has developed some respiratory complications which can be serious in flu. i almost lost a 3 yo last year to flu pneumonia the first in 30+ years of practice but it does happen. get moving.
my son has the flu. his pulse is 140 and rapid breathing. he has asthma so im a little concerned?
you should be! options: 1: call your son's pediatrician. 2: take your son to the emergency facility if the pediatrician can't fit him in. all should go well but it might take a day or two.
tightness in chest difficulty breathing but heart rate's normal what could it be?
could be cardiac origin- blockage in arteries or valve problem; could be lung origin- asthma emphysema pneumonia bronchitis; could be unrelated to heart or lungs- anxiety anemia etc. need a good evaluation to figure out what testing to best evaluate this.
tightness in chest difficulty breathing but heart rate's normal what could it be?
first and foremost hear problem should be considered and ruled out. lung problems including asthma and chronic obstructive diseases also may present with tightness of the chest and shortness of breathe. clot in the lung can have similar presentation. after all the life threatening medical conditions are excluded anxiety disorder can be considered. i suggest you go to your pcp ed and checked.
with normal ekg echo stress test blood work nuclear stress test what are my chances of something missed and heart atk? chest pain/sob/hot flashes
a virtual consult can help to determine the cause. i would also consider pulmonary causes including asthma and pulmonary embolism.
was at outdoor party yesterday with many cigarette smokers. this morning woke up with tight chest feeling and scratchy throat. should i worry?
exposure to cigarette smoke can be very irritating to the nose and lungs when inhaled second-hand. it can be even more irritating to people with a history of rhinitis or asthma. if you are truly having difficulty breathing wheezing feeling like you can't get enough air in please go to emergency department or urgent care. if minor symptoms will likely go away soon.
was at outdoor party yesterday with many cigarette smokers. this morning woke up with tight chest feeling and scratchy throat. should i worry?
i have two thoughts on your condition; (1) you may have undiagnosed asthma which was worsened by tobacco smoke exposure. (2)you may have caught a viral infection from someone in the gathering (or even from a week earlier). if you start to have a fever or muscle aches then a viral infection would be the answer.
what are the drug interactions between breo and coreg (carvedilol)?
breo has a long acting beta agonist to dilate your airways. coreg (carvedilol) is a beta blocker which tends to act against the bronchodilator. with asthma a cardioselective beta blocker is preferred if absolutely needed. in general it is better to avoid using a beta blocker unless there is no better substitute.
how do i stop taking daily sustained release 80mg propranolol? i've been taking it for about 3 weeks for anxiety but they make me too fatigued
propranolol is a beta blocker antihypertensive medication. occasionally it can be used to treat short term anxiety. its side effects include dizziness light-headedness fatigue diarrhea and cold hands and feet. it lowers your blood pressure and heart rate. patients with diabetes or asthma should not use this medication. talk to your doctor to discuss other drug options.
hello what are the side effects on taking lisinopril 40mg and metoprolol 25mg? i am supposed to start tomorrow but it seems a high dose.
all melds could potentially have side effects concentrate in the good benefits of lowering the bp and not on side effects. i would take the lisinopril in am and the metoprolol at night so to prevent bottoming down on bp. if asthmatic may cause wheezing feeling tire and slow a skin rash but for the most part these are well tolerated. good luck chart your bp twice daily while on these best
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort-severe-sensation of pressure or heaviness- shallow breathing. occurs during and after shower?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it is very unlikely that at 28 it is serious but should see a doctor to get more information.
i have a high hr due to pots and i also get bronchitis a lot. is there an inhaler that helps wheezing but does not raise hr too much? what's safest?
of the acute use inhalers will have a tachycardia effect on your heart. the key will be to be well controlled so you don't need to use acute inhalers. consider seeing a pulmonologist for optimal asthma treatment.
i started having center chest pain that went down to my belly button and pelvis. the pain was stabbing and unbearable. what can cause this?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it is very unlikely that at 18 it is serious but should see a doctor to get more information.
if you have constant chest pains mostly on the left side and is asthma free what would be the cause?
different causes of chest pains. constant pains are rarely cardiac. it will be impossible to suggest an accurate diagnosis without additional examination and evaluation. make an appointment with a health care provider for a thorough evaluation.
if you have constant chest pains mostly on the left side and is asthma free what would be the cause?
this may reflect pain coming from and structure on the left side of your chest. likely the most dangerous would be your heart but there are other reasons. be seen and provide a history and be examined to help you with a diagnosis soon.
my chest hurts when i lie down and im suddenly wheezing and coughing up water-like liquid and experiencing painful coughing.
go to er as soon as possible. you do not mention age or other history but may have some excess water in lungs and some heart issues that need a water pill or medicine to resolve it. could also be reflux with asthma but that needs evaluation as well go to er immediately.
my father had dry cough after flu episode he also took cordarone (amiodarone) 200 is this cough due to cordarone (amiodarone) what is the treatment for it?
sometimes a cough may linger for weeks after flu or a viral infection but one needs to rule out infection-triggered asthma or a sinus infection also. cordarone (amiodarone) is not expected to cause a cough but if it does changing to another drug would be the only treatment.
my husband has asthma but it is not severe however he's been taking ibuprofen and now says his chest feels tight & he's tired & slightly lightheaded?
he has a dangerous condition and you should take him to either the er or an urgent care center for treatment now. he may need a nebulizer treatment a steroid injection and an xray to evaluate for pneumonia.
past week experiencing headaches fatigue trouble breathing chest path on left side stabbing pain ekg and echo ok?
do you have a fever or chills coughing? any history of asthma? any h/o reflux esophagitis? i'm glad your ecg and echo were done and fine. does your chest hurt when you push on it? it would be rare to still have a cardiac problem without family history and with your normal heart studies. is your trouble breathing due to chest pain hyperventilation wheezing or stuffy nose? breathe into paper bag.
rapid heartbeat is a physical response to stress i heard. what else is?
acute stress-fight or flight response: shallow breathing dry mouth sweats tremor dilated pupils urge to move bowels palpitations; tingly fingers toes lips from overbreathing (hyperventilation); insomnia; irritability. any all or other. chronic stress can result in more subtle responses as well as muscle tightness spasm asthma (if predisposed) trigger autoimmune problems etc.
rapid heart beat at rest reason to call doc?
normal hr at rest is around 60-100 bmp. sometime emotional excitement even when you are resting it can be a bit fast. also if you have taken some cold medicine/decongestants or too much caffeine/energy drinks or all of the above together can really speed up your heart. asthma medicine--albuterol etc. can increase hr. so if u have no reason for fast hr consult doc. good luck.
squeezing chest pain on my left side about 6/10 pain (having chest pain for more than 6months) went to diff er and diff drs and no heart problem blood-echo-holter-ct-ekg all done and normal. yoga isnt helping my chest pain what can i do? 20y male
consider other causes like gerd asthma and anxiety.
two negative d diners normal ecg cough chest tightness extreme aniexty convinced i have clot docs won't further test?
pulmonary emboli or blood clot in lung. . is an acute illness in general. if you have been dealing with this for some time that is reassuring. as are your symptoms. the cough and tight feeling suggest your airways (bronchial tubes) may be "spasming" or contricting. like from asthma or other rarer conditions. the d dimer test is very helpful when negative. it virtually means no clot in body.
took b/p with home machine 123/60 shows irregular heart beat sign pn machine should i be concerned have wheezing from asthma?
the irregular signal may be artifactual but if you are having symptoms of shortness of breath palpitations chest discomfort dizziness or light headed ness see a doctor to get it checked out.
why does my chest hurt during a drop on a roller coaster?
may be reflux or cardiac issues from underlying disease or new rhythms consider echocardiogram pfts to check for asthma may be a pneumothorax as well dissection is rare. f/u/ w/ doc this week before next ride gt cleared. <link> <link>
how do doctors treat a patient with both asthma and svt with daily symptoms of chronic coughing and wheezing?
asthma control needs a comprehensive evaluation control of co-morbid conditions as rhino-sinustis gerd etc is important adherence to treatment plan for controller medications not including laba is needed for breakthrough symptoms or asthma flares levoalbuterol which doesn't cause tachycardia can be used for opening up the lower airways the bronchi regular follow-up is important
hi i'm experiencing moderate chest pressure and slight shortness of breath when laying down. i've recently started working out but i'm fine afterward?
studies show shortness of breath while lying down othopnea is associated with copd chf tumors asthma or diaphragmatic weakness. also may indicate pericardial effusion or pericarditis. i recommend immediate er consultation for physical exam imaging x-rays ultrasound interrogation and fast scan diagnosis. stay calm and see er.
i am experiencing cough (worsened by: lying flat) (quality: no phlegm or mucus) chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing sens.
there are many causes of cough few that can cause chest pain. if you are having shortness of breath with it i would be worried about a pulmonary embolus. could also be cardiac related especially since it gets worse with lying flat. potentially could be asthma (based on symptoms you describe). best bet is to be seen.
i am experiencing cough (worsened by: lying flat) (quality: no phlegm or mucus) chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing sens.
cough + chest pain may need to consider the possibility of a chest infection. like dr pool says most are due to viral illnesses and will disappear with time however would be important to have a doctor examine and consider other causes such as reflux asthma or pneumonia depending on how you present. this should be done urgently if any breathing difficulties.
i've been having chest pain for like 3 days now. it's the sort of pain i've felt before from drinking too much pepsi. is it something i have to worry?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it sounds like reflux or gastritis but if concerned discuss with your doctor.
is it possible to die from cardiac heart attack after full recovery from anorexia? i had anorexia for 6 years and now get sudden jabbing chest pains?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) lung diseases and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. sounds like you should see your doctor and sort this out.
lung congestion for 3 months with throat clearing and loss of voice. have asthma allergies gerd and svt. not getting better. any smells exacerbate.
spirometry is a measurement of airflow in the lungs. testing both before and after the inhalation of albuterol can be used to determine your response to medication. the use of inhaled controller medications for persistent symptoms is part of the regimen used for contolling asthma. in addition controlling triggers such as gerd and allergic exposures are important. your svt requires your md's input.
lung congestion for 3 months with throat clearing and loss of voice. have asthma allergies gerd and svt. not getting better. any smells exacerbate.
your symptoms seem to be due to gerd. see a gastroenterologist.
my daughter's chest hurts all the time. normal ekg. blood good. only takes depoprovera. twice. athletic. no fever no vomiting no tingling.
it could be asthma so continue to follow up with her doctor for this.
nasal congestion. cold sensation when i inhale& occasional palpitations. i do have gad. can this be gad or asthma? i have never wheezed nor do i cough
your family doctor can help you determine if your symptoms are related to generalized anxiety disorder allergies cold etc. based upon diagnosis your doc can then discuss appropriate options w/you.
nonselective beta blockers seem to be a problem for asthmatics so why doesn't everyone start wi selective beta blockers? what's the problem with them
more expensive!
normekg stress echo holter blood work. age28 no fam hist non smoker. norm bp. chol220. weeks of mild chest pressure&numb chin. heart ruled out? anxiety?
it is unlikely cardiac with the tests being normal. anxiety is possible if your symptoms are intermittent. gastric reflux can cause chest discomfort but the numb chin is strange. underlying asthma could cause symptoms but you should have a cough or wheezing. hyperventilation could cause both (with fast breathing) but this would not be constant. lastly inflammation of the breast bone joints woul
patient has been on coreg and was just prescribed ventolin hfa on an as needed basis. is this combination okay? this is the only beta agonist the patient is on and i know that coreg can cause shortness of breath and maybe even asthma which is why i think
consider using healthtap prime to flesh out these answers. coreg (carvedilol) can cause shortness of breath but it is an important medication in the treatment of high blood pressure & heart failure. ventolin can counteract some of its (side) effects. coreg (carvedilol) generally spares the lungs but that isn't true for all people (some react to it differently than expected). there may be alternatives - talk to a doctor.
progresive prod. cough at ni8 wile sleeping with constant mild dul lt. chest pain 55yr f. echo=grad1-diastoli dysfn ecg-inferio-later ischemi. wats rx?
some of the more common causes for a chronic nocturnal cough are: post nasal drip gerd cough variant asthma and chf. there is not enough information to suggest the cause of your cough or dull chest pain. was your chest x-ray normal? smoker? are you on medication? an online inbox consultation at health tap may be helpful. you would upload your complete medical history and all studies done.
r & l cath excellent. nuclear stress test ended up false positive. arteries immaculate pressures great function awesome. pft perfect. dxd w/lbbb hr low is that causing sob w exertion? am i safe?
the big question is: is the shortness of breath happening with activities that were well tolerated recently or does the body just need time to condition itself for more strenuous activity? spirometry (pft) can be normal in asthma because the lungs work normally until airways constrict. methacoline challenge test can diagnose asthma in these situations.
sever back pain in the middle. pain radiets around my sides and my rib cage. chest tightness! i'm wheezing with my asthma! please help me asap. ?
if you are having severe asthma symptoms with wheezing chest tightness and shortness of breath refractory to rescue medications (albuterol) you need to be seen immediately for further treatment. call 911 or go to emergency room immediately.
short of breath chest pains for about a week now?
possible causes of what you describe are asthma with exacerbation a cold pneumonia inhalation of a substance that irritate your lungs blood clot in the lung or and less likely if a consistent and not intermittent pain heart problem. you need to see a doctor and have this fully evaluated. you need an examination possible chest x-ray possible ekg and possibly some blood tests.
trouble breathing dry mouth despite lots of water headache hot face heart palpitations throat tightness lymph near neck enlarged. any thoughts?
"trouble breathing" means one needs to see a doctor because it can be many things such as an allergic reaction a heart problem pneumonia etc. . trouble breathing can also be due to asthma-type symptoms if the person is prone to getting such problems with any cold flu allergy or strep symptoms. in some cases trouble breathing can be due to huge tonsils or a tonsillar abscess.
why does my 'asthma' make my heart rate slow down (51 - 59bpm) instead of speeding up?
good observation but that might indicate severe acute asthma rather as the pulse is expected to rise during inspiration it rather falls due to severe airways obstruction so filling of the heart rather gets reduced during inspiration which is supposed to be increased complex. at any rate this is just a postulate if you are suffering you need to follow up with an asthma specialist goodluck
whats the difference : psvt and sinus tachycardia? been told have nocturnal sinus tachycardia since my early 20's lasts few mins with fast regular bpm
psvt comes in bursts and frequently is symptomatic while st is usually more persistent. your history of mitral valve surgery frequently makes you more likely to have this and ventolin can make it worse. there are other inhalers that are not as likely to cause it--see your doctor. it can also mean that your mitral valve needs more attention. inderal can make asthma worse by the way.
when a heart beat fast it can cause asthma?
your heart is a separate organ and has nothing to do with starting asthma. it will beat faster any time you have a stressful event like an asthma attack but it is responding to the hormones of stress not triggering your asthma.
what should the o2 saturation be for a co2 level of 33? my mom has copd chf asthma afib. she has an o2machine at home. is 5% too high?
your mother's situation is complex & i can't make sense of your question since the o2 saturation measures oxyhemoglobin & co2 measures carbon dioxide pressure. (they can be unrelated). 5% o2 saturation is too low - not compatible with life - for arterial blood. do you mean 5 lpm on the o2 tank? use healthtap prime or ttyd to get correct answers because there's no way to answer using 400 character
hello i experienced minor shortness of breath and slight dizziness last night. my ecg shows sinus bradycardia at pulse rate 47. i am 22 and a smoker.
may be reflux (gerd) independently or causing a mild reactive airway response or may be pulmonary asthma or cardiac. would get an echocardiogram just to insure there is no cardiac abnormality.
have mild chest pain throughout the day also feel tired most of the time. get a very sharp pain every now and then in my left wrist. these happen mos?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it may be of a serious nature and you should discuss it with your doctor.
have chest pain or discomfort (better by rest) ( mild) (quality: sensation of pressure or heaviness) (right side) occasional cough/congestion?
unfortunately chest pain is a serious complaint so i would advise you to seek an immediate medical attention however because of your young age this is likely due to muscle pain or asthma like variant but i would still urge you first to immediately seek medical attention to rule out serious causes like heart related issue or pulmonary embolism (lung blood clot).
i am experiencing chest tightness (quality: dull or aching sensation) (worsened by: in the evening at night) chest congestion nasal congestion.
could be a simple virus. could be something more serious. any history of asthma? if you haven't been seen by md recently probably a good time to go.
i have center bottom chest pain when i move it hurts. when i apply pressure it doesn't hurt. what should i do?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory (asthma copd bronchitis infections lung collapse) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it is very unlikely that at 23 it is serious but should see a doctor to get more information
i am experiencing tightness in chest (time frame: gradual onset) (severity: mild) the following also describes me:. it feels as if there is air trapped in the center of my chest and it tingles every so often as if there's air bubbles?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as aortic problems respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis lung collapse infections) esophageal spasms and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. depending on the duration it would be worth seeing a doctor.
i've been experiencing chest pain for a while now and i'm a 25 year old female. usually it's sudden or achy pains. sometimes it's accompanied by acid?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms gastritis or reflux respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. at you age it is unlikely to be of a serious nature but if concerned discuss with your doctor.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (side: both) (quality: stinging or burning sensation) (severity: moderate).
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. if you are having symptoms currently go to the emergency department now!
just read my inhalers side effect of low potassium. i have never been tested for this any idea why?
i take it that you are inhaling a glucocorticoid. very high systemic doses of a glucocorticoid will lower potassium; the tiny doses you inhale for asthma are unlikely to produce this effect as it will be overriden by your body's ability to cope. the warning is there for the lawyers. and a low potassium would show on routine blood work should you become ill.
just went to e. r for feeling short breath xray and ekg came out good diagnose was anxity still short breath what can it be? asthma?
is a relatively common symptom of anxiety. the relaxation response a book by herbert benson can be helpful for you. also see a mental health professional to help you manage your anxiety. peace and good health.
just prescribed propranolol hct 10mg. have asthma and am afraid to take it. doc says it will stop my tremors caused by hyperthyroidism. should i take?
most asthmatics can take low dose beta blockers. when you are concerned about what your dr. prescribes discuss it with the dr. the dr. won't bite. mention your concerns and get an explanation.
keep getting a sensation in my chest similar to when you get startled. ekg stress test chest xray and enzymes all good. heart issue? lung?
might be epinephrine-excess from mitral valve prolapse or panic attacks. rarely pheochromocytoma the favorite ground rounds disease few physicians ever see. do you drink caffeinated beverages? are you short of breath? in your age group spontaneous pneumothorax can occur. your asthma rescue inhaler could be causing your symptoms if you use too much. perhaps switch advair for just flovent inhaler.
keep waking at 3am with chest pressure pain. excercise daily usually no pain only short of breath. does this sound cardiac? have had normal ecg
among others asthma and paroxysmal arrhythmia may cause such symptoms. definitely worth an office visit with your primary care provider.
left side chest pain at rest no pain during exercise normal echo and ecg within normal limits do suffer with mild asthma also have gas problems.
what you describe is likely gas pains it is unlikely to be your heart.
my chest feels tight no pain and i think i have avid reflux. it got better last night but it's still happening today. is that a problem?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as aortic problems respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis lung collapse infections) esophageal spasms and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. depending on the duration it would be worth seeing a doctor.
my chest feels tight no pain and i think i have avid reflux. it got better last night but it's still happening today. is that a problem?
challenging to sort out chest issues. chest tightness in a 22 year old woman may be related to asthma gi problems like reflux heart issues etc. it actually would be unusual for acid reflux to cause tightness without any pain/burning discomfort. this requires collecting a careful history about frequency intensity character aggravating factors etc. see you doctor for the necessary eval<positive_smiley>
my chest feels tight no pain and i think i have avid reflux. it got better last night but it's still happening today. is that a problem?
might be reflux but if smoke or on birth control could be pulmonary emboli[blood clot ] much worse risk if do both. could be asthma too if wheeze. reflux usually has acid taste in mouth heartburn to lessen it eat 6 smaller meals to avoid overfilling stomach and thus reflux thru valave between stomach and esophagus elevate head of bed 6 inches on blocks to help gravity push food down
my doctor told me to stop taking the propanolol 60mg er after a month what kind of side effects are there and will they be bad? it's been two days
it depends on why you were taking it. if for palpitation they may return if for high blood pressure it may go up unless you are on other medications if for anxiety it may return. if you have asthma and propanolol was making it worse your asthma may improve. would call you doctor and discuss the reason why he stopped it and if you should slowly taper it off rather than cold turkey. .
nausea a runny nose coughing up yellow phlegm dizzines stomach pains tiredness and with my asthma sometimes breathing difficulties &tight chest fevers?
it sounds like you are either having a sinus infection or an asthma flare up. i think you need to see your doctor as soon as possible
numbness of the left arm heavy feeling in chest pain in lower left side of pelvis. no previous diagnosis of asthma. what could be happening?
help in an ed. very unlikely to be a heart attack unless you take cocaine or have a congenital condition but chest pain with arm numbness is nothing to fool around with. could be blood clot collapsed lung lots of things. don't delay.
on medicine to lower blood pressure. it's running 101-106 / 62-58 and heart rate is 39-41. i feel like i am having some pressure breathing. normal?
your heart rate seems unusually low. any side effect with any medication is possible. also some blood pressure medications like beta-blockers can induce asthma in those with a history of this. you should discuss symptoms further with your doctor to see if a change in medication might suit you better.
on nadolol but i feel like i can't breathe. chest xray good ct in june good. told dr he told me just to continue i want to stop! can i? its for high hr
if you stop the nadolol you'll have high hr again! your choices are: continue same dose taper to a smaller dose change to a different drug: atenolol metoprolol diltiazem or verapamil are the usual suspects. the last 2 don't exacerbate asthma like the beta blockers do. good luck! bew.
oximeter is giving a reading of 92 with a pulse of 103 for a 3 year old that has asthma while asleep after xopenex (levalbuterol). is this normal? is oxygen too low?
a pulse ox of 92% indicates a moderate asthma attack. pulse is normal. more importantly is wether or not your child is responding to treatment. proper treatment can prevent the attack from becoming severe with a pulse ox <90%. you want to prevent that. call your pediatrician for advice. if unable to reach he/she have your child evaluated in er/ec
pain going around back sides chest when breathing deep tightness with normal breathing. i don't know if it is muscle or lungs or something else?
follow up today as soon as possible in er. could be asthma or pneumonia gallbladder or pleuradynia but could also be clot in llung. breathing is critical so go to an er now.
recent chest pain dull not constant when inhale. worse w/exertion. had echo in dec normal. slight short breath stuffy head. am concerned.
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it may be of a serious nature and you should discuss it with your doctor.
stress echo ekg 30day event monitor egd asthma tests blood work ctpulmangio all normal. still have chest pain arm weak like angina?
that's a lot of testing for a low probability of angina from the start. musculoskeletal and other possibilities should be considered.
suffering from tight chest and breathlessness after a bowel flare up. have had antibiotics for bowel which has settled still fatigue & tight chest.
it's unlikely that your chest complaints are related to your bowel issues. breathlessness and a tight chest can be symptoms of asthma especially if you are noticing you are wheezing. other medical conditions may also cause this. it's best to have a physician examen you and listen to your chest as you breath. for information on breathlessness see: <link>
starting diflucan 200mg/day for 4 weeks for candida in esophagus. from asthma meds and antibiotics. i take prozac. will it cause qt problems? healthy.
that is a lot of problems and meds for a 28 year old man. seems like you have a rough life. need to solve the environment you are living in. i hope no cats at home as this would make asthma worse. no smoking please. you can always have an ekg done midway or if having new symptoms to check for qt prolongation but this would be rare.
starting diflucan 200mg/day for 4 weeks for candida in esophagus. from asthma meds and antibiotics. i take prozac. will it cause qt problems? healthy.
the combination of diflucan and prozac is high risk for qt prolongation. your doctor needs to reassess this combination.
trouble breathing in and chest pressure. last ekg and echo over a year ago. recent chest xray and cat scan shows heart is fine. 20 years old.
it sounds like you have a complex situation and have already had extensive testing. these little text boxes are not big enough to go through all the details which is what a doctor would need to be able to help. you might consider a second opinion inbox consult here on healthtap where you can share the records of your tests and have then reviewed. possible causes include asthma.
tightness in chest. lower throat/trachea is very sore. chest hurts a bit when i breath. trachea hurts when i swallow. any help?
chest tightness chest pain or shortness of breath can be due to minor problems or to very serious ones. a doctor can check to see what might be going on. sometimes tests and chest xrays will be done. possible causes include a partial pneumothorax (collapsed lung) asthma stomach reflux heart problems laryngitis other viral infections etc. sore throat can be tested for strep throat.
upper chest pain after running a few laps. allergy season. never diagnosed with asthma. normal ecg test from last year.?
see your doctor immediately. if continues go to emergency room. exertionsl chest pain can reflect underlying coronary disease or possibly asthma with exertion. either way should be evaluated asap.
upper chest pain after running a few laps. allergy season. never diagnosed with asthma. normal ecg test from last year.?
exertional chest discomfort is potentially a red flag. if you're >40 or diabetic at any age or smoke or have other risk factors your symptom could be due to heart disease. a normal ecg last year was helpful information last year but has no bearing on the present. you should refrain from further strenuous exertion until you've been examined by your doctor.
what does heavy heart beat breathing problem and shivering link to?
lung problem see a cariologist and get exersize stees echocardiogram labs include thyroid [tsh] and all electrolytes could have asthma and don't know see pulmonolgist for pulmonary function test. shivering endocrine see thyroid
wheezing at night when laying down but no cough? dr said it was asthma but i'm not sure? my chest gets tight as well sometimes
asthma is a variable condition most known for reversible restriction to airflow in the tiny airways. this is represented best by wheezing or "tightness". cough is a less specific feature and may or may not be present on any specific occasion. try to learn as much as you can about asthma and how it may be affecting you. it is a very significant illness & true asthma is a lifelong problem.
what are the chances of having collapsed lungs? should i go for xray? i have bronchitis taking rulide150mg + symbicort turbuhaler. my coughing is very bad worse at night. my chest hurts both sides when breathing even more when laying down breathing
it sounds like a severe case of asthmatic bronchitis- may lead to pneumonia or pleuritis; you will need an x-ray and pulmonary testing.
start zoloft 2w later add pristiq (desvenlafaxine). 3w later stopped both & on prozac for 1w now. worsening shortness of breath can't fill lungs completely. normal?
first consider all possible causes of shortness of breath  including asthma pulmonary thromboembolism cardiac arrhythmia (including that triggered by a new rx) ssris are not likely to cause shortness of breath but almost always cause yawning sometimes severe.
pressure in chest that started by sudden shortness of breath 3 months ago. had stress test. saw pulm dr. ent dr. allergy dr. not asthma n lungs are clear?
further discussion with your physician is warranted.
symptoms of bronchitis? i have slight cough some wheezing shortness of breath for a week clean chest xray clean ct chest swollen eyes stuffy nos
maybe it is allergies. in ohio right now the weeds are a blooming so it might be an asthma/allergy exacerbation. i would hope your doctor has considered treating you.
sore sternum/ribs hard to tk full/deep breath off and on since sept-worsening fam history of asthma/copd no cough nonsmoker is it a heart problem?
a common cause of chest pain in the young population it's costochondritis a chest wall pain involving muscle and joints at the chest wall. symptoms worse while taking a deep breath and with pushing certain involve areas of the chest. idk if you have risk factors for heart disease but that's also a possibility. a good history and physical will be great.
can asthma cause an irregular ekg? why hasn't any doctors been concerned with my irregular ekgs in the past few months?
it depends on what you mean by irregular - to be honest many ekg findings are benign and mean nothing. patients get worried about some things and unless the doctor explains the patient remains concerned. you should ask your doctor what is irregular.
can asthma cause an irregular ekg? why hasn't any doctors been concerned with my irregular ekgs in the past few months?
there are patterns on the ekg related to lung diseases usually copd but sometimes asthma. they are generally harmless most likely that is why the doctors have not been concerned.
serious chest pain and breathing difficulty? asthma at 60?
chest pain and shortness of breath including wheezing can be a sign of heart disease specially at the age of 60. it is important that you check with your doctor.
serious chest pain and breathing difficulty? asthma at 60?
if u r experiencing these symptoms now seek immediate medical attention! u could be having a heart attack. if u have had these symptoms for weeks and months u could be having asthma. asthma can start in 60 year olds. either way see a doctor asap.
serious chest pain and breathing difficulty? asthma at 60?
could be asthma if associated with wheezing (in most cases) but typically asthma is not assocated with chest pain. it could be due to acs (acute coronary syndrome) which is very serious. needs urgent evaluation.
strep throat doesn't cause respitory symptoms such as cough runny nose and trouble breathing right?
occasionally a patient shows up with stuffy nose symptoms a mild runny nose and tests positive for strep throat. trouble breathing can be due to asthma-type symptoms if the person is prone to getting such problems with any cold flu or strep symptoms. in more unusual cases trouble breathing can be due to huge tonsils or a tonsillar abscess. strep throat isn't always just a sore throat.
should i seek medical attention wheezing chest pain that goes around to my back cough chills body aches fever
consider seeing your primary care physician and getting a chest x ray. currently patients are having viral upper respiratory tract infection. your wheezing in itself suggest an underlying airway disease which could be from acute bronchitis or underlying asthma or copd exacerbation can also be possible.
what are my chances of inheriting heart disease asthma high blood pressure or wearing contacts? are these things hereditary?
you have control over most of these based on how well you care for yourself. asthma can be difficult to prevent but easy to manage if you develop it. don't worry too much and take good care of your health. exercise and eat right!
what can you do for chest tightness after working out?
probably benign but you deserve a workup for asthma costochondritis (an arthritis bursitis of the ribs) acid reflux or less likely a heart issue. hrs md facc www. thepmc. org
what is the diagnostic test for cardiac asthma?
this is not asthma. it's similar symptoms due to heart failure. your doctor can test your heart (ekg echocardiogram) about heart failure and examine you. treating cardiac asthma involves addressing the heart component.
was told i had mild asthma because pft came back okay. but i wake up at night and have trouble breathing after almost nothing. is it severe? how tell
night time cough can be a sign of asthma that is not well controlled and medicines may help so please relay this information to your health care worker.
was told i had mild asthma because pft came back okay. but i wake up at night and have trouble breathing after almost nothing. is it severe? how tell
if your lung function test did show mild airway obstruction it was indicative of that time only. nocturnal symptoms point to worsening in your asthma and you need to get this checked out.
what could these symptoms indicate? nausea chest tightness/pain shortness of breath side pain.
heart problems esophagus disorders musculoskeletal pain gallbladder dysfunction kidney stones blood clot to the lung asthma or reactive airways flair up. the list is long. a good history giving session with an interested physician would be most helpful. it all depends upon this history as to how aggressively and quickly you need to look into this. sign up to healthtap and see if we cant help
went to the dr today gave me meds for my wheezing. my chest/ lungs hurt with shortness of breath and very tired could this be a blood clot in my lung?
it's possible but it sounds like asthma/copd. if you smoke or have known asthma or copd that is the most likely dx. if you have risk factors for clotting (recent surgery cancer prolonged immobilization recent fracture/wearing a cast thrombophilia (a clotting disorder) take estrogens have recent swelling in one leg) - then your risk of a blood clot is increased.
wheezing feeling on right side of chest and throat but not actually wheezing. slight chest pain on the same side. should i be concerned?
could be many things including asthma and pneumonia. check it out today with your doctor or in the er.
what to do if i'm wheezing and it is really hard to breathe. how do i fix this?
don't try to treat yourself at home. acute asthma that doesn't respond quickly to medication carries a mortality risk. go immediately to the er.
what is the typical dosage of propranolol given to someone with anxiety/panic disorder?
first thing is be clear that you have panic disorder versus panic attacks due to a medical cause. next the doctor needs to know that you do not have asthma or diabetes or any trouble with your heart ryhthm. when i use it with my patients i sometimes start at a low dose twice per day. if one starts off with a large dose it can cause slowed heart rate low blood pressure and fatigue.
what to do if i have asthma and have been having difficulty breathing coughing and a powerful choking sensation. help!?
call ems and dial 911. don't drive to the er. use your rescue inhaler if you have one. don't delay!
what is happening in the respiratory system when it becomes hard to breathe?
whole books are written about this. it can be mechanical like a collapsed lung bronchospastic like asthma air-space replacement like heart failure anemia poison (like cyanide) infectious like pneumonia blood clot and many many more causes.
what would cause your chest to hurt and feel tight when you first get up in the moring and make your chest hurt sometimes in the evening time to?
the couple thing a that come to mind would be reflux disease (a burning type pain sometimes associated with a butter taste in the mouth) that would occur when lying down or asthma (a chest tightness sensation) that is worse at night or in the early morning in some patients.
what could be causing me to have a hard time breathing all of a sudden?
pulmonary embolism myocardial infarction pneumothorax ruptured chordae tendinae or acute pulmonary edema from any other cause. less serious causes: panic attack hyperventilation syndrome asthma. other rare causes: cyanide poisoning cardiac tamponade hemorrhagic shock acidosis from any cause. i've probably missed a few causes but that's a starter.
what to do if i have heart burn and wheezing?
in brief it is known that significant reflux and regurgitation of stomach contents can kick off and exacerbate an asthma attack. you need to get better control of your reflux if that is what it is. i would suggest to you that reflux is a structural disease and that surgery in the right setting by the right surgeon will offer much better control than medications.
when taking diclofenac 50 mg is it normal to have shortness of breathe like havin asthma?
asthma patients can develop shortness of breath with nsaids such as diclofenac. we recommend to stop using them.
what can cause shortness of breath? had it for years. just comes and goes without warning.
there are very many causes of shortness of breath. when it 'just comes and goes' it may be due to rhythm disturbances or asthma type episodes or episodic exposures to triggers. discuss with the dr. who knows you whether investigation is appropriate. extensive investigation of infrequent occurences isn't always necessary.
while sleeping i suffer from chest tightness mainly on the right chest and right elbow pain. i experience right knee pain too. what could be the cause?
pains at night can be a normal result of activities during the day and even arthritis which is commonly worse at night. chest tightness is a concerning symptom especially for a man in his mid 40s. it can suggest a serious problem like heart disease or more commonly reflux or something like asthma. you have several things that may or may not relate. as you are suffering best to get good exam.
what is the difference between inderal 40mg and toprol (metoprolol) xl 50?
inderal is more lipophilic than toprol (metoprolol) - it crosses the blood brain barrier more readily than toprol (metoprolol). thus it's better for migraine and stage fright but can cause more fatigue and depression. toprol (metoprolol) is more beta 1 specific than inderal. that makes it a better drug for someone who may have copd or mild asthma.
when i run too much i start wheezing and coughing and have trouble breathing and it hurts a lot it's strand cause i don't have asthma?
sounds like exercise induced asthma. the best path is to have a physician check a pulmonary function test and then provide your with an albuterol inhaler to use prior to exercise. if this does not help another diagnosis is likely. if your pcp does not do pft testing see and allergy or pulmonary doctor.
when i get caught up cleaning or keeping busy sometimes i feel a flutter in my chest and i feel breathless. what is this?
although a "flutter" invokes thoughts of an abnormal heart rhythm it would be unusual at your age. check your pulse and if possible your blood pressure next time this happens. asthma can also give similar symptoms. if you are menstruating you could be anemic and this could give you the feelings when you are exerting yourself.
why would i be prescribed delera for chest pains fever night sweats joint pain headaches fatigue and enlarged lymph nodes in thethe chest?
you mean dulera (formoterol and mometasone)? it is an asthma med.
what otc med can i give a 11 yo child w/ history severe allergies who forgot inhaler that has a cc of sob and chest tightness before going to er?
it looks like your child has an asthma flare or asthma attack. there are no otc that works well in this situation. if you don't have the rescue inhaler with you you should bring your child to the nearest er before it gets worse.
what otc med can i give a 11 yo child w/ history severe allergies who forgot inhaler that has a cc of sob and chest tightness before going to er?
this is sugestive of asthma he needs an inhaler or nebulizer a walk in clinic may be a better option than the emergency room if he is not in distress.
wheezing. short of breath 3 weeks. better with meds for 2 days then wheezing again. using neb every 4 hrs. could it be something other than asthma?
you are getting into serious trouble and need to see your doctor asap because you end up in the hospital. if you use solely a nebulized bronchodilator for your asthma regularly your asthma may actually get worse.
wheezing. short of breath 3 weeks. better with meds for 2 days then wheezing again. using neb every 4 hrs. could it be something other than asthma?
it is asthma but not controlled the albuterol is not cutting it you need to contact your doctor asap to adjust your medications you need a controller medication.
what to do if i get shortness of breath in the spring and autumn. is that normal?
the seasonality of your symptoms suggests that it may be allergen triggered bronchospasm (aka asthma). do you cough also? (typical). do you wheeze? (typical). you can be tested any time of year with a provocative protocol (methacholine challenge) - pulmonary function test. there are very good treatments once the diagnosis is established.
why might it be that someone have an overactive lymphatic system?
an overactive immune system can lead to a variety of disorders like asthma allergic rhinitis and eczema. please see this website for more info. <link>
why does my heart race when i am lying down on my side? why does my asthma act up when i'm lying down which makes me cough for a long period.
tell him/her what you've noted above. neither heart rate nor asthma should be positional. in other words neither should respond to or be affected by your position. so best to get complete evaluation. you didn't mention taking any medications so best to confirm your asthma diagnosis including severity so that you can receive appropriate standard of care.
why does my heart race when i am lying down on my side? why does my asthma act up when i'm lying down which makes me cough for a long period.
reflux can trigger cough when lying flat especially after a fatty or large meal. the heart racing is not easily explainable. some lung conditions cause shortness of breath when lying on one side but not heart racing.
what could cause waking up in the morning short of breath?
evaluated for a heart or lung condition -? asthma clot in lung blockage in coronary arteries heart failure etc( the latter three less likely cuz of your young age) nevertheless you need to be examined. bless u!
working on garden there was a lot of mold on the soil that evening started having prssure in my chest bad pain in my lungs difficulty. breathing?
depends on whether or not you have had this in the past? . . do you have a history of allergies and/or asthma? . were you ever tested and found to be allergic to mold? best to see your dr. for a breathing test and treatment. then see an allergist for testing.
what are the causes of breathing insufficiency? patient age 44. no bp no diabetic and asthma problems.
your doctor can perform the initial evaluation to determine your problem. if the answer is not clear a pulmonary (lung) specialist might ultimately provide the answer.
why do i sometimes wake up not breathing iam asleep and out of no where i wake up gasping for air is their something wrong with me?
if not already recommended you should get a sleep study to check for sleep apnea. sleep apnea can cause a person to gasp for air during sleep. asthma can also cause breathing difficulties during sleep. start by seeing a sleep specialist!
what to do if i start wheezing and chest gets congested could it be asthma or my heart?
if there is no risk factors for coronary artery disease possibly asthma. test like spirometry and peak flow metacholine challenge test chest ray used to diagnosed asthma. heart conditions can mimic an asthma specially heart failure and acute coronary syndrome. consult a physician.
what could be causing my breathing problems?
the problem can be related to your airway or your heart. airway causes include lung conditions such as asthma or bronchitis. it can also be related to the airway higher up such as at the voice box base of tongue or nose. causes can also be related to your heart. if your heart is not effective in pumping out adequate blood your body may not be getting adequate oxygen.
what is the definition or description of: aspirin allergy?
unpredictable reactions to aspirin including: 1) acute asthma in persons with nasal polyps and persistent asthma; 2) anaphylactic reactions; 3) hives and/or angioedema; 4) flare of hives in 25% of persons with chronic hives. skin or blood tests are of no help with diagnosis. usually not believed to be ige mediated but instead related to lipoxygenase products such as leukotrienes.
why do we consider emphysema as a chronic obstructive airway diseasesince there is no obstruction occurring?
there is obstruction in copd it is just not reversible unlike asthma.
wheezing when i cough and chest pain. what could this be?
wheezing cough and chest pain may suggest bronchial asthma chronic or acute bronchitis etc. need to see doc for office spirometry and chest radiograph or see a lung specialist to make sure that you do not have bronchial asthma. angina is less likely with cough and wheezing unless associated with congestive heart failure.
what is the result of abnormal vq scan if pulmonary embolus?
if your chest radiograph is normal and vq scan shows normal ventilation but perfusion defects usually means pulmonary embolism. if consolidation is on chest xray then mismatches between areas of normal ventilation and areas of decreased perfusion are looked for to suspect pulmonary embolism. scans are graded as to size of defects and multiplicity. asthma and copd can complicate interpretation.
why is it that i can't breathe in this heat?
being 34 copd (chronic obstructive lung disease) is less likely but i would say you may have asthma. asthmatics often have trouble breathing with rapid weather changes extreme heat/cold dusty/smoky environment or when sick with cold/flu etc. since you are having trouble breathing with change of weather/heat consult doc for an evaluation and possible treatment. good luck.
with rhinovirus is it common that the chest is tight and it's hard to breathe?
unless you have asthma a cold usually won't cause chest tightness and shortness of breath. see a doctor to find out what is wrong.
what other than asthma can cause trouble breathing?
including: pneumonia chronic lung disease bronchitis copd bronchiolitis cheat trauma epiglottis lung cancer pulmonary edema pleurisy pulmonary embolism throat trauma heart attack neuromuscular disorders anaphylaxis high altitude obesity organ failure sepsis shock severe ascites cardiac arrthymias pericarditis cardiomyopathy congestive heart failure etc.
what to do about chest tightness and labored breathing?
if you have chest tightness and labored breathing you have have underlying asthma/ bronchitis though heart disease also have to be ruled out. see your doc.
what is the precautions for use of timoptic (timolol)?
timoptic (timolol) is one of the best tolerated anti-glaucoma medications. it's side effects include: red eye heart-block (in patients with arrhythmia) aggravation of asthma glucose intolerance (in diabetics) and finally in patients with hyperthyroidism the drop can exacerbate withdrawal symptoms (palpitations sweating etc).
what medication is best for mild high blood pressure w/o risk to asthmatic & w/o even the 1% possibility of hair loss?
we usually avoid a class of med called beta-blocker in treating bp in asthmatics but beta-1 selective bb has minimal effect on asthma. aldactone (spironolactone) can reduce hair growth but only used in heartfailure or severe bp. bp meds generally don't cause hair loss unless bp is drastically n rapidly reduced (reducing blood to scalp) which may affect hairgrowth for first few months. minoxidil causes hairgrowth.
what medication is best for mild high blood pressure w/o risk to asthmatic & w/o even the 1% possibility of hair loss?
rather than look for the drug which will absolutely not cause hair loss perhaps you should pick a drug with a smaller chance of this happening with the understanding that unexpected side effects occur with most medications. spironolactone is a realtively weak diuretic but is less likely to cause hair loss than beta blockers or calcium blockers.
why am i experiencing shortness of breath just walking around the block today when i don't have problems before?
you could be overexerting yourself for your present physical condition or you could have new onset of heart or lung disease such as coronary artery disease asthma copd or heart failure. you could also have a respiratory infection. go see your doctor.
what does it mean when you have a shortness of breath and it's hard to breath? ok my chest feels heavy and it's kinda hard to breath it first started yesterday with weeziing a few hours after i went swimming.
hello. i can't diagnose your symptoms. however if you have been exercising and develop chest tightness and wheezing you could have some exercise induced reactive airway disease. if you have a little cold or virus this could also be the cause. it sounds like a one time occurence. however if this continues you should see your doctor to ensure that you don't have asthma. now if you are an older person and you have chest heaviness and difficulty breathing than you could be having a cardiac event. your wheezing suggest lung issues but i also included some heart attack info. (chest pain tightness squeezing or fullness is the most common presentation. however the pain can also present in the upper back the upper middle abdomen jaw head teeth or in the arms (left more than right). one could have nausea vomiting or it could feel like indigestion or heartburn. feeling short of breath sweating and just feeling out of sorts can also occur. about a fourth of people have no significant symptoms during a heart attack. ) take care.
what does it mean when you have a shortness of breath and it's hard to breath? ok my chest feels heavy and it's kinda hard to breath it first started yesterday with weeziing a few hours after i went swimming.
generally dyspnea (or shortness of breath) can be caused by multitude of problems and discsusion of each of this is beyond the scope of this qa session. there are host of heart and lung diseases along with other issues like anemia deconditioning obesity mental makeup etc can casuse dyspnea. without knowing much history from you or examining you it appears that you may have extrinsic asthma or reactive airway disease worsened by cholrine in the pool water. pft cxr are initial diagnostic tests with expert interpretations then need treatment or prevention accordingly. ska .
what can cause shortness of breath when albuterol doesn't work these are real physical symptoms not anxiety. have tried albuterol corticosteroids allegra-d nexium prozac muscle relaxers and claritin-d. have seen doctors and specialists inluding pul
well presence of allergies hyper inflated lungs on cxr and dyspnea suggest asthma. you can have normal pfts (pulmonary function tests) ad still have asthma. i am not sure you have been tried on but usually you need blood test or skin test for allergies and a total ige level ( blood test). you could try inhalers on regular basis for example advair or dulera (formoterol and mometasone) on twice a day basis and see if this will help you symptomatically. some times treatment of asthma can become difficult and will need some patience at your and your doctors end. hope this helps.
why is hydrocortisone given for chest pain?
chest pain is a symptom of many diseases. hydrocortisone per se is not given for treatment of chest pain. it may be given for copd or asthma exacerbation which may cause some chest discomfort.
what can i do for my marfan syndrome asthma allergies etc.?
routine allergy and asthma medications such as claritin zyrtec benadryl (diphenhydramine) singulair antihistamine eye drops antihistamine or steroid nasal sprays steroid oral inhalers carefully-used bronchodilator inhalers etc. . should all be ok to use in marfan syndrome. bronchodilator inhalers if overused will cause a rapid heart rate which is not desired in marfan syndrome patients.
what can i do for my marfan syndrome asthma allergies etc.?
see a specialist who treats each specific disease. do not try to deal with all of these symptoms alone. that is why doctors go to school for a minimum of 7-15 years.
what should i do about shortness of breath? i am feeling short of breath but can breathe. should i go to the emergency room or just go see my doctor?
i will get into some specifics in a minute but will summarize first- shortness of breath can mean a lot of things many of which are quite dangerous. so yes you should go to an emergency room. now to answer your question in more detail. when i see a patient who is complaining of shortness of breath- i always think of certain disease processes and try to rule them out either with testing or by historical information and exam. asthma is common but unlikely to present in adulthood. pneumonia is common usually accompanied by fever and productive cough. pulmonary embolism (a "blood clot" in the lungs) is often (but not always) preceded by leg pain and swelling is more common in women the elderly people with cancer smokers and overweight people. congestive heart failure is usually preceded by heart problems or a history of high blood pressure and often the patient will also have leg swelling. certainly heart attacks can present with shortness of breath and no chest pain. as you can see all of these potential problems (and many more) would require a doctor's evaluation as soon as possible.
what should i do about congestion and trouble breathing in the mornings? every morning i wake up congested and short of breath. i don't have any pets and no known allergies. the congestion goes away as the day progresses. what could be causing this?
there are many different causes of feeling the sensation of shortness of breath the most serious of which are those arising from a heart or lung problem. some causes of feeling breathless manifest with subtle patterns e. g. with symptoms that change with the time of day. only a detailed history and examination from your doctor can help provide a clue what the cause of the symptoms could be. for example feeling shortness of breath due to congestive heart failure can result in feeling breathless when lying down flat (e. g. on a bed) or in the middle of the night. conversely symptoms of asthma are typically worse in the mornings and slowly dissipate through the day. this however is not specific for asthma as conditions such as hypersensitivity pneumonitis (inhaled lung allergies) for example can arise from something as simple as your down-comforter. this will result in feeling breathless in the morning when you are exposed to a down-comforter and go away during the day when you are away from your bed. this example illustrates the complexity of trying to determine the cause of feeling breathless as many people will not know if they can be allergic to something like a down-comforter unless they see a pulmonary specialist. coexisting symptoms such as congestion can also provide a clue with regards to the cause but again the type of congestion matters. chronic nasal congestion (blocked nose) suggests a problem such as allergy-related. feeling congested within the chest especially in association with wheezing suggests asthma.
whats might be the cause of my difficulty breathing? well i am 17 years old and ever since i was in the fourth grade i've had trouble breathing. i went to the doctors multiple times and they have all told me that it was anxiety but i do not believe tha
you may have asthma. you do not need a referral for pfts you can either get it done at one of the pulmonologist in your area or at a local hospital.
will the common cold exacerbate my asthma?
the common cold is one of the most common triggers for acute exacerbations of asthma symptoms especially in younger children.
will the common cold exacerbate my asthma?
any infection especially of the upper or lower respiratory tract such as the common cold can exacerbate asthma. care should be rendered during any such infection to assure that your asthma remains stable.
will the common cold exacerbate my asthma?
asthma is a condition that can have many triggers including exercise allergens infections irritants etc. a common cold usually due to a viral infection can trigger an asthma reaction. if you feel an onset of asthma regardless of the cause start your inhalers and/or see your physician.
will the common cold exacerbate my asthma?
if your asthma is well controlled using the appropriate medication and with rare need for a rescue inhaler you should be fine. if asthma is poorly controlled or if you are unlucky common colds particularly chest colds (para-influenza viruses) are certainly capable of triggering an asthma attack. if it seems that an asthma attack is imminent see a doctor sooner rather than later.
why do i always have trouble breathing when the wind is blowing in my face?
this is a type of asthma where your lungs get "twitchy" or airways go into spasm when exposed to cold air. some people will cough instead of wheezing. many get the same symptoms of wheezing whenever they get a cold or say that "when i get a cold it always goes into bronchitis. " you should get a breathing test to make sure that your lung function is normal otherwise. albuterol will stop the cough.
why do i always have trouble breathing when the wind is blowing in my face?
trouble breathing when the wind is blowing could be asthma but i would expect other symptoms to occur even if the wind weren't blowing in your face. copd and other respiratory illnesses could cause trouble like this. a breathing test would be helpful to sort this out. see your primary care provider.
what are the asthma medications available for people with high blood pressure?
when used appropriately are safe for persons with high blood pressure. in fact uncontrolled asthma may be one of the factors raising it in the first place.
what are the asthma medications available for people with high blood pressure?
most if not all of the usual medications for asthma are safe in hypertensive patients.
what is the difference in symptoms between asthma and emphysema?
symptoms except that an asthma attack is reversible emphysema is not.
what is the difference in symptoms between asthma and emphysema?
different day. asthma occurs at any age emphysema is rare under age 40. symptoms - coughing wheezing shortness of breath are the same. bronchodilators & controller medications like inhaled corticosteroids are very effective in asthma; classically not effective in emphysema. not so fast many patients with emphysema have an asthmatic component & get significant relief with these drugs.
what is the difference in symptoms between asthma and emphysema?
ephysema is almost always caused by smoking except for a rare form of hereditary emphysema. if you never smoked then i can be almost 100% certain you don't have emphysema. a chest x-ray of an asthmatic can look "over inflated" (asthmatics have more trouble blowing air out than inhaling it) and sometimes is incorrectly interpreted as "emphysema" especially in a non-smoker.
what is the difference in symptoms between asthma and emphysema?
both are obstructive lung diseases. asthma can be seen in children and adults. it is spasm of airways and can be acute and chronic. emphysema is usually in older people and can be acute on chronic also. it's hallmark is destruction of the air sacs of lung as well as small airways. long-term uncontrolled asthma clinically looks similar.
what are the medications for chest pain?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. the specific treatment for any of these disorders is varied. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having.
what is the etiology of chest pain?
common cardiac causes include ischemia (blockage of a coronary artery causing starvation of a piece of the heart) vasospasm of the coronary arteries (quivering) pericarditis (inflammation of the outer sac of the heart) heart failure (decreased pump efficiency). pulmonary causes include pneumonia or bronchitis embolism (clot usu. blood) asthma or copd fluid build-up and others.
what are nursing interventions after a myocardial perfusion scan?
thee monitoring consists of blood pressure and heart rate observation and watching for chest pain. if it was an exercise treadmill test people can have a rise in "vagal" nerve input during recovery so watch for low heart rates. if medication stress test was done (adenosine or persantine) make sure to watch out for wheezing which can be triggered in predisposed patients (e. g. with asthma).
what is the pathophysiology of chest pain?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having.
when i play sports i get shortness of breath really quickly. is this normal?
it is prudent and recommended that you obtain adequate medical clearance before partaking in sports. many respiratory ailments (sinus conditions asthma and allergies to name a few) are easily treated and manged if adequate medical advice is obtained.
why does my child have heart pain?
it is rare for children to be experiencing chest pain of a cardiac cause. most often when they complain of chest pain it is due to chest muscles or even an infection like pneumonia or a condition such as asthma. however any complaints of chest pain should be evaluated by a pediatrician. if there is pain or feelings of being light headed during exercise please see your doctor right away.
what should i do for my pain or go to the doctors? my heart area is hurting really bad. the pain has been going on off and on for the past 20 min. the pain lasts about 10 seconds and happens about ever 45 seconds. i've never had this pain before. im only
you need to let your parent or guardian know that you are feeling this way. a medical exam is definitely in order. you could be dealing with costochondritis which is inflammation between the ribs it causes symptoms much like the one you described. in addition lung issues like asthma or even cardiac problems need to be ruled out. lastly stress anxiety and depression can present this way. please visit your doctor or urgent care for an evaluation. good luck.
what can i do? i am a 56 year old male i weigh 450 lbs. i have copd asthma and i have a c-pap i take spiriva advair flonase and singulair. i take coumadin because i had blood clots in my lungs. i have arthritis in my knees and i can't stand very long beca
it starts with weight loss my friend. you have heard it many times and will continue to hear it but it is essential for you to start down the road of weight loss. ask for a consult with a dietitian.
what can i do? i am a 56 year old male i weigh 450 lbs. i have copd asthma and i have a c-pap i take spiriva advair flonase and singulair. i take coumadin because i had blood clots in my lungs. i have arthritis in my knees and i can't stand very long beca
there is always help if you are ready to receive it internalize it and act on it. due to your multiple problems you will need a multi-disciplinary approach. start by following up with all your doctors and following their recommendations. the key here i believe is for you to seek counseling. dealing with so many issues is very difficult and can take a toll on your mental well being and your ability to cope and deal with what may seem to be an overwhelming or hopeless situation and to ultimately accept all possible outcomes good or bad. in addition you need to be screened for depression and treated accordingly. i wish you all the best.
what symptoms would someone with very low ejection fracture number(12%) show? possible they can seem healthy & do normal activities until heart fails?
the patient may be anemic for which muga scan will not be reliable. sleep apnea can surely change ef. after it is corrected ef god willing will improve. ie any time heart does not get oxygen rich blood ie broken nose sleep apnea asthma copd pneumonia blocked arteries htn fast heart rate anemia (blood carries oxygen). when you correct this with meds and this aid the heart.
what can i take? what can i take to reduce my blood pressure fast!
there are at least 6 different classes of blood pressure (bp) drugs. each is effective and each has contraindications or problems. foe example the classes known as ace inhibitors arbs and renin inhibitors can cause birth defects; and the class beta blockers are avoided in asthmatics. that is why doctors need to take a good history before prescribing. and one size does not fit all. start with the dash diet (dietary approach to stop hypertension) avoid salt lose weight reduce stress to the degree possible and consider meditation/relaxation. and see your doctor. a link to the dash is below.
why do i have trouble breathing when i work out?
shortness of breath with exercise can be caused by many things. heart disease as well as simple (asthma) and more complex pulmonary (lung) problems should be sought. this assumes you are not simply deconditioned (aka out of shape) relative to the intensity of exercise you're doing. see a good doctor and describe your symptoms. i'd need at least that and a physical exam to help you more.
what is the importance of pressing near the eye (punctal occlusion) after taking eye drops for glaucoma? instructions for 0. 5% timolol include "punctal occlusion. " is this a standard instruction for anyone using timolol? or might it have been written by
timolol belongs to a class of medication called beta-blockers and has side effects just like any other medicine. one of the more concerning side effect is the ability of the beta-blockers to constrict the air passage ways. for most people this is not an issue but if you have an asthma it is advised you obtain different class of medicine. there are many other potential side effects with beta-blockers to minimize these effects patient can press on the punctum to limit the medicine from entering the body. fortunately there are many other class of eye drops for treating glaucoma. you should discuss with your ophthalmologist the option you have regarding the drops.
what is copd?
copd is term that includes a collection of lung disease that can affect the airways and/or air sacs of the lung. common examples include bronchitis and ephysema but many patients can have combinations of both or even a disease that more closely resembles asthma. the most common contributing factor to copd is smoking.
what is cushing disease?
cushing disease which is hypercortisolism caused by an acth-secreting pituitary adenoma is the most common cause of cushing syndrome and is responsible for 60% to 70% of cases. cushing syndrome is mainly caused by other sources of corticosteroids like the medicines dr prescribe to treat many conditions ( prednisone medrol (methylprednisolone) solumedrol (methylprednisolone) deposed rol etc) commonly in copd asthma allergies.
when i breath my lungs hurt feels like if something is squezing me and the pain goes all the way to my chest that i can move i take lisinopril and simvastatin
this is a serious issue that needs a medical evaluation. you could be dealing with a cardiac (heart) issue or pulmonary (lung) problem such as asthma. regardless you will need a work up likely to include a chest x-ray ekg and any other testing your doctor feels is in order. take care.
what does it mean when my heart starts beating fast out of nowhere & i'm forced to gasp for breath?
in a young person fast heart beat assoc. w/ shortness of breath could indicate an arrhythmia. in an older person they could be due to an arrhythmia (irregular heart beat) or even coronary artery disease. sometimes these symptoms can be seen in panic attacks severe anemia asthma drugs blood clot in the lungs cardiomyopathy or hyperthyroidism. best to see doc to have further investigation.
what's the best treatment to get rid of difficulty breathing?
that depends entirely on the cause of the breathlessness. common causes include lack of fitness obesity asthma emphysema pneumonia congestive heart failure blood clots anemia thyroid disease acidosis from any cause hyperventilation broken rib tumors and on and on. this is the short list.
what is the best thing to clear out your lungs if you have shortness of breath/?
shortness of breath may indicate anything from being a bit out of shape to asthma to heart disease to name a few things. if this is a recurrent problem have it evaluated.
what is the best thing to clear out your lungs if you have shortness of breath/?
on why you have shortness of breath. pneumonia? antibiotic. bronchitis? steroid. asthma? steroid and albuterol inhaler. copd? antibiotic and steroid. foriegn body? removal. chf? fluid pill.
what can prolonged heart burn do to my body?
overtime it causes erosion of the esophagus and can result in a condition called barrett's esophagus which can become cancer (rare). it also causes scarring of the esophagus damage teeth worsens asthma. sinusitis hoarseness or throat clearing are other complications of heart burn.
we would like to know what respiratory disorder these symptoms point to do they point to asthma? wheezing coughing especially at night shortness of breath pressure/pain in the chest general tired feeling restlessness
the simple answer is yes. see your physician to make sure that it is not something else.
we would like to know what respiratory disorder these symptoms point to do they point to asthma? wheezing coughing especially at night shortness of breath pressure/pain in the chest general tired feeling restlessness
cough wheeze shortness of breath and chest tightness are all symptoms of asthma. i would recommend that you see a local provider to evaluate these complaints.
why do i have trouble breathing when windows open? isnt fresh air good?
some people have sensitive lungs. asthma can be subtle and people get used to breathing a little less more and more so check with your doctor if this issue persists.
what problem could cause lower chest pain on the right side?
some of them could be a lung infection (pneumonia) bronchitis pulmonary embolus chest trauma muscle spasm shingles pleurodynia (viral infection of the pleura) rib fracture muscle tear gallstones hepatitis heart failure asthma attack emphysema thoracic spine disease with nerve root compression.
what types of things cause shortness of breath in nonasthmatic teen?
since everybody becomes short of breath with exertion it should first be determined if this is normal. valvular and congenital heart disease and various non-asthmatic lung diseases cause pathological breathlessness. specific cardiac examples include: rheumatic heart disease (mitral stenosis) dilated or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and a large variety of congenital defects.
what are the glands and hormones out of balance in cushing syndrome?
the most common form of cushing syndrome is due to taking glucocorticoid rxs (hormones such as prednisone hydrocortisone) to treat asthma arthritis inflammatory bowel etc. in the less common endogenous cushing syndrome the adrenal gland (either one or both) produces too much cortisol hormone. this can be due to an over-acive tumor in the adrenal or in pituitary gland that controls adrenals.
what is the best asthma medicine for wheezing and coughing and shortness of breath?
there are essentially two types of medications for asthma: controller medications and rescue medications. the controller you get placed on is determined by your severity and this can be changed based on the degree of control of symptoms and risk. we follow guidelines for severity and treatments such as naepp and gina. however in short most asthmatics need to be on inhaled corticosteroids.
what is the best asthma medicine for wheezing and coughing and shortness of breath?
the best treatment for control of these asthma symptoms is bronchodilator and steroid inhalers. if severe enough symptoms are present a course of systemic steroids may be needed to get these symptoms under control. avoid any allergic triggers. antibiotics when there is an infection present is also needed. see your doctor for any worsening symptoms.
what blood pressure meds are good for people with anxiety?
beta blockers like metoprolol carvedilol can help with blood pressure and anxiety. talk with your doc to see if this is a good fit for you (not great if you have asthma or low heart rate). great question!
why do i have trouble breathing? happens whenever i go into a place with new carpeting.
new carpets usually shed a lot. perhaps you are breathing it in leading to an allergic reaction similar to asthma.
what are the causes for chest pressure or pain?
angina (heart) pulmonary embolus (lungs) airway congestion (bronchitis asthma) infection (bronchitis/pneumonia) heartburn (esophagus) musculoskeletal (e. g. costochondritis muscle spasms) radiculopathy (nerves pinched as they exit spine). many. see md if persists or worsens.
which nursing diagnoses are most appropriate for a person with wheezes dyspnea and tachypnea?
but age and past history play important roles here. most adults know if they have asthma children may present with their first attack. on a nursing exam i'd choose asthma. beware the "zebras" like congestive heart failure pulmonary embolus or copd etc.
what is the best way to treat cough that is a side effect of cozaar (losartan)?
cozaar is the trade name for losartan which is a bp med in the arb (angiotensin receptor blocker) class. that class does not have cough as a side effect. the angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors may have cough as a side effect but not the arb's. if you hava chronic cough on losartan (cozaar) you should talk to your doctor and find the cause: gerd? asthma?
wouldn't a echocardiogram show early heart failure? also wouldn't a stethoscope and chest x-ray show copd?
an echocardiogram will not show the fluid in the lungs so it will not diagnose early heart failure. copd by definition has chronic airways obstruction which is diagnosed via pulmonary function testing. this is the only way to differentiate copd from asthma both of which can give the same stethoscope and x-ray findings.
would severe asthma type attacks and neck pain be related could this be heart problems?
though uncommon. there is a form of cardiac asthma that might be associated with referred neck pain. check this out with your physician.
would severe asthma type attacks and neck pain be related could this be heart problems?
asthma don't think is related to neck pain. heart pain/angina could be realted to neck pain. consult with your doctor.
what causes chest pain and difficulty breathing after exercise?
most probably exercise induced asthma or coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. needs to be evaluated.
why am i having constant coughing attacks with phlegm and chest pain?
the symptoms you describe suggest a combination of infection with airway irritation. productive cough with discolored phlegm especially when associated with fever is suggestive of lung infection requiring prompt treatment with appropriate antibiotic therapy. the cough can be due to airway inflammation treated with stepwise asthma treatment. a chest xray and medical evaluation/prompt treatment.
what might cause a person with asthma to have shortness of breath but a consistently high peak flow (750+) and all of their cardio tests checked out fine?
in my experience when someone has a subjective feeling of shortness of breath palpitations chest tightness etc. but all the objective measures are checking out ok what you may actually be dealing with is an anxiety problem. but first you rule out the physical stuff.
what might cause a person with asthma to have shortness of breath but a consistently high peak flow (750+) and all of their cardio tests checked out fine?
there are many disorders besides asthma which can cause shortness of breath. you need to see your doctor asap because shortness of breath can be due to a life-threatening condition. go to the er if your doctor cannot see you readily. you may need some testing like blood gas analysis pulmonary function testing chest x-ray ct scan etc. in order for the diagnosis to be made and treatment given.
why do i feel chest pain and have difficulty breathing after exercise now?
exertional chest pain can be a sign of heart disease. if you have risk factors for cardiac disease: high blood pressure or cholesterol diabetes get evaluated asap. another possibility is asthma. you can develop it at any age. lastly it may be simply lack of physiologic conditioning. if however you've been exercising with no change in your routine you need to get evaluated asap.
what are the reasons and solutions for shortness of breath and chest pain sometimes numbness in hands and legs?
chest pains and shortness of breath (individually or both symptoms together) need to be evaluated by a primary care physician first and a diagnosis--which will likely take various testing--must be made before being able to treat. causes include heart (coronary artery or valve disease pericarditis) respiratory problems (pleurisy asthma) chest wall anxiety or neuro disorders. c ur doc.
what are some of the side effects of timolol eye drops?
timolol is an effective anti-glaucoma drops. there is some systemic absorption of the agent termed a 'beta-blocking' agent. it can change the heart rhythm usually by capping the rate in exercise and it can increase the chance of asthma in the susceptible. if these symptoms occur see your ophthalmologist for alternative treatments.
what are a common side effects of tenormin (atenolol). should i take something else?
slow heart rate worsening of heart failure potentiation of asthma and hypokalemia and low blood sugar. fatigue sexual dysfunction are probably overstated. may have withdrawal if stopped suddenly. potential for mild weight gain. despite all these tenormin (atenolol) is usually well tolerated.
what are the side effects of atenolol?
slow heart rate low bp fatigue asthma worsening erectile dysfunction are all possibilities.
what are complications of an asthmatic after cardiac bypass surgery?
most pts have there asthma controlled and have infrequent episodes. these pts do well post op. the more brittle asthmatics may require more agressive pulmonary toilet post op. they may require iv steroids and breathing treatments. they may not tolerate the beta blockers that are used. despite this even difficult asthmatic pts do well they may need a little longer recovery time
which diagnoses are most appropriate for a person with wheezes dyspnea and tachypnea?
if you have been diagnosed with asthma and you are wheezing good chance that's why. if not a differential needs to be considered by your doctor and you need pulmonary function tests. you could have upper airway obstruction you could have inhaled a foreign object or you could have heart failure or copd to name a few. link: <link>
what are causes of shortness of breath? i have had a nuclear stress test. an echo gram test? my heart center tests reveal all test are acceptable.
if you have had a normal cardiac work up it sounds like a lung problem such as copd or asthma. at your age i would be surprised by asthma that has never given you trouble before but copd often gets worse as you get older. if you smoke stop immediately. see your doctor for appropriate meds.
why would blood pressure pulse and respiratory rate increased during a severe asthma attack?
the respiratory rate increases due to low oxygen in the blood. the increase in pulse and bp are the body's response to stress.
why would blood pressure pulse and respiratory rate increased during a severe asthma attack?
respiratory rate increase due to not being able to breath well pulse goes up due to not being able to breath well possible low oxygen anxiety blood pressure goes up likely from anxiety from the stress of not being able to breath well
what can asthmatics do for lingering chest tightness?
if an asthmatic has some lingering chest pain or shortness of breath it may be an indication of inadequate treatment of asthma. you may require more puffs of bronchodialtors or steroid containing inhalers if these does not help you probably will be benefited by breathing exercises or yoga.
what can asthmatics do for lingering chest tightness?
if you have lingering chest tightness this suggests your asthma is not yet under control or that you have another medical problem that needs attention (some can be serious). especially in adults chest tightness can be associated with heart issues. you need further medical attention - and perhaps rapidly. even if this has happened many times before your doc may need alter your daily med regimen.
what is the relationship between known recurrent asthma and congestive cardiac failure?
heart failure can cause pulmonary edema (water logged lungs) for which one sign is wheeze (all that wheezes is not asthma). a related environmental cause - severe pollution could lead a person with both to have an exacerbation of both. but it is more likely that "cardiac asthma" isn't asthma at all but just the heart failure.
what're the common causes of breathing problems?
there are many many causes of breathing problems. some are related to the respiratory system (asthma copd) others to the cardiac system (congestive heart failure). some problems are due to infection (pneumonia) and others related to trauma (quadriplegia). there are congenital causes (cystic fibrosis) and some causes where the etiology is not known. there are so many causes so see your doctor!
what breathing problems are associated with a shortness of breath in chest?
bronchial asthma copd congestive heart failure pulmonary embolism pulmonary fibrosis and other chronic diseases of lungs.
what are the side affects of the blood pressure medicine labetalol?
tingling scalp is the odd one that most talk about. too much can give you too low of a blood pressure and possibly a low pulse. that can lead to dizziness weakness fatigue etc. making asthma worse is possible. even so having said all that labetolol is old and safe. the range of doses is enormous from 100 mg twice a day to 300 mg 4x/day. if your doc says you need it try it. and its cheap!
what are the side effects of blood pressure medication?
too low of a blood pressure and possibly a low pulse. that can lead to dizziness weakness fatigue etc. making asthma worse is possible. coughing hives swelling tingling scalp urination and many others. even so carefully chosen bp meds can save your life. don't try to figure this out on your own find a doc you trust and them guide you.
what can be the explanation if i've got chest tightness (1 week now) and shortness of breath?
if you have chest tightness and sob you probably have asthma. but you need a thorough check up before any conclusions. other reasons may be heart problems acid reflux bronchitis etc.
waking up with congestion with chest tightness. what should i do?
it appears you may have some allergies as well as tendency for asthma. you should see you physician for an accurate diagnosis and treatment.
what can i do to relieve chest pressure and a hard time breathing?
if you these symptoms you should be ruled out of heart and lung problems such as coronary artery disease heart failure asthma bronchitis copd etc. so get checked.
what could cause me to get emphysema if i have never smoked?
exposure to other toxins including wood fires etc can also lead to copd and there are some genetic syndromes that also predispose patients to copd without or with a minimal smoking history - a pulmonologist can help evaluate these. furthermore chronic poorly controlled asthma or other bronchiolitis can also eventually cause irreversible obstructive lung disease.
what causes noncardiac chest pain?
many things can cause non-cardiac chest pain. anxiety and stress esophageal disorders stomach disorders reflux disease pulmonary diseases like copd asthma pleuritis pneumonia pulmonary embolism herpes zoster costrochondritis just to name a few.
what is constricting chest pain?
constricting chest pain is a term health providers use to describe the location or type of the pain. chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few.
what is the use of propranolol (inderal)?
inderal (propranolol) is a so called beta blocher that has many uses it is used for hypertension tremor migraine headaches mild anxiety excessive sweating and to reduce the chances of a heart attack. and tachycardia it is contraindicated in respiratory conditions such as asthma and bronchitis.
what is the best way to relieve chest tightness from asthma?
asthma gets relieved with inhalers or nebuliser treatments as well as chest tightness. mmcough also may get better in course of time.
what is the best way to relieve chest tightness from asthma?
albuterol or other short acting bronchodilators temporarily and inhaled steroids for maintenance and if needed oral steroids acutely for severe flares.
what could cause shortness of breath while exercising?
shortness of breath needs to be evaluated by your physician. it can be due to heart problems lung problems (smoking related asthma etc) deconditioning irregular heart rhythms vocal cord or upper airway problems. see your doctor ask if getting a stress test is appropriate due to your age. this is not something one should sit on.
which pain medications will not cause breathing problems?
only exception to opioid class would be aspirin in individuals who have documented aspirin induced asthma or bronchospasm which is rare.
what could make it difficult to breathe after i work out?
some people can suffer from exercise induced asthma. but there can be many causes. please consult with your physician who may refer you to a pulmonologist depending upon the severity and duration of your symptoms. if you smoke please quit asap.
what does tightness in my chest mean when i run?
it could mean that you are not in good running shape or it could be the signs of an infection or possiblely the signs of asthma or other lung disease or even heart disease.
what does tightness in my chest mean when i run?
tightness in the chest experienced while running could be indicative of significant ischemic heart disease (angina pectoris) or exercise induced asthma. in either case you should urgently see a cardiologist who can do a stress test and some blood work to establish the diagnosis.
what are the symptoms for vocal cord dysfunction? i have been told by an allergist i have it because i have chronic shortness of breath.
vocal cord dysfunction is a condition that mimics and/or complicates asthma. it is the result of one's vocal cords closing instead of opening with inspiration. the symptoms include trouble breathing (more so when breathing in) stidor like noise with breathing in cough trouble speaking not responding to typical asthma medications.
what are the symptoms for vocal cord dysfunction? i have been told by an allergist i have it because i have chronic shortness of breath.
vcd causes intermittent trouble breathing coughing and hoarseness and is very often mistaken for asthma. the problem is in the vocal folds though and often the irritation is from reflux. sometimes people have both asthma and vcd. the treatments for each problem are very different. <link>
when is shortness of breath something to worry about in pregnancy?
shortness of breath can be a common normal change of pregnancy. however if you are at any risk of a blood clot it's not normal nor is it normal if you are an asthmatic. typical shortness of breath while walking up stairs is common shortness of breath at rest isn't. see you doctor right away or the emergency room if you are at all concerned.
what can cause chest wall pain?
often times it is viral in nature but you need an ekg to rule out any cardiac problems or lung issues. some people get asthmatic and later have chest wall pain. chronic coughing from bronchitis smoking and other lung irritations can cause this as well.
what the cause of tightness in my chest and lower back pain?
and that usually means a strain of muscles and ribs in the chest and spine muscle in the back. the chest could be asthma or unlikely a heart issue. lung functions and a possible "regular" stress test can also help but seeing your dr will help sort this out. physical therapy and yoga will likely help both.
was just wondering if breathing problems similar to asthma plus shoulder pain in the left arm could be a pe?
could be a pe heart attack and many other things ranging from the innocent (pulled muscle) to the very serious. get yourself checked!
was just wondering if breathing problems similar to asthma plus shoulder pain in the left arm could be a pe?
pulmonary embolism is a very serious situation. get yourself checked if you fell this is the case. there aer many conditons that may give you the symptoms you described and should be eliminated. go to your physician and get checked.
what is the best way to treat wheezing and trouble breathing that occur after a nasty cold?
if you have asthma and are wheezing you need to use your rescue inhaler. some viral infections however can cause reactive airways and may cause you to wheeze even if you do not have asthma in that case you need t o see your doctor to give you a bronchodilator. you may aslo trya steam vaporiser and soem liquid vicks in the vaporiser to make your breathing easier.
what is the physiologic difference between asthma copd emphysema and bronchitis? how to identify each as an emt? how are they treated?
as an emt in these cases you primary concern is to make sure the patient can breathe. in asthma codp emphysema and "chronic bronchitis" a resuce inhaler like albuterol or ipratropium(copd) owuld be your first response. steroid inhalers are not for rescue situations.
what is the physiologic difference between asthma copd emphysema and bronchitis? how to identify each as an emt? how are they treated?
asthma is a reversible airway disease due to allergens either extrinsic or intrinsic. copd is classified into chronic bronchitis and emphysema depending on the pathology. these are termed irreversible airway diseases. bronchitis is damage to the lining of bronchioles resulting in excessive secretions whereas emphysema is loss of elasticity of alveoli resulting in bad air exchange. careful history.
what is the physiologic difference between asthma copd emphysema and bronchitis? how to identify each as an emt? how are they treated?
asthma is seen more in younger people may have an allergic component and they tend to wheeze and be hypoxic. copd and emphysema are interchangeable. more in older smokers may be hypercapneic and you should be careful about giving them too much oxygen. in an emergency follow your abcs (abacavir). there is much more let me know if you need more info.
why do i have chest wall pain and hard time breathing long after workouts?
you may have exercise induced asthma due to cooling of airways while exercising try exercising with mouth closed if no success see a pulmonary specialist.
when my husband who has asthma eats chocolate he has trouble breathing why is that?
allergies are a very common trigger for asthma. to be sure have him tested for chocolate allergies.
when my husband who has asthma eats chocolate he has trouble breathing why is that?
he may be allergic to chocolate or one of its components. get him tested!
what could be wrong with me if i'm having chest pain?
here's the list (no specific order) depending on age and medical history: 1. heart attack 2. pericarditis 3. heart failure 4. pneumonia 5. bronchitis 6. asthma 7. pneumonitis (irritation from chemicals or drugs) 8. costochondritis (bruising) 9. pulmonary embolus 10. back injury/sprain 11. gerd 12. ulcer and many more. it needs to be evaluated by a doctor in the office or hospital.
why do i always have shortness of breath after eating in mid night and when overly tired? i have no asthma.
the most likely cause of your breathing problem is gastro-esophageal reflux or what is common. y called heartburn. going to bed with a full stomach increases the likely-hood that acid from the stomach can leak into the esophagus and cause chest symptoms including cough chest tightness and voice change. treatment includes antacids h-2 blockers and protein-pump inhibitors.
why do i always have shortness of breath after eating in mid night and when overly tired? i have no asthma.
filling your stomach and lying down prevent the lungs from expanding fully especially if you are overweight. being overly tired can give you all sorts of symptoms including being short of breath. get yourself checked!
what is the difference between pulmonary fibrosis and stenosis?
pulmonary fibrosis is generally speaking scarring of the lungs. certain types progress faster than others. there is no such thing as pulmonary stenosis (narrowing). you can have a narrowing of the airways which is a completely different problem and may be treated with stents. and refers to the large airways so is different from asthma and copd. hope this is not too confusing!
what is the etiologic agent mode of transmission source of infection and period of communicable of emphysema?
emphysema is not an infectious disease. it is caused by smoking long-term uncontrolled asthma occupational and other exposures or may be inherited.
will copd necessarily progress to emphysema?
copd is a big box. it includes many diseases such as asthma bronchitis asthmatic bronchitis and emphysema. check with your lung doc.
wife has been coughing for the last three month non stop. been to the hospital and nothing prescribed helps. what do i do? please help us out.
several possible reason. some blood pressure medication might cause dry cough. some upper airway viral infection might last long. pertussis is coming back to the community. asthma sometimes presents as a chronic cough a clue is family history of asthma or person frequent cold and cough as a child. you might need a chest xray and then see a pulmonologist.
whats symptoms causes persistent couphing at nights persistent sweating and at rare times increased heart beat for no reason?
several reason. most common one is due to asthma allergy bronchitis and postnasal drips. heart failure (which i do not expect in 20 year old person) also is on the list. please talk to your pcp.
when i play football i get breathless i use my asthma inhaler but doesn't have affect?
if you know that every time you play football or exercise for that matter you get breathless you may want to consider using your rescue inhaler before the exercise. talk it over with your physician.
when i play football i get breathless i use my asthma inhaler but doesn't have affect?
if your albuterol inhaler is used before activity and still not helpful it may not be asthma causing breathlessness. two other possibilities are that you are having normal exertional shortness of breath or vocal cord dysfunction. asthma typically is worse after stopping exercise. if your problem is worsening see your physician.
what could chest and back pain along with shortness of breath indicate?
shortness of breath (sob) could be from many things such as asthma and infections like bronchitis and pneumonia. infections could cause chest and back pain. sob can go along with coughing. coughing could lead to muscle strain which in turn can lead to chest and back pain.
what is the definition or description of: mild shortness of breath?
shortness of breath (sob) could be mild moderate or severe. sob could be due to many things including anemia asthma congestive heart failure and infections like pneumonia and bronchitis. tests that may need to be considered include a chest x ray and ekg. the first step is to take a good history.
what are the chances of having copd/emphysema with normal spirometry and ok non hrct ct sscan did show lung cysts. i am concerned because of sob.?
by defintion spirometry readings should not be "normal" for copd/emphysema. if you mean they have not changed for a period that is somethign different. your sob may be the result of deminished lung function or something exacerbating youtr copd. not sure that "cysts" are cause- need more info. can your sob may also be caused by overlapping asthma? are you using a resuce inhaler?
why does my chest hurt after running in the cold?
lungs that exposed to the cold usually causes a narrowing of the airways called broncho-constriction. in some cases it may a sign of asthma. chest pain in general should be taken seriously and may be a sign of underlying heart issues so seeking medical attention is important.
why does my chest hurt after running in the cold?
sounds like asthma but if this is an acute problem them may be developing an infection. if chronic then ask ur md to try inhaler therapy prior to running to see it helps.
why does my chest hurt after running in the cold?
cold air is a common trigger for asthma especially exercise-induced asthma. while there could be a more serious causes of these symptoms a primary care physician can help confirm this diagnosis and give you medicine to help decrease your symptoms and increase your ability to run in the cold.
what are the possible causes of breathlessness in a non smoker if asthma and copd ruled out?
if your handle means you are 53yo think about your heart or how in shape you are; if breathlessness continues see your doctor.
what are the possible causes of breathlessness in a non smoker if asthma and copd ruled out?
after ruling out lung pathology the next things to rule out are- cardiac reasons and renal reasons. sometimes hepatic reasons too.
what are the symptoms of cushing's disease?
cushing's syndrome is a disorder of the hormone system that is caused by excess levels of cortisol in the body. cortisol is a hormone that helps the body respond to stress. cushing's syndrome involves the adrenal and pituitary glands and often results from continued use of steroids commonly prescribed for asthma arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. cushing's syndrome afflicts men and women.
what could be causing me to have shortness of breathe at night?
asthma is one reason to have shortness of breath but also uncontrolled acid reflux and many other ailments. see your doctor about it.
what can be causing constant red eyes dizziness fatigue muscle cramps and breathing problems that is not allergies or asthma. something's wrong.
a large amount of illnesses can cause these symptoms including viral autoimmune bacterial etc diseases. consult your primary care doctor for an exam and lab work. this will likely aid in the diagnosis and treatment.
what can be causing constant red eyes dizziness fatigue muscle cramps and breathing problems that is not allergies or asthma. something's wrong.
some autoimmune and rheumatologic problems can present with eye symptoms (red) fatigue muscle and/or joint symptoms and respiratory symptoms. a rheumatologist would be an excellent resource to review the symptoms suggest diagnostic tests to find the cause and offer a treatment plan.
what can be causing my 14 ur old sons chest to hurt when he breaths in?
esophagitis/spasm gastritis peptic ulcer disease pancreatitis/gallbladder trouble intestional spasm as well as lung and heart and chest wall (costochrondiritis) are common in adults. your 11 y/o son with chest pain related to breathing could possibly be from asthma and chest wall inflammation. i suggest consult your/his doc for an eval and treatment. best of luck.
what can cause fast heartbeat breathing difficulty cold body and dizziness?
one could begin with common causes such as dehydration extreme anxiety or fright asthma abnormal thyroid function and some unusual problems such as rare tumors which secrete substances which can affect heart rate and blood pressure. the list is very long. however were you to undergo a thorough medical examination with appropriate blood and urine testing an answer would likely be found.
what kinds of diseases can cause shortness of breath besides heart related and blood clot issues?
shortness of breath (sob) can be a symptom of many conditions other than heart and blood clot issues. pulmonary conditions are a major example . asthma reactive airway disease copd bronchitis pneumonia etc anxiety can even cause sob. if you're sob see a dr. for an eval and work up. (if you smoke stop). good luck.
when im jogging i always got chest pain i don't have relatives or family that got asthma or heart problem. is it normal?
at your age and sex you need a doctor to listen to your heart for a murmur which will likely not be found. the problem is probably musculoskeletal and due to stress on your chest wall joints where ribs join cartilage (gristle) of the sternum (breast bone). i have sometimes seen such symptoms in women with exceedingly large breasts. with asthma one gets significantly short of breath and wheezy.
when im jogging i always got chest pain i don't have relatives or family that got asthma or heart problem. is it normal?
stop jogging until you see an md.
what risk factors are associated with lung diseases and coronary heart disease?
smoking smoking obesity family history asthma hypertension diabetes.
why does my husband get shortness of breath?
not sure without knowing him and evaluating him. things that can cause sob . . smoking asthma copd overweight chf alergies congestion infections (like bronchitis pneumonia) to name a few.
why does my husband get shortness of breath?
shortness of breath is not specific to any one cause. he could be out of shape or he could be anemic or have heart or lung disease or. if he has asthma and bronchitis already that's a reason. discuss with his doctor.
which of these are restrictive: obstructive pulmonary diseases are asthma chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
airway "obstruction" refers to limitation of air flow through the airways. "restriction" refers to processes that keep the lungs from opening fully when you inhale. restriction can result from fibrosis or thickening of the lung as with diseases like idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. it can even be from something as simple as obesity or muscle weakness that keeps you from breathing deeply.
which of these are restrictive: obstructive pulmonary diseases are asthma chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
restriction is defined as low lung volumes. less air "capacity" of the lung. less air moves into the lung. a "thick" chest wall ( obesity) poorly functioning respiratory muscles are some reasons. pulmonary fibrosis is another distinct category. "fibrosis" disorders are varied and are described as interstitial lung disease
which of these are restrictive: obstructive pulmonary diseases are asthma chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
all the pulmonary fibrosis diseases are restrictive as are the infiltrative diseases.
when i was 5 my teacher thought i had asthma but i didn't. i'm now 15 i sometimes have a hard time breathing and using an inhaler sounds like heaven.
see your doctor for an updated evaluation. allergy sinus infections reflux or primary lung or tracheal or even heart problems could contribute to your symptoms. don't suffer - get help!
what is an asthmatic do to alleviate chest soreness?
asthma if uncontrolled can cause chest pain. tightness and burning sensation. you must take your medicines/inhalers regularly.
why does gastritis cause shortness of breath?
gastritis is defined as inflammation of the stomach lining due to high levels of acid production. other causes include using pain killers ( aspirin indomethacin etc). gastroesophageal reflux ( heartburn) is associated with the above conditions. there is association between uncontrolled heart burn and asthma though it is controversial. i do not see a direct link between gastritis and breathing.
what does wheezing means to a patient with ischemic heart disease. what does it signifies. cough is also there. should i increase the dose of diuretic.
wheeze can be due to fluid in the lungs or an asthmatic condition. either way see your doc.
what can cause sudden shortness of breath like for example i worked in a sawmill and done a lot of heavy lifting and suddenly got short of breath?
asthma is a very common cause of intermittent shortness of breath although other causes e. g anemia underlying heart disease etc can also be possible.
what can be done to reduce my blood pressure?
weight loss (if overweight) and cardio exercise can help. as will reducing excessive alcohol. nsaids and stimulant drugs can increase bp and should be stopped. there are many drugs for hypertension depending on patient characteristics like presence or absence of age heart disease diabetes kidney damage asthma/copd osteoporosis and others. your physician can advise on the best options.
what can i do to control shortness of breath (asthma) with celiac disease?
there are numerous medicines for prevention and treatment of asthma available by prescription. see a doctor for evaluation and treatment especially since you also have celiac disease. asthma medications should not impact celiac disease.
what to take for your hypertension if you have hypertension that is?
low salt diet weight loss and aerobic exercise all help hypertension. most people also need drug therapy. the choice of drug(s) depends on patient characteristics like presence or absence of age heart disease diabetes kidney damage asthma/copd osteoporosis and others. a physician will be able to evaluate these factors. beta angiotensin and calcium blockers all work as do diuretics.
what's your opinion of this theory for my tos? poorly controlled asthma>chest breathing>shortened scalenes>thoracic outlet syndrome
but muscle anomalies abnormal usage can cause constriction and symptoms.
why do i have coughing fits that result in shortness of breath resulting in throwing up?
could be allergies or asthma if you have it. bronchitis usually persistent cough. reflux can even cause a chronic caugh. get checked for possible whooping cough. see your dr if it persts.
what is the best drug for cardiac asthma?
cardiac asthma means increased fluid tension in your lungs from a cardiac source is making you short of breath. this may be from a heart that is thickened or stiff (diastolic dysfunction) a heart that is enlarged or weakened (systolic dysfunction) or a valve that is not functioning properly. the treatment is different depending on the cause. see your doctor.
what causes breathing problems besides asthma?
however i see that you are 33 so many things are less likely. asthma is a very common disease and can present with a few different types of symptoms like cough shortness of breath or even chest discomfort. nevertheless there are some more rare causes of breathing trouble in younger females. you should see your doc and discuss your symptoms thoroughly so they know how to evaluate you.
what is causing me to get chest pains around my heart area?
chest pain can have many causes. . coronary artery disease chest wall pain acid reflux asthma pneumonia bronchitis etc. i don't have any info about you. seek a good primary care doctor for a good history and physical and start searching for a cause asap.
what would cause chest tightness? hearts good n lungs are clear. no asthma. always anxious feeling. started suddenly. possibly panic attack cause it?
panic and anxiety can definitely cause chest tightness although unless you have a history of these symptoms with anxiety it is always good to get checked out because blood clots and other medical situations can also cause this even if you have no history of heart or lung problems.
what are the ups and downs of taking magnesium. im anxious a lot n think i had panic attack few months ago. been cleared of heart lung prob. no asthma?
one of the benefits of mag is treatment of insomnia depression and migraines. also use to treat or help in the treatment certain psychiatric illness. panic attacks anxiety stress. also help treat diabetes hypertension osteoporosis.
what does shooting side pain on the left side of the chest mean?
chest pain can come from many causes. at your age more common causes include musculoskeletal pain; pulmonary problems like asthma or pneumonia; gi problems like reflux gastritis achalasia. the heart can also be the source of chest pain in adolescence but it is very rare. a detailed history & physical exam with your pcp will be important. depending on those further testing may be recommended.
what does trouble breathing mean if no doctor can figure it out the source of breathing problems and the breathing test caomes out fine and they still?
reassurance that everything is normal. i presume you were checked for reactive (asthma)/ obstructive (bronchitis emphysema) airway disease acid reflux post nasal drip coronary artery disease etc. take care!
what to do if i have asthma & have trouble breathing after dancing! please help!?
some patients have exercise-induced asthma (eia) which is triggered primarily by exercise. this can often be treated with an inhaled medication just prior to exercise. other folks with more classic asthma may or may not notice worsening in symptoms with exercise. it's worth trying your inhaler a few minutes before dancing to see if it helps. if not then check with your doc.
which one is better metoprolol or cardizem? what are the pros and cons?
it depends. both treat angina palpitations and high blood pressure. cardizem has fewer side effects. metoprolol can make you tired depressed and worsen asthma. metoprolol is less expensive. both come as once a day extended release formulations. the combination of both is especially good for treating angina.
why does asthma cause shortness of breath when bending over?
when you bend you compress your lungs making it harder to breathe and more noticeable when you have limited lung reserve.
what's to be expected? might ventolin work at all if you have an asthma attack whilst taking beta blockers?
ventolin may still work but would likely be less effective. it is also important to choose a cardio-selective beta blocker if there is no other alternative. one study showed that taking a cardio-selective beta blocker reduced the fev-1 (the one-second airflow which is reduced in airway obstruction) by about 7% but made the lung more responsive to bronchodilators. avoid beta blocker if possible.
which beta blocker should i take for the physical symtoms of anxiety?
if you are not asthmatic or diabetic and have no structural heart disease. inderal (propranolol) is the medication that has been studied most for this purpose.
what are the possible causes of shortness of breath?
you're taking albuterol so asthma & copd/emphysema come to mind. pleural effusion & pulmonary embolism too. bronchitis & pneumonia. heart attack & heart failure. abnormal heart rhythm. pneumothorax. if that's not enough check out <link> check w/your doc for thorough evaluation.
what would cause ammonia smell in nose chronic fatigue and muscle weakness in a 32yr asthmatic mom of 4 with perfect tsh cmp cbc and lipid panel?
you need to have your doctor check if you have sinus infection which is one of the common complications of allergies. sinus infection gives you a sense of 'bad smell' maybe ammoniacal or not. not well controlled asthma and allergies in itself makes you to have chronic fatigue and muscle weakness and thus more pronounced with any infection. allergies can also increase your sensitivity to smell.
what would cause ammonia smell in nose chronic fatigue and muscle weakness in a 32yr asthmatic mom of 4 with perfect tsh cmp cbc and lipid panel?
just to on safer side check carbon monoxide(odourless) level;other thing to look for is chronic sinusitis with post nasal drip.
what are the symptoms of emphezema?
shortness of breath especially with activity is the hallmark of emphysema. fatigue usually accompanies it. since emphysema is closely related to bronchitis and asthma many people share the symptoms of cough and wheezing as well.
what doc should i see for chronic cough and shortness of breath?
chronic cough can be from sinusitis allergies asthma but also from reflux. chronic bronchitis & other possible. get check first.
whenever i yell or talk for too long i find that i have a shortness of breath. it feels like something is blocking my airways/breathing. asthma?
asthma causes shortnes of breath cough and musical wheezing during exhalation which the doctor may hear on examination even if you dont hear it. it is very treatable. if you feel it on talking it probably is slowing you down in other ways so why not get examined by your doc or school nurse?
whenever i yell or talk for too long i find that i have a shortness of breath. it feels like something is blocking my airways/breathing. asthma?
your problem should be evaluated by a doctor preferably an allergist in your area.
what are the main causes of shortness of breath? i don't feel any other symptoms except that it feels hard and slightly heavier to breath. any idea?
there are so many causes! pulmonary disease including asthma bronchitis emphysema pneumonia and pulm. embolism. heart disease: especially heart failure and angina; systemic causes such as anemia thyroid excess and acidosis (like from diabetes. other causes include hyperventilation panic attack foreign body airway obstruction. this is the short list!
what are the main causes of shortness of breath? i don't feel any other symptoms except that it feels hard and slightly heavier to breath. any idea?
shortness of breath can be from several causes heart and lung issues are first such as asthma heart failure etc. it is can also be secondary to stomach problems such as gastritis and acid reflux. chronic nasal congestion from allergies can also cause shortness of breath. anemia is also another cause the list is endless.
what causes trouble breathing but your pulse ox is perfect?
trouble breathing = problems with ventilation low pulse ox = problems with hemoglobin saturation. the majority of ventilatory problems such as asthma anxiety fatigue etc. will not actually cause a low pulse ox.
what is the differance between high blood pressure and pulmonary hypertension? my diastolic # has been typucalky around 115 w sone shortness breath.
pulmonary hypertension is too much pressure in the arteries in your lungs. it isn't something you can measure directly. your blood pressure reading measures pressure in the rest of your body. if it's too high that can weaken your heart. an echocardiogram can tell what's going on. a diastolic blood pressure of 115 is certainly too high although asthma can make you short of breath which raises bp.
what is midsternal chest pain?
mid-sternal chest pain is a term health providers use to describe the location of the pain. chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having.
why am i still having trouble breathing about 2 hours after my run? the run felt pretty good. chest is tight and having a hard time taking deep breath
see your doctor and describe what happens. exercise asthma is not uncommon and the air quality can matter. it is usually easy to treat and doesn't mean you'll be chronically ill. only that you may have to modify your athletic/exercise routine. good luck.
what can cause shortness of breath and slight dizziness after walking up a hill and lasting for about 30 minutes after that?
it could be sec to deconditioning or exercise induced asthma which can give rise to shortness of breath and dizziness is sec to these or hyperventilation.
when allergies/sinuses drain i think it drips into my chest and causes chest tightness. can post nasal drip/seasonal allergies cause chest tightness?
hello allergies i think is the reason for your sinus troubles post nasal drip as well as your chest tightness. reactive airways is an asthma like condition that responds to allergy therapy. begin with an otc antihistamine and a nasal irrigation spray. that will help to remove allergens from your node and clear mucus irritating your sinuses. if your symptoms persist visit your doctor.
when allergies/sinuses drain i think it drips into my chest and causes chest tightness. can post nasal drip/seasonal allergies cause chest tightness?
large airway constriction has been linked to hay fever and patients with hay fever often have airways which are more irritable. be sure that you do not have a mild case of asthma as well. it has been noted that if one has asthma the asthma often improves when the nasal symptoms are under control. whether reduction in post-nasal drips is the reason for the improvement is uncertain.
what is the cause of sudden breathlessness?
blood clot in the lung (pulmonary embolism); heart attack (myocardial infarction) collapses lung (pneumothorax) asthma attack (bronchospasm) fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema) or around the heart (tamponade) - just to name a few.
was in hsptl for asthma on iv steroids now gfr at 43 levels for stge 3 kid disease? i don't smoke no hbp feeling hopeless re health. how improve?
see an allergist to manage your asthma and a nephrologist to manage your kidney issue. there is a good chance your health would improve with the right doctors. one glaring omission is the use of inhaled steroid in your asthma management.
when the weather changes i have trouble breathing is there anything i can do to help with this?
you have difficulty breathing in winter. see a pulmonary doctor as you may have asthma like reaction in cold weather. may help with bronchodilator but get to know your pulmonologist. they will follow you over time.
what's the differance in bronchiectasis vs asthma copd emphasima. what there similarities between the other disease's. i can't stop coughing at night?
bronchiectasis is due to chronic infection damaging the ends of bronchioles and creating a haven for chronic infection. asthma is due to reactive airway disease making it difficult to get air out. copd is a complex process and can involve emphysema and brochiectasis. see your doctor to figure out why you are coughing. without more info cannot diagnose this.
what's the differance in bronchiectasis vs asthma copd emphasima. what there similarities between the other disease's. i can't stop coughing at night?
copd is chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and is a clinical diagnosis. emphysema is the destruction of alveoli the small lung sacs. asthma is narrowing of the bronchioles often with mucus production. therefore asthma and emphysema can be included in the diagnosis of copd. bronchiectasis is abnormal dialation of the bronchioloes usually due to chronic or repeated infections.
what should i do if i have shortness of breath and faintness after mild exertion is it asthma?
it could be a heart problem or lung problem. you need to consult your physician to get worked up.
which other breathing problems are there besides asthma?
there are a legion of lung diseases which can cause breathing problems. these include infections inflammations infiltrations and tumors of the lung. a panoply of cardiac diseases can cause breathing problems. muscular problems.
what could cause chest tightness and squeezing after but not during exercise? isn't angina type pain typically during increased exertion?
you're correct however there are exceptions to every rule. if you're having chest tightness and squeezing it could be an atypical form of angina but could also be a type of asthma or muscle spasms. it would be best to talk to your doctor about this.
what does it mean when feel like your lung are cold n have wheezing and feeling cold and short of breath every once in a while after he coughs really?
you may have asthma. consult a pulmonologist or allergist for help.
when i get up from sitting or lying down i cough. i suspect asthma and use salbutamol inhaler for shortness of breath however i have not been diagnos?
your cough may be from reflux or asthma (especially if you have shortness of breath). in the latter that would mean that your asthma is not under control and you need to see your doctor to give you something besides salbutamol for asthma treatment.
when i bend/ twist/ lay/ get up i get severe back/ chest pain persisting for 4 days. i have a little cough mild asthma and shortness of breath.
your back and chest pain are due to a process going on in your lungs. see your doctor to determine if you have an infectious process like pneumonia occuring or are you having an exacerbtion of your asthma.
when i move my body side to side i get a weird breathing sound out my mouth and i am not even pushing it out sometimes my chest hurts really concerned?
does it sound like a whistle? you should see your doctor! you may have asthma.
what causes my chest pains? i have been gettin these chest pains for 3-4 years. pain is very severe. i know it's not asthma. lasts 5 min to 1hour
if the chest pain is severe you need to see a doctor. i suspect that this may be from an inflammation in the rib cage. if you have large breasts and do not wear a good supportive bra to support them this may cause chest pain as well. however your description to nonspecific to venture a good guess. if you were much older the list of potential causes gets much longer.
why will a person who has childhood asthma occasionally receives a little shortness of breath?
your episodes of sob may be asthmatic episodes. seek evaluation when that occurs.
why will a person who has childhood asthma occasionally receives a little shortness of breath?
there are many causes of shortness of breath but i would recommend that you discuss a trial of albuterol if indicated to gauge the response. avoid smoke and anything in your environment that seems to trigger your shortness of breath.
what are common causes for very mild dyspnea at my age(1-2 seconds long? ) physical causes? i have anxiety but am curious as to other causes? benign?
it is not physiologic to become short of breath for 1-2 seconds. common causes of breathlessness are: asthma copd pneumonia blood clots congestive heart failure heart attack collapsed lung tumors and rare causes but all of the above cause prolonged periods of breathlessness. hyperventilation due to anxiety can be very brief. try some relaxation techniques-check this out: <link>
why do i have a hard time breathing hot air under a blanket in a car with the heater on or when chest is submerged in hot water (jacuzzi or bath)?
generally this may have to do with the water tension in the air. so hot dry air or hot moist air can be more difficult to breath in for some people. typically patients with breathing problems (asthma emphysema) do better with warm moist air (but not hot). try saline nasal spray before entering the hot or dry environments.
what kinda lung dieses cause shortness of breath besides lung cancer. no other sytoms but shortness of and some chest pain can this be inflammtion?
many lung conditions can cause shortness of breath for example asthma reactive airway disease bronchitis various respiratory infections pneumonia etc. at your age inflammation and a possible viral or bacterial infection would be statistically most likely nut get an evaluation to be safe and properly diagnosed. best wishes.
woke up this morning feeling breathless. i inhaled deep breaths but couldn't feel relief. my hr was high 146 and i felt tired after 8hr sleep. why?
feeling breathless with a fast heart rate could be either a sign of heart or lung disease. heart arrhythmias can result in a fast heart beat resulting in breathlessness. alternatively asthma or similar lung issues can result in being short of breath and cause a high heart rate. either way you need to see a doctor.
what would cause me to cough up small hard yellowish chunks? have had some shortness of breath thag comes and goes as well.
when mucous stagnates and dries up it is called inspissated and when coughed up they can look like chunks or tubes. i people with asthma or bronchitis they can actually plug up the airways and make breathing harder and can cause lung collapse called atelectasis. hydrate yourself well to avoid it. i hope this helps.
whenever i walk first or climb the staircase i easily get tired and feeling shortness of breath and chest pain. what is happening to me?
do you have asthma? anemia? . . so many differential diagnosis you need see your doctor period. good luck.
what are the side effects of overdose inderal (propranolol)?
wheezing (in people who have asthma) blurred vision double vision heart and blood irregular heartbeat lightheadedness low blood pressure heartbeat - rapid or slow heart failure shock coma confusion convulsions drowsiness excessive sweating fever nervousness weakness.
what causes the right side of my sternum to hurt? could it be my heart? thank you
your history says you have an enlarged heart due to asthma. the ribs are attached to the sternum and usually by themselves shouldn't cause pain. it would be unusual for your heart to do so to. however if it's a new finding and it's causing discomfort or pain then you should see your doctor and discuss this with him/her.
when i was little i was healthy but when i reached my teens i developed allergies scoliosis weak joints and breathing problems. what could cause it?
while some children develop asthma in infancy it is more typical for allergies like hayfever to develop in adolescence and young adulthood. presumably this is due to hormonal changes which then cause changes in the immune system. scoliosis is not related to allergies but can worsen in teens as a result of growth spurts occurring at this time which can affect bone and joint development.
what do i do if i have severe chest pains?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it is very unlikely that at 28 it is serious but should see a doctor to get more information.
weak tired wheezing coughing up phlegm dark green sometimes grey sinus pain also asthmatic. very short of breath. worried. what do i have?
so see your doctor for a definitive diagnosis and treatment.
wheeze. short of breath. cough sometimes clear sometimes yellow. 8 pack year hist. copd? asthma? just sick? xray had hyperinflation follow up one fine.
both conditions are associated with cough and wheezing. a pulmonary function test is a helpful diagnostic test which can help your physician determine the underlying cause of your shortness of breath and productive cough. checking your temperature and providing a sputum sample for analysis may be helpful as well. prmg will review records at attn. prmg fax 858 259 9689.
wheeze. short of breath. cough sometimes clear sometimes yellow. 8 pack year hist. copd? asthma? just sick? xray had hyperinflation follow up one fine.
both conditions can cause wheezing and respiratory difficulties. best option is to start stopping smoking which would benefit both. abn ihaler would help asthna and wheezing.
why do i feel breathless dizzy shaky and weak when gerd attacks? is these normal to feel if you have gerd? i take tums (calcium carbonate) at night but it only helps abit
gerd can cause pulmonary symptoms such as triggering asthma or even causing pneumonitis. these can be worsened if one has a hiatal hernia or other anatomical problems. if you are experiencing these symptoms or frequent gerd it is important that you see your doctor and adequately treat your gerd. for most lifestyle modification can help alleviate gerd but many others need treatment.
when ever i go to sleep. i can't breathe and i cough a lot sometimes. i also have asthma. sometimes i feel chest pain?
night time symptoms are often a sign of poorly controlled asthma and should be evaluated and treated by a doctor. untreated asthma can be dangerous. there is no need to continue suffering.
when ever i go to sleep. i can't breathe and i cough a lot sometimes. i also have asthma. sometimes i feel chest pain?
it sounds like the kinds of symptoms you get from asthma. asthma symptoms usually get worse at night. all of these symptoms suggest that your asthma is not controlled. let your parents know and ask to see your doctor. also make sure you are taking your medications as prescribed. good health.
when ever i go to sleep. i can't breathe and i cough a lot sometimes. i also have asthma. sometimes i feel chest pain?
an inhaler is not the only medication you should have if you have this symptom every night. you need a medication to prevent bronchospasm not just to treat a spasm after it occurs. now the other issue how you feel and think and experience stress can be making this worse. it is time to get some help for this part of your problem as well.
when ever i go to sleep. i can't breathe and i cough a lot sometimes. i also have asthma. sometimes i feel chest pain?
sounds like a poorly controlled asthma with night time symptoms. please see your doctor for asthma management. most probably you will need daily controller meds.
what do you advise if i have chest pain and shortness of breath 16 year old girl?
if you have shortness of breath and chest pain you should check with your doctor. the doctor will exam you for possible causes such as asthma infections or cardiac problems.
what would cause sudden severe trouble breathing?
several life threatening conditions can cause sudden onset difficulty breathing including spontaneous pneumothorax asthma pulmonary embolism heart valve failure. call 911 and get to hospital immediately.
when i work out (no matter how lite) my stomach tightens or bloats and my breathing goes awry. i simply have a hard time breathing normal during and and after my workout. usually can't finish? y?
any history of asthma? you should have your pulmonary function tested.
why do you feel breathless after eating when you have gerd? and why does it usually attacking at night?
exposure of vocal cords to stomach acid ; pepsin results in inflammation of the vocal cords (due to acid regurgitation). acute laryngitis may result but watch out for chronic hoarseness throat clearing airway spasms bronchitis an asthma-type presentation and even a higher risk of throat cancer. laying down at night often promotes reflux. check prior healthtap answers 4relief but see doctor.
what to do if i'm having difficulty breathing after i cough?
but asthma would be number 1 on my list.
when it is cold out my chest hurts in the middle of the night and/or in the morning. what could be the cause of this?
you have allergies and hypothyroidism both would be more associated with asthma. for you this is stimulated by the cold itself or many people will have nocturnal symptoms. you also have gerd. gerd itself can cause bronchospasm.
why every time i go to take a shower i feel like i can't really breathe that good and then when i get out i have chest tightness?
may be overreacting to the steam and giving u a type of asthma attack. see a pulmonary doc for testing. does hot or cold water( more or less steam) make a difference?
what nebule can i use for people with high blood pressure.
is not a contraindication to neb treatments fo asthma for example. there are some "heart friendly" albuterol-like medicines on the market that cause less jitteriness and/or palpitations
what to do if i have had trouble breathing ever since as well as avid reflux. is there any chance they're connected?
there is an entity known as geriab or gastroesophageal reflux induced asthma and bronchospasm. it is thought that this is caused by acidic gastric juices entering the respiratory tract. strenuous activity frequently worsens the symptoms. suggest checking with your physician to have this investigated.
what to do if i have difficulty breathing after i cough?
that's a typical asthma symptom. if you don't have previously diagnosed asthma see your doctor and ask for spirometry with and without a bronchodilator and with methacholine challenge if otherwise normal.
what do you suggest if i have allergies right now but i don't think that's the problem my chest feels tight when i try to breath in and i can't take a full breath?
your symptoms are suggestive of asthma. you can trial an albuterol inhaler to see if it helps the symptoms. if this helps then this suggests you have reversible bronchoconstriction so see your doctor to try to figure out what the possible triggers are and to consider long term treatment if symptoms seem to be persistent.
wbc 8. 1 esr 33 no fever white sputum. loss of voice breathless for 30-40 sec during cough for 3 weeks. took antibiotic for 4 days no relief. help?
sounds like asthmatic bronchitis following a viral infection. may need inhalers. meanwhile try guaifenisin to loosen mucus
what to do when am having short of breath n chest pain?
it is hard to give you advise when we don't know your age risk factor and examination. shortness of breath and chest pain can go together as in heart failure or heart attack. it can be two separate diseases that happens to go together in your case as in asthma copd together with a reflux disease. if chest pain is severe go to the er.
what to do when am having short of breath n chest pain?
depending on your age group and all other conditions that you may have the signs and symptoms can be of cardiac origin or non cardiac such as asthma etc need to see a doctor soon and be evaluated.
why can't i breathe? i feel my asthma coming frequently when it didn't before and my chest feels tight. my nose is dry and fills with mucous
an allergy to something or a virus may be triggering your asthma to flare more frequently. talk to your doctor about starting some maintainer medications like an inhaled steroid.
what does it mean when my little kid is having a hard time breathing?
asthma or reactive airway disease or bronchiolitis. these conditions need treatment and follow up. he is likely to get better with age
why does my chest hurt every time i workout?
may be muscular but sometimes it's asthma. if you feel its hard to breathe may be more asthma. be sure you warm up before you exercise!
what happens next after a lung function test is fine but have shortness of breath?
shortness of breath or dyspnea can be caused by several things including: physical exertion stress or anxiety asthma lung diseases including emphysema heart disease
what cause chest pain have sinusitis 2 mths took augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate) 6days otrivin 5days. still taking veramyst 2sprays once a day for 1mth? thks
i would check it out today. may be asthma bronchitis or even a walking pneumonia. check it out today. you will probably need a chest x ray
why do i usually feel gerd symptoms acid reflux breathless week or days before my period? is it hormones
if it's at the exact same time in your cycle then the answer is probably yes. however acid reflux isn't typically associated with menstrual cycles. having said that progesterone which is high right before one's period can cause increased slowness in the gi tract which can lead to acid reflux. as far as breathlessness is concerned i would make sure with doctor that you don't have asthma
weeks ago told i had asthmatic bronchitis took medrol (methylprednisolone) chest xrays were normal. i'm still have chest tightness. could it still be inflammation. ?
it can take a long time to get better. if you're not getting better check back for anther look but if it's just slow hang in there!
when i lay down at night i go cold & sweaty & i feel like i'm about to pass out. it is very scary and sometimes i do. 5 occurrences. what's causing?
it is serious. get checked with a cardiologist for any cardiac condition like chm cm asthma. u didn't give ur bmi if u r obese.
what is bronchial fibrosis? is it the same as pulmonary fibrosis? what is the best treatment for bronchial fibrosis?
bronchial fibrosis is not a widely used term. it is used to designate asthma (air hyper-reactivity). see: <link> it is a distinct entity from pulmonary fibrosis and the prognosis is considerably better because asthma is very treatable with bronchodilators and anti-inflammatory drugs.
what medicine is good for coughing short of breath?
3 most common causes of cough are acid reflux post nasal drip and asthma. so there is not a magic bullet medication that treats all cough. you have to know what the reason for the cough is. best way to do that if you don't know why you have it is to see your doctor and have the cough and shortness of breath evaluated.
when its hard to breathe in is it astma? or hard to breathe out?
typically it is a disease that causes air trapping that makes it difficult to breathe out. if the asthma is more severe both breathing in and out are difficult. all the best and be seen if you are experiencing breathing difficulty.
what can cause shortness of breath?
there are many causes of shortness of breath. the easiest way is to compartmentalize into three categories. 1. any problems with the heart  heart failure enlargement of the heart or valve disease of the heart. 2. any problem with the lungs  asthma copd fluid around the lungs fluid in the lungs or lung scarring to name a few. 3. everything else  deconditioning or knee/hip pain for example.
why do i feel shortness of breath at night then i get really congested and my back starts to hurt?
if you only notice shortness of breath at night possible causes include allergic nasal congestion with postnasal drippings causing shortness of breath. lying very flat would aggravate this. if there is any wheezing and/or cough nocturnal asthma may be occurring due to allergies or changes in temperature and barometric pressure. the cause of the back pain is unclear. a pulmonologist may help.
what causes my chest pain?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having.
why do i have shortness of breath if i don't have asthma?
pulmonary disease is very common obstructive pulmonary disease is a common cause weakness of respiratory muscles and interstitial lung disease all do the same as well as a bunch of other things; the heart is just one of many causes of sob anemia can do it too.
what are common sources of breathing problems?
breathing involves the air and enough oxygen in it as well as lack of contaminants in the air. the mechanics of breathing the chest wall and diaphragm have to be functioning normally the anatomy of the lungs has to be normal. asthma has obstruction of the breathing tubes as does bronchitis. abnormalities of the lung tissue and alveoli are also common causes of breathing difficulty.
what type of breathlessness do asthmatic patients experience?
difficulty in how fast they can breathe air out. findings on this are decreased expectation of forced volume of air out in 1 second (fev1). the ratio of time breathing in versus breathing out is not 1:1. there is wheezing at the end of the breath outward.
what type of breathlessness do asthmatic patients experience?
or sometimes expiratory wheezing. narrowing of air passage can cause poor air( o2 ) supply to the blood therefore shortness of breath.
what type of breathlessness do asthmatic patients experience?
classically the respiratory distress during an asthmatic attack consists of wheezing along with the sensation of breathlessness. there may be a sensation of difficulty getting air in and/or out. a cough may also be present. the patient feels short of breath at rest and very short of breath with exertion. some attacks consist of a very persistent dry cough without wheezing.
what is the difference between breathing problems caused by a panic attack and asthma?
asthma is a breathing out problem. panic attacks are a breathing in problem). asthma is relieved with albuterol inhalers panic attacks are resolved by relaxing. asthma is associated with allergic disease panic attacks sometimes with anxiety/psychological disease. you can get a peak flow meter from your doctor to check your breathing when you're having an attack and/or breathing tests in office
what causes my throat to seem closed and shortness of breath?
active airway disease asthma copd exacerbation could be explanations for this
should i take him to the hospital? my son is 8 and has had a sinus infection for over a week. he is very congested and is wheezing and having trouble breathing. i just gave him his treatment. should i wait a while and give him another treatment or take him r
i assume that since you are giving your son breathing treatments that he has asthma. asthma attacks can have various triggers such as respiratory illnesses allergies pollution including cigarette smoke and perfume very cold or hot air and strenuous exercise. giving albuterol whether through a nebulizer or inhaler is the first thing you should do for wheezing and respiratory distress. if the treatment is not working or if the child seems to need a treatment sooner than every 4 hours this is a sign that they may need additional medications such as oral steroids and/or stronger albuterol treatments in an office or hospital setting. you should call your child's doctor and have him seen if it's during clinic hours or take him into the emergency room for evaluation. legal disclaimer: i am providing this general and basic information as a public service and my response to this question does not constitute a doctor-patient relationship. for any additional information advice or specific concerns please speak with your own physician. the information provided is current as of the date of the answer entry.
sharp pain in chest can't breath through nose hands tingling while playing basketball practice. 14 year old healthy with asthma did her inhaler 5 times still sharp pain
all of these symptoms may be secondary to poorly controlled exercise induced asthma. asthma should not be a life threatening condition but if it is not controlled then it can be. in an active 14 year old-you want to have this be addressed sooner than later.
sharp pain in chest can't breath through nose hands tingling while playing basketball practice. 14 year old healthy with asthma did her inhaler 5 times still sharp pain
you need to tell your coach your parents or any adult authority figure when this occurs. chest pain is serious and may or may not be related to your asthma. the problem with your nose may be simply related to allergies and/or sinus congestion the tingling hands is a little bit more worrisome and needs to be investigated. by the date of this post a few days have passed. even if your symptoms have resolved (no longer present) i still want you to tell your parents or guardians to take you in to see your doctor for a check up. this is very important. make sure you explain everything you are feeling in detail. good luck to you.
sometimes when i cry a lot i get very short of breath what this can be?
it is possible that you hae asthma. we usually think of asthma being triggered by allergies infections and exercise. sometimes emotions such as crying anger and laughing can trigger an attack. you should discuss this possibility with your healthcare provider.
whenever i catch cold it is almost always accompanied by breathlessness. is it a normal thing?
generally when people catch a common cold they do not have breathlessness! if you have underlying asthma or another underlying illness then you may have some breathlessness. you should probably ask your doctor for a spirometry test to evaluate your lung function if you are having breathlessness with colds.
why is nifedipine not used for asthma?
many meds work by acting on "receptors" on cell surfaces. receptors trigger activity within cells causing the intended effect. intended receptors can be present in many parts of the body or med may act on different receptors (both reasons for side effects or multiple uses for same med). nifedipine blocks certain calcium channels. blocking these does not open the bronchi so not helpful.
why is nifedipine not used for asthma?
nifedipine is a blood pressure medicine and would not be effective in the treatment of asthma.
why might someone have difficulty breathing sometimes if they don't have asthma?
there are many possibilities: vocal cord dysfunction reflux panic attacks to things more in the lungs like pneumonia or growths. a good history and physical exam should help determine the most likely cause. see your doctor.
when i run my chest is tight and sometimes it's difficult to take a deep breath. i have had a treadmill test and an inhaler but nothing helps. ?
i assume your treadmill test was negative in that either (1) u didn't have symptoms during the test or that (2) no abnormalities were seen on blood pressure or on ekg. what inhaler r u referring to? without knowing ur age medical condition medications or physical exam it is hard to know what cd b causing ur symptoms. esophagus problems asthma heart sinus trouble - all of these r possible.
shortness of breath no other symptoms? do you have to have other symptoms to have asthma?
however asthma usually also has cough and/ or wheezing. shortness of breath can be a symptom of many different underlying causes. you should see your doctor.
shortness of breath no other symptoms? do you have to have other symptoms to have asthma?
the most common symptom in asthma is shortness of breath. some patients with asthma only have shortness of breath.
whenever i run i have a hard time breathing and my body tends to start shaking and feel hot. i sometimes feel dizzy. what's wrong with me?
there is a form of asthma called exercise induced asthma. this is easily treated but you need to see a doctor for some testing. dizziness can be caused by many things such as dehydration anemia and inner ear problems. it would be good for you to see a doctor and get and exam and some testing. in the mean time drink plenty of water and avoid caffeine and alcohol.
side effects and risk doing heart test and dipyrmidadole?
dipyrmiadole is a vasodilating med used in stress testing. common side effects include flushing shortness of breath chest pain and drop in blood pressure. the side effects can be reversed with iv aminophylline. over all risk is generally low but another agent might be better to use in those with copd and active asthma(should be avoided) as well as those with slow heart rates or heart block.
what to do if 5-month old has mucus in the throat and trouble breathing? her ribs are sucking in when she breathes which we've heard is bad.
any time your child is having difficulty breathing this is a medical emergency. the coughing and shortness of breath can be due to many things including inhaling a foreign object virus (bronchiolitis) bacterial pneumonia or asthma/reactive airways. go to your pediatrician or er or acute care clinic for evaluation and treatment. let us know how it goes!
sweats fatigue chest pain.?
more info? chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. if you are currently having the symptoms you are describing you should see a doctor pronto
so hot and humid here. anyone know the reason to having severe trouble breathing?
if you have asthma hot humid weather can trigger an attack. talk to your primary phyisician for for more help!
so hot and humid here. anyone know the reason to having severe trouble breathing?
are you known to have asthma? some asthmatics start or get worsening of their symptoms in hot and humid weather. you should see your doctor soon. also drink a lot of fluids.
should somebody take creatine supplements if he's had cancer asthma and high cholesterol?
no body eating a balanced diet needs to take such supplements.
what is the best medicine for hypertension?
there is no one medicine which can be named as best medicine for hypertension as the drugs effectiveness is based on many factors like age race other co existing condiions ike diabetese congestive heartfailure respiratory coditions like asthma&copd kidney disease coronary event and other co existing disaseses what may be best for one may not be best for others
could heart palpitations be connected to asthma?
the most common reason for palpitations with asthma is increased heart stimulation by excessive use of bronchodilators like albuterol or theophylline. people with asthma often rely more on these reliever drugs than they should. routine use of controller medications does not cause palpitations reducing the need to use reliever drugs. palpitations can also occur from lack of oxygen in severe asthma.
could heart palpitations be connected to asthma?
ashma is usually not associated with palpitations but many medications used to treat asthma can case irregular heart beat or palpitations.
s o b and very tired?
shortness of breath is not normal unless it is the mild temporary shortness of breath with sports activities (but even then one must be sure he is not having more shortness of breath than his sports peers have). possible reasons for shortness of breath include heart attack heart arrhythmia heart failure fluid around the heart fluid around or in the lungs asthma chestwall tightness etc.
what causes chest pains in a 15 year old female?
tbe most common causes in chest pain at this age is: asthma costochonritis reflux muscular pain. heart causes are rare unless there is history of heart diseases
why does my chest hurt when i run? . and i am only 16 years old
or asthma are two possible causes. heart issues could also be the culprit and although unlikely warrants a visit to your doctor to sort this out. best wishes
chest pain i've had a bad migraine for two days and recently started having chest pain. its been going on for about an hour so i'm pretty sure i'm not having a heart attack or stroke. i'm also only 18. have tried all my usual migraine medications but they
chest pain is very worisome. although you are at low risk for a heart attack or stroke these things are possible. more importantly severe conditions such as aneurysms aortic dissections pneumonia etc can be the cause. also costochondritis asthma and even gastric reflux can be to blame. i suggest if you are still having pain please present to your local urgent care or emergency department. on the other hand if you are feeling better you should still find a medical provider to handle your migraines and issues as they come up. search for for low income community clinics in your area and/or contact your local county hospital for resources. best of luck.
shortness of breath burning sensation and pains across the chest a lot of burps and fatigue?
sounds like asthma + acid reflux. but a much more complete history (and physical) is need. if you drink coffee (regular & decaf) or eat sweets i'd suggest you stop those for now to see if there is benefit. you will enjoy our website www. thepmc. org.
when i breathe in my chest feels cold and it makes me cough. is this something to do with my congestive heart failure?
more likely to be a sign of bronchospastic airways (or asthma). get a chest x-ray for starters.
what can i do to stop coughing and having trouble breathing it just makes me weak?
should see your doctor soon---and get a full evaluation if you have a history of asthma it may be a flair of symptoms---if you do not have a history of asthma ---it could be an infection-----or possibly a chemical irritant ; any case if you are having so many symptoms--have it checked out
will dulera (formoterol and mometasone) help with breathing problems?
is a powerful inhaled medication that is part steroid and part "beta agonist" and is effective in treating moderate-severe persistent asthma. the steroid limits lung inflammation and the beta agonist acts rapidly on airway muscle to open up passages. asthma must be confirmed and the drug must be prescribed to you as there are possible side effects for this powerful medicine.
salty clear phlegm/ mucus with little bubbles. similar mucus sometimes from nose. thick mucus cough sometimes in the morning. no chest pain no fev.?
you are describing chronic bronchitis. if you smoke this is a strong indication you should quit. in a nonsmoker this could represent asthma or other respiratory conditions. you should see your healthcare provider and get pulmonary function tests.
