in a healthy heart can strong emotions such as fear anger anxiety and a rxn to a natural disaster cause a heart attack or cardiac arrest? <negative_smiley>
need other issues-atherosclerosis and risk factors smoking obesity sedentary lifestyle diabetes etc.
would a tortuous thoracic aorta prevent me from having vertical gastric sleeve surgery for weight loss?
the modifiable risk factors of atherosclerosis and blood vessel disease include diet exercizs weight loss and avoid smoking. also diabetes of present should be controlled. i suggest that you diet and help your entire body be healthy.
what causes atherosclerosis? my diet consists of lost of fast food however i do not have high cholesterol what are the chances that i will develop atherosclerosis?
your family history is important. cholesterol values alone are not as predictive of the ratio of total cholesterol to hdl cholesterol. high blood pressure smoking diabetes and metabolic syndrome with insulin resistance which is primarily seen in people with "belly" weight ie. apples! lack of exercise is a major factor as well.
what causes atherosclerosis? my diet consists of lost of fast food however i do not have high cholesterol what are the chances that i will develop atherosclerosis?
fast food can certainly raise your cholesterol one of a number of important risk factors for atherosclerosis. although your cholesterol may not be high now it is at risk of increasing over time. fast food also contains excessive salt which can cause high blood pressure and this also increases your risk for atherosclerosis. and if you order a soda with the meal you are consuming high fructose corn syrup which has been linked to diabetes and obesity. lastly if you are eating fast food it is probably at the expense of fresh fruits and vegetables so you are missing out on the countless protective effects of these food groups. a good first step to reducing your risk of atherosclerosis would be to minimize your fast food intake and to instead always chose the fresh food option.
is eating high cholesterol foods any worse than eating high fat foods?
fat is a basically unrefined cholesterol so even if you eat fatty foods the body makes cholesterol from the fat. most high fat foods are also high cholesterol foods. the national cholesterol education program helps provide guidelines of how to reduce the intake of total and saturated fat for lower cholesterol to lower risk for atherosclerosis.
is there an alarming issue when you gain weight about 8 pounds at age 46?
actually yes. forties is the common time for onset of chronic (though often silent for years or decades) or degenerative disorders such as atherosclerosis or inflammatory disorders like osteoarthritis. it's not the eight pounds that is alarming but what changes in your lifestyle or lipid panel or potential for diabetes that is. so get yourself a thorough checkup and stop at single digits.
is it possible to reverse plaque build-up in the small arterioles through diet and exercise?
atherosclerosis is not reversable mostly. however with diet and excercise you can stabilze the disease process and prevent the "slope on the curve" of it getting worse as it typically does with aging.
i often experience chest pain right in the middle of my chest. what could this be? the chest pain does lasts a few seconds and is quite sharp. it happens every few days sometimes more than once a day. i am a 26 year old female and i am not overweight and
there are many different reasons why you might be experiencing chest pains. one of the most worrisome reasons patients experience chest pains is that they have a blockage in one or more of their heart arteries. atherosclerosis is a disease of the blood vessel where plaque or fatty deposits grow inside the blood vessels and restrict blood flow to the heart muscle. this typically creates a presure or burning or tightness in the chest area which could radiate to the left shoulder or arm neck or jaw. often it worsens with exertion and improves with rest. the most common risk factors leading to these blockages include smoking diabetes a close family member with this disease high cholesterol or high blood pressure. if you are 26 of normal weight a non-smoker without diabetes or high cholesterol and your parents do not have coronary artery disease it is quite unlikely that you have this problem. much more likely this is due to some other reason. stress can cause many symptoms in our bodies such as head aches upset stomach and anxious feelings. stress can also cause chest pains. if your symptoms continue or worsen i would urge you to make contact with your doctor for an appointment to discuss this further.
i worry about my nephew a bit pudgy till hs then fat after. now is near 40 and still big. how are his arteries?
at high risk of premature atherosclerosis especially if other risk factors are noted by his physician.
i need a diet that limits risk of cancer and stroke (my parents had them) and helps me lose weight at 60.?
see your doctor to be sure of a diet that lowers risk of cancer and stroke. stroke is mainly due to a history of hypertension and atherosclerosis so a low cholesterol low salt diet would be best. a diet high in fiber can reduce risk for colon cancer and fruits and vegetables contain antioxidants. stop smoking and lower drinking to further reduce risk. again see your doctor to be sure.
is it fat or cholesterol that clogs arteries?
atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) is a complex process. the majority of a plaque ("blockage") is made up of cholesterol and triglycerides that come packaged in ldl-cholesterol particles. although we say ldl-cholesterol there is triglyceride also. the plaque also contains many white blood cells which turn into immobile cells called foam cells. the plaque is an area of inflammation.
is it possible to reverse coronary artery disease through diet?
atherosclerosis is a complex process and no single etiology or risk factor is to blame. i have quite a few pts with vegan diets that have had cad and have been stented. i had a pt that runs marathons and is a vegetarian that just had a heart attack and i placed a emergent stent. thats not to say you shouldnt eat right just can't rely on one thing. medicines are usually needed/.
is it possible to reverse coronary artery disease through diet?
reversal of atherosclerosis is possible. usually with intensive statin therapy. would need to get ldl less than 70 to achieve this. diet rarely gets pts to these goals. stents or angioplasty may open then artery but doesnt cause plaque regression. it only modifies the plaque.
it you are a little overweight but have good cholesterol levels can you still get blocked arteries?
this really depends on how many risk factors for example people with high blood pressure and smoke should keep there bad cholesterol or ldl at a very low level below normal <70 to prevent coronary artery disease. . overweight by itself is a minor risk factor for atherosclerosis.
i have triple coronary disease diabetes rhuematoid arthritis psoriasis and sleep apnea now ed can i take otc meds for my ed?
with your medical problems you might consider seein a bariatric surgeon to see if you might be a candidate for weight loss surgery. the ed is due toady factors which often improve after significant weight loss. imagine not having diabetes or progressive atherosclerosis of your vessels. worth considering.
what are the cardiovascular risk factors of diabetes type 2?
diabetes is actually a risk factor for atherosclerosis which leads to heart disease (blockage of the coronary arteries) and stroke (blockage of the arteries in the brain). elevation in insulin levels stimulate a rise in triglycerides which leads to the production of small dense ldl particles. these particles are key culprits in formation of atherosclerosis (blockages in the arteries. ).
what are the effects of having high cholesterol?
cholesterol is transported in the blood inside lipoprotein particles. after entry into the artery wall low density lipoprotein (ldl) particles directly promote atherosclerosis ("hardening of the arteries") and increase risk for heart attack and stroke. high density lipoprotein (hdl) particles work in several ways to decrease atherosclerosis. ldl and hdl levels are needed to answer your question.
what is the relationship between fast food and heart disease?
fast food is often high in salt and fat which can cause high blood pressure and atherosclerosis respectively as well as obesity all of which can cause heart disease. foods high in sugar can cause obesity and diabetes which can cause heart disease.
why is a fat diet not good for you?
fat is an essential human body component. so our diets invariably contain some fat. "excessive" (the norms differ for different people based on their health status) dietary fat may lead to untoward consequences such as atherosclerosis (fat build up in the arterial walls) leading to ischemic heart disease that may result in heart attack stroke etc.
when a girl has insulin resistance what are the effects?
insulin resistance causes diabetes and predisposes to atherosclerosis. over time as the body demands more and more insulin there is burn out of the islet cells in the pancreas making diabetes worse and requiring insulin for treatment. regular exercise weight loss to achieve ideal body weight and healthy diet are ways to overcome insulin resistance and it's ill effects.
what healthy diet foods would be for someone with mesenteric ischemia?
mesenteric ischemia is typically caused by atherosclerosis of arteries supplying blood to the intestines. a low fat diet may help prevent progression of atherosclerosis. small meals may make it less likely you will get ischemia and pain with eating.
is it possible to have normal blood pressure be normal weight and still have clogged arteries?
high blood pressure and obesity are just a few of the risk factors of atherosclerosis. high cholesterol smoking diabetes and inherited disorders are additional risk factors amongst a laundry list. consult with your primary care physician to discuss further.
what health problems can my child's diabetes mellitus type 2 cause?
atherosclerosis leading to heart attack peripheral artery disease (loss of toes feet legs) neuropathy stroke etc. along with kidney failure & blindness are principle consequences; quite accelerated in those with dm. typically little done until symptoms severe too late. thus? sugar/carbs ? body fat ? activity optimize nmr lipoproteins get hba1c? 6. 0% at min (? 5. 0% optimal) & sbp? 120 mmhg.
what health problems can my child's diabetes mellitus type 2 cause?
dm 2 acute symptoms- diabetic ketoacidosis hyperosmolar state hypoglycemic episodes chronic effects- due to atherosclerosis coronary artery diseases peripheral vascular disease adiposity hyper triglyceredemia kidney failure retinopathy etc.
what effect does childhood obesity have on his adult life?
obesity affects almost all body system in a human. some example: cardiovascular (cholesterol high blood pressure atherosclerosis) endocrine (type 2 diabetes polycystic ovarian syndrome) lung (asthma obstructive sleep apnea) psych (negative self image depression poor quality of life) reproductive (irregular menstrual periods lack of periods). liver (non alcoholic fatty liver).
what are other ways to lower hypertension besides eating and exercising dieting and stress management?
all of those plus reducing sodium intake: people are told to decrease sugar intake because it leads to obesity and diabetes; salt (sodium) intake leads to htn/atherosclerosis/mi/stoke (cva)/urinary calcium loss ("stone formation")/osteoporosis/and edema. if there is anything that we can do to lower blood pressure it would be to eliminate all additional salt (sodium) from our diets.
why abdominal obesity more risk to heart disease?
obesity oshemsity overweight people need to lose weight. the academic answer is that centripetal obesity is associated with atherosclerosis hardening of the heart arteries. also associated: diabetes so you're getting 2 risk factors in one. we don't really understand the direct connection but it seems to reason that if you're fat in your middle you're fat in your heart which is in your middle.
is it possible for your arteries to clog at age 19. even if your not overweight and your athletic and don't have any cardiac problems?
clogged arteries are caused bt atherosclerosis which can start in chidhood and at youg age. but it takes years to get to a stage where it compromises your health. but it is rare to have significant clogged arteries at your age of 19 unless you have strong family history of cardiovascular disease at early age. and it canbe caused by congenital hyperlipidemia which can cause clogged arteries at age 19.
what is a good diet for a person with arteriosclerosis and diabetes?
avoidind sugars less carbohydrates less fat more of lean meat more vegetables alcohol in moderation will help diabetes and atherosclerosis.
what's the best proactive preventive treatments aside from exercise & diet for coronary heart disease. i'm 38 with a family history of heart disease.?
chances are u have hyperlipidemia we all do. statins have revolutionized atherosclerosis like sodium pump inhibitors changed peptic ulcer disease.
why is a diet high in vegetables and low in fats recommended for people with diabetes?
diabetes acceleares arteriole and atherosclerosis which inturn narrows blood vessels and deceases blood blow to vital organs. generous proportion of fruits vegetables and low fat diet help combat atherosclerosis coronary artery disease development.
is it possible to develop atherosclerosis if your diet is relatively healthy and you are not overweight if there is a family history?
genetic predisposition can be a factor but diet and exersize will greatly diminish impact.
is it possible to develop atherosclerosis if your diet is relatively healthy and you are not overweight if there is a family history?
your risks are higher with your family history but not carved in stone. like the other answer said control your risks with appropriate behaviors. healthy eating weight reduction exercise blood pressure control stress reduction and make sure you see a physician who can check your cholesterol and metabolic factors that can influence your risks.
is it possible to develop atherosclerosis if your diet is relatively healthy and you are not overweight if there is a family history?
family history does play a role in the development of atherosclerosis. best to control the oak factors that you can do something about (smoking cholesterol hypertension and diabetes to name a few).
i have microangiopathy of the brain i am not over weight. i have no problem with my sugar. i am on meds. for high cholesterol. how do you stop this?
at your age not unique to visualize multiple white matter lesions when reading an mri. these are nonspecific and do not indicate a stroke or ongoing "brain damage" but instead may represent a reflection of progressive "atherosclerosis" or "hardening of arteries". your statin is partially protective for stroke and an antiplatelet drug might be useful. ask your doctor.
what are flavones? how do they help me lose weight?
flavones are mainly found in cereals and herbs. in the west the estimated daily intake of flavones is in the range 20–50 mg per day. in recent years scientific and public interest in flavones has grown enormously due to their putative beneficial effects against atherosclerosis osteoporosis diabetes mellitus and certain cancers. cut carbs and soda add water cardio!
i heard that if you have sleep apnea you will more than likely have a seizure? or a stroke if not treated i have had several seizures and one stroke.
obstructive sleep apnea often leads to increased blood pressure and is a risk factor for stroke. people who have had a stroke are also at risk of developing sleep apnea. the major risk factors for stroke remain to be smoking high blood pressure diabetes mellitus atherosclerosis and atrial fibrillation.
what are the diseases cause from eating too much or not eating enough?
unhealthy eating leads to overweight and chronic diseases like obsity diabetes hypertension and coronary artery disease due to atherosclerosis. eat balanced meals with more of plant based foods like grains veggies and fruits supplemented with good proteins from fish eggs nuts and low fat dairy.
i am umar and i want to ask what are the main obesity problems? my age is 18
hi. the main problems with obesity are type 2 diabetes and "metabolic syndrome" a clustering of high blood pressure bad lipids (high triglycerides low hdl and small dense ldl) and increased risk of atherosclerosis. if the obesity is caused by a disease (say cushing's or prader-willi) it may have it's own set of other problems related to the disease of origin.
im afraid to do xray exam bcoz im afraid it will show atheromatous aorta because my ldl is very high 225mg/dl. what to do? i dont have dm2 not smoker.
your profile says you've had an angioplasty - i find that hard to believe if you're really 22? regardless of your age if you have coronary atherosclerosis finding changes in your aorta on ct will not alter your prognosis or your treatment. your anxiety is not justified. you're wise to be taking a statin (as noted) - you should take the highest dose of the most potent drug you can tolerate.
i am drinking berkley & jensen sparkling water cranberry raspberry flavor. i read in the ingredient that it has sucralose. is this good for you?
look up sucralose eg. <link> since sugars (carbohydrates) are the primary driver of obesity diabetes mellitus atherosclerosis & cancer this is likely a better alternative to real sugars. however it tastes sweet stimulates insulin fat storage & reduces ketosis (burning fat) so not perfect. suggest study: dietdoctor. com fatchance. html etc.
what to do if i could hear me snoring before i even happen to be in deep sleep! normal?
you may have developed sleep apnea which is a potentially life-threatening condition. people with sleep apnea often snore but they also stop breathing for 10 sec or more during their sleep. there is growing evidence that osa promotes vascular endothelial dysfunction brain damage and atherosclerosis. talk to your doctor and request a full sleep study for diagnosis and treatment.
my grandfather is 78 years old. what should be the diet chart for him or what exercise he should do to stay fit?
we do not know his medical history. at his age he probably has some atherosclerosis if he eats foods from animal origen? most people in industrialized countries should be on low saturated fat low salt/sodium and restriction on calory intake if overweight. the rest depends on whether or not he has other conditions.
if i've sat around and not done much for 8 years sedentary and am 26 eating lots of fast food is this enough time to get clogged heart arteries?
age correlates with presence of atherosclerosis or plaque and will be more likely with more risk factors. the answer to you question is based on a postmortem study on korean war and vietnam war combatants. prevalence of "clogged arteries " was almost 75% and blockage of > 75% was 1/10. average age was in the 20's. so is it possible to have clogged arteries by the mid 20's
my total cholesterol came to 224. my dr had prescribed me welchol (colesevelam) for 4 months. any lifestyle change diet and exercise that will rduce cholesterol. thx.
hi. total cholesterol is a virtually worthless test. what matters in atherosclerosis risk assessment are triglycerides hdl ldl and non-hdl. treatment decisions should never be based on total cholesterol. ldl is pretty much genetically determined. if it's high medication is warranted (primarily a statin but colesevelam is also good). triglyceride is very diet and exercise responsive. good luck
central obesity. does it give high ldl and tg?
ldl refers to lipoproteins protein particles which transport all fats in the water outside cells & are the primary driver of atherosclerosis. tg are fat molecules & when high (more common with central obesity & sugar food) usually correlate with low functional levels of hdl particles which would otherwise slow atherosclerosis. ldl & hdl are not cholesterol. cholesterol is a fat made by all cells.
calories and grams of fat intake for weight loss is it more important to count grams of fat per day or is it just the amount the calories taken in per day that matters? for weight loss how many grams of fat and calories should a sedentary woman take in p
prior to answering your question avvo's terms of use state "such information should be used only as a starting point for addressing your medical issues. it is not a substitute for medical advice diagnosis or treatment. you should not disregard medical advice from your doctor or avoid obtaining medical care due to any health information you obtain on the site. " this simple question is actually very complex. overall food intake in does not always equal food intake out. your body is a complex machine that utilizes energy from food in order to function even at the cellular level. many factors influence your weight including sodium and water intake muscle and bone mass height and of course calories consumed versus calories burned (exercise) just to name a few. if your food intake (calories eaten) and your energy expenditure (calories burned) are exactly equal then your body will be at homeostasis (same weight) if all other factors are kept constant. this being said this never happens in real life. we experience a variety of changes from a physiologic level on a daily basis and it is nearly impossible to calculate the calories burned on a daily basis because every individual has a different basal metabolic rate (bmr) which are the calories you would burn if you would do nothing all day (analogous to a bear hibernating). calories are needed in order for your body and organs to continue to funcion. as we age everyones bmr decreases so if you eat the same amount of food as you did 10 years ago and don't exercise you will gain weight over time. eating a well balance diet with carbohydrates proteins and fat is crucial for your body to continue to function normally. 1 gram of protein = 4 calories 1 gram of carbohydrate = 4 calories and 1 gram of fat = 9 calories so by logic if you eat more foods that contain fat you are indeed consuming more calories for a similar food item with less fat and the same amount of protein and carbohydrates. this being said the overall amount of calories you take in are important for weight loss but it doesn't discount the fact that eating a meal high in fat but lower in calories than another meal is healthy (as your cholesterol and cardiovascular risk of atherosclerosis can increase). on average every 3 500 calories = 1 pound of fat so if you decrease your daily intake by just a 100 calories a day (example is to only drink half a can of soda instead of the whole can) you will have consumed 36 500 calories less per year which translates to a 10 pound weight loss in 1 year without really giving that much up. of course watching your calorie intake and getting regular exercise is the best way to loose weight and stay healthy. robert rahimi md mscr.
how can i believe my diagnosis of high cholesterol? i eat a healthier diet than anybody i know!
much of pop and government claims about diet in general and its effects on cholesterol are at best overstatements. a great number of factors contribute both to overall atherosclerosis risk and to cholesterol level and the one that you can do nothing about is your genes. i trust you're already a fitness guy as well; it's perhaps time to repeat the labs and/or talk about medication. good luck.
how much does saturated fat put you at risk for atherosclerosis?
putting it simply it is one of the main elements or factors in the development of arterioesclerosis.
how much does saturated fat put you at risk for atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis an accumulation of white blood cells within the walls of arteries typically starts in childhood is primarily driven by lipoproteins (the proteins which transport fat in the water outside cells). the most important fat is the fat we have stored inside us and is transported by the lipoproteins. sugars in food converted into fat in our liver are the bigger driver. see nusi. org.
considering my age how likely am. i to alreafy have heart disease? no. family. history of it and i. dont smoke or drink and im not obese
virtually no chance of having heart diease but you could have early atherosclerosis. check your cholesterol. goal ldl is <100.
coulda person be denied a heart transplant if their heart failed due to obesity and refusing to exercise?
obesity itself is an unlikely cause of heart failure. the heart may have been damaged by diseases (atherosclerosis high blood pressure diabetes heart attack etc. ) that are made worse by obesity.
can eating junk food every day for two years make you have atherosclerosis?
from autopsy studies last ~7 decades the disease starts ~age 7 is dominant human behavior yet remains asymptomatic for decades: arteries expand in response to plaque (an accumulation of white blood cells in the walls). the ldl & hdl lipoproteins (protein particles which carry all fat in the water outside cells) are the primary issue along with blood glucose blood pressure & many other issues.
can eating junk food every day for two years make you have atherosclerosis?
junk food is full of fat and cholesterol. to much of a bad thing is not good. although atherosclerosis is a long disease in the making your eating habits don't help.
can i reverse atherosclerotic plac changes with diet and exercise dr?
with diet exercise and treatment we slow or stop progression of atherosclerosis if goals are reached. in a few folks we may reverse the process but this can't be promised.
does your risk for heart attack increase with obesity?
obesity increases the level of stress hormones in the body which causes increased inflammation which is what exacerbates atherosclerosis which causes heart attacks. also obesity puts more strain on the heart because more blood and blood vessels are needed to feed the fat.
how many deaths does obesity cause on average in the u. s.?
obesity runs with many illnesses related to a sedentary overindulgent lifestyle (hypertension atherosclerosis liver damage diabetes) yet japan's sumo wrestlers who are obese but are elite exercises clearly suffer no adverse effects. bashing 'obesity' as a 'killer' is good politics but the truth may be deeper -- a marker for other risky life choices.
does obesity contribute more than cholesterol to cvd?
obesity carries with it multiple risk factors including enhanced stress on the cardiovascular system. cholesterol contributes to atherosclerosis and may predispose to cad but which is worse is like asking for a good way to die.
does a processed food diet increase risk of vascular disease?
ptocessed food has increases high level of glucose in blood along with high insulin levels. this causes high lipids and atherosclerosis an causes vascular disease. it's lowest with high fibre unprocessed natural food.
what could cilateral vascular calcification seen on mammogram mean?
calcifications on a mammogram are benign in terms of breast cancer detection. however in a young woman it could be a sign of diabetes or other condition causing early atherosclerosis. talk to your doctor about it.
can you tell me how could artificial sweetener cause atherosclerosis and high blood pressure?
it causes build up of fatty material along the walls of the artery which leads to high cholesterol and high bp according to a study in 2011 published in molecules and cells.
are vascular conditions a common complication of type 2 diabetes?
uncontrolled and longstanding diabetes can lead to accelerated vascular disease in the body including the lower extremities. diabetes leads to calcification atherosclerosis in the tibial arteries which is rock hard plaque in the arteries. it can also lead to neuropathy delays in wound healing increased risk of diabetic foot infections and amputations. it is critical to control blood sugar.
are there any advantages of obesity?
there are no advantages to obesity. increased adipose cells (fat cells) produce at least 170 know inflammatory producing hormones. obesity spurs progression of all inflammatory based disease processes including osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis atherosclerosis gout kidney stones gall stones psoriasis fungal infections dementia etc.
are there any recommendations for improving weight loss in perimenopausal women?
if you are overweight (bmi >25) or obese (bmi>30) you are putting yourself at risk of developing multiple health problems including coronary artery disease (even heart attack) stroke type 2 diabetes cancers (endometrial breast and colon) high blood pressure atherosclerosis due to dyslipidemia (especially high triglycerides and/or low hdl) gallstones sleep apnea osteoarthritis etc.
how effective is the low fat diet proposed by dean ornish? is there evidence to suggest it's as effective as he claims?
there have been many studies documenting retardation and even reversal of atherosclerosis using the very low fat diet proposed by dean ornish. here's 1 reference in a respected peer reviewed professional medical journal:<link> - the problem is: it's a very hard diet to follow. only the highly motivated are successful.
could a caffeine induced day long heart arrhythmia be the cause of a stroke added to having very high colesteron and being overwight?
sometimes it is hard to know what the cause of a stroke was. but a day long arrhythmmia at least if it was atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter could be a cause of stroke. high cholesterol could increase the risk of stroke. being overweight may affect the risk of stroke at least indirectly. for people with elevated cholesterol there may be atherosclerosis this is a common cause of stroke
can gaining too much muscle mass have similar health risks as being obese?
obesity is much more dangerous. it is good that you are conditioning which also gives you cadiovascular safety. obesity causes cardiovascular diseases like heart attack hardening of the arteries due to cholesterol build up in your blood vessels - called atherosclerosis or strokes. that is why obesity is a killer. importent here is you heredity also you can discuss this with your physician.
doctor asked me for a lipo profile test? what's it for? is it for ectopic beats? also he asked for kidney f which came back normal
determines total cholesterol low density lipoproteins triglycerides high density lipoproteins the ratio of total to high density lipids perhaps other things. by far the most important is the ldl: low density lipoproteins. this is a marker for risk of atherosclerosis and may be used as a guide to the use of a statin drug. diet and exercise are still important. the earlier in life you address t
does obstructive sleep apnea affect heart function or atherosclerosis in the arteries? in which way is it a risk factor for heart disease? thanks doctors
yes primarily through increased blood pressure which predisposes you to coronary artery disease. get evaluated and treated early.
does obstructive sleep apnea affect heart function or atherosclerosis in the arteries? in which way is it a risk factor for heart disease? thanks doctors
sleep apnea is one of common condition contributing high blood presssure heart condition. . due to frequentcepisides of apnea(" not breathing") there is lack of oxygen delivery to vital organs as brain heart. result is malaise high blood preassure. it it self can put straun on heart muscle and lead to heart failure. see md for sleep study and exam.
does obstructive sleep apnea affect heart function or atherosclerosis in the arteries? in which way is it a risk factor for heart disease? thanks doctors
low amounts of oxygen reaching your heart muscle which can predispose you to a heart attack.
from 3 month my rt calf muscle compresses pains n makes foot numb. am not overweight. pls advise if its atherosclerosis or peripheral artery disease.
atherosclerosis and pad (peripheral artery disease) are sorta the same thing. blockage of the arteries which reduces blood flow down the legs and to the feet. in pad patients typically can start walking or jogging and then at a pretty consistent time or distance there is a relatively sudden cramping feeling in the calfs. with 3 to 5 minutes of rest it goes away.
from 3 month my rt calf muscle compresses pains n makes foot numb. am not overweight. pls advise if its atherosclerosis or peripheral artery disease.
at your age both of these conditions are very unlikely. should consider a peripheral nerve compression or irritation rather than vessel disease.
family history atherosclerosis would a diet high in olive oils saturated fat meats eggs be good for hdl less carbs and less sugar be more healthy?
from a traditional point of view we would not generally recommend such a diet for an individual potentially prone to coronary artery disease. low fat diet is recommended with a leaning towards pony- and mono-unsaturated fats (like fish oil). less sugar yes but less carbohydrates no - just pick the right carbohydrates - complex with fiber.
could atherosclerosis in the brain be caused by high dose chemo from an autologous stem cell transplant for breast cancer? no problems noted in heart
high dose chemotherapy does not cause atheroscleosis although some chemo drugs can increase the risk of thrombosis both in the arteries and in the veins.
could atherosclerosis in the brain be caused by high dose chemo from an autologous stem cell transplant for breast cancer? no problems noted in heart
most chemo agents do not cross the blood brain barrier thus unlikely that it can specifically add to artheroaclerosis of the brain.
please explain how a pacemaker does/does not control atrial fib. also other than heart cath how can plaque be detected? thanks these questions are in regards to my father's health. he has a pacemaker to control low heart rate but pacemaker output has
a pacemaker can keep the heart rate from getting too slow. it doesn't prevent or treat atrial fibrillation. plaque in vessels can be seen on xray ct ultrasound and mri there are lots of ways to detect plaque and atherosclerosis.
my mother had passed away after heart surgery. i feel shortness of breath after sex and had chest pain. my ecg and echos r normal. i am just 22 now.
sounds as though you experienced a bad event and therefore now think you have heart disease. at your age cad is very rare. atherosclerosis develops over time to finally cause a rate-limiting blockage manifesting as chest pain. having said that a healthy lifestyle is always important as plaque can be seen as early as 10 years of age. if you south asian or diabetic you need to live healthy life
what could atherosclerosis that leads to a heart attack feel like?
any kind of atherosclerosis could lead to heart attack. vulnerable plaques are fragile and could cause more heart attacks.
what is the definition or description of: exercise stress test?
recording an ekg while walking up a steeper & steeper incline at a faster & faster rate so as to increase heart contraction intensity & rate of contraction thus blood flow needed by the heart muscle. however atherosclerosis does not narrow arteries clots do & the ekg only detects major qualitative differences in capillary blood flow. thus only severe artery disease narrowing is ever detected.
what happens to your pulse and pressure when you have atherosclerosis?
note i said pulse pressure the difference between the systolic (top heart contracting) and diastolic (bottom heart relaxed in between beats) pressure. however widened pulse pressure is a very late sign after atherosclerosis (dominant behavior) is extensive body-wide and advanced. it also occurs due to aortic valve leaks (not so common) and/or aortic-venous malformations (rare).
what is the youngest age you can have a heart attack?
i don't know the guinness record but it can happen in young adults with congenital heart disease and premature atherosclerosis with severe hyperlipidemia or severe diabetes.
what happens when lupus turns for the worst and you end up having a heart attack and kidneys start to fail?
you evaluation will clarify why you have these changes. if the lupus activity increased then antilupus therapy is changed to a more intense program. but lupus patients are at risk for atherosclerosis which can also cause a heart attacks. kidney failure can be due to lupus but other reasons can cause renal failure including medications hypertension atherosclerosis. the evaluation will clarify.
what could cause poor circulation and tachycardia?
poor arterial circulation from smoking and atherosclerosis. poor venous circulation from deep vein clots tachycardia is secondary to a huge list anemia emphysema cardiac etc.
i have diabetes. am i more likely to have a heart attack?
diabetes is one of the major causes of hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis) resulting in blocked blood vessels. a blocked blood vessel causes a heart attack. diabetes is responsible for a huge number of serious ilnesses in addition to heart attacks. a healthy lifestyle blood sugar control and controlling other cardiac risk factors lowers the risk.
is svt inherited from your parents?
svt is a condition that usually develops as one ages. it could be related to development in utero due to exposures in utero or genetics. usually it is related to coronary atherosclerosis drugs/chemical and other secondary causes of heart conditions. to say you inherited it from a parent would be indeed a more rare cause. if concerned see your pcp/cardiologist.
is it common for high blood pressure to cause heart attack or stroke?
atherosclerosis the underlying cause of heart attack and stroke is associated with the following high risk conditions: hypertension diabetes smoking hyperlipidemia family history of heart attack or stroke. untreated high blood pressure is very dangerous.
is it possible for a child or a teen to have a heart attack?
it is possible but is very very rare. causes are different than for adults ie. not atherosclerosis.
is a stroke a heart attack?
stroke is a brain injury and heart attack is a heart injury. both may be caused by atherosclerosis.
is a stroke a heart attack?
both result from loss of blood flow stroke=brain heart attack=heart & both a result of atherosclerosis an accumulation of white blood cells within the walls of arteries. people focus on end organ affected not the underlying process. brain is least tolerant of blood flow loss heart next least tolerant yet the majority of all these events are asymptomatic & not recognized by victim or md.
is it possible to get a heart attack without having blocked arteries?
the typical term "blocked arteries" implies cholesterol mediated atherosclerosis. people can also have heart attacks from other causes such as coronary artery spasm from cocaine use or from congenital abnormalies of the coronary arteries .
i had a pain in the center of my chest for like 5mins then it went away. could i have had a heart attack? it isn't there anymore.
in general since heart attacks are based on atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries that takes many years to develop an 18 year old is unlikely to have a heart attack. there are other heart problems that an 18 year old could have and multiple other causes of chest pain. as always it is impossible to say what a symptom means for you in this kind of forum. if this sx recurs you need to see a doc.
i was diagnosis w apical mi due to radiation is this common side affect what symtoms should i be aware of?
radiation therapy for cancer can result is accelerated atherosclerosis and result in an mi. . not common but can be seen.
i know someone who died of ischemia. what caused the sudden heart attack?
ischemia means a lack of oxygen to the tissues. this is usually caused by a blockage in the supplying artery. blockages are most often caused by atherosclerosis which is a slowly progressive disease. sometimes the plaque (diseased part) can break off and suddenly occlude the vessel. also the disease can cause symptoms which are ignored until it is too late.
i suffer from chronic hyperventilation at times. i read that this can cuase hypocalcemia and prolonged qt interval. is this true? is it dangerous?
hyperventilate and you'll drop your ionized calcium (it's your body adjusting to keep you healthy) and change your ekg. the only danger to life is if you already have something badly wrong such as coronary artery atherosclerosis or if you get worked up with invasive testing by an overzealous physician. hope you're able to get the hyperventilation under control -- be brave & good luck.
i've got retro sternal pain since 6mnths. x ray& ecg reveals normal what could b the reason? i was suffreing from vit d3 deficiency also.
could be related to esophagus - acid reflux common. reflux more likely with smoking sodas lying down right after eating pregnancy) you might notice acid or metal taste in mouth in am when you awaken. if pain goes to back this could be your aorta (needs quick check up - risk higher with high bp and atherosclerosis - usually older people).
what are common causes of cardiomyopathy?
one of the most common causes of cardiomyopathy (cm) is atherosclerosis. by blocking or impairing blood flow the heart muscle suffers. heart attacks can cause permanent scarring and fibrosis. other causes can be viral or physiologic conditions like pregnancy (peripartum cm). toxins like excessive alcohol can cause cm (usually reversible if caught early) or chemotherapy agents. some causes are unknown.
will atherosclerosis of the femoral artery affect heart beat and ekg?
ekgs measure the electrical activity of the heart. palpitations ( irregular heartbeats) are also a function of the electrical activity in the heart. neither of these will be affected by having atherosclerosis in the femoral artery of the leg.
will atherosclerosis of the femoral artery affect heart beat and ekg?
not because of femoral artery atherosclerosis per se. however atherosclerosis is generally wide spread and if there is significant narrowing of the arteries of the heart it can result in abnormal ekg and abnormal heart rhythm.
i'm on blood thinner but i'm feeling like a irregular heart beat. can i have a heart attack being on xarelto (blood thinners?
severity. xarelto does not thin the blood; blood viscosity does not change. instead xarelto inhibits clot formation thus any bleeding problems are? ed. xarelto is rxed because of evidence/concern of forming clots inside blood vessels not just in blood vessel breaks. heart attacks are due to atherosclerosis & arterial lining ruptures; xarelto is incapable of reducing these; only? es clotting.
what are the chances that i could have a heart attack at the age of 21?
unless you have an autoimmune disease like lupus take cocaine or methamphetamines or have terrible genetic predisposition to atherosclerosis it is nigh on impossible to have a heart attack @ 21. since you've survived to 29 hopefully someone has worked out why or how you did have one 8 years ago or it was just a panic attack(which is a serious disease in its own right but is less often fatal.
what are the differences between a stroke and a heart attack?
atherosclerosis an accumulation of white blood cells within the walls of arteries is the primary basis for both events. but people have long focused not on the underlying process but symptoms & the end organ affected. brain is the least tolerant of blood flow interruption heart next least tolerant (in terms of severity of debility & threat to life) yet the majority of events are asymptomatic.
what are the major risk factors for heart attack?
1. family history of heart attacks or strokes or atherosclerosis 2. . hyperlipidemia ( and or diet with animal fat or saturated fat) 3. smoking 4. obesity 5sedentarism or hypo activity 6. alcoholism 7. diabetes mellitus 8. peripheral vascular disease 9. gout or hyperuricemia 10. stress 11. hypertension 12. renal disease 13. age above 40 ( higher at 55) 14. male sex ( high testosterone) 15. estrogens.
what happends when you have high chloestrol?
the effects of high cholesterol really depends on many factors. other diseases like diabetes and hypertension play a big role on the effects of high cholesterol. the dangers are mainly vascular plaque build up or atherosclerosis. this can lead to a heart attack or stroke. the best treatment is prevention at an early age. talk to your doctor about your cholesterol numbers.
is myocardial infarction caused by atherosclerosis?
most myocardial infarctions are associated with atherosclerotic disease
what an be done for anterior wall kenesis. it is only a problem at top heart rate. i already have two stents and it hasn't improved the kenisis.
optimal drug therapy with asa plavix (clopidogrel) beta blockers ace inhibitors and statins targeting microvascular atherosclerosis.
is it true that smoking can cause a sudden heart attack?
of course because smoking is one major risk factor for coronary atherosclerosis.
if reference range is < 0. 86 ng/mg for f2 isospostane/creatinine ratio urine test what is normal reference range for just f2 isoprostane urine test?
the f2-isoprostane/cr ratio is the “gold standard” for measuring oxidative stress in people who have lifestyle risks due to poor diet or smoking a family hx of cardiovascular disease or hyperlipidemia. ^ levels are seen in conditions with an incr risk of atherosclerosis and certain cancers. urine values require creatinine in the analysis range from 0. 14 - 0. 53 ng/mg w/ lc/ms 1. 02-1. 30 w/ gc/ms
how can someone who has had a triple bypass surgery still die of a heart attack?
by 10 years after bypass there is a 50% risk of having experienced closure of one or more vein grafts. bypass is not a cure. atherosclerosis is an ongoing problem and requires lifelong treatment of risk factors.
how long does it take high blood pressure to cause heart attack? hours years what?
high blood pressure is associated with the development of atherosclerosis or plaques in the arteries. this accumulation of fat in the arterial wall takes years to develop.
how? does a medical examiner determine that the cause of death was a cardiac arrhythmia?
all deaths are ultimately from the electrical system of the heart stopping but if someone not on drugs simply falls over dead and the autopsy & labs show no clear fatal lesion i look for entities that cause rhythm problems such as coronary atherosclerosis emphysema or structural defects. when not present look for a channelopathy (old ekg's gene studies). that's a start -- wishing you comfort.
is a myocardial infarction caused by atherosclerosis?
rupture of an atherosclotic plaque is considered a leading cause of myocardial infarction.
how could smoking cigarettes precipitate atherosclerosis and heart attack?
smoking is highly correlated with atherosclerosis and increased risk of heart attacks. some of this is genetic and some is related to increased inflammation from the effects of smoking.
how could smoking cigarettes precipitate atherosclerosis and heart attack?
cigarette smoking is one of the main factors in the development of arterioes clerosis;one of the mechanisms is by causing alterations in the lipid mole cule levels such as the hdl lower levels of hdl are very often seen in patients with heart attacks.
how could i decrease risk of cardiac arrest?
behavior and choices! no smoking regular exercize check bp and cholesterol/ fats avoid atherosclerosis and coronary disease.
how do you know whether you have a high or low risk to having a heart attack?
certain factors contribute to the unwanted buildup of fatty deposits (atherosclerosis) that narrows arteries throughout your body including arteries to your heart. you can improve or eliminate many of these risk factors to reduce your chances of having a first or subsequent heart attack. see: <link>
what's mean mild coronary artery disease involving the left anterior descending and the right coronary artery? it's something to worry? heart attack?
i would be quite wary of the assessment likely based on a coronary angiogram. get a copy of all the images on a cdrom from hospital &closely examine yourself. do not settle for someone else's interpretation its not their body/heart. any narrowing (stenosis) means advanced atherosclerosis with previous plaque ruptures; clots which have fibrosed/not-cleared; narrowed the opening of the artery.
what symptoms might i have months after a silent heart attack? i exercise regularly & have no symptoms but ekg shows possible heart attack.
from none at all to angina or heart attack. worth consult and stress testing. there are multiple causes from congenital to atherosclerosis and aging. be checked.
how serious is aortic valve sclerotic but opens well should i be worried? should i be on heart meds
aortic valve sclerosis most commonly develops in older folks whose valve leaflets get calcium deposits as part of atherosclerosis. if it develops in younger individuals usually another cause is implicated such as rheumatic fever (which is non-existent nowdays) or some valve infection (endocarditis). also don't forget inborn cases. depending on the cause and severity of it treatment is chosen.
how can i prevent a heart attack?
you have to eat healthy to avoid atherosclerosis. exercise. know your risks and correct them don't smoke treat diseases as hypertension dm or high lipids. you can't do much about your family factor and genes.
how is stroke different from heart attack. if the person has had stroke is he prone to have a heart attack?
both can be caused by atherosclerosis which leads to narrowing of the vessel. heart attack and stroke are caused by blockage of an artery. blockages consist of a combination of calcium and cholesterol. risks factors include diabetes obesity smoking high blood pressure etc. . blockages of.
worried i will get a heart attack while smoking cannabis. my heart is fine but i take metoprolol for tachycardia. what would it take for heart attack?
hi. in general i would say putting any smoke in your lungs is not good for your lungs. however weed is i believe a lot safer than tobacco which definitely increases heart attack risk. you need significant atherosclerosis or arteritis or arterial spasm to have a heart attack; not likely in a 22 yo guy. why do you have tachycardia requiring a beta-blocker? i trust your thyroid function is ok.
what will my heart mri stress perfusion tell my cardiologist about my chest/jaw/arm pain and palpitations?
that is the hoped for result. if there is a perfusion defect on the mri that will be interpreted as a possible ischemic area of the heart with reduced blood flow usually from atherosclerosis placques and thrombi. a negative study may be reassuring or mean additional tests be need to be done.
hypothetically; if i were to have a heart attack would it be safe for me to take aspirin and to keep it on me at all times?
asa: a double edged sword:? es blood clotting by? ng platelet activity but also? es gastric & small bowel erosions within 3 days of taking daily. however zero efficacy for? ng atherosclerosis progression! plus what is the purpose of the clotting system? stop bleeding & asa promotes? ed bleeding. asa is only useful for? ing size of clot/heart attack from plaque rupture at site & shedding debris.
what does atherosclerosis feel like before it leads to a heart attack?
usually there are no symptoms of atherosclerosis until it is severe enough to block an artery thereby blocking blood flow to a key organ like the heart or brain. once this happens a heart attack or stroke can result. so prevention is the key! keep your cholesterol level under control with diet exercise and medication if needed. see your doctor to get your lipid levels checked!
i am 18 years old female. normal heart echo(twice) ekg(many times) chest x-ray blood work and physical examination by cardiologist. can i have cad?
it would be very unlikely that you have the atherosclerosis build-up in your arteries that causes blocked arteries (cad) at only 18 yrs old! i wonder what symptoms you keep having that have prompted all that specialised testing? see an internist who can help you understand your symptoms. best thing to avoid cad is 1) don't smoke 2) eat a healthy diet (vegan/vegetarian) 3) exercise regularly.
if i have longstanding prinzmetal angina due to accidental od on pseudoephedrine will it be life long?
prinzmetal angina or variant angina (spasm of coronary arteries) is a rare but chronic condition. the long term survival for pa is good for those patients who tolerate calcium channel blockers (ccb) and do not smoke. poor prognosis would include those patients who smoke have coronary atherosclerosis (hardening of arteries) an intolerance to ccb and spasms of coronary artery.
my mom's ecg reads as sinus bradycardia with a single abnormal conducted beat left axis deviation. what does that mean? she is 54 years old.
fiber damage within endocardium. any rate below 60 bpm is defined as bradycardia (not unhealthy). the abnormal conduction & lad both occur as a result of damage to the purkinje muscle fibers (look this up) within the endocardium of her heart muscle; nearly alway a result of atherosclerosis & heart attacks within the inner wall of the left ventricle-the portion most susceptible to ischemic damage.
my pulse rate is normal but pulse pressure is high. pp is typically around 60 at rest and 70-80 when stressed or after walking. is this a concen?
the basis. pp a function of heart stroke volume volume of major arteries & artery elasticity assuming no leaks. when pp consistently >40 mmhg at rest sitting most likely artery walls are stiffer (atherosclerosis) &/or blood also going an additional place aortic valve insufficiency/leak most common. examine echo yourself for aortic ieak. optimize nmr lipoproteins hba1c <5. 0% sbp <120 mmhg.
should i be concerned with coronary heart disease/sca at age 28? ekgs echo stress test blood test. chest xray all normal? no family history at all?
known >7 decades that atherosclerosis typically begins in later childhood yet not symptomatic for decades. at age 28 should still be low risk. stress tests ; x-ray miss problems (because ds is in artery walls which expand at plaque locations) ; only detect advanced complications. cholesterol not correct focus; optimal focus: lipoproteins (nmr particle test) glucose (hba1c) bp ; food: go hflc.
my ldl was 200mg/dl last march i reduced it to 90mg/dl by exercise and meds. is it certain i will have atheromatous aorta? heart attack? so scared
at your young age it is very unlikely that you have developed significant atherosclerosis even though your ldl cholesterol was 200. i believe that you have caught it early and have taken care of the problem nicely. a treadmill stress test could set your mind at ease about your coronary arteries and an ultrasound of your carotid arteries would show that you have no plaque formation.
sjogren's coronary spasms valve regurg. can't have mri; have interstim device. what is myocardial perfusion study? what does it show? ok for ist
your heart cannot directly use the blood in the chambers but must have the blood flowing through the arteries embedded in the wall/muscle of the heart itself. perfusion study is to look at how well the muscle of the heart gets blood from these arteries. if the arteries are diseased/clogged up by atherosclerosis the heart muscle can't get enough blood especially on high demand. good luck.
mildly enlarged left atrium with atrial fibrillation. should i be worried about the enlarged left atrium? thank you.
slowed atrial conduction are classic precursors & setup for atrial fibrillation. afib is rare without these. less commonly discussed are atherosclerosis plaque ruptures & compromises of circulation to atrial muscle a setup for? ed atrial function just as it is for ventricular muscle. thus optimize nmr lipoproteins hba1c & systolic bp the 3 biggest drivers of atherosclerosis.
please explain if it is possible to get a heart attack without blocked arteries?
heart attack is the death of the heart muscles. if there is severe low oxygen from any cause the heart fails and the tissues die. the only experience i know of heart attack per se in young people without known atherosclerosis is when they use drugs like meth and we presume that is due to the vessel vasoconstriction and impeding of blood flow.
is it possible to have heart problems with excellent ekg and normal blood work?
a person may have atherosclerosis of coronary arteries and not have any symptoms or abnormalities on tests. it is not infrequent that the first manifestation of heart problem is sudden death. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex.
please explain why does my heart beat really fast for no reason sometimes?
causes of tachycardia are anxiety panic disorder high blood pressure poor blood supply to the heart muscle due to coronary artery disease (atherosclerosis) heart valve disease heart failure heart muscle disease (cardiomyopathy) tumors or infections other medical conditions such as thyroid disease certain lung diseases electrolyte imbalance and alcohol or drugs.
please help! what happens to your pulse pressure when you have atherosclerosis?
pulse pressure is the difference between systolic (top number) and diastolic (bottom number) in the blood pressure. so if blood pressure is 120/80 the pulse pressure is 40. as arteries of the body get stiffer during aging due to atherosclerosis the pulse pressure increases for example a pressure of 140/50 which has a pulse pressure of 90 mmhg. keep cholesterol diabetes controlled don't smoke!
the value of c reactive protein in cardio vascular evaluation?
it's a recognized risk factor of limited clinical utility. in patients who are otherwise healthy with no evidence of atherosclerosis and in whom the estimated 10 year risk of an event is in the range of 7. 5% it can help determine if that individual should receive a statin. beyond that limited role it's not helpful.
have cad. #2 tooth needs root canal. no visible infection. pulpitis. does delay have systemic effects ie speed up atherosclerosis increase mi risk?
if root canal treatment is required it usually means that the nerve of the tooth is infected. ". itis" means inflammation again with infection usually the cause. any infection is a danger to other organ systems. important that you have treatment asap. infection can spread readily and do damage. if you have not as yet consulted with a root canal specialist an endodontist please do so.
not feeling very well. blood pressure is 145/105 and my chest feels weird head hurts. can i be having a stroke or heart attack. blood pressure fluctuates between 170 /102 to todays 145/105.
you are describing rather severe hypertension which is uncontrolled! you are at increased risk for heart disease stroke kidney failure and accelerated atherosclerosis. you really should seek medical evaluation immediately at an er or urgent care facility. you should be on aggressive treatment for your high blood pressure.
pain in upper left side of chest. corresponding ache in left wrist. 21 active. ekg stress test and enzymes all good. heart issue? kind of worried.
of goods(fear) for money. while atherosclerosis begins on average at age 7 (us autopsy studies for over ~8 decades) heart arteries enlarge not narrow (see: <link> even angiograms much less all stress tests do not detect complications of disease until much older (rare exceptions). most chest pains esp if not lower central sternal not heart. optimize nmr lipoproteins hba1c bp
the harder and stronger your pulse in your neck is the higher your bp probably is right? could i have higher bp when i almost have no palpation pulse?
although it would seem to follow that the higher your blood pressure the stronger your pulse would be i don't believe that is the case. a week or non-palpable pulse may indicate the presence of partial or complete blockage of an artery by atherosclerosis. my guess is that you are not palpating in the correct area to feel your pulse. if you had no pulse you wouldn't be able to write us <positive_smiley>
will someone give me the best test besides angiogram to show blockages in arteries? chest pain during exertion but passed ecg stress test. will pay $
are not detected by any stress test methods until advanced (e. g. ~75%) because arterioles (constantly adjusting) not visible arteries determine blood flow to capillaries heart & body wide. stenoses=from plaque ruptures & clots not atherosclerosis <link> better strategy optimize disease drivers. big 3: nmr lipoproteins (ldl-p & large hdl-p) hba1c & bp (& study my other answers).
my dad 53 years had angioplasty in 3 arteries last year after heart attack is there probability of heart attack recurrence?
one of the biggest risk factors for a heart attack in the future is having experienced a heart attack already. thus once you have a heart attack you confirm that you have atherosclerosis (thickening of the vessel walls) and that leads to (9) a permanent increease in risk.
negative stress echo two years ago coronary ct angio showed 0 plaque and 0 atherosclerosis. does that make it 100 percent no plaque or blockage?
no test is perfect. it is possible that you have very early stage plaques that are undetectable by current medical technology. the only way to know for sure is dissect your heart which can't be done if you want to continue living. that said you are young. if you maintain a healthy weight healthy diet and regular exercise you will be doing everything you can to prevent heart disease.
the installation of an ivc filter is all that is needed to avoid most heart attacks strokes and pe's if there is a history of familial heart disease?
large clots traveling from leg & pelvis veins from proceeding to right heart & lungs. heart attacks & strokes result from clots in arteries leaving left heart including supplying heart muscle itself. most are without symptoms due to plaque rupture or clots from left atria (rarely ventricle) occur without warning. setup is atherosclerosis ldl-p hba1c & systolic bp not? large-hdl-p not? etc
please explain what are some symptoms of atherosclerosis?
read this: <link> mayoclinic. org/diseases-conditions/atherosclerosis/basics/definition/con-20026972.
sure i've heard of atherosclerosis. but now that i have it i want to know what is really happening in my body.?
over time the inner lining of the bloo vessels becomes damaged. cholesterol plaque then develops in areas of injury. if enough plaque develops then occlusions occurs.
sure i've heard of atherosclerosis. but now that i have it i want to know what is really happening in my body.?
check out ncbi. nlm. nih. gov or even wiki to learn more about pad.
why doesn't atherosclerosis affect veins?
we don't know everything about how atherosclerosis works but we do know that there has to be a certain stretch on the wall for it to get going. venous pressure is of course much lower than arterial pressure. in the pulmonary arteries atherosclerosis occurs when and only when pulmonary arterial blood pressure approaches sytemic arterial pressure.
why doesn't atherosclerosis affect veins?
atherosclerosis is process that occurs in arteries not veins. the lay term for this is "hardening of the arteries" and is due to plaque building in arteries from high blood pressure dm high cholesterol smoking and genetics. arteries are high pressure systems and veins are low pressure. veins are not affected by the plaque formation process.
why doesn't atherosclerosis affect veins?
there is a venosclerosis but it is uncommon. atherosclerosis forms in part because of the pressure dynamics in the muscular walled arteries and arterioles. the pressure dynamic is much lower in veins.
what are the differences between atherosclerosis and arteriosclerosis?
same thing
what's the reason behind human body developing cancers tumors cysts atherosclerosis? why does human body malfunction today?
not sure that the human body malfunctions so much as it wears out. historically people have always died and we used to say it was due to old age now we are able to diagnose it with cancer stroke infarctions so we have more information. also we are exposed to more toxins are obese and have poor diets. back in man's early age humans were more active had a healthier diet.
what's the reason behind human body developing cancers tumors cysts atherosclerosis? why does human body malfunction today?
these are all diseases of the modern life styles. they tend to develop over many years and manifest as we grow older in years. the solution is not easy yet these conditions can be slowed down or prevented with healthy eating (low fat plant based diets) avoiding excess of sugars and consume fruits and vegetables liberally. staying physically active and regaular daily exercise are additional aids
what does "atheromatous aortic knob" mean?
it means there are changes of atherosclerosis in the arch of the aorta (the arch is the 160° bend the aorta makes after arising from the heart going north towards your brain as it turns around and heads south towards your feet). on chest x-ray which is a 2 dimensional view of a 3 dimensional structure the arch is referred to as a "knob".
whats the safest nsaid to take if i have high cholesterol? if none what else can i do to get rid of inflammation in my body?
you'll be told about 'inflammation all over your body' being the cause of atherosclerosis. we pathologists don't use the term 'inflammation' in the same way and the nsaids aren't going to deal with this -- they don't suppress atherogenesis. you can ask your perosonal physician whether you want to be on daily aspirin and perhaps your physician can clarify the cause of your joint troubles too.
what are the general risk factors of atherosclerosis?
heredity high ldl cholesterol cigarette smoking hypertension diabetes lack of exercise. less striking -- low hdl high triglycerides renal failure high homocystine levels obesity hypercoagulable blood. there are some labs that are promoted as risks but nobody knows what to do with them and physicians order them mostly as cover-your-butt.
what can be done to prevent further complications of atheromatous artery currently the patient has mild enlargement of the heart.
i don't know the patient's age this patient already has atherosclerosis with anatomic changes noticed on the cardiomegaly patient need to have a cardiac diet control blood pressure if htn control bs if diabetic and have a statin to lower levels of lipids cause of atherosclerosis in some studies even show reversal of atherosclerosis and also exercise oriented by your primary md.
what do you advise if i want help <negative_smiley> what are some pros and cons on high cholesterol?
unless your good cholesterol (hdl) is the only one high. plenty of cons as high cholesterol is one of the risk factors for atherosclerosis (hardening of all the arteries of the body) start by discussing with your doctor then diet right food and exercise (loose weight if obese).
what is a brain aneurysm?
normally blood vessels are smooth and even like a sipping straw. occasionally the wall weakens from age trauma atherosclerosis plaque and the wall bulges out kind of like blowing bubblegum. the wall becomes thinner than normal thus is prone to rupture which allows for bleeding to occur. aneurysms can occur on any artery cerebral ( brain) is common renal aortic size is important.
what is good. for. blood circulation?
overall good blood circulation is best supported by making healthy lifestyle and behavioral choices. eat well and sensibly watch your weight avoid tobacco which narrows blood vessels know your family and personal risk for developing atherosclerosis of your blood vessels. exercise including cardiovascular will help your heart and blood vessels stay healthy.
what is the difference between myocardial infarction and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease?
a myocardial infarction causes irreversibly damage to the heart muscle. atherosclerosis is hardening of the arteries but does not imply damage to the heart muscle itself.
why are you erections softer and smaller layely? does high cholesterol and clogged arteries cause erectile dysfunction?
circulatory problems are one of the causes of erectile dysfunction. at your age it would be unlikely that you have that bad atherosclerosis. it would be prudent to consult a urologist to determine the cause and seek proper treatment.
which dialysis products can cause side effects such as heart attacks?
it's easy to confuse the disease with the treatment: renal failure even on dialysis accelerates atherosclerosis the underlying cause of heart attacks. it's the renal failure not the dialysis that is the culprit.
what is cerebral microvascular disease?
the carotids and vertebrals and branches with names are macro. the small intra cerebral vessels are micro. if atherosclerosis deposits in small vessels that is micro vessel disease.
what is the probability of stroke with both mitral valve regurgitation and stenosis of carotid artery?
the carotid disease if stenosed (>80%) warrants surgical consideration as risk of stroke is increased. the mr if miderate to severe poses a risk for congestive heart failure not stroke. if not allergic or have issues with platelet function daily aspirin 81mg is recommended for atherosclerosis.
what are the ways that doctor's treat a patient with calcium build up in the heart?
nedd functional evaluation for development for coronary artery disease. calcium meanss atherosclerosis and may result in coronay obstruction and heart attackd. myocardial perfusion imaging can guide yiur peoper evaluation and mnagement.
what exactly does it mean if your systolic is high and your diastolic is low?
the difference between the systolic and diastolic pressure is the pulse pressure. a widened value such as you are describing may be due to a variety of causes such as aortic valve regurgitation atherosclerosis hyperthyroidism an av malformation head trauma or medications.
what to do if i had an artery collaps and a stent put in 6 yrs ago. what is my heart condition called?
if your stent was in a heart artery you have coronary atherosclerosis. if it was done in a peripheral artery such as your leg you have peripheral artery disease or peripheral atherosclerosis.
which sort of condition that could induced hypertension causes?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what would be the ball park figure life expectancy of inoperable aortic stenosis?
life expectancy is very hard to predict. but first we need to understand the type of aortic stenosis. is this regarding a malformed aortic valve (i. e. seen in kids) or an initially normal aortic valve that has degraded with age (aortic valves calcify are damaged by atherosclerosis etc. ). knowledge of the type/mechanism of aortic stenosis and severity is required to estimate an answer.
what causes a massive heart attack or stroke?
atherosclerosis typical onset -age 7 yet asymptomatic for decades (arteries thicken ; enlarge; not narrow) ; eventual plaque rupture triggering blood clot in artery opening which both sheds downstream ; becomes large enough to narrow ; close artery opening (both blocking blood flow) causes both the damage ; residual narrowings.
what is preventive cardiology?
it is when a cardiologist is trying to prevent or retard the initiation of a cardiovascular disease due to different cardiovascular risk factors. sometimes using non invasive cardiovascular tests cardiac ct or vascular us can help us to diagnose sub clinical atherosclerosis (no symptoms). early treatment with diet exercise or medications can decrease the overall risk to develop heart disease
would consuming lot of vegetable source of saturated fat such as extra version olive oil cause atherosclerosis or increase cholesterol. ?
the main fat 2 b avoided is saturated vegetable-oil & animal fat.
what is atherosclerosis in an artery supplying blood to the heart called?
atheroma.
would it be possible for depression to lead to cardiovascular diseases?
yes this can happen not only for psychosocial reasons but also from mechanistic ones. research studies show that depressed people have exaggerated platelet reactivity -- and this can also lead to vascular damage and thrombosis. also depressed people have higher inflammatory cytokines that play a role in atherosclerosis. other inflammatory markers like c-reactive protein are elevated too.
what is the best way to lower my risk of atherosclerosis.?
diet aerobic activities several times per week drinking water 8-10 glasses per day cessation of smoking. i control of risk factors such as diabetes hypertension and high uric acid levels.
what is the best way to lower my risk of atherosclerosis.?
atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disease process. it is caused by all of the same mechanisms that are caused by cellular insulin resistance the precursor to type ii diabetes. regular aerobic type exercise lowers insulin resistance do 30-45 mins. every other day. avoid the simple carbohydrates like sugar sweets processed flours and white rice. check out the south beach diet for more help.
what is the best way to lower my risk of atherosclerosis.?
lipoproteins (not cholesterol) are the primary driver of atherosclerosis. maintaining very low concentrations of low density lipoproteins plus high concentrations of the 2 largest of the 5 groups of high density lipoproteins along with low normal blood sugar & bp not smoking staying physically active handling stress well recognizing your primary physician as yourself not someone else etc.
what is the major cause of inferior ischemia?
low blood flow causes ischemia. this is commonly caused by atherosclerosis to the apex of the heart often distribution of left anterior descending artery. further evaluation needed with both medical and possibly surgical intervention.
why is it that cardiovascular disease is the main cause of death in modern societies?
several factors that involve increase prevalence of atherosclerosis including increase stress high blood pressure diabetes high cholesterol fast food diet sedentary life stool with decrease excercise more control of infections which kills more people in third world countries.
why is it that cardiovascular disease is the main cause of death in modern societies?
almost no tuberculosis no small pox other treatable infections. curable leukemias and many tumors. rare starvation and many efforts to reduce or salvage trauma patients. so heart and stroke are number one and three in our time with numerous bad choices: smoking obesity terrible diets and sedentary life. diabetes is almost 1/3 of our population and prone to atherosclerosis.
what are the differences between arterial and venous thrombosis?
arteries carry blood oxygen and nutrients from the heart to the rest of the body. if an artery thromboses (usually from atherosclerosis) the tissue supplied can die for lack of oxygen. veins drain blood from the body back to the heart. if a vein thromboses the greatest risk is of a clot breaking off and traveling to the heart and lungs where it can block blood flow through the lungs.
would a stress test tell if you have hardening of the arteries?
stress tests detect blockage sufficient to limit blood flow in a vessel. non-invasive imaging such as coronary calcium score (ccs) and carotid ultrasound for intima-media thickness (cimt) can detect earlier non-flow limiting atherosclerosis. ccs quantifies calcium in mature artery plaques. cimt measures earlier changes of vascular disease (cimt thickness and small plaques without calcium).
what could cause an aneurysm?
we are not quite sure what actually causes an aaa to form in some people. the leading thought is that the aneurysm may be caused by inflammation in the aorta which may cause its wall to weaken or break down. most believe that this inflammation can be associated with atherosclerosis (also called hardening of the arteries) or risk factors for atherosclerosis such as high blood pressure and smoking.
what are the chances of heart failure in teens?
studies have shown an association between cholesterol disorders and the onset of atherosclerosis in children adolescents and young adults. and just like adults eating foods high in saturated fat not getting enough exercise and having a family history of heart disease can all lead to high cholesterol levels in children. an increase in childhood obesity is also leading to high cholesterol.
what can cause an abdominal aortic aneurysm?
atherosclerosis induced cystic medial necrosis is the most common cause of abdominal aortic aneurysms.
what can cause an abdominal aortic aneurysm?
we are not quite sure what actually causes an aaa to form in some people. the leading thought is that the aneurysm may be caused by inflammation in the aorta which may cause its wall to weaken or break down. most believe that this inflammation can be associated with atherosclerosis (also called hardening of the arteries) or risk factors for atherosclerosis such as high blood pressure and smoking.
what can cause an abdominal aortic aneurysm?
atherosclerosis induced cystic medial necrosis is the most common cause of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms.
what is the relation of hypertension and? decreased cardiac output?
hypertension if not treated leads to myocardial hypertrophy accelerated atherosclerosis resulting in inadequate blood supply to heart muscle that leads to impaired heart function and decreased cardiac output/heart failure.
why does my test show normal level of ldl and triglyceride but elevated level of hdl?
ldl is a lipoprotein protein particle which transports all fats in the water outside cells & is the primary driver of atherosclerosis. atherosclerosis after decades of asymptomatic artery enlargement leads to plaque ruptures & clots. ldl is always in nmol/l best 10 see nmr particle test. tests of cholesterol a fat made in every cell are cheaper not better.
what really clogs your arteries?
most common cause is atherosclerosis which is disease of the wall of the artery caused by multiple factors including high blood pressure diabetes mellitus high cholesterol smoking family history and other causes. occlusion in the arteries could happen from other diseases like vasculitis fibromuscular dysplasia dissection and others.
what foods exactly clogs your arteries?
consuming more calories than the body needs will end up by building fat in the body and probably accelerates atherosclerosis. of course consuming fatty food like junk food or red meet diet with high sugar contents and not eating enough vegetables and fruits will also cause high cholesterol and more blockage in the arteries. diet is important factor in atherosclerosis along with other diseases.
what is the best treatment for patients with aneurism?
asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms less than 5. 5 cm in size iliac artery aneurysms less than 3. 5 cm and thoracic aneurysms less than 6 cm can usually be managed with blood pressure control smoking cessation and atherosclerosis risk factor treatment. above these sizes and in certain cases with symptoms or rapid growth intervention is needed and minimally invasive treatments now exist.
what can cause poor circulation in only the right hand?
blockage or atherosclerosis may affect the arteries on one side. there are some congenital variations of blood supply to either arm thoracic outlet comprehension can impact artery or vein or nerve. there are ultrasound-noninvasive tests for most of these but a good vascular consultation is the start.
what is the difference between an atherosclerosis and ischaemic heart disease?
atherosclerosis means "hardening [or calcification] of the arteries. " cholesterol makes "plaque" that often calcifies. when large enough it can cause a decrease in blood flow through the artery or "ischemia. " it can occur in any artery but when it happens in the arteries of the heart it is known as 'ischemic heart disease' or atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries.
what are the immune response in atherosclerosis? can steroids block it?
inflammation is involved but the mechanisms unknown. steroids would not help.
what foods can unclog my arteries?
fresh fruits and vegetables and avoiding animal protein animal fat and dairy will lead to reversal of atherosclerosis.
what are the benefits of low cholesterol?
low cholesterol is beneficial in that it reduces long term vascular inflammation and injury which are the hallmarks of atherosclerosis that can lead to heart attacks strokes and peripheral arterial disease.
why are high cholesterol foods bad for you anyway?
the main reason is an increased risk of atherosclerosis. higher ldl cholesterol and triglycerides and lower hdl cholesterol increse this risk. this can have serious consequernces like heart disease and stroke. the national cholesterol education program helps provide guidelines of how to reduce the intake of total and saturated fat for lower cholesterol to lower risk for atherosclerosis.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
an exercise stress test with ecg monitoring is a great initrial test to check for symptoms like chest pain and signs like st segment changes. the definitive test is coronary arteriography which can visualize the inside of the arteries and detect atherosclerosis. a d-dimer test shows the presence of fibrin degradation products indicative of a deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
the sad reality is that there's no blood test for atherosclerosis. the d-dimer test most assuredly will not. an ultra sensitive c-reactive protein will address the probability of developing buildup but will not tell you if you have it. electron beam ct which provides calcium score gets you closer but is not a blood test. please read my comment:.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
lab tests do not detect impending heart disease. the risk factors for atherosclerosis and vascular disease could serve as markers of risk for cardiac disease. elevated cholesterol and ldl low hdl increases triglycrides are usual risk factors. other risk factors that are not lab tests are hypertension smoking excessive alcohol intake lack of physical activity. d-dimer will not help.
what are symptoms of high blood pressure?
for many years hypertension is unknown as a silent killer. because it typically does not have easily recognizable symptoms until late. such as severe headaches strokes heart attacks etc. chronic hypertension is known to cause atherosclerosis increases risk of heart attacks/strokes etc. thus recommended to be treated adequately. so don't wait for symptoms. consult your doc early. good luck.
why do so many smokers die early? effect on heart or cancer?
smoking and tobacco use in general is a major etiologic factor in many cancers causes lung disease copd in addition to lung cancer accelerated atherosclerosis leading to heart attacks strokes lower limb gangrene. smokers in general die ten years sooner than non-smokers. tobacco use is the largest preventable act in promoting health and wellness.
what are all the types of arteriosclerosis?
while atherosclerosis/arteriosclerosis is a body wide all arteries process pathologists have long classified it into 10 differenct stages correlating with both duration & severity of the disease state. in an advanced lesion at autopsy one may be able to find all 10 stages within a single section of an artery.
what is the difference between atherosclerosis high cholesterol and plaque?
triglcerides either as an intrinsic genetic malady or diet and diabetes lead to plaque and then manifestations of atherosclerosis including coronary artery disease. treatmnt of chol/tg elevation reduces mortality and risk of coronary stenosis and maybe other vascular events (stroke aortic aneurysm peripheral vascular disease).
what is the difference between atherosclerosis high cholesterol and plaque?
atherosclerosis high cholesterol and plaque belong to different categories there are inherent connections between them. high choleterol is one reason for the development of plaque and atherosclerosis and plaque is a stage and presentation of atherosclerosis.
what causes ischemic colitis and how do u treat it?
marathon runners may develop ischemic colitis with bloody diarrhea simply from the blood supply being diverted during exercise. this self-heals. more often vascular disease of the superior and inferior mesenteric arterial system such as atherosclerosis underlies this problem. your physician can tell you the likely cause which perhaps is treatable. good luck.
what is the vertical cholesterol profile test and what's its best use case?
hello the main difference between a "regular" cholesterol test and vap is the vap gives particle size. it is thought that smaller more dense ldl is more atherogenic - will cause atherosclerosis more readily than larger more buoyant ldl. even better are tests that give particle concentration such as ldl-p. atherosclerosis is concentration driven so the more particles of ldl the worse it is.
what kind of problem will high reading of trigicerides cause and how can i reduce the high level?
high level triglycerides is congenital or due to diabetes and has been linked atherosclerosis and pancreatitis. treatment is with fenofibrate and high quality fish oil such as lovaza.
who was the first person to discover atherosclerosis?
dr. debakey is the first to promulgate the idea that atherosclerosis is caused by both inflammation and infection. clamydia (not the std) was co-discovered in atherosclerotic plaques from all types of vessels (carotid aortic femoral renal. ). further evidence derives from our teeth. most persons who have periodontal disease have had/will have a heart attack. this is an evolving science.
who was the first person to discover atherosclerosis?
it would be the first person that suffered a heart attack. we don't know who suffered the very first heart attack.
what are the causes inferolateral ischemia?
inferolateral generally refers to the location in the heart. ischemia is insufficient blood flow to any part of the body - i am assuming you are referring to your heart in this case - so the heart muscle is not getting enough blood. this can be caused by atherosclerosis or narrowing of the blood flow in the heart.
when does arteriosclerosis start?
the process of atherosclerosis can actually begin in our late teens and early twenties; although the consequences may not manifest for many years. autopsy examination from young people dying in wars and trauma has revealed early signs of atherosclerosis in these individuals.
when does arteriosclerosis start?
atherosclerosis is a disease that takes years/decades to develop but symptoms are uncommon until early/middle adulthood.
what is cardiac output influenced by?
congenital heart disease vitamin b1 defiency anemia thyroid problem renal disease liver disease brain disease vascular disease blood disease atherosclerosis valve disease - these are the biggest influencers of cardiac output.
what happens during coronary artery disease?
the key issue is atherosclerosis: accumulation of white blood cells in the walls of arteries typically starts in childhood & is primarily driven by lipoproteins (proteins which transport fat in the water outside cells) is dominant human behavior yet is typically ignored for decades because it remains asymptomatic until plaque ruptures release debris triggers clots & suddenly blocks blood flow.
where does coronary artery disease originate?
when an atheromatous plaque secondary to atherosclerosis occurs in the coronary arteries it is called coronary artery disease. arteriosclesosis affects all the arterial system. the location of the lesions is unique to the individual.
what factors in the body affect the cardiac output?
congenital heart disease vitamin b1 defiency anemia thyroid problem renal disease liver disease brain disease vascular disease blood disease atherosclerosis valve disease - these are the biggest influencers of cardiac output.
why do people get hypertension?
hardening of the arteries/atherosclerosis kidney problems hormonal problems overweight/obesity adrenal gland problems too much salt too much blood volume calcification of the arteries and congenital heart problems such as coarctation.
what are the risks of atherosclerosis?
this is a disease of the arteries and can affect all of them. . the major problems depend upon the blood vessels affected and include heart attack stroke kidney failure leading to dialysis and loss of limb.
what are the risks of atherosclerosis?
statistically it is the most common mechanism of debility and death in all first world countries. atherosclerosis typically starts in childhood yet typically remains asymptomatic for decades; until plaque ruptures clots and/or aneurysms develop. atherosclerosis is more problematic in some people & families than others; genetics life styles mental issues etc. all related to progression rates.
what's the difference between hdl and ldl?
cholesterol is transported in the blood inside carrier vehicles called lipoprotein particles. following entry into the artery wall low density lipoprotein (ldl) particles directly promote development of atherosclerosis ("hardening of the arteries") and increase risk for heart attack and stroke. high density lipoprotein (hdl) particles work in several ways to decrease atherosclerosis.
what does it mean if my physician tells me i have a right carotid bruit?
a carotid bruit is a "swishing" sound heard when listening to the neck with a stethoscope. the noise is turbulence caused by blood flowing past a blockage in the artery. these blockages are most often formed by plaque build-up / atherosclerosis. interestingly this finding correlates with mild to moderate blockages not blockages near or greater than 90%. an ultrasound is the next best test.
what does it mean to have carotid endarterectomy?
this is to surgically expose the carotid artery in the neck and to remove the plaque of the diseased artery. arteries have 3 layers. plaque / atherosclerosis develops in the inner two layers. the outer layer is the strength layer. these layers peel apart similar to the layers in an onion. once cleared the artery is closed using patch to prevent it from scarring down. the goal: prevent strokes.
why does vascular disease develop in diabetics?
diabetes can lead to protein changes and inflammation leading to atherosclerosis or narrowing and stiffening of blood vessels. depending on the location these narrowed arteries may cause heart attack (heart or coronary arteries) stroke (carotid) amputations due to infection/poor healing (legs & feet) blindness (eyes) and kidney failure (kidneys).
why does vascular disease develop in diabetics?
diabetes and the insulin resistant state yields increased endothelial dysfunction and helps accelerate the cascade of inflammation that leads to atherosclerosis and vascular narrowing. this exacerbates also the risk of plaque rupture that can lead to acute coronary states. 80% of diabetics die ultimately of vascular causes (mi cva or complications of pvod).
why does vascular disease develop in diabetics?
levels over time promotes inflammation and atherosclerosis formation.
what is reno vascular hypertension?
renal artery steno sis that can raise bp from hormone activated mechanism for bp eg. renal artery steno sis from either intimal muscular hypertrophy or atherosclerosis with stenosis.
will crestor (rosuvastatin) help slow the progression of atherosclerosis (plaque buildup)?
it helps especially if your cholesterol is high if your lipid profile is normal then benefit is low.
will crestor (rosuvastatin) help slow the progression of atherosclerosis (plaque buildup)?
yes at least one study showed it did.
with coronary artery disease am i more susceptible for having a stroke?
atherosclerosis is a systemic disease that affects all arteries in the body. the plain and simple answer is yes.
what is a stroke? what are the causes of strokes and what are the signs?
most strokes are caused either by blockage or rupture of a blood vessel in the brain. about three quarters of strokes occur when a blood clot closes a blood vessel in the brain; most of the remainder is due to a blood vessel bursting and bleeding into the brain. major risk factors for stroke include atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) atrial fibrillation (a heart rhythm disorder) hypertension high cholesterol diabetes and smoking. family history of stroke also increases risk. signs of stroke vary. common signs are sudden paralysis in one part of the body such as an arm or leg drooping of one side of the face slurred speech or difficulty speaking. headache and vertigo can be signs of stroke but are much less common. sudden onset of "the worst headache of my life" is very worrisome for a ruptured blood vessel in the brain. if stroke symptoms occur it's critical to take action quickly. stroke symptoms should be treated as a "brain attack" just as urgently as chest pain would be. call 911 or go to the closest emergency room without delay.
what is the relationship between atherosclerosis and high blood pressure? is there a relationship between atherosclerosis and high blood pressure?
athersclerosis can cause high blood pressure and vice versa.
what is the relationship between atherosclerosis and high blood pressure? is there a relationship between atherosclerosis and high blood pressure?
absolutely! high blood pressure (hypertension) is one of the single most important modifiable risk factors for atherosclerosis. when the blood vessels are exposed to high blood pressure over time they become damaged which promotes the formation of cholesterol plaque. and as the plaque forms throughout the body's vasculature if the blood pressure is not controlled then the plaque remains unstable and at risk for rupture which can cause stroke or heart attack.
what is diabetic heart disease? are dizziness shortness of breath cold tips of finders and chest pain strong indicatros of diabetic heart disease?
all of these can be symptoms of cardiology and diabetes dramatically increases the risk of cardiology. chest pain shortness of breath and associated dizziness can all be symptoms of angina which is caused by narrowing or blockages in the coronary arteries. angina might also be accompanied by excessive sweating nausea or fatigue. cold finger tips may be a symptom of poor circulation to the hands which can be caused by atherosclerosis in the peripheral arties or also by diabetic nerve disease. if you have these symptoms whether or not you have diabetes you should definitely see your doctor for further evaluation.
what is diabetic heart disease? are dizziness shortness of breath cold tips of finders and chest pain strong indicatros of diabetic heart disease?
there isn't actually such an entity per se but people with diabetes tend to develop accelerated atherosclerosis which tends to affect the smaller (distal) vessels to a greater extent than non-diabetics. that could result in angina (chest pain)but often doesn't because diabetics lose the ability to perceive pain. dizziness and cold fingers are non-specific issues caused by many things.
what is coronary microvascular disease? what are the symptoms of coronary microvascular disease and is it true that it is more prominent between women?
coronary microvascular disease (mvd) affects the smallest branches of the coronary arteries instead of the larger portions of the coronary arteries which are affected in traditional coronary atherosclerosis. mvd has similar symptoms to traditional coronary artery disease but it is much more common in women than men. patients can have angina which is chest pain pressure or burning that increases with activity and improves with rest. they might also experience shortness of breath with activity. the diagnosis can be difficult but is typically made when patients have symptoms of obstructive coronary artery disease but do not have blockages in the larger arteries. since mvd affects the smallest arteries they are too small to see on coronary angiography. the risk factors for mvd are the same as for traditional atherosclerosis but perhaps there is a hormonal component to explain the increased incidence in women.
what genes play an important role in cerebrovascular disease?
since there are many types of stroke this is a very complicated question. most strokes are related to atherosclerosis ( fat deposit in the arteries). so the genes involved ( there are many) in lipid (fat) metabolism and blood pressure regulation are important. one important set of genes seems to be located on chromosome number 9. in any case this is an active area of medical research.
what causes carotid artery stenosis?
usually caused by atherosclerosis (also known as hardening of the arteries) in which palque builds up within the artery walls. risk is increased by smoking cigarrettes high cholesterol or lipids or family history / genetic predisposition. dissection (tear inside the artery) or fibromuscular dysplasia are other potential causes of stenosis. ultrasound is usually initial study to evaluate.
what is carotid artery stenosis and stroke?
carotid artery disease means that the carotid arteries have blockage usually in the form of atherosclerosis. this can cause stroke. the more severe the blockage the greater the risk in the absence of neurological symptoms most cases can be handled with medicine and close periodic follow up by a vascular surgeon. however if the blockage is more than 80% surgery will reduce the risk of stroke.
who gets carotid artery stenosis?
carotid stenosis usually occurs secondary to longstanding atherosclerosis. risk factors include high blood pressure diabetes and coronary artery disease. it takes time for atherosclerotic plaques to develop so most patients with carotid artery stenosis are older adults.
who is at greater risk for stroke?
strokes are more common in men under 75 and women above 75. and african americans are twice as likely to have a stroke. some other factors for stroke include: high blood pressure history of previous strokes women who smoke while on hormonal birth control diabetes heart disease such as atrial fibrillation high cholesterol and atherosclerosis.
what is the pathophysiology of abdominal aortic aneurysm?
the exact mechanism for aaa formation is not known. there are several etiologies/theories. the most widely accepted is that aaas form due to an inflammatory process in the wall of the aorta associated with atherosclerosis. inflammatory cells are thought to degrade structural proteins (such as elastin) in the wall of the aorta weakening it and allowing for aneurysm formation.
what is the pathophysiology of abdominal aortic aneurysm?
of the aortic wall secondary to atherosclerosis or connective tissue disorder.
will arteriosclerosis cause memory loss?
if brain receives inadequate blood flow this can cause a stroke and if multiple small strokes occur this creates a "lacunar state" which can surely result in a vascular dementia. even worse the causes of atherosclerosis such as hypertension and diabetes are risk factors for alzheimer's. so "ounce of prevention? ".
what are hazards of atherosclerosis?
i am not trying to be dramatic but if atherosclerosis which is a progressive disease is allowed to continue without any remediation the arteries will become blocked and in the heart this will cause ischemia and ultimately muscle death. atherosclerosis also progresses in the rest of the body and can cause loss of limb. fortunately you can partner with your doctor to slow/stop it.
what are hazards of atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is the narrowing and blocking of the arteries. if not treated properly this could cause a patient to have: a heart attack; stroke; damage to the heart brain and other extremities; and even death. ways to prevent and/or treat atherosclerosis: lifestyle changes such as not smoking lowering stress diet and exercise. reduce hbp and cholesterol. take medications your pcp prescribes.
why do diabetics have poor circulation?
diabetics are prone to develope atherosclerosis in their arteries due to the high sugers in their blood. this is especially pronounced in diabetics that smoke.
what is the connection between hdl and cholesterol?
cholesterol (c) is actually transported through the blood as a constiuent of lipoproteins. these are associated with atherosclerosis; ldl-low density liporoteins-causing and hdl-high density lipoproteins-protecting against. when c l is fractionated and measured the ldl cholesterol correlates to the amount of ldl and the hdl cholesterol correlates to the hdl. thus c provides an indirect measure.
what are causes of aortic valve stenosis?
perhaps the most common offending etiology in aortic stenosis in the us is atherosclerosis. just as this can affect the arteries in the body it can affect the tissues covering the aortic valve and then the plaque deposition and calcific degeneration of the valve leads to its problems. rheumatic heart disease not common in the us is another common cause in third world countries.
what are the possible causes of arteriosclerosis?
the primary risk factors for atherosclerosis are smoking diabetes high ldl cholesterol high blood pressure age male gender and probably family history.
why is the abdominal aortic aneurysm more common?
we are not sure why this is the case. the most widely accepted theory is that aaas arise from an inflammatory process related to atherosclerosis. the inflammatory process is believed to degrade the elastin in the wall of the aorta thereby weakening it. we do not produce elastin as adults. why this process happens most often in the abdominal aorta is not clear.
what is the difference between atherosclerosis and arteriosclerosis?
they are used to describe the same thing.
what is the difference between atherosclerosis and arteriosclerosis?
2 different words for largely the same disease process. disease (a) typically starts in later childhood is (b) due to an accumulation of white blood cells in the walls of the arteries (c) no symptoms occur for decades though arteries get stiffer (d) most events are without symptoms (despite tissue damage) when symptoms finally do occur they are commonly of sudden onset due to plaque rupture.
what is the difference between atherosclerosis and arteriosclerosis?
they are two different terms for the same thing. atherosclerosis is the formal term. arteriosclerosis is an older less formal term.
what does arteriosclerosis do in the body?
atherosclerosis occurs when cholesterol deposits called plaque form in the wall of your arteries. if the plaque gets big enough it can block flow of blood causing injury to the tissue that was supplied by the artery. that is how heart attacks strokes leg ulcers etc occur.
what does arteriosclerosis do in the body?
atherosclerosis affects the arteries of the body. it acts in varying degrees and stages. one of the first manifestations is an attenuation or loss of the normal dilatory response of arteries. they also become progressively stiffer and as they accumulate more and more internal debris the flow becomes more turbulent. increasing activation of the inflammatory process is noted with resultant clots.
what things can prevent atherosclerosis?
since you already have the genes you were given regular exercise of 150 minutes a week and a diet high in vegetables fruits and whole grains with limited amounts of animal products is your ticket to success. check out <link> for a fun fitness program near you.
what things can prevent atherosclerosis?
there are numerous ways to try and prevent atherosclerosis. not smoking and diet and exercise. keeping your blood pressure and cholesterol maintained. checkups with your doctor. family history plays a large roll. unfortunately if you do have family history with this the most important thing is to take all precautions and preventable tips to help prevent atherosclerosis.
what are the differences between an atheroma atherosclerosis and ischemic heart disease?
atherosclerosis descrinbes the pathological process involving the arteries anywhere in the body whereby plaques (usually consisting of inflammatory cells cholesterol etc ) form. an atheroma is one of those plaques. ischemic heart disease describes a condition whereby heart muscle is not recieving adequate oxygen. this is most commonly from atheromas in the coronary arteries.
what are the differences between an atheroma atherosclerosis and ischemic heart disease?
atheroma is early soft plaque atherosclerosis is the disease process that results in blockage of arteries and ischemic heart disease is when heart arteries are blocked.
what is an elevated hdl level?
cholesterol levels are indirect measures of the different lipoproteins within our bodies. it is actually the lipoproteins that determine the degree of inflammation and atherosclerosis. hdl cholesterol is a measure of the amount of cholesterol in the high density lipoproteins or hdl. the higher that cholesterol fraction the higher the concentration of hdl. high density lipoproteins are protective.
what are the consequences of ignoring coronary artery disease?
atherosclerosis known to start ~age 7 on average most commonly becomes obvious by reducing/stopping blood supply to portions of the heart muscle; heart attacks (most asymptomatic until large) resulting in congestive heart failure angina and/or premature death. stress testing all forms completely miss the problem until after the disease is quite advanced & after most smaller heart attacks.
what is inflammation of a heart valve called?
do you have the right term here. while inflammation can affect any organ in the body inflammation of a heart valve other than that which leads to myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve is not usually discussed. atherosclerosis can affect the heart valves and inflammation is a contributor to that but that is a separate issue. did you mean infection? that would be infective endocarditis.
what makes atherosclerosis dangerous?
atherosclerosis is a progressive disease that involves all the arterial systems of the body the brain the heart the kidneys the gut and the limbs. as it progresses it causes reduction of blood flow to these areas chronically and the end organ becomes a target for embolization of the plaque or blood clot caused by atherosclerosis on an acute basis.
what makes atherosclerosis dangerous?
disease is an accumulation of white blood cells in the wall of arteries body wide in response to which the artery walls enlarge (opening remains the same) ; thus asymptomatic for decades. rupture of the endothelial cell lining layer allows plaque to contact blood clots form ; showers of plaque ; clots fly downstream blocking smaller arteries stopping blood flow with resulting tissue damage.
what makes atherosclerosis dangerous?
it can lead to arterial blockages which can lead to heart attacks strokes and death.
why are some hearts more vulnerable to atherosclerosis?
modifiable risk factors.
why are some hearts more vulnerable to atherosclerosis?
simple answer. genetics. lifestyle maters a lot but i have taken care of vegan triathletes that have had heart attacks.
what are ldl & hdl cholesterol?
ldl (low density lipoprotein) and hdl (high density lipoprotein) are types of cholesterol. ldl is so-called "bad cholesterol" because it increases the risk of heart disease by causing hardening of the arteries/atherosclerosis. hdl is considered "good cholesterol" since it removes cholesterol from the walls of arteries.
what are ldl & hdl cholesterol?
ldl (low density lipoprotein) ; hdl (high density lipoprotein) are not cholesterol but complex protein particles which transport all fat molecules in water outside cells. ? ed ldl concentrations? es incidence of cardiovascular diseases by driving atherosclerosis thus bad. ? ed hdl considered good because they remove fats from cells which need to get rid of fats including in the walls of arteries.
what is the treatment for atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis typically starts ~age 7 is primarily driven by lipoproteins (the proteins which transport fat in the water outside cells) not cholesterol (made by every cell) thus optimize nmr particle test (hdl & ldl concentration not cholesterol) keep hba1c low optional? 5. 0% sbp? 120 mmhg don’t smoke exercise avoid dietary sugars etc; study: nusi. org taubes attia lustig fatchance.
what is the treatment for atherosclerosis?
by following healthy habits american heart you can dramatically reduce the incidence! if you develop the diseases there are diverse and helpful treatments. but avoidance. prevention is better! !
what is the treatment for atherosclerosis?
reducing cholesterol treating high blood pressure smoking cessation treating diabetes are the know risk factor "treatments" to hopefully slow the progression of atherosclerosis.
what causes mini strokes?
mini strokes or tias are caused by the same things that cause regular strokes. here are the common causes: smoking high blood pressure atrial fibrillation high blood sugar arterial disease / atherosclerosis high blood cholesterol
why does atherosclerosis not affect my veins?
veins have smooth muscle in their walls but much less than arteries operate at much lower pressures than arteries typically 15 mmhg above atmospheric pressure and there is no pulse with each heart beat. however arteries typically operate at pressures >100 to >200 mmhg above atmospheric pressure and stretch with each heart beat. veins develop atherosclerosis rapidly if used as an artery.
why does atherosclerosis not affect my veins?
atherosclerosis develops in the portion of the artery wall that is muscular. there is no muscle in veins so plaque does not develop in these types of vessels.
what is ldl what is hdl?
cholesterol and triglycerides are fats transported in the blood inside carrier vehicles called lipoprotein particles. following entry into the artery wall low density lipoprotein (ldl) particles directly promote development of atherosclerosis ("hardening of the arteries") and increase risk for heart attack and stroke. high density lipoprotein (hdl) particles work in several ways to decrease ather.
what's the difference between arterial and venous thrombosis?
the main difference is location one is on the venous side the other on the arterial side. causes of thrombosis are usually different on the venous side than on the arterial side but there are some disease states that can produce thrombosis on either side. a common cause on the arterial side is atherosclerosis a common cause on the venous side is stasis producing a deep venous thrombosis(dvt).
what is the relationship between high blood pressure and eye sight?
chronic hypertension increases the risk of atherosclerosis and blockages of the retinal vessels. acute rises in pressure can cause a retinopathy and decreased vision. the eyes are only one place where high blood pressure attacks - this process is happening throughout the body. best to take care of it!
what diseases cause raynaud's phenomenon?
many disorders can cause raynaud's phenomenon. examples include: scleroderma lupus rheumatoid arthritis sjogren's syndrome atherosclerosis subclavian aneurysm beta-blocker drugs ergotamine-type drugs hypothyroidism reflex sympathetic dystrophy magnesium deficiency etc.
why is cigarette smoking a risk factor of coronary artery disease?
smoking accelerates the development of atherosclerosis (plaque formation / cholesterol build-up / formation of blockages) in blood vessels. the exact mechanism is not understood. studies show that high cholesterol high blood pressure and cigarette smoking together increase the risk seven times. if you smoke several packs/day for several years this increases your risk two fold.
what are the symptoms of atherosclerosis?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes atherosclerosis is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what are the symptoms of atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis typically starts in childhood yet typically remains asymptomatic for many decades; until plaque ruptures clots and/or aneurysms develop. however plaque ruptures occur suddenly too late to take better action and most events despite damage are mostly asymptomatic. thus best aggressively changing risk factors years before symptoms begin is best though unfortunatley rarely done.
what are some of the risks of coronary heart disease?
atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries is a progressive disease if it is allowed to continue without any remediation the arteries will become blocked and in the heart this will cause ischemia -becoming irreversible -and ultimately muscle death. in the interim one could be sidelined from preferred activities due to angina or equivalent. but you can partner with your doctor to slow/stop it.
what does atherosclerosis effect?
can affect any artery in the body.
what does atherosclerosis effect?
atherosclerosis causes narrowing of blood vessels and result in poor blood flow to multiple organs most notably heart brain kidneys intestines limbs and eyes. this results in varying degrees of malfunction of these organs affecting quality of life and even threatening life.
what does atherosclerosis effect?
it affects the wall of arteries. plaque builds up and can eventually block the artery resulting in symptoms such as chest pain if teh heart arteries are involved or stroke if it is the brain arteries. factors such as a high cholesterol make the process more likely to occur.
what is the significance of elevated hypertension?
elevated hypertension is redundant <positive_smiley> hypertension is elevated blood pressure. if untreated hypertension leads to a wide array of complications such as atherosclerosis myocardial infarction stroke kidney failure leading to dialysis and loss of limb to name some.
what are symptoms of arteriosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is progressive "hardening" of the arteries caused by cholesterol build up. while most patients have chest pain or shortness of breath for many patients their first symptom is a heart attack or sudden death. fortunately atherosclerosis can controlled/prevented with a healthily lifestyle not smoking and medicines when appropriate.
what are symptoms of arteriosclerosis?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes atherosclerosis is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what are the cures of atherosclerosis?
the ldl & hdl lipoproteins (protein particles which carry all fats in the water outside cells see: "nmr particle test" are the primary issue along with blood glucose (optimal hba1c? 5. 0%) blood pressure (sbp? 20 mmhg) no smoking & several other issues known & not. thus best to address all issues in unisyn do not aim for normal. instead aim for excellence: absence of drivers of the disease.
what are the cures of atherosclerosis?
best possible personal choices: no smoking regular exercize best diet weight at normal bmi check blood pressure and lipids delay onset as long as we can.
what are the cures of atherosclerosis?
1. control of causes: smoking diabetes cholesterol obesity 2. medicine. statin medicine with a goal of bring your ldl cholesterol below 75. 3. exercise and lifestyle changes (see 1. ) follow your doctor's advice to the letter. for instance if you don't quit smoking forget the rest. the disease will only advance.
what are treatments for atherosclerosis?
we can treat the side effects of atherosclerosis all over the body however we can never truly treat it. prevention of atherosclerosis is the only real treatment.
what are treatments for atherosclerosis?
most importantly in order to prevent progression and possibly even reduce the atherosclerosis (calcification of the blood vessels) eat a heart healthy diet (mediterranean for example) exercise (discuss level of exercise with your physician) don't smoke. sometimes medications are needed to reduce risk factors like high blood pressure diabetes high cholesterol.
what are treatments for atherosclerosis?
that is the whole body. generally any organ system can be adversely affected. prevention is best treatment depends on the specific system. heart attack stroke kidney failure amputation etc.
what is atherosclerosis linked to?
age (older worse) sex (male worse) ldl and hdl lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particle concentrations (not cholesterol per-se) blood glucose and blood pressure along with smoking obesity inactivity living longer (it typically starts in childhood) smoking eating process foods (esp. high glycemic index foods) ongoing debate about fat (esp. processed fat) in foods etc. see nusi. org.
what is atherosclerosis linked to?
atherosclerosis is a fancy name for disease of the arteries: risk factors are: genetics (your parents <positive_smiley>) smoking diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol obesity. there are other secondary risks that are determined by specialized blood tests.
what are functions of hdl in your body?
total cholesterol is made up of the "bad" ldl and "good" hdl. the higher the level of hdl for most people the lower the risk of developing atherosclerosis. it can though of as the scavenger that removes lipid build-up from arterial walls.
what heart disease can someone get?
the most common heart diseases are atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries and hypertrophy or thickening of the heart muscle leading to stiffness and abnormal muscle function. at their worst these both can lead to congestive heart failure or the inability of the heart to pumps the blood adequately with a resulting pressure buildup causing fluid to leak back into the lungs.
what does atherosclerosis mean?
it is hardening of the arteries caused by fat cholesterol and other substances building up in the arteries - this is called plaque - making the arteries stiffer. this plaque interferes with the normal function of the arteries and can cause problems and symptoms throughout the body. the plaque can block the arteries and/or it can break off and flow to smaller vessels and block them.
what does atherosclerosis mean?
atherosclerosis results from an accumulation of white blood cells mostly macrophages (called monocytes one of 5 white blood cell types) which have invaded into the walls of the blood vessel to remove low density lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particles. the macrophages may die if overwhelmed with ldl & cannot export the ingested fat into high density lipoprotein particles.
what is the harm of hypertension?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what is the typical underling cause for aortic aneurysm?
atherosclerosis (hardening of arteries) aging infection (syphilis for one) traujma some congenital problems such as marfan's or ehlers-danlos where there is inherited weakness in the artery wall and inflamation. hypertension can cause a "dissecting aneruysm" ( a tear in the aorta).
what individuals are at risk for atherosclerosis?
hypertension diabetes elevated cholesterol smokers and people with genetic predisposition.
what individuals are at risk for atherosclerosis?
obese smokers diabetics those with high blood pressure those with family history high cholesterol low good cholesterol stress high triglycerides couch potatoes old people men .
what individuals are at risk for atherosclerosis?
those without very low concentrations of low density lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particles low normal blood sugar low normal blood pressure and those without high concentrations of large high density lipoproteins who are also inactive have excess body fat smoke are male older don’t handle stress well eat lots of sugar and processed foods live in first world countries genetics etc.
what is coronary artery blockage?
blockage is the result of worsening atherosclerosis. this begins when areas of the artery wall thicken due to risk factors like high ldl particle levels smoking or high blood pressure. over time areas of focal thickening may grow into a larger lesion called a “plaque". stable plaques grow slowly and may limit blood flow over time. unstable plaques can break causing sudden total vessel blockage.
what are the characteristics of atherosclerosis?
it is hardening of the arteries caused by fat cholesterol and other substances building up in the arteries - this is called plaque - making the arteries stiffer. this plaque interferes with the normal function of the arteries and can cause problems and symptoms throughout the body. the plaque can block the arteries and/or it can break off and flow to smaller vessels and block them.
what are the characteristics of atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis: an accumulation of white blood cells mostly macrophages which have invaded into the walls of the blood vessel to remove low density lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particles. the artery wall thickens and enlarges protecting blood flow. however rupture of the endothelium over an atherosclerotic plaque sheds debris downstream induces clots and can result in sudden closure.
which symptoms occur with arteriosclerosis?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes atherosclerosis is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what happens in atherosclerosis?
white blood cells mostly macrophages invade the walls of the arteries to remove low density lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particles. macrophages die if overwhelmed with ldl & cannot export their ingested fat into high density lipoprotein particles. the artery wall thickens & enlarges; no symptoms decades. plaque rupture induces sudden clots debris downstream sudden narrowing & closure.
what happens in atherosclerosis?
the process affects arteries causing a buildup of plaque which can narrow the artery. if the plaque ruptures the artery can suddenly get occluded. if an artery is narrowed or occluded symptoms would occur. the symptoms would depend on what part of the body is supplied by that artery. chest pain if heart stroke or tia if brain pain in area if arm or leg for istance.
what causes atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis also known as “hardening of the arteries” occurs when areas of the artery wall thicken in response to either increased modifiable (high ldl particle levels smoking or high blood pressure )and non-modifiable (genetics age gender) risk factors. over time areas of focal thickening may grow into a larger lesion called a “plaque" that can limit blood flow through the vessel.
what causes atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is the build up of cholesterol and calcium plaque in the arteries of the body. it is due to injury of the artery wall and inflammation which attracts blood cells which promote cholesterol deposition in the arteries. known conditions which are associated with atherosclerosis include family history smoking hypertension diabetes elevated cholesterol/ldl or low hdl and age.
what causes atherosclerosis?
an accumulation of white blood cells mostly macrophages (called monocytes one of 5 white blood cell types) which have invaded into the walls of the blood vessel to remove low density lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particles. macrophages die if overwhelmed with ldl & cannot export their ingested fat into high density lipoprotein particles. cholesterol not best focus. otherwise largely agree.
what is the most common form of arteriosclerosis?
"arteriosclerosis" refers to hardening of the arteries of any cause. far and away the most common form is due to "atherosclerosis"--build-up of plaque comprised of cholesterol fat-filled white blood cells and smooth muscle cells in the artery walls. the most common sites are heart (coronary arteries) brain (carotid arteries) and the arteries of the legs ("peripheral arterial disease" or pad).
why is atherosclerosis dangerous for people?
narrows arteries over time and thus can ultimately cause strokes heart attacks both of which can be lethal.
why is atherosclerosis dangerous for people?
it leads to arteries getting too narrow or blocked which would affect the function of whatever is supplied by that artery. if it is an artery to your leg you could get pain or even get gangrene. if the arteries to the heart got blocked you could get chest pain or a heart attack.
which people get arteriosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is an inflammatory process in the lining of the blood vessels. insulin resistance is hereditary and is an inflammatory disease process that causes high blood pressure vascular disease and eventually type 2 diabetes.
why is arteriosclerosis dangerous?
atherosclerosis affects many blood vessels that supply blood to a number of very important organs needed to sustain life. if it develops in vessels supplying the heart or brain it may lead to heart attacks and strokes.
what is the epidemiology of atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis occurs when cholesterol is deposited into the walls of blood vessels usually due to dietary issues or minor trauma. this is followed by the deposition of calcium giving rise to obstructive lesions or plaques. controlling cholesterol levels will aide in slowing progression but will not lead to regression.
what is the epidemiology of atherosclerosis?
coronary artery disease is largely a disease of western civilization. as countries become more affluent they exercise less consume a diet with higher fat content and gain weight. the prevalence of diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease increases. thus coronary disease will become more frequent emerging countries such as india and china.
what complications can accompany the coarctation of the aorta?
aortic coarctation is associated with hypertension (high blood pressure). this can develop even years later after successful surgical correction due to a diffuse dysfunction of cells lining artery walls. this can also affect coronary arteries (causing atherosclerosis) and the adjacent (non-coarcted) aorta with risk of aneurysm formation or dissection of the aorta wall.
when did atherosclerosis become treatable?
atherosclerosis typically starts ~age 7 is primarily driven by lipoproteins (the proteins which transport fat in the water outside cells) not cholesterol (made by every cell) thus optimize nmr particle test (hdl & ldl concentration not cholesterol) keep hba1c low optional =5. 0% sbp =120 mmhg don’t smoke exercise avoid dietary sugars etc; study: nusi. org taubes attia lustig fatchance.
when did atherosclerosis become treatable?
hello jmercado -- atherosclerosis remains untreatable -- we know more about the cellular biology and make up of different types of atherosclerosis plaques -- and we know more about risk factors related to the plaque development -- so perhaps we could improve the odds of healthy living even longevity -.
when did atherosclerosis become treatable?
atherosclerosis also known as “hardening of the arteries” occurs when areas of the artery wall thicken in response to either increased modifiable (high ldl particle levels smoking or high blood pressure )and non-modifiable (genetics age gender) risk factors. over time areas of focal thickening may grow into a larger lesion called a “plaque" that can limit blood flow through the vessel.
what is the impact on the body of arteriosclerosis?
it depends upon the location of the atherosclerosis. in the brain arteries it causes neurologic deficits and stroke. in the heart it causes chest pain and heart attacks. in the kidneys it causes hypertension and renal failure. in the legs it causes claudication (leg pain when walking).
when does atherosclerosis develop?
it is a progressive hardening of the arteries caused by fat cholesterol and other substances building up in the arteries - this is called plaque - making the arteries stiffer. this plaque interferes with the normal function of the arteries and can cause problems and symptoms throughout the body. the plaque can block the arteries and/or it can break off and flow to smaller vessels and block them.
when does atherosclerosis develop?
typically cholesterol plaques start to deposit in the arteries of the body as early as age 30. by the time someone is 50 years old and 20 years of plaque build up have occurred the narrowed arteries can start to cause symptoms of low blood flow such as chest pain with partially blocked coronary arteries. atherosclerosis is a slow process and monitoring should be redone regularly.
when could atherosclerosis begin?
while atherosclerosis is detectable in preteens it's consequences typically do the manifest until the 50's or later. atherosclerosis is primarily a consequence of an unhealthy diet with obesity being the main risk factor.
when could atherosclerosis begin?
from autopsy studies 1930s on atherosclerosis an accumulation of white blood cells mostly macrophages have been observed to have invaded into the walls of arteries (not veins) by about age 7 on average. rarely about 1 in 6-8 000 live births it is already present at birth. on the other hand a few individual remain free of this behavior well into adulthood.
what are other known forms of arteriosclerosis?
atherosclerosis/arteriosclerosis is a body wide process all arteries. pathologists have long classified it into 10 different stages correlating with both duration & severity of the disease state. in an advanced lesion at autopsy one may be able to find all 10 stages within a single section of an artery. earliest stage called “fatty streaks” last stage calcification (always at outer edges).
what generally causes ischemia?
the formation of the atheromatous plaque which comprises of a lipid laden core covered by a fibrous cap is the pathophysiological hallmark of atherosclerosis. it is the acute rupture of such plaques that results in a clot (thrombus) that results in ischemia which simply means inadequate blood flow.
what can arteriosclerosis cause?
arteriosclerosis/atherosclerosis can result in a plethora of problems such as erectile dysfunction claudication dementia heart attacks strokes and premature death.
what can arteriosclerosis cause?
atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries can cause multiple issues - heart attack stroke death kidney failure limb loss and blindness. risk of athero is also able to be decreased - don't smoke exercise eat a healthy diet.
what is the pathophysiology of chest pain?
there are multiple causes of chest pain the most common and ominous being coronary artery occlusions with atherosclerosis.
what is the difference between ldl and hdl? what is good and bad for you?
hdl or high density lipoprotein and ldl or low density lipoprotein are particles that are important in cholesterol metabolism. hdl is the "good" particle that pulls cholesterol out of the arterial wall. ldl is the "bad" particle particularly when it is "dense" or cholesterol laden that allow cholesterol transportation and deposition into the artery wall accelerating atherosclerosis.
what surgeries are done for carotid stenosis?
the two procedures done for carotid stenosis are 1) carotid endarterectomy: exposing opening and cleaning out the plaque / atherosclerosis from the diseased artery followed by closing the artery with a patch to prevent it from scarring down. time honored procedure 2) carotid stenting: using wires catheters and balloons to get to and stent the diseased artery. this is done from the groin.
why does high blood pressure increase my risk for coronary heart disease?
the arterial walls start to thicken and harden in response to elevated blood pressures. this is part of the process that leads to atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. high blood pressure is considered one of the primary risk factors for coronary heart disease. blood pressure is the force. years of high blood pressure can damage your arteries causing them to harden and narrow.
what is hdl?
a protein that carries cholesterol in the blood stream from the blood vessels back to the liver. commonly referred to as "good" cholesterol such that higher levels are protective to blood vessels from developing atherosclerosis.
why is it that when i stand up or even look up i get dizzy and lightheaded?
when you stand up your bp may drop. if it takes more than a few seconds to increase as with certain meds you may feel light headed. in older people with atherosclerosis looking up can slow the heart beat causing lightheadedness (carotid hypersensitivity). you may simply be having benign positional vertigo in which case you feel an imbalance or room spinning. all of these can be remedied.
why is excess sodium bad for you?
can raise blood pressure in salt sensitive individuals and may contribute to atherosclerosis.
what sort of disease is a circulatory disorder?
guess you mean a disorder where blood flow to a region is abnormal. can be due to atherosclerosis as in the legs with pad or as in coronary artery disease. can also have spasm sometimes cold-induced as in raynaud's disease.
what sort of problem is atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is an inflammatory process which occurs in arteries. advanced stages cause narrowing of the arteries involved. the narrowing can lead to complete blockage of blood flow or to what is termed "plaque rupture" (when pieces of the lining of diseased artery break free. clot forms and floats downstream). in the heart this causes heart attacks in the brain this causes strokes.
what sort of problem is atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is the hardening and narrowing of the arteries a common cause of stroke angnia ami etc.
what sort of disease is claudication?
claudication refers to pain on activity usually pain in the leg on walking. it is due to narrowing of arteries usually due to atherosclerosis. it may also be referred to as peripheral vascular disease and has a high degree of association with heart attacks and strokes.
what choices do i have for treating atherosclerosis?
start with a healthy diet-vegetarian vegan low animal fat or some variant. add exercise: 30 minutes 5 days a week minimum if able. if you're smoking: stop! if you're overweight or obese start to slowly aim for normal weight. have your cholesterol checked and treat with meds if necessary. check your bp and treat if needed. finally choose your parents wisely!
what choices do i have for treating atherosclerosis?
the risk factors for peripheral vascular disease are hypertension diabetes cholesterolemia and smoking. all of these risks should be modified and decreased if one has pvd. smoking is by far the worst of these so please do not smoke.
what choices do i have for treating atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis typically starts ~age 7 is primarily driven by lipoproteins (the proteins which transport fat in the water outside cells) not cholesterol (made by every cell) thus optimize nmr particle test (hdl & ldl concentration not cholesterol) keep hba1c low optional =5. 0% sbp =120 mmhg don’t smoke exercise avoid dietary sugars etc; study: nusi. org taubes attia lustig fatchance.
what choices do i have for treating atherosclerosis?
i think dr. werner gave excellent advice. there's a very good documentary on nutrition i'd recommend- forks over knives. you can get it via netflix. <link>
what things predispose someone to coronary artery disease?
atherosclerosis known to start ~age 7 on average is the key issue ; driven by 4 factors:? ldl +? hdl see nmr particle test (not cholesterol made by every cell) ? ed blood sugar hba1c? 5. 0% optimal ;? bp systolic bp? 120 mmhg optimal. cad remains asymptomatic for decades: arteries enlarge not shrink. narrowing +/- closure is due to plaque rupture ; clots: happens suddenly. stress tests miss.
what does having carotid artery disease mean?
carotid artery disease means that the carotid arteries have blockage usually in the form of atherosclerosis. this is diagnosed with a special ultrasound called a carotid duplex scan. in the absence of neurological symptoms most cases can be handled with medicine and close periodic follow up by a vascular surgeon. however if the blockage is more than 80% surgery will reduce the risk of stroke.
what does having carotid artery disease mean?
carotid artery disease means that the carotid arteries have blockage usually in the form of atherosclerosis. in the absence of neurological symptoms most cases can be handled with medicine and close periodic follow up by a vascular surgeon. however if the blockage is more than 80% surgery will reduce the risk of stroke. in special instances carotid angioplasty and stent may be an option.
what does having hyperlipidemia mean?
hyperlipidemia means you have elevated bad chlesterol and may be elevated triglycerides. with time the bad cholesterol gets deposited in the inner lining of the blood vessels over the years and causes what we call atherosclerosis or narrowing of the arteries with what we call plaque and that can cause heart attack stroke of circulation problems in arteries of legs called peripheral vascular disase.
what does hardening of the arteries signal?
it means that ones arteries have become stiff due to a process known as "atherosclerosis" happens over a period of time. it usually applies to coronary arteries. which could mean a future heart attack.
what does it mean if somebody has cmi? what's the difference between chronic mesenteric or myocardial ischemia?
mesenteric ischemia refers to poor blood flow to the intestines causing abdominal pain diarrhea blood in the stool and weight loss. myocardial ischemia refers to poor blood flow to the heart muscle resulting in chest pain heart attack arrhythmias and heart failure. both conditions are related to atherosclerosis and one condition can predispose to the other.
why does having labnormal blood pressure lead to impotence?
high blood pressure is a risk factor for atherosclerosis which can interfere with genital circulation and lead to erectile dysfunction. diabetes smoking and high cholesterol compound the damage. there are other causes of ed though too so it should be investigated.
what happens to your blood pressure when you have atherosclerosis?
along with smoking hypercholesterolemia and diabetes hypertension is a significant risk factor for atherosclerosis. your goal should be to decrease your risk factors as much as possible to decrease the complications of atherosclerosis.
what happens to your blood pressure when you have atherosclerosis?
the vessels become more stiff and less able to "give" thereby the pressure in the vessels go up.
what happens to the pulse pressure when someone has atherosclerosis?
the pulse pressure is the systolic pressure minus the diastolic pressure. it often rises with aging. the problem is usually high systolic pressure which reflects decreased compliance and stiffening of the blood vessels (hardening of the arteries). this represents a risk for stroke heart attack and congestive heart failure. the risk can be decreased by lowering the blood pressure carefully.
what happens to the pulse pressure when someone has atherosclerosis?
the pulse pressure is the difference between the systolic and diastolic pressures. it can increase as a result of severe arterial atherosclerosis but can also increase due to disease of the valves particularly leaking of the aortic or mitral valves which can cause heart enlargement. however a normal pulse pressure does not rule out severe atherosclerosis.
would you most likely have high cholesterol and/or high blood pressure as cause of coronary atherosclerosis?
high blood press and high cholesterol are two of the risk factors for development of coronary disease. other risk factors include diabetes cigarette smoking and positive family history. other factors may include lack of exercise obesity stress and type a personality. some people with normal bp and cholesterol may develop heart disease. the more risks factors one has raise the odds.
would you most likely have high cholesterol and/or high blood pressure as cause of coronary atherosclerosis?
both high blood pressure and high bad (ldl) cholesterol (or low good cholesterol hdl) are known risk factors in developing coronary atherosclerosis. other risk factors include smoking sedentary life style obesity and very important the genes you get from your parents.
would you most likely have high blood pressure if you have coronary atherosclerosis?
it turns out hypertension (htn) is considered a "modifiable risk factor" for coronary artery disease (cad)- this means that treating htn will decrease the risk of cad. about 40%-60% who need a heart bypass have htn. many consider htn the greatest risk factor cad. so yes you are likely to have htn if you have cad but there are always exceptions!
would you most likely have high blood pressure if you have coronary atherosclerosis?
while high blood pressure or hypertension is a risk factor for cardiovascular disese like stroke and heart attacks many people may develop coronary atherosclerosis (blockages) without necessarily having high blood pressures. other risk factors; ldl cholesterol family history smoking and diabetes among others are also important contributors.
would you most likely have high blood pressure if you have coronary atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is hidden within the walls of arteries. as it progresses the artery wall thickens & the artery typically enlarges not narrows for decades thus no symptoms. in extremely advanced arterial disease (if without heart damage) the pulse pressure widens because the arteries get stiffer. but transient exercise emotions aortic valve leak avms etc. also increase pulse pressure.
what are gender differences in treating cardiovascular disease?
to name a few: naturally occurring ("endogenous") estrogen is protective for women against atherosclerosis although diabetes and smoking can undo this. generally the incidence of mi is lower in premenopausal women than men. women have smaller arteries and are more susceptible to complications during invasive procedures. women's symptoms may be less typical than men's. space prevents more details.
what kind of donor would you need for a heart transplant?
the donor would need to meet brain death criteria and have a normal functioning heart. certain systemic diseases would need to be excluded such as severe hypertension and atherosclerosis.
what is the relationship between lipoprotein in the blood stream and heart disease?
following entry into the artery wall low ldl particles directly promote development of atherosclerosis ("hardening of the arteries") and increase risk for heart attack and stroke. hdl particles work in several ways to decrease atherosclerosis and cardiovascular risk. as a result increased numbers of ldl particles as well as decreased numbers of hdl particles are risk factors for heart disease.
what is the relationship between lipoprotein in the blood stream and heart disease?
ldl (i. e. smallest which are still lower density than water) when not at low concentrations drive atherosclerosis. hdl (i. e. even smaller & higher density than water) if the particles remove fats from cells overloaded with intracellular fat before they die in the walls of arteries help prevent atherosclerosis. ldl is not cholesterol. hdl is not cholesterol. ldl-c does not reveal ldl-p etc.
what is the difference between hdl and ldl cholesterol levels?
hdl is high density lipoprotein. hdl provides a vital service in removing cholesterol from the vasculature and accelerating its excretion in the liver. in general an hdl >50 is recommended. ldl is low density lipoprotein. this harmful type of cholesterol leads to atherosclerosis which can lead to stroke heart attack or peripheral arterial disease. in general an ldl <130 is recommended.
what's coronary artery disease?
the key issue is atherosclerosis an accumulation of white blood cells in the walls of arteries typically starts in childhood & is primarily driven by lipoproteins (proteins which transport fat in the water outside cells) is dominant human behavior yet is typically ignored for decades because it remains asymptomatic until plaque ruptures releases debris triggers clots & suddenly block blood flow.
what are trigicerides?
triglycerides are the types of fats in the blood that are associated with developing atherosclerosis and pancreatitis best to keep this under 150 on a fasting lab check.
what is pseudoxanthoma elasticum?
pseudoxanthoma elasticum is a genetic disease that causes fragmentation and mineralization of elastic fibers in some tissues. the most common problems arise in the skin and eyes and later in blood vessels in the form of premature atherosclerosis. small yellowish papular lesions form and cutaneous laxity mainly affects the neck axillae (armpits) groin and flexural creases. skin may become la.
what must i do if i have been diagnosed with coronary artery disease (cad)?
atherosclerosis is very common and requires treatment for severe asymptomatic lesions but more commonly for symptomatic obstructions. if you don't need revascularization yet via stents or surgery then lifestyle modifications and medication to prevent progression of the atherosclerosis is needed.
why are most men over 40 years old more susceptible to heart disease than women?
estrogen is highly protective against atherosclerosis. premenopausal women generally don't develop heart disease unless they're born with it smoke have diabetes or use cocaine. everyone men and women become increasingly susceptible to heart disease with aging. if we ever learn how to fix that we may start having some folks who live forever!
what can be done for congestive heart failure?
since the primary cause is atherosclerosis i. e. coronary artery disease (even if lumens look ok on angiography) driving? blood flow & heart muscle damage aggressively treat the factors driving atherosclerosis [lipoproteins (not cholesterol) blood sugar bp etc. to abnormally healthy levels] remove excess bodywater keep bp low nl treat with acei (aceon (perindopril) 1 of best) & carvedilol exercise etc.
why is my grandmother experiencing severe short term memory loss when tia stroke ruled out?
dr. goldsmith is quite correct: it could be the early onset of alzheimer's disease (can be diagnosed); though tia's( transitory ischemic attacks) & strokes may have been ruled out; narrowing of the cerebral circulation from atherosclerosis is common at this age & a likely reason for the problem. a tia need not have occurred but surely the narrowing of blood vessels can reduce cerebral function.
what are the symptoms of atheroschlerosis?
early atherosclerosis may not have symptoms. it's when it becomes severe that it does. example in the heart can cause chest pain sob nausea vomiting etc. in the brain it may cause stroke or ministrokes. this can be weakness garbled speech parasthesia or difficulty walking. in the kidneys it may cause kidney disease which there is no pain. in the extremities it may cause pain with walking.
what's atherosclerosis from?
usually a combination of having a family history diabetes high blood pressure obesity high cholesterol smoking. these are the main players.
what's atherosclerosis from?
atherosclerosis also known as “hardening of the arteries” occurs when areas of the artery wall thicken in response to either increased modifiable (high ldl particle levels smoking or high blood pressure )and non-modifiable (genetics age gender) risk factors. over time areas of focal thickening may grow into a larger lesion called a “plaque" that can limit blood flow through the vessel.
what's atherosclerosis from?
atherosclerosis is an accumulation of white blood cells mostly macrophages (called monocytes one of 5 white blood cell types) which have invaded into the walls of the blood vessel to remove low density lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particles. the macrophages may die if overwhelmed with ldl & cannot export the ingested fat into high density lipoprotein particles. also high glucose bp etc.
will reducing ldl cholesterol lower the risk of cardiovascular disease?
ldl refers to lipoproteins protein particles which transport all fats in the water outside cells & are the primary driver of atherosclerosis. ldl & hdl are not cholesterol. cholesterol is a fat made by all animal cells. ldl is always in nmol/l best 10. see nmr particle test would you like to video or text chat with me?
what are the dietary recommendations with atherosclerosis?
a diet low in saturated fat rich in omega 3 and 6 fatty acids low in cholesterol. basically a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits nuts fish - mediterranean diet -.
what are the dietary recommendations with atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis typically starting in childhood is primarily driven by lipoproteins (the proteins which transport fat in the water outside cells) not ingested fat per-se. from evidence dietary sugars (converted into fat in our liver) are the bigger driver not "natural" fats. the most important fat is the fat we have stored inside transported by the lipoproteins & where these go. see nusi. org.
what can help clear clogging arteries?
dr. dean ornish did a landmark study showing that a program of a low fat diet exercise and stress reduction can reverse atherosclerosis as detailed in his book dr. dean ornish's program for reversing heart disease. more controversial is chelation therapy but a large body of research proves that it is safe and effective. see <link> & <link>
what are the dangers of arterial plaque in vessels?
atherosclerosis at www. heart. org.
what role does the ldl receptor play in high cholesterol?
low density lipoproteins protein particles present 24/7 which transport all fats in the water outside cells are the primary driver of atherosclerosis. ldl receptors on cell membranes recognize ldl particles and pull them in so the cell can intake fat molecules. ldl receptors on the liver cells play a huge role in keeping ldl concentrations down. psck9 inhibitors are most powerful agents to date.
what is the primary cause for the release of angiotensin ii?
angiorensin ii is a potent vasoconstrictor and proinflammatory chemical that has effects on vascular endothelium that contribute to atherosclerosis and hypertension. in the heart it increases hypertrophy and increases arrhythmic potential. it stimulates aldosterone. it is formed through a chemical conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii mediated by sympathetic activation of ace.
what are the treatments for renal artery stenosis?
ras due to atherosclerosis (aso) more often than fibromuscular disease (fmd) medical treatment does not alter ras but can control bp. ras can progress to occlusion. controlling aso risk factors appropriate. open renal bypass infrequent. angioplasty/stent more common but controversial. pta probably rx of choice for fmd. pta/stent for aso if flash pulmonary edema uncontrolled bp renal failure.
what are the treatments for renal artery stenosis?
35 m asks treatments for ras. at that age most likely cause if fibromuscluar hyperplasia and if renin coming from that kidney is high then ballon angioplasty with stent may work. if due atherosclerosis recommend medical management esp if you have not had a renal vein renin study.
what kinds of treatment are available for cerebral ischemia?
the most common cause of cerebral ischemia is atherosclerosis a condition in which your arteries become clogged and hardened as a result of abnormal fatty deposits. treatment requires intervention to open the obstruction. this can be surgical by percutaneous angioplasty or use of thrombolytics.
what can cause a person to have an aneurysm?
true aneurysm are generally idiopathic or has no true risk factor cause relationship but they have risk factors like high blood pressure high cholesterol smoking bicuspid aortic valve atherosclerosis and peripheral arterial disease and coronary artery disease patients with marfan syndrome and ehler danlos syndrome type 4 are at high risk. in some cases infection of the artery can cause it.
what does it mean when an mra shows the intracranial right internal carotid artery is narrowed?
an mra can show a area of mild to severe narrowing. usually this means that there is focal atherosclerosis of the vessel. the consequence of the narrowing depends on how narrow the vessel is where the vessel is and if there are alternative routes for blood to use to reach the area of the brain affected by the narrowed blood vessel.
why would i have bad circulation in my legs?
atherosclerosis involving the blood vessels supplying the legs. risk factors include high blood pressure smoking high cholesterol and diabetes.
what causes arteries in your brain to become blocked?
atherosclerosis most often is by fatty deposits in arteries usually from high cholesterol plus smoking plus other factors such as heart disease diabetes hypertension. also from clogging of arteries by thick blood clots or injury to vessels.
what is a transient ischemic attack?
a transient ischemic attack is caused by the transient blockage of a blood vessel in the brain. symptoms depend on the blood vessel being blocked. for example symptoms can include weakness numbness confusion difficulty speaking changes in vision dizziness etc. the seriousness depends on the cause of the blockage (blood clots atherosclerosis etc) and the medical problems of the patient.
what are risk factors for getting brain aneurysms?
brain aneurysms may be hereditary in only about 15% of cases. rare diseases such as marfan syndrome or polycystic kidney disease can be associated with brain aneurysms. general risk factors such as atherosclerosis high blood pressure or cigarette smoking may also predispose to aneurysm formation.
what is a transient ischemic attack and how serious a condition is it?
a transient ischemic attack is caused by the transient blockage of a blood vessel in the brain. symptoms depend on the blood vessel being blocked. for example symptoms can include weakness numbness confusion difficulty speaking changes in vision dizziness etc. the seriousness depends on the cause of the blockage (blood clots atherosclerosis etc) and the medical problems of the patient.
will flying affect you if you have a carotid bruit? what about altitude sickness?
the most common cause of a carotid bruit is atherosclerosis in the aortic arch or its branches. altitude is not going to affect this.
will i develop atherosclerosis even if my blood cholesterol is pretty low?
total cholesterol is not enough information to determine your personal risk for atherosclerosis. a low total cholesterol with a very low hdl-c may still put you at risk. in addition even 'good' cholesterol levels when combined with obesity smoking lack of exercise etc. means you are at increased risk. inflammation is also a risk factor so those with rheumatoid arthritis etc are at risk.
why is the heart more vulnerable to atherosclerosis than other muscles?
interruption of blood flow to any muscle may result in cell death loss in function and scarring. if this occurs in the heart the results can be devastating resulting in death or disability due to arrhythmia and congestive heart failure.
why is my diastolic blood pressure so low in comparison to my systolic pressure?
conditions such as hardening of arteries which occurs with advanced age and atherosclerosis anemia and aortic valve insufficiency can all cause low diastolic blood pressure and a wide pulse pressure. please see which of these may apply to you.
what causes someone to develop aortic valve stenosis?
bicuspid aortic valves are an anatomic variant seen in 2% of the population. they are prone to develop aortic stenosis. the more common is degenerative or senile which is seen in the elderly. the cause is likely multifactorial and may share some similarity to atherosclerosis.
what is the link between carbon monoxide poisoning and strokes?
carbon dioxide causes its toxic effects by reducing the ability of the blood to carry oxygen. in areas of the brain that are affected by poor blood flow (by atherosclerosis etc) further reducing oxygen delivery can lead to a stroke.
what are important artery clogging foods?
consuming more calories than the body needs will end up by building fat in the body and probably accelerates atherosclerosis. of course consuming fatty food like junk food or red meet diet with high sugar contents and not eating enough vegetables and fruits will also cause high cholesterol and more blockage in the arteries. diet is important factor in atherosclerosis along with other diseases.
what are degenerative heart and blood vessel diseases?
atherosclerosis of blood vessels is the major degenerative disorder.
what is an inflammed artery and is it dangerous?
atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) is a complex process. the majority of a plaque ("blockage") is made up of cholesterol and triglycerides that come packaged in ldl-cholesterol particles. although we say ldl-cholesterol there is triglyceride also. the plaque also contains many white blood cells which turn into immobile cells called foam cells. the plaque is an area of inflammation.
what is done for congestive heart failure?
since the primary cause is atherosclerosis >> coronary artery disease (even if lumens look ok on angiography) >> reduced blood flow & heart muscle damage aggressively treat the factors driving atherosclerosis [lipoproteins (not cholesterol) blood sugar bp etc. to abnormally healthy levels] remove excess body water keep bp low nl treat with acei (aceon (perindopril) 1 of best) & carvedilol exercise etc.
what is the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis?
white blood cells mostly macrophages invade into the walls of the blood vessel to remove low density lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particles. macrophages die if overwhelmed with ingested fat molecules & cannot export ingested fat into high density lipoprotein particles. elevated glucose & blood pressure even mild genetics inactivity smoking sugars not resolving emotional stress etc.
what is the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis?
disease in the media( middle layer) of the artery with accumulation of fat cholesterol into the wall causing inflammation which become chronic with special white blood cells called macrophages. sometimes become calcified and sometimes can ulcerate or rupture into arterial lumen inducing emboli or clot/ thrombosis.
what is peripheral vascular disease? can it be treated?
your arteries are normally smooth and unobstructed. over time they can become blocked (atherosclerosis - hardening of the arteries). plaque can build up in the walls of your arteries. plaque is made up of cholesterol calcium and fibrous tissue. as more plaque builds up your arteries narrow and stiffen. eventually enough plaque builds up to reduce blood flow and oxygen delivery. this is pvd.
what are the causes of cardiovascular diseases?
but the biggest is smoking. diabetes and obesity can have an affect as well. genetics plays into who will get atherosclerosis. stopping smoking is the best thing someone can do to be able to lower their health risks.
what are the major risk factors for cardiovascular disease?
high blood pressure diabetes high cholesterol smoking family history of early atherosclerosis obesity severe stress and some drug abuse like cocaine.
why exactly is smoking bad for you heart and blood vessels?
it accelerates the process of atherosclerosis or clogging the arteries plus has hypercoagulable effect ie makes ur blood thicker and more prone to develop clots. nicotine can induce spasms in the coronary arteries and periphral arteries too.
what do bruits in the abdomen indicate?
a "bruit" is noise transmitted from turbulent flow. a common cause of a bruit is atherosclerosis but a fair number of healthy people can have a benign bruit due to turbulent flow. a few tests - ultrasound ankle brachial index can establish if there is atherosclerosis. if you do have atherosclerosis medical management no smoking is key.
what causes hardening of the arteries?
hight blood pressure diabetes high cholesterol smoking family history of early atherosclerosis some hypercoagulable disease like homocystenemia vasculitis
what causes hardening of the arteries?
atherosclerosis also known as “hardening of the arteries” occurs when areas of the artery wall thicken in response to either increased modifiable (high ldl particle levels smoking or high blood pressure )and non-modifiable (genetics age gender) risk factors. over time areas of focal thickening may grow into a larger lesion called a “plaque" that can limit blood flow through the vessel.
what a bruit is and what it means.?
a "bruit" is noise transmitted from turbulent flow. the most common cause of a bruit is atherosclerosis either in the chest arteries or neck arteries. a fair number of healthy people can have a benign bruit due to turbulent flow. a few tests - carotid ultrasound ankle brachial index can establish if there is atherosclerosis. if you do have atherosclerosis medical management no smoking is key.
what's a good herbal remedy for atherosclerosis?
none.
what is an alternative medicine for atherosclerosis or arteriosclerosis?
cad is the #1 killer of men and women in the u. s. don't understand your question however medicines are only part of the treatment plan for cad as lifestyle changes are the foundation as well. talk to your physician.
what can i eat after a triple bypass?
your diet is designed to treat the atherosclerosis disease you have. this will consist of low fat low salt diet with more fish and vegetables included. also healthy lifestyle with more cardio exercise and no smoking.
what causes a person's arteries to be blocked?
in western civilization atherosclerosis is the most common reason for a blocked artery. no one knows the exact cause or process but there are known risk factors: smoking high blood pressure high cholesterol diabetes and a family history of heart attacks or strokes. reducing or modifying risk factors has been shown to lower the risk from blocked arteries.
what's carotid stenosis?
narrowing of the carotid artery mainly at its bifurcation in neck into internal and external carotid arteries. typically caused by atherosclerosis and when progress to above 50-60% can be associated with higher risk of stroke if not treated adequately.
what's carotid stenosis?
carotid artery stenosis is most often from cholesterol buildup (atherosclerosis ). more than 50% is signifcant. usually diagnosed with ultrasound. most can be treated with medications rarely a stent or surgery is needed to prevent stroke.
what is the difference between hdl (high-density lipoprotein) and ldl (low-density lipoprotein)?
ldl when found in high concentrations in the blood can enter your artery walls and initiate an inflammatory reaction that culminates in the development of atherosclerosis plaque formation in the arterial wall. hdl had many functions. if hdl is functioning well it can help to prevent atherosclerosis. one of its major functions is to remove cholesterol from the arterial wall.
what is the difference between hdl (high-density lipoprotein) and ldl (low-density lipoprotein)?
lipoproteins transport all fat molecules within the water outside cells. cholesterol is a fat molecule within all animal cell membranes. cholesterol is not lipoprotein; lipoproteins carry cholesterol molecules along with all other fat molecules. ldl particles (containing whatever fats) drive atherosclerosis if not at low concentrations. hdl particles can remove excess fat from plaque.
what are the effects and symptoms of high cholesterol levels?
asympotmatic. high cholesterol by itself does not produce any symptoms. it is a risk factor for atherosclerosis of blood vessels that can cause many diseases e. g. heart attack stroke gangrene kidney failure etc.
what is the difference between vasculitis disease and peripheral artery disease pad?
are diseases of the arteries. vasculitis refers to inflammatory diseases of the arteries also called arteritis. pad typically refers to atherosclerosis or "hardening of the arteries. ".
what is the difference between vasculitis disease and peripheral artery disease pad?
peripheral arterial disease pad is a wide range of diseases affecting vascular bed outside the coronary arteries(heart). vasculitis one of these diseases. pad most commonly affect lower extremities and is usually caused by atherosclerosis but of course it can be caused by vasculitis. vasculitis has different types affecting different arteries and organs.
what would increase a vegetarian's risk of atherosclerosis?
fresh vegetables are healthy but too many canned veggies are not healthy. processed foods do not have the fiber flavonoids and non-oxidized mono and poly unsaturated fatty acids found in fresh fruits and vegetables essential for health. eating processed vegetable derived foods like bread bagels cookies cakes pizzas pastas and sugar are "high" glycemic and must be limited. don't smoke.
what would increase a vegetarian's risk of atherosclerosis?
high calory diet especially using saturated fatty acids even in vegetarians can increase risk of atherosclerosis also family history of premature or early coronary artery diseases especially when associated with familial high cholesterol or hyperhomocysteinemia can also lead to atherosclerosis finally smoking of course.
what is coronary artery disease?
cad is atherosclerosis (known to start ~age 7) an accumulation of white blood cells in the walls of the heart arteries with artery enlargement (protects blood flow for decades) ; subsequent plaque ruptures with debris+clots downstream + local clots which narrow artery opening producing permanent muscle damage angina progressive heart muscle weakness ;? ing arrhythmias. angio;stress tests miss.
why do i have aneurysms?
for aortic aneursyms: we are not quite sure what actually causes an aaa to form in some people. the leading thought is that the aneurysm may be caused by inflammation in the aorta which may cause its wall to weaken or break down. most believe that this inflammation can be associated with atherosclerosis (also called hardening of the arteries) or risk factors for atherosclerosis - high bp smoking.
what can help lack of blood circulation in the legs?
it depends probably on your weight health physical condition and diet. good exercise can help this a lot along with weight loss. these often go hand & hand. they can also improve your health which is part genetic and part what you make of it. a healthy diet of limited fats sugars and especially salt can really help blood flow by lowering pressure and lowering risk for atherosclerosis.
what causes mesenteric arterial thrombosis?
serious often lethal condition if early diagnosis and intervention is not done most common cause is atherosclerosis slow flow state will also causes it as icu patients in shock due to various conditions.
what is an aneurism?
we are not quite sure what actually causes an aaa to form in some people. the leading thought is that the aneurysm may be caused by inflammation in the aorta which may cause its wall to weaken or break down. most believe that this inflammation can be associated with atherosclerosis (also called hardening of the arteries) or risk factors for atherosclerosis such as high blood pressure and smoking.
what body systems are affected by cornoary heart disease?
coronary arteries are the main vessels coming off the aorta supplying blood to the heart muscle. there are 3 main coronary arteries. when they have significant plaques in them (coronary atherosclerosis or coronary artery disease) people develop chest pains (angina) shortness of breath chest tightness with exertion heart attacks and various other consequences.
what can cause a blocked artery?
the main cause of arterial blockages is the condition known as atherosclerosis commonly called hardening of the arteries. the major preventable or modifiable risk factor is smoking.
what can cause a blocked artery?
cause is atherosclerosis (cholesterol build up) but dissection is another much much more rare cause.
what is cad?
<link> org/wiki/atherosclerosis probably too long to put in here!
what is atherosclerosis and what makes it dangerous to you?
atherosclerosis is hardening of the artery by accumulation and building up plaque in its wall causing narrowing and occlusion of the artery and sometimes embolization which includes sending small clots or particles downstream with the end result of blocking blood to tissues and organs causing damages and death.
what is atherosclerosis and what makes it dangerous to you?
patches of macrophages loaded with cholesterol build up on the walls of arteries and cause problems ranging from narrowing to clotting of the blood to occlusion to rupture. the epidemic peaked in 1968 but is still our leading cause of death.
what is atherosclerosis and what makes it dangerous to you?
atherosclerosis is an accumulation of white blood cells in artery walls causing enlargement without symptoms (people don’t realize) for decades until a plaque rupture (sudden) releases debris (embolization) into the blood & triggers clots which occlude the artery either locally or downstream with the end result of blocking blood to tissues/organs causing cell injury and death.
what are causes/risk factors of/for aneurysms and embolisms?
we are not quite sure what actually causes an aaa to form in some people. the leading thought is that the aneurysm may be caused by inflammation in the aorta which may cause its wall to weaken or break down. most believe that this inflammation can be associated with atherosclerosis (also called hardening of the arteries) or risk factors for atherosclerosis such as high blood pressure and smoking.
what are causes/risk factors of/for aneurysms and embolisms?
atherosclerosis- common with wall deterioration and expansion possible anywhere in aorta congenital- rare marfan syndrome syphilis rare anymore embolism arterial can be from arterial plaque ulcerated plaque platelet thrombi on plaque intravascular thrombus like in an aneurysm.
what does it mean when you have 1-15% stenosis of right and left internal carotid artery and that clinical correlation recommended?
carotid artery disease means that the carotid arteries have blockage usually in the form of atherosclerosis. this is diagnosed with a special ultrasound called a carotid duplex scan. 1-15% stenosis is the lowest range of blockage in this test and really represents an essentially normal artery. clinical correlation means to relate the findings to the individual's situation. your carotids are ok!
what's the best way to fix/help circulation in my legs?
there likely is no way to cure this once you have it but it can be managed. this usually from pvd or peripheral vascular disease form atherosclerosis. sometimes angioplasty with a balloon can fix it but if not a venous graft may be needed. apart from this diet weight loss exercise when possible . and meds to stop clotting like aspirin etc. might be used. keeping the legs warm helps too.
what's the current research and understanding in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis?
almost all atherosclerosis is due to the exact things that diabetes causes: inflammation high triglycerides and free fatty acids small dense ldl particles hypertension endothelial damage and dysfunction and many other things. this can even occur before the blood sugars become elevated so-called "pre-diabetes" or insulin resistance syndrome.
what is coronary atherosclerosis?
little spots along the coronary arteries (they "crown" the heart) develop patches of macrophages that become loaded with cholesterol and eventually scarring narrows the artery; the spot may burst or a bleed into the spot either causing sudden death. there are many fewer deaths from coronary atherosclerosis today than in the past mostly due to healthier lifestyles.
what is coronary atherosclerosis?
artery disease aka atherosclerosis is an accumulation of white blood cells mostly macrophages which have invaded into the walls of arteries to remove low density lipoprotein (fat carrying protein) particles. the macrophages may die if overwhelmed with fat molecules & cannot export the ingested fat into high density lipoprotein particles. ruptures of plaque induces clots which narrow the artery.
why aneurysm always happen to patients who is having a dialysis?
dialysis patients in general will have atherosclerosis ( not all ) as kidney failure is part of that disease so they may have higher incidence not every dialysis patient will have aneurysm.
what's the difference between arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis?
same thing.
what's the difference between arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis?
2 historically different words for the same disease process. i answered this question mostly to (a) provide a more accurate image illustrating the course of the disease process (b) why despite starting in childhood it remains asymptomatic for decades and (c) why when symptoms do occur they are typically sudden onset & bad news. thus waiting for symptoms &/or doing stress test do not work well.
what is the difference betwen atheroma atherosclerosis and coronary thrombosis?
atheromas are part of the process of atherosclerosis with may lead to coronary thrombosis in the "right" situation.
what is the difference betwen atheroma atherosclerosis and coronary thrombosis?
thrombus is medical jargon for clot. the medical jargon for clot within the opening (lumen) of a heart (coronary) artery is coronary thrombus. the implication of the phrase coronary thrombosis is that a heart artery was completely closed by a clot large enough to completely block the artery opening. this is the most common mechanism of an "st-elevation myocardial infarction. " aka heart attack.
why should i take fish oil for heart?
omega-three fish oils were popularized as possibly helping prevent/reverse atherosclerosis especially when the inuit people were noted to have relatively little coronary artery disease. the last two big studies on the inuit cast grave doubt on this politically-correct idea. the fish oils are systemic anti-inflammatories and some folks find they help with arthritis. you decide & don't spend $$$.
what is mild carotid occlusive disease. i am 32 and this is what my carotid duplex showed. ?
conventional methods recognize arterial disease only rather late after advanced enough to detect in various ways e. g. narrowing. atherosclerosis in the artery walls starts in childhood asymptomatic for decades because artery wall thickens & enlarges. narrowing late most events & narrowing due to plaque rupture & clots. primary driver lipoproteins (not cholesterol) blood sugar & bp + others.
what is mild carotid occlusive disease. i am 32 and this is what my carotid duplex showed. ?
the ultrasound tech and reader have noted thickening and abnormality. this gives you the opportunity to make some choices befor it worsens. stop smoking control lipids and cholesterol. cardiovascular exercize weight optimization check bp and check for other early atherosclerosis. the testing is very accurate in general.
what does pathogenesis of atherosclerosis mean?
amended answer only because the linked illustration did not relate to pathogenesis but to only one organ. atherosclerosis is a body wide process affecting all arteries. the most well established pathogenesis mechanism at a cellular level for over the last half-century are the lipoproteins the protein particles which transport all fat molecules within the water outside cells.
what does pathogenesis of atherosclerosis mean?
refers to the cause or mechanism.
what are killer diseases of the cardiovascular system?
the most certain answer to your question is atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) which can result in heart attacks and congestive heart failure both of which could result in death. there are also a number of inherited conditions which can result in fatal heart rhythms such as long qt syndrome hypertrophic cardiomyopathy brugada syndrome etc. ….
what are someuncommon causes for a heart transplant?
anything that causes failure of the heart to pump adequately. congenital infections viral parasitic or bacterial chagas' disease is rare alcoholism beer cardiomyopathy atherosclerosis failure or rejection of prior transplant.
what are the most common ages during which people get cardiovascular disease?
babies with congenital problems. young adults with alcohol or drug abuse over forty with atherosclerosis and hyper lipidemia and diabetes. but any age is possib! e with bad choices: smoking obesity sedentary life.
what is the treatment for carotid artery stenosis?
carotid artery disease means that the carotid arteries have blockage usually in the form of atherosclerosis. this can cause stroke. the more severe the blockage the greater the risk in the absence of neurological symptoms most cases can be handled with medicine and close periodic follow up by a vascular surgeon. however if the blockage is more than 80% surgery will reduce the risk of stroke.
what are the origins of cardiovascular disease?
atherosclerosis occurs when areas of the artery wall thicken in response to either modifiable (high ldl particle levels smoking or high blood pressure )and non-modifiable (genetics age gender) risk factors. over time areas of focal thickening may grow into a larger lesion called a “plaque" that can limit blood flow slowly or suddenly (acute lack of flow due to plaque rupture clot formation).
will food preservatives influence arteriosclerosis/atherosclerosis?
no known association but processed foods can lead to weight gain & increased risk.
what are the signs of atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is hardening of the arteries (they carry the healthy oxygenated blood to the tissues) due to calcification or buildup of stuff (cholesterol etc. ) that narrows the vessel lining. this does not mean you have pad as that is when there are symptoms due to the narrowing. atherosclerosis is a change in the structure pad is when the function changes for the worse.
what are the signs of atherosclerosis?
this is a late sign typically decades after ongoing progression due to rupture of the endothelial lining of the artery near the edge of a plaque shedding of clot-promoting-debris into the blood (often blocking end branches) and often formation of clots over the ruptured area sometimes severe enough to produce symptoms block the artery and if bad enough even be detectable on a “stress test”.
what causes a mildly ectatic aorta?
hypertension atherosclerosis or genetics. usually treating risk factors are enough along with surveilence
what are some common cardiovascular diseases?
also pad and/or atherosclerosis of all arteries. thus cardiovascular disease is whole body yet people have long focused on damage to a particular organ after obvious. atherosclerosis is known over 7 decades from autopsy data to begin later childhood age 7 typical earlier if obese or diabetic yet asymptomatic for decades. arteries enlarge not shrink. plaque rupture & clots narrow.
what happens to pressure with atherosclerosis?
generally speaking atherosclerosis hardens the arteries increasing both the systolic and diastolic number. however it is an interesting paradox that when these arteries become hard the usual blood pressure technique (with a cuff) becomes much less reliable and can frequently register abnormally high systolic (top number) pressures.
what happens to pressure with atherosclerosis?
in very advanced disease the pulse pressure the difference between the systolic (top heart contracting) and diastolic (bottom heart relaxed in between beats) pressure increases. however widened pulse pressure is a very late sign after atherosclerosis is extensive body-wide and advanced. this also occurs due to aortic valve leaks (not so common) and/or aortic-venous malformations (rare).
what is peripheral vascular disease?
atherosclerosis legs feet causing reduced blood flow risk factors include cholesterol tobacco use diabetes mellitus. symptoms are usually claudication ( cramping) with activity frequently relieved with rest if left untreated can progress to limb loss. poor healing and poor response to infection.
which three types of fats are associated with the development of cardiovascular disease?
high cholesterol and triglycerides high ldl and low hdl are all associated with risks for atherosclerosis and therefore heart attack and heart disease.
what treatment option integrates treatment for high blood pressure arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis and coronary heart?
the ldl & hdl lipoproteins (protein particles which carry all fats in the water outside cells see nmr particle test) are the primary issue along with blood glucose (optimal hba1c? 5. 0%) blood pressure (sbp? 120 mmhg) no smoking & several other issues known & not. thus best to address all issues in unisyn do not aim for normal. instead aim for excellence: absence of drivers of the disease.
what treatment option integrates treatment for high blood pressure arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis and coronary heart?
all these issues are related. a coordinated and well monitored treatment plan which controls blood pressure lowers lipids and exercise. typically bp medicine anti-platelet medicine and statin medicine.
what is the definition or description of: intestinal ischemia?
there are a multitude of causes of low (arterial) blood flow to the intestine. atherosclerosis embolism depending on the cause and severity surgery and removal of some intestine may be necessary.
what could cause atrophy of pancreas and arthersclerotic aorta. cholesteral normal.?
atrophy of the pancreas is usually caused by autoimmune destruction which may inherited or if acquired by repeated injury either from alcohol or recurrent pancreatitis from gall stones. atherosclerosis is a disease of aging but diabetes (which results from an atrophied pancreas) is a major risk factor as is smoking and high blood pressure. it also can be inherited.
what is the definition or description of: bruit?
bruit refers to a sound heard via a stethoscope of blood when it flows through a narrowed opening. as blood flows through a narrow diameter within a vessel the velocity of flow increases and also becomes more turbulent. the importance of this sound is that if your doctor hears it it can signify underlying atherosclerosis--i. e. build-up of plaque--narrowing an artery.
what are benefits of krill oil?
krill oil has omega 3 fatty acids and also antioxidants. for this reason it is thought to have possible effects against atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events such as heart attacks and strokes. no large studies have been done to show benefit however and these compounds are generally unregulated.
what is the definition or description of: carotid artery stenosis?
carotid artery stenosis means that the carotid arteries have blockage usually in the form of atherosclerosis. this can cause stroke. the more severe the blockage the greater the risk in the absence of neurological symptoms most cases can be handled with medicine and close periodic follow up by a vascular surgeon. however if the blockage is more than 80% surgery will reduce the stroke risk.
what is the name of the condition in which fatty deposits form in the inner lining of the arteries? is it atherosclerosis/arteriosclerosis or cad?
the deposits you mention are atheromas.
what is the name of the condition in which fatty deposits form in the inner lining of the arteries? is it atherosclerosis/arteriosclerosis or cad?
coronary artery disease is atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries.
what is the name of the condition in which fatty deposits form in the inner lining of the arteries? is it atherosclerosis/arteriosclerosis or cad?
arteriosclerosis is hardening of the arteries from these deposits. cad is when this occurs in the arteries that supply the heart.
what are the risk of high cholesterol and low hdl and how it be fixed?
patients with heart disease and atherosclerosis in the us today are doing it with low or normal ldl cholesterol levels. (see get with the guidelines study). these patients are overweight have low hdl and high triglycerides. patients with this type of lipid profile have increased numbers of "apob containing" lipoproteins which is what moves into the artery wall to cause atheroclerosis and plaque.
what is the function of cholesterol molecules in the plasma membrane of human erythrocytes?
many mistakenly think cholesterol is just something bad that causes atherosclerosis but cholesterol is essential for our health. it makes up 20-50% of our cell membranes where it maintains the structural integrity & fluidity of cell membranes & plays a key role in facilitating cell signaling (communication between cells). see <link>
what sort of medical tests do neurologists have to determine a stroke's cause?
there are a number of tests we perform to determine the cause of a stroke. carotid ultrasound evaluates atherosclerosis in the neck arteries echocardiography evaluates whether a clot arose in the heart ct/mr angiography can evaluate the intracranial vasculature looking for narrowing or occlusion of flow. sometimes in spite of these studies we do not find the cause. there are more invasive studies.
what does narrowing of the carotid artery mean?
carotid artery narrowing means that the carotid arteries have blockage usually in the form of atherosclerosis. in the absence of neurological symptoms most cases can be handled with medicine and close periodic follow up by a vascular surgeon. however if the blockage is more than 80% surgery will reduce the risk of stroke. in special instances carotid angioplasty and stent may be an option.
what are the leading causes of aneurysms?
atherosclerosis syphilis hypertension congenital and familial syndromes and collagen diseases marfan ehlers danlos all these entities are associated and there are theories of genetic flaws or ischemia of the wall etc.
what causes ascending aorta aneurysms?
combination of genetics and atherosclerosis. atherosclerosis results from smoking and unhealthy eating.
what causes ascending aorta aneurysms?
atherosclerosis syphilis hypertension congenital and familial syndromes and collagen diseases marfan ehlers danlos all these entities are associated and there are theories of genetic flaws or ischemia of the wall etc.
what are other reasons for an elevated blood pressure?
the ones that immediately enter my mind are: family history dietary salt intake atherosclerosis of blood vessels high steroid levels (pills or adrenal) thyroid disease sleep apnea drugs low oxygen blocked artery to kidney others. .
what is the likelihood of having a heart attack at 22?
congenital coronary anomalies are rare dissection from blood pressure is rare atherosclerosis usually is a bit later but if symptoms get checked.
would having a family history of heart attack put you more at risk than other people?
family history is one of the risk factors for atherosclerosis and for heart attack. if heart attack 'runs' in your family then you are prudent to be very careful not to smoke and to diet exercise and take care of all those risk factors that you can improve. you're stuck with your family history.
what is the difference between a stroke and a seizure?
a seizure is a sudden electrical surge in the brain usually related to brain malformation or dysplasia. seizures can also be related to tumors or metastasis in the brain. damage to brain by trauma ischemia and metabolic disorders can also result in seizure. stroke is usually from blood vessel clot or narrowing due to atherosclerosis high blood pressure and hemorrhage from aneurysm.
what does coronary atherosclerosis native mean?
plaque build up within the blood vessel supplying blood flow to the heart.
what does coronary atherosclerosis native mean?
native coronary means the arteries of that person. there are generally three major vessels. atherosclerosis is the term for plaque buildup and obstruction of the blood vessel. this is the process which leads to heart attacks.
what would be the reason why someone would need second heart bypass surgery?
after a first coronary operation control of risk factors is preventive. non smoking weight control exercize blood pressure and lipid monitoring and control either other native blood vessels or the grafts can be involved with progressive atherosclerosis.
what can i do so my cholesterol is very high if i eat a vegan diet?
if you have become a vegan to protest the cruelty of factory farming of animals i honor and admire you. if you like it great. if it's because you or somebody you want to please has read a subscientific book about no one having heart attacks in mao's china or false claims that vegetarians really live longer or have less atherosclerosis or cancer then maybe it's time to reconsider your decision.
why do i have poor circulation on my right arm.
it may be something else needs vascular and neurological evaluation arm blood pressures pulses sensation motor strength are all part of the exam there are congenital anomalies of arm arteries and aorta. atherosclerosis embolism can also cause troubles .
what can high blood pressure do?
high blood pressure damages arteries leading to atherosclerosis. this leads over many years to gradual blockage of arteries and eventually to heart attack (death of heart muscle from lack of blood) angina and stroke. high blood pressure also damages the kidneys and heart muscle and can lead to chf and kidney failure. it also increases risk of dementia. treatment is safe and effective.
what causes heart attacks that have completely normal blood pressure levels and normal cholesterol levels? what is the rate of occurence
heart attack is typically caused by a heart blood vessel blocking off. the usual disease causing this is called atherosclerosis and is related to blood pressure blood fats diabetes smoking lack of exercise stress and other factors. we treat heart attack patients for life with aspirin beta blockers ace inhibitors and other medications sometimes. we also do procedures sometimes to open vessel.
what is artherosclerotic calcifacations at the bifurcation and into the right common iliac?
you are describing very typical atherosclerosis of the distal aorta--symptoms of this (if any) typically are cramping of the thigh and buttock with walking particularly stairs.
what is artherosclerotic calcifacations at the bifurcation and into the right common iliac?
calcifications are caused by atherosclerosis aka hardening or the arteries. it is a sign that you have heart disease/vascular disease. it is common as people get older. see your regular doctor and possibly a cardiologist.
what is artherosclerotic calcifacations at the bifurcation and into the right common iliac?
plaque is developing where the aorta splits into the pelvic arteries (iliacs) due to hardening of the arteries or atherosclerosis/arteriosclerosis. same disease causes heart and neck vessel disease. not uncommon in your age group. your doctor can walk you through management. good luck.
what are the reasons that people get hypertension and what is it. also what is coronary artery disease?
high blood pressure= hypertension it can be systolic or diastolic or both. coronary artery disease is atherosclerosis with buildup of cholesterol plaque in the heart arteries.
why do people die sometimes in heart surgery?
it's exceedingly rare to die in heart surgery. when it occurs it's usually because there were complicating factors going in such as severe underlying lung disease and/or generalized atherosclerosis with previous stroke and/or overall poor health and advanced age. the malnourished or extremely obese and/or diabetic person with poor kidney function & a weak damaged heart is at increased risk.
what causes sudden heart attack?
heart attack is typically caused by a heart blood vessel blocking off. the usual disease causing this is called atherosclerosis and is related to blood pressure blood fats diabetes smoking lack of exercise stress and other factors. we treat heart attack patients for life with aspirin beta blockers ace inhibitors and other medications sometimes. we also do procedures sometimes to open vessel.
what can high blood pressure do if left untreated?
untreated hypertension can cause atherosclerosis myocardial infarct stroke blindness kidney damage heart failure the list goes on and on. if you have high blood pressure see your doctor and get treatment.
why would unsaturated fat be better than saturated fat?
polyunsaturated fats and monounsaturated fates are not converted to low density lipoproteins (ldls) as readily as saturated fats. ldls are epidemiologically strongly associated with development and progression of atherosclerosis the substrate of heart attack and stroke.
what are congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease?
atherosclerosis develops in our coronaries and can cause damage to heart. some other diseases damage heart as well! viral rheumatic infections etc when enough muscle damage has happened then heart failure poor pumping and congestion will occur- called chf congestive heart failure.
what bacteria causes atherosclerosis?
a variety of bacteria and viruses have been implicated in causing atherosclerosis since the early 1900s however there have been no confirmatory studies to date. as such it wouldn't make much sense to discuss all of these since no one is going to be treated for an atherosclerosis-causing bacteria. more importantly avoiding smoking high blood pressure and exercise should be the goals to prevent.
what are the symptoms of atherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis cannot be detected by direct symptoms. narrowing of arteries diminishes blood supply and oxygen reaching tissues and this creates symptoms relating to tissue damage or death of tissue and sometimes of the host. plaques can also break off travel thru the blood vessels and clog up some area which will die.
which type of issue that could induced hypertension causes?
consistent elevated blood pressures above 140 or 90 mmhg can lead to blood vessel damage atherosclerosis and blockages. over time high blood pressure can cause heart attacks angina strokes heart failure (chf) and kidney failure. diet (weight loss and low salt) less alcohol and more exercise can reduce bp. drug treatment is safe and effective though some people need more than one drug.
what to do if someone keeps getting stage 2 high blood pressure?
stage 2 hypertension is defined as a blood pressure above 160 systolic and/or 100 diastolic; values consistently above 140/90 will damage arteries leading to atherosclerosis and blockages. this process causes heart attack (death of heart muscle from lack of blood) angina and stroke. high blood pressure also damages the kidneys. low salt weight loss exercise and extra medications will lower bp.
what could lead to an aortic aneurysm?
it is not entirely clear exactly what causes aortic aneurysms but we know of a few risk factors probably the most significant of which is smoking. other risk factors include atherosclerosis and high blood pressure. there is also a hereditary component so these can run in families. there are also genetic syndromes such as marfans or ehlers-danlos which are associated. see a vascular surgeon.
what could lead to an aortic aneurysm?
atherosclerosis syphilis hypertension congenital and familial syndromes and collagen diseases marfan ehlers danlos all these entities are associated and there are theories of genetic flaws or ischemia of the wall etc.
what can you do to prevent a heart attack?
avoid by: good personal habits no smoking regular exercize monitor blood pressure check cholesterol and general physical features know your family history the atherosclerosis is established over time and deposits and gets to the critical stage and clots or the plaque disrupts like a trap door causing acute blockage and threatened or damaged heart muscle.
what is done if arteries start clogging again after triple bypass approx 12 weeks ago?
some clot acutely for a variety of reasons. if open and over time progressive atherosclerosis and new plaque can happen in grafted vessels other vessels or in grafts. medical therapy behavior modification and reoperation are all considerations!
which disease is a high level of circulating cholesterol associated with?
atherosclerosis.
what should i do to make calcium in the coronary arteries go lower?
we treat for atherosclerosis with diet exercise and statin drugs. there is no proven treatment for the calcified plaque.
why does atherosclerosis run in families? is it just a gene that runs through and you just naturally develop cardiovascular disease or is it because of the risk factors that run in families?
high cholesterol high blod pressure and other risks factors are genetically determined and may be responsible for early onsetnheart disease. that said may risk factors such as obesity or smoking can be modified and lower your overall risk.
why does atherosclerosis run in families? is it just a gene that runs through and you just naturally develop cardiovascular disease or is it because of the risk factors that run in families?
the more risk factors one has the more likely they are to develop atherosclerotic vascular disease whether that is in coronary arteries or other arteries in the body. family history is certainly a strong risk factor but others include high blood pressure high cholesterol (can also be hereditary) smoking and diabetes.
why does atherosclerosis run in families? is it just a gene that runs through and you just naturally develop cardiovascular disease or is it because of the risk factors that run in families?
genetic and behaviors that are common to some families. smoking overweight sedentary hypertension hypercholesterolemic hypothyroid etc.
what should a 30yo be more worried about a seizure heart attack or stroke? which is more likely to happen
seizures would be unusual at adult unless trauma tumor stroke heart and stroke have similar risk factors of atherosclerosis and personal behavior no smoking regular exercize weight control monitor cholesterol and blood pressure see simple seven at aha web site.
what should a 30yo be more worried about a seizure heart attack or stroke? which is more likely to happen
if you have had a seizure that would be the obvious choice to worry about. if you have no history of atherosclerosis or heart disease those should not be issues. you may want to check out the cause of your seizure.
what is the best supplement to help with high blood pressure and if want to keep your arteries clear?
fish oil is thought to help some with high blood pressure and it might help decrease atherosclerosis (cholesterol buildup in arteries). however these are not well proven theories. there is no supplement proven to help with blood pressure and preventing atherosclerosis. best approach would be to treat bp with meds if necessary and to take a statin medication if you have high cholesterol.
why does high blood pressure cause a heart attack?
hypertension is a major cause of atherosclerosis which may cause heart attacks.
why does high blood pressure cause a heart attack?
many people with high bp do not have heart attacks. the heart is strained and hypertrophied and in the presence of atherosclerosis may have obstruction and dissection or plaque disruption to create a heart attack.
why does high blood pressure cause atherosclerosis?
when the heart beats it moves blood through the arteries in your body. high blood pressures causes arteries throughout the body to swell and stretch more than they would normally. this stretching can injure the endothelium the lining of all arteries. injured endothelium attracts more "bad" ldl cholesterol and white blood cells. the cholesterol and cells build up causing plaque/ atherosclerosis.
what causes tia's? i have had 3. will i have more?
check out carotid artery doppler and a 2d-echo to look for atherosclerosis. tia usually means warning dign of upcoming major stroke. please get a consult from a neurologist.
what is atheroselerotic disease of aorta?
atherosclerosis literally means "hardening of the arteries" which is caused by plaques or buildup of cholesterol along with immune cells and scar tissue inside the walls of blood vessels. this can occur in any blood vessel in the body including the aorta which is the large artery that delivers blood out to the body from the heart.
what is coronary calcium score? i had a ct scan and my total coronary calcium score is 102. what does this figure mean bad good or otherwise.
the presence of calcium means hardening (atherosclerosis) of heart artery. inside the artery wall the fat inflammation and calcium form plaque. the larger the score greater the plaque burden and high risk of heart attack. 0-10 no plaque. 11-100 mild. 101-400 moderate and >400 severe plaque. 102 is mild- moderate. lipitor (atorvastatin) & plavix good. sometimes higher number but no obstruction on angiogram.
what are the symptoms of having high cholesterol?
high cholesterol by itself does not cause symptoms however high cholesterol is a risk factor for atherosclerosis and that may produce symptoms. see this site for more info. <link>
what are the symptoms of having high cholesterol?
drives atherosclerosis eventually resulting in loss of blood flow body wide including heart attacks stokes dementia erectile dysfunction etc. while the disease typically begins in later childhood no symptoms for decades because arteries enlarge not narrow. endothelial lining tears over plaque results in showing debris & clots suddenly blocking blood flow; symptomatic if severe enough.
what should i do to lower my cholesterol?
atherosclerosis typically starts ~age 7 is primarily driven by lipoproteins (the proteins which transport fat in the water outside cells) not cholesterol (made by every cell) thus optimize nmr particle test (hdl & ldl concentration not cholesterol) keep hba1c low optimal? 5. 0% sbp? 120 mmhg don’t smoke exercise avoid dietary sugars etc; study: nusi. org taubes attia lustig fatchance.
what does it mean if a 4 year old had 219mg of triglycerides?
95% of girls aged 5 to 9 have tg levels lower than 120 mg/dl and boy's levels are lower (levels for 4 year olds are not as well-established). it's not clear at this age if isolated high tgs (with otherwise normal cholesterol) reflect a major risk factor for atherosclerosis although risk of pancreatitis may be a concern. healthy diet & regular exercise along with follow-up will be important.
why do my fingers fall asleep sometimes especially at night? is it because of bad circulation?
it's because you're compressing a nerve - it has nothing to do with circulation. your hands have a dual and rich vascular supply and are relatively immune to atherosclerosis.
what effect do statins have on cardiovascular disease?
lowering. particularly ldl which can slow progression of atherosclerosis reduce heart attack & stroke risk in those with atherosclerosis and some anti inflammatory effects which helps "stabilize" existing plaques.
would a cta scan of chest show coronary artery aneurysms?
coronary aneurysm do not rupture (in adults) like aneurysms of the aorta. when present they have no more significance than garden variety atherosclerosis and are treated the same. they most often arise from atherosclerosis. in infants they may result as a complication of kawasaki disease and can become large and even rupture.
what treatment for alherosclerosis?
atherosclerosis is a silent system wide problem driven by genetics diet and behavior. a lipid profile should be examined blood pressures checked diet and exercise evaluated and stop smoking! . . evaluation and guidance by your pcp can help slow progression down .
what food cleans the? arteries?
atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. is a progressive disease. currently there are no medical therapies which reverse the artery plaques.
will cardiac stress test and heart ultra sound show if i had atherosclerosis? does homocysteine play any part with it?
if the ultrasound shows evidence of vascular calcification that is diagnostic of atherosclerosis. a positive stress test suggests the presence of atherosclerosis. homocysteine is only loosely connected to atherosclerosis. if you are worried become a vegetarian.
will cardiac stress test and heart ultra sound show if i had atherosclerosis? does homocysteine play any part with it?
both stress tests and echo will suggest the possibility of heart disease but an angiogram will be diagnostic.
what reasons would a person not be able to have bypass surgery perform on 3 arteries blocked over 90%? patient is 36 6'1" 200 lbs.
diffuse distal atherosclerosis and no place to do the hookup. other would be some life risk or expected short life expectancy. most can be bypassed. seek thoracic surgical opinion if not done already. at 36 and not huge would seem to be worth doing.
what is the symtoms for heart attacks or strokes before they happen? for women?
both heart attacks and stroke are caused by diseased arteries affected by a process called atherosclerosis. this is caused by high cholesterol high blood pressure and smoking. so you can prevent these attacks by knowing about them and getting checked and treated for hbp high cholesterol and not smoking. then you would not have to worry about their symptoms which occur too late.
what does intimal thickening of the carotid artery mean when thrre is no blockage?
blockages in the carotid artery of a certain severity may increase one's risk of stroke. for those carotid arteries without a blockage some physicians measure the intima (the inner-most lining of the artery) and derive a value called the imt or intimal-medial thickness. it's supposed to help us determine severity of atherosclerosis but this is somewhat controversial.
what should i notice to care a heart attach patients?
attacks&help heal by aggressively changing major drivers: atherosclerosis ? ed blood glucose (before diabetes) blood pressure & anger. major drivers atherosclerosis (typically asymptomatic for decades): dyslipoproteinemia=proteins which transport all fat molecules in water outside cells (healthy = lowdensitylipoproteins? & large-highdensitylipoproteins? <link> & above issues.
wha is a aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is a decrease in the size of the area of the aortic valve. this can be congenital (born with it) infectious acquired (due to atherosclerosis). treatment is medical (if possible) interventional or surgical.
what has happened to the heart of someone who's diagnosed with bad peripheral arteriosclerosis?
without specifically evaluating the heart it is hard to say but chances are that if there is atherosclerosis in the peripheral arteries there is some in the heart as well because atherosclerosis is a systemic disease.
when i lie down to sleep at night i hear gushing sounds in my left ear in tune with my heartbeat. could there be some serious aortic atherosclerosis?
no this is your normal blood flow flowing through your blood vessels located near your ear. rest easy.
what are two factors that lead to development of atherosclerosis?
smoking and hypertension are 2 big ones but let's not forget high cholesterol diabetes age and family history (you can't do anything about the last 3).
what is the condition where the heart muscle have become clogged with fatty substances?
there is a lipoid infiltration of the heart muscle that is rare but you probably refer to arteriosclerosis or atherosclerosis which are diseases associated with fatty infiltration of blood vessels including the heart's blood vessels.
what scientific proof is there that saturated-fat causes atherosclerosis?
read this: <link>
was diagnosed to have atherosclerosis but ct angio results were mixd plaque w/o stenosis & right dominant circulation. i am worried please explain.
if you have documented plaque you have atherosclerosis more specifically coronary artery disease. it is good that there is not yet a blockage. aggressive risk factor management including heart healthy diet exercise smoking cessation and lipid management will help stabilize the plaque and prevent events.
was diagnosed to have atherosclerosis but ct angio results were mixd plaque w/o stenosis & right dominant circulation. i am worried please explain.
coronary artery disease ; no flow limiting blockages but you need maximal lifestyle ; medication management as you are at higher risk given your young age.
why do i get dizzy when smoking cigarettes? i've been smoking a long time and this just started! i've even passed out from it.
toxic chemicals in cigarette smoke can clog arteries (atherosclerosis). nicotine can further narrow the arteries by causing muscle around the arteries to go in to spasm. if it affects the arteries supplying blood to the brain one can experience these symptoms. stop smoking and seek medical help.
what's a good bc pill for both endometriosis treatment & atherosclerosis prevention?
if you have two unrelated problems you may need to different kind of treatment/ medicines.
what happens if your cardiologist told you both of your carotid arteries were blocked?
depends on the degree of blockage. in most cases it is just an indicator that a patient needs treatment for generalized atherosclerosis. in occasional cases it increases the risk for stroke and needs to be treated. see a vascular surgeon for a good opinion.
why is smoking bad for heart?
nicotine which is in cigarettes is a strong vasoconstrictor so the arteries get "clamped down" which reduces blood flow and increases the chance of atherosclerosis to build up and cause permanent reduction of blood flow. reduced blood flow can lead to no blood flow which causes a heart attack.
what are differences between atherosclerosis and thrombosis? atheroma and arteriosclerosis? thrombosis and embolism? thank
atherosclerosis is the gradual build up of cholesterol and plaque in a blood vessel. thrombosis is the often acute development of a blood clot as with an mi; embolism is when a blood clot travels as in from the leg veins to the lung. atheroma is a "clump" of plaque often with macrophages and lipids that occurs in arteriosclerosis. atherosclerosis is also one of the types of arteriosclerosis.
what are the differences between ischaemia and infarction in terms of definition cause and clinical example?
ischemia is decreased oxygenated blood flow and infarction is the death of that tissue. atherosclerosis inflammation and clots can obstruct blood flow and lead to heart attacks and strokes. one hopes to prevent both with exercise and mediteranian diet and weight loss.
what are the differences between ischaemia and infarction in terms of definition cause and clinical example?
heart pain of ischemia is angina and is reversible. heart pain of infarction is a heart attack and dead muscle. both are caused by atherosclerosis commonly and low oxygen to the tissue. similar with brain tia and stroke.
what tests are used to see if my carotid artery is clogged?
the best test is a carotid ultrasound scan (or mri / mra - but the ultrasound test is much cheaper). if you do have some blockage present then get a lipid panel (cholesterol test) to see if you need to take a cholesterol med. and eat a healthy diet. you hopefully will not have sig blockages at your age. you'll probably just have a slight atherosclerosis build-up - like most 53 year olds
what does the current literature say about saturated fats? is there evidence that consumption of saturated fats causes heart disease/atherosclerosis?
one succinct summary (uptodate) of the current literature (as of oct 2014): 1. saturated (animal) and monounsaturated fats have unknown effects on heart disease. 2. trans fats (particularly high in hydrogenated vegetable oils/solid margarine) contribute to heart disease. 3. omega-3 and possibly omega-6 polyunsaturated fats protect against heart disease. (canola&olive oil nuts/seeds)
what does the current literature say about saturated fats? is there evidence that consumption of saturated fats causes heart disease/atherosclerosis?
a recent meta-analysis of scientific data suggested that saturated fats may not be associated with heart disease. nutritionists call these findings flawed. a central issue is what replaces saturated fat if someone reduces the amount of saturated fat in their diet. if it is replaced with refined starch or sugar then the risk in unchanged. if you use unsaturated fats then your risk is reduced.
what cause angina to affect the system and how it affect the system?
is generated through demand supply mismatch due to narrowed/ diseased coronaries heart arteries. atherosclerosis is the most common cause.
what is an aneurysm? can it be caused by a chest injury?
abnormal enlargement of artery weakening of artery wall and eventual rupture. usually caused by atherosclerosis and degenerative changes penetrating injury can cause a false aneurysm due to a sidewall injury that partially heals then enlarges and ruptures. both need surgical repair
what are the differences between thrombus thrombosis and atherosclerosis?
thrombus is a clot; thrombosis is the process of forming a thrombus; atherosclerosis is the disease characterized by inflammation in the vessels associated with lipid filled material in the walls of the vessel calcification of the vessels may also be present.
what is the risk of a diet high in cholesterol?
a cholesterol-rich diet and according to some a diet rich in saturated fats is a minor risk factor toward atherosclerosis (heart attack sudden death stroke). it's nothing compared to heredity smoking lack of exercise hypertension or diabetes. if you're staying fit and taking meds to manage health problems i would not tolerate anyone criticizing your food choices. life's to be enjoyed.
what does high blood pressure do to your arteries?
high blood pressure can damage the cells of your arteries' inner lining. that launches a cascade of events that make artery walls thick and stiff a disease called arteriosclerosis. fats from your diet enter your bloodstream pass through the damaged cells and collect to start atherosclerosis. these changes can block blood flow.
what is atherosclerosis?
buildup of plaque and cholesterol deposits etc. in the arteries--- "hardening of the arteries". risk factors--- smoking family history high cholesterol high blood pressure age
will a coronary cta with calcium score show if i have pad?
calcium score of the coronary arteries indicates some degree of atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. the cta does not specifically look at the rest of the body i. e. legs neck etc. however atherosclerosis is usually a systemic disease such that if there is cad there is likely some degree of peripheral arterial disease (pad) also.
what are the differences between arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis?
generally these are two terms for the same phenomenon build up of cholesterol and plaque in the arteries of the body. this is made worse by high cholesterol and smoking can run in families and is also more common in diabetics and patients with hypertension exercise good diet no smoking and control of blood pressure and diabetes are the keys to treatments
why are low-density lipoproteins (ldl) considered unhealthy?
ldl is a particle that carries cholesterol in the blood. increased numbers of circulating ldl particles drive their entry into the walls of arteries where they promote and accelerate atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) and subsequently increase risk for heart attack stroke and premature death. lowering ldl can reduce this risk.
who most commonly gets atherosclerosis (sex ethnicity age etc)?
atherosclerosis increases with age >in males. > 60 in females. it can run un families it is made worse. by. smoking and is. more commonin diabetics. it occurs in all ethnicities but in different areas of. the body. by race women develop the disease on average a decade later than. men but overall atba similar rate
what is the most common type of heart disease seen in the u. s.?
atherosclerosis. development of plaque
should i eat bacon and eggs every day?
not if you want to be healthy for a long time. for most people a diet high in saturated animal fat increases the lifetime risk of atherosclerosis (heart attack stroke etc. ). in addition cured meats (like bacon ham sausage hot dogs etc. ) have been shown to increase lifetime risk of colon cancer.
why is it unhealthy to eat foods that increase cholesterol in the blood?
elevated cholesterol levels are one of many risk factors for atherosclerosis. this is cholesterol deposits in your arteries which reduces blood flow to the affected organ. this can increase your risk of heart attack stroke renal failure peripheral vascular disease and renal failure.
so what of what we eat actually clogs your arteries?
consuming more calories than the body needs will end up by building fat in the body and probably accelerates atherosclerosis. of course consuming fatty food like junk food or red meet diet with high sugar contents and not eating enough vegetables and fruits will also cause high cholesterol and more blockage in the arteries. diet is important factor in atherosclerosis along with other diseases.
shuld i take baby aspirin if my ldl is 150?
ldl refers to lipoproteins protein particles which transport all fats in the water outside cells & are the primary driver of atherosclerosis. ldl always in nmol/l best <700. 150 is a cholesterol value. cholesterol is a fat not ldl not best test promoted because cheaper. atherosclerosis after decades of asymptomatic artery enlargement leads to plaque ruptures & clots; asa slows clotting.
what is the difference between atherosclerosis and ischemia?
atherosclerosis is a process where plaque builds up in arteries due to a variety of factors. when the plaque build up is extensive enough it can restrict blood flow and cause ischemia. ischemia which occurs when blood flow is not sufficient to meet the need for blood may result from extensive atherosclerosis. however it is important to note that atherosclerosis usually does not result in ischemia
what is the difference between atherosclerosis and peripheral vascular disease?
atherosclerosis is the deposit of fat inside the lumen of an artery. if the blockages are severe enough and that happens in the heart can lead to heart attack if in the brain: strokes and if in the arteries going to or of the legs: pvd
what is the difference between arteriosclerosis and calcification?
read this: <link> mayoclinic. org/diseases-conditions/arteriosclerosis-atherosclerosis/basics/definition/con-20026972 calcification is a generic term for the deposition of calcium in body tissues.
can it take many years for high blood pressure to cause heart attack?
high blood pressure along with high cholesterol smoking diabetes family history all contribute to the development of atherosclerosis. it is the rupture of these plaques in coronary arteries that causes heart attacks. it takes years to develop significant atherosclerotic plaques.
should i avoid drinking alcohol if i have high cholesterol and borderline blood sugar?
alcohol is partially oxidized sugar. best way to check glucose is hba1c (reflects av. glucose last 2-3 mo. ) & optimal is? 5. 0%. cholesterol (a fat made by every one of our cells) not the correct issue. however lowering cholesterol production with statins (as a way to lower ldl particle concentrations) has lowered cvds & mortality rates in all human trials to date & atherosclerosis begins ~age 7yr.
what are the signs and symptoms of atherosclerosis?
it depends on the artery distribution. if arteries to the heart are affected patients can have chest pain or a heart attack. arteries to the brain may or may not have symptoms but mini strokes and full strokes can occur. build up in arteries to the legs lead to problems with walking and wound development.
