if i get stuck due to flooding is it better to cut my pills in half or take them as usual and run the risk of running out completely?
if the medication is for a life-threatening condition (very high blood pressure glaucoma insulin-dependent diabetes atrial fibrillation epilepsy etc) you may not have the option to reduce the dose without getting into trouble. if it is for something which is mostly a quality of life issue you may space the pill out or cut it into halves regardless of the formulations given no other options.
is it true that overweight person is more likely to get irregular heartbeats?
being extremely overweight has been identified in some studies as a risk factor for the development of abnormal heart rhythms like atrial fibrillation. however more important to cardiovasvular health seems not to be total mass often measured as body mass index (bmi) but fat distribution. those with a lot of belly fat or visceral adipose tissue (vat) are at higher risk based on the amount of vat.
it looks like i might have hyperthyroid how big of a deal is this really? apart from pms like symptoms and major weight loss what is so bad about it?
bad news about uncontrolled hyperthyroidism include atrial fibrillation (which increases risk of stroke) and osteoporosis (which increases risk of fracture). that ignores the tremors anxiety and palpitations. check out mayo clinic's take on hyperthyroidism <link>
i have recently been diagnosed with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation i take 120mg verapamil per day. how safe is it for me to continue weight training?
there is mounting data showing that athletes who generate a lot of upper body strain (ie rowers weight lifters) have an increased incidence of a fib felt to be due to back pressure on the heart during straining that ultimately stretches out the top chambers which is where atrial fibrillation comes from. as you continue weight lifting be aware that your paroxysmal afib may become persistent.
when i was diagnosed with sleep apnea the doctor said my blood oxygen level was normal. do i actually need a cpap?
normal oxygen does not mean that your oxygen saturation did not drop. if you have symptoms of sleep apnea like daytime somnolence problems concentrating or with memory or irritability or if you have high blood pressure stroke/tia coronary artery disease atrial fibrillation you have to be treated. also moderate and severe osa have to be treated even w/o anything of the above.
what side effects can i produce if i take thyroid hormones to lose weight?
the amount of thyroid hormone that would need to be taken to induce a significant weight loss can predispose to type of heartbeat irregularity called atrial fibrillation which can lead to a stroke. it can also cause osteoporosis which increases the risk of fractures.
who can have sleep apnea?
anybody but most commonly overweight persons with short and wide neck and with narrow upper airway. if you snore are sleepy have diabetes high blood pressure previous strokes coronary artery disease or atrial fibrillation you should be checked.
what happens if a person drinks daily with weekend binges and is on heart medicine?
there are many abnormalities of the hearts electrical system that may cause a rapid heart beats. occasionally alcohol triggers them. binge drinking can cause atrial fibrillation. we call it holiday heart.
i heard that if you have sleep apnea you will more than likely have a seizure? or a stroke if not treated i have had several seizures and one stroke.
obstructive sleep apnea often leads to increased blood pressure and is a risk factor for stroke. people who have had a stroke are also at risk of developing sleep apnea. the major risk factors for stroke remain to be smoking high blood pressure diabetes mellitus atherosclerosis and atrial fibrillation.
i am 39 with controlled high blood pressure but obese and i also have anti vel antigen blood type. i am 5 weeks pregnant. is this a dangerous pregnan?
simply given your age (>35) obesity atrial fibrillation & high blood pressure requiring medication you are considered "high risk. " both your medications are teratogen class c drugs i. e. the fda has no evidence that they are safe during organogenesis. the anti-vel alloantibody does complicate things further for both you and the gestation. consider addressing this with both an ob & internist.
if sleep apnea can cause arrythmias can eliminating it stop the arrythmias?
untreated obstructive sleep apnea increases the risk of arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation. the stress of the irregular breathing and hypoxia (low oxygen) can induce and arrhythmia. therefore treating the sleep apnea can improve severity or eliminate it completely.
my heart start pounding irregularly mainly when i lay flat in bed and sometimes when i just sit could this be somthing bad. i am 27 on overweight.?
you should have a heart monitor to find out what type of heart rhythm you are actually having when you feel the irregularity. if you have something called atrial fibrillation it is important to get appropriate treatment. please see your doctor about this.
my mom has diabetes type ii. can be ereditary? and my father past away because of heart problems(fibrillation) and hight pressure. this is ereditary?
both dm2 and htn can be hereditary. atrial fibrillation as a complication of hypertensive cardiovascular disease may not be hereditary. my advice control all the risk factors you can control. weight good diet avoid smoking and excess alcohol and exercise. stay away from stress and keep a good outlook in life. happiness is a situational status joy is you in control of your life. good luck.
would adding a diet pill harm me with the meds i'm already on as i had a hysto last year and since then can't lose the weight i gained? i have fibro.
it really depends on what other medications you take. your profile indicates you take xanax (alprazolam) and have a history of heart failure and atrial fibrillation. some of the more common medications and herbals used as 'diet pills" may worsen anxiety and increase heart rate. i think you should consult your cardiologist before adding any "diet pills".
sometimes my pulse goes up to 210 when i run. i exercise 6 hours every week and i am not overweight. my max pulse is currently 183.
at 44 yo maximum heart rate is estimated at 176. if heart rate goes significantly higher than that (190 +) there may be other rhythms occuring including atrial fibrillation svt or ventricular arrhythmias. the only way to tell these apart is with a monitor (holter or event recorder) the higher detected heart rate may be due to artifact in the counting too.
help please! is diet coke bad for you?
diet coke has no nutritional value. it is sweetened with an artificial sweetener and uses artificial coloring. it makes you think that you can eat something fattening to balance out your "diet" choice. it contains caffeine which can be a problem for some people with atrial fibrillation. it is not a healthy drink and only slightly better than regular coke.
can i have a gastric sleeve surgry with disrythmia?
generally speaking yes. whether it is atrial fibrillation atrial flutter etc. even if you are on coumadin (warfarin) you can usually undergo a weight loss operation. you would need to have a full cardiac workup and clearance from your cardiologist but after that there shouldn't be any barriers to having surgery.
can you have gastric bypass if you have atrial fribulation?
the presence of atrial fibrillation is not a contraindication for gastric bypass surgery but you will need a full cardiac and pulmonary evaluation before surgery will be scheduled.
can you let me know how many health problems sleep apnea could lead to?
pulmonary as well as weight gain and the results of weight gain leading to increase rates of diabetes and athritis on th eweight bearing joints. most worrisome is the increased rate of cardiac rhythym disturbance particularly atrial fibrillation.
are this many complications common after open heart surgery? my dad 69 years old--overweight but no other health problems other than heart. 11 days ago had triple bypass aortic valve replacement and block for afib. two hours after surgery needed anot
i am so sorry that your dad and your family are having to go through this. as you know that is an extremely major surgery. triple bypass with aortic valve replacement and procedure for atrial fibrillation is extremely extensive surgery. factors that can affect the surgery and outcome include the condition of the patient prior to surgery age kidney function prior to surgery and the condition of the heart prior to surgery. keep an open line of communication with the doctor and nursing staff so that your family's questions can be answered to your satisfaction. i wish the best for your father.
can you take cla if you have a fib controlled with metoprolol?
conjugated linoleic acid is a dietary supplement and has neither been studied in patients with atrial fibrillation nor is it regulated by the fda.
could a caffeine induced day long heart arrhythmia be the cause of a stroke added to having very high colesteron and being overwight?
sometimes it is hard to know what the cause of a stroke was. but a day long arrhythmmia at least if it was atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter could be a cause of stroke. high cholesterol could increase the risk of stroke. being overweight may affect the risk of stroke at least indirectly. for people with elevated cholesterol there may be atherosclerosis this is a common cause of stroke
could a caffeine induced day long heart arrhythmia be the cause of a stroke added to having very high colesteron and being overwight?
there are many loose ends in your question. unusual for caffeine to actually cause serious heart arrhythmia but if so typical arrhythmia would be frequent premature ventricular beats which usually don't contribute to stroke. if arrhythmia was atrial fibrillation or flutter then a clot in the heart could have formed leading to stroke. focus now on controlling all risks: cholesterol weight etc.
can a-fib be caused by sleep apnea or laying on left side had 3 occasions were a-fib started by simply laying on left side? if so why?
untreated obstructive sleep apnea increases the risk of arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation. the stress of the irregular breathing and hypoxia (low oxygen) can induce and arrhythmia. therefore treating the sleep apnea can improve severity or eliminate it completely.
can sleep apnea cause tachycardia up to 180 bpm?
yes it can cause svt (supraventricular tachycardia) and atrial fibrillation - either can easily be at a a rate of 180 or even faster.
does afib cause slow heartrate. if not what can? im not a athlete but i eat healthy & stay off the couch! can being healthy cause low heartrate of 51
atrial fibrillation can be slow or fast. the only way to know is ekg or monitor. some people have slow heart rates and have no issues. if fainting chest pain shortness of breath dizziness advice you to seek urgent care or emergency room visit for consultation. good luck
what are some of the tests for atrial fibrillation?
electrocardiogram basic metabolic panel cardiac enzymes thyroid blood tests xray of chest transesophageal echocardiogram stress test echocardiogram.
what are some of the risk factors for getting atrial fibrillation?
diabetes congestive heart failure valvular heart diseases coronary artery disease alcohol intoxication obesity abnormal heart rhythms high blood pressure overactive thyroid.
what is the safest anticoagulant to be used in 72 yr patient with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and hypertension?
your doctor needs to evaluate the situation and pick an agent that is the best for the individual situation. there are many factors to be considered and a one size fits all recommendation is not in general appropriate.
please explain how a pacemaker does/does not control atrial fib. also other than heart cath how can plaque be detected? thanks these questions are in regards to my father's health. he has a pacemaker to control low heart rate but pacemaker output has
a pacemaker can keep the heart rate from getting too slow. it doesn't prevent or treat atrial fibrillation. plaque in vessels can be seen on xray ct ultrasound and mri there are lots of ways to detect plaque and atherosclerosis.
what kind of arrhythmia could i have with a hr of 68 bpm and a normal heart structure? i feel shortness of breath and fatigued.
if you have arrhythmia with that heart rate you maybe having atrial fibrillation or frequent extra beats such as pvcs and pacs.
what is the success rate for the "firm" procedure for atrial fibrillation and are there any additional risks having it done over a normal ablation
stages; study <link> gov/ct2/show/nct02101541. while ablation (killing heart muscle) continues being promoted & performed success rates at 1 yr generally only ~10% in younger people in nominal excellent health (except for early onset a. fib. ) since a. fib is a form of chf rec: focus on the setup issues: optimize lipoproteins (no chol. ) hba1c
what can cause sleep induced tachycardia nightly?
sleep apnea is linked to atrial fibrillation or other tachycardias & may be more likely to occur at night. in some cases the supine or prone position of your body may lead to irritation of the heart that sparks an abnormally fast heart rhythm. always consider medications that could be wearing off or stimulating the heart at night. see your doctor for a thorough history and physical exam.
hspitalzd for afib hours after wisdom tooth removal. no prior heart issue history and only 25. possible nitrous oxide used during surgery contributed?
the cause of your arrhythmia is most likely a structural abnormality that you were born with. i could not find any links between nitrous oxide and atrial fibrillation in a quick literature search. although the physiologic stress of sedation and the procedure could have tip you over the edge to trigger the atrial fibrillation.
what medicine is good for atrial fibrillation and a slow heart beat?
upon what else is going on - what is your blood pressure how slow is the pulse does it ever go fast; do you have heart failure or sleep apnea. if your heart goes so slow it bothers you and there is nothing correctable the only solution is a pacemaker.
will atrial fibrillation have other symptoms other then fluttering? will your heart rate always be over 100 after a palpitation?
read this: <link>
what are the risks of atrial fibrillation?
afib is a rapid irregular heart rhythm which can decrease heart efficiency as much as 20% in some patients. it can also be associated with clotting and clots travelling around the body to cause stroke or other problems. some people have atrial fibrillation as their normal rhythm. talk to your dr. about it if you have it.
what are the risks of atrial fibrillation?
some are: ypertension alcohol older age sleep apnea diabetes mellitus hyperthyroidism valvular heart disease heart failure conditions leading to chronic lung disease with pulmonary hypertension inflammatory conidtions acute illness especially postoperative state and infections (although the latter ones are more of triggers than causes).
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
atrial fib has increased risk secondary to irreg. firing of atria and valves causing damage to blood cells. in flutter there is a more regular rate and atrial contractile function offers some protection but there is still a slightly increased risk. in chronic flutter coagulation is necessary given the risk of stroke is the same as atrial fib. pts with chronic flutter often have a fib as well.
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
atrial fibrillation is completely uncoordinated electrical activity in the atria. this leads to virtually no atrial contraction. blood stagnates and you get clots. flutter is an electrical circuit so there is some contraction. several studies have shown less embolic events with flutter but it is still possible. hope this helps!
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
blood pools in the left atrial appendage (auricle) because the atrium does not contract. with flutter the atrium contracts (and empties) static blood tends to clot.
my mom gets cardiac arrhythmia so am i likely to get it later?
depending on how old she was when she first had her arrhythmia and what kind your risk varies. some arrhytmias (atrial fibrillation) have less heritability risk; others (ventricular arrhythmias) have a higher risk.
my mom gets cardiac arrhythmia so am i likely to get it later?
there are some genetics involved in some arrhythmias (e. g. wpw atrial fibrillation) but most people would agree that the arrhythmias in general are not inherited. it also depends on the kind of arrhythmia she has.
what to do if i have afib. can i exercise on a exercise bike?
atrial fibrillation in an otherwise normal heart would not rule out bicycle exercise. you should ask your doctor what if any exercise you should be doing. there are many causes for atrial fibrillation and some would restrict exercise.
have drooping eyelids what are the chance it is due to myasthenia gravis will that effect\ my afib or essential tremor if blood test is positive?
one of the signs of myasthenia gravis is fatigability. that is improvement of symptoms with resting and worsening of with exercise or continuous use of the involved muscles. droopy eyelids vs true ptosis is hard to sort out. medications like beta blocker used to control heart rate in atrial fibrillation and essential tremors may aggravate or exacerbate the symptoms if myasthenia gravis. see md.
what can be a cause for irregular heart beat?
ectopic beats (pac's and pvc's) can produce irregular rhythms. multiple distinct ectopic atrial foci can produce an irregularly irregular rhythm (wandering atrial pacemaker versus multifocal atrial tachycardia). the extreme of an infinite number of reentrant atrial conduction loops all with different timing can lead to atrial fibrillation.
what causes a very brief period of time that i get dizzy and short of breath and pulse goes up to about 140 just sitting there doing nothing?
you may be describing atrial fibrillation or a non-specific paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. regardless you need to be evaluated sooner than later especially if you get dizzy & short of breath. do not delay and then pass out!
how can someone stop atrial fibrillation?
new onset atrial fibrillation is often self limited going away by itself. but the cause dictates the subsequent course. thus treating things like high blood pressure heart valve disease heart failure over active thyroid hormones coronary disease and avoiding alcohol may be important. some drugs are useful to maintain rate and rhythm. if needed electric shock (cardioversion) is effective.
how can someone stop atrial fibrillation?
a fib will be more likely in setting of excessive stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system. alcohol use results in hyperstimulation of sympathetic nerves with adrenalin during the process of alcohol metabolism. other factors--pain/fever/breathing problems/sleep apnea can stimulate a fib episodes too.
how can someone stop atrial fibrillation?
if it's new it's usually self-limiting. if it doesn't stop on it's own there's nothing you can do but your doctor can give you medication that will convert your rhythm and if that fails it can be electrically converted while you're anesthetized. note that if you have certain risk factors you should have your blood thinned prior to any attempt to convert the rhythm.
what do the experts think should my physical fatigue go away after the av node ablation procedure with pacemaker?
you probably have atrial fibrillation with rapid conduction down the av node which can lead to symptoms
what's the difference between afib palpitations and rapid heart rate?
a. fib is teh short form for atrial fibrillation which is a term used for irregular heart beat. palpitations is actually a symptom not a disease. the symptom that is felt in teh chest when you have a fast or irregular heart beat is called palpitations. rapid heart rate is when your heart beats fast. normal heart rate is between 60-100 beats/min. anything faster than that would be a rapid heart ra.
which drugs are mostly recomended to start therapy for patients with atrial fibrillation. is quinidine a good chioce?
quinidine is only rarely used any more. we older doctors learned years ago that we killed some folks with it. there are more recent and safer drugs that we use now. talk to your doctor to discuss if you have afib a cloud doctor shouldn't be advising you without knowing your situation.
in which case we can found a regular atrial fibrillation?
i am sorry but i do not understand what you are asking. atrial fibrillation is never normal. the rate can be controlled with medicine if it is present all the time. some people have atrial fib at times but not at others and sometimes the atrial fib. can be converted to a normal rhythm with treatment. please ask your question again with a clearer question that we may be able to answer better.
what are the uses of metoprolol?
metoprolol is a beta blocker class of medicine and used for a wide variety of condtions. here's just a few 1 : high blood pressure 2: congestive heart failure (reduces progression of disease) 3: suppress abnormal rhythms (eg. atrial fibrillation 4: prevent heart attacks. there's more! seeing how many indications there are bet a blockers are quite important in managing cardio vascular disease.
what are the uses of metoprolol?
metoprolol lowers blood pressure by lowering heart rate. by doing so it reduces adverse vascular events like heart attack and stroke. it is also used in heart failure to prevent worsening of the heart muscle. it can also be used to control heart rate in patients who have abnormal heart rhythms such as atrial fibrillation.
what sort of problem is an atrial flutter?
atrial fluter less common than atrial fibrillation and is often a indcator of future atrial fibrillation onset. you may not notice them or you may feel a flutering in your chest. atrial flutter can be caused by scarring in the heart resulting from prior cardiac disease or heart surgery but it can also occur in some patients with no other identifiable heart problems.
what are the most likely causes for a new onset of low platelet count in a elderly man who takes meds for atrial fibrillation gerd and depression?
there are so many possibilities that it's best to consult a physician. any answer you receive on this site may be misleading since the responder won't have the patient's entire history to put into context. i hope this answer helps.
what are the most likely causes for a new onset of low platelet count in a elderly man who takes meds for atrial fibrillation gerd and depression?
it could be simple causes such medications immune related platelet destruction (itp) or more complicated issues like bone marrow problems such as myelodysplasia.
what are the inclusive characteristics of atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is a condition where the atria of the heart no longer have an organized electrical activity and hence do no longer fulfill their pumping function properly. the typical ecg finding is for an irregularly irregular rhythm with absence of p-waves.
what are the inclusive characteristics of atrial fibrillation?
instead of the top chambers (atria) of heart beating 70-80 times a minute they fibrillate or quiver at 1000 (red) times a minute not all impulses are conducted down because of the av node a gate keeper. this can be seen on an ekg the p waves are replaced with fibrillation waves. blood clots can form inside the heart when the atria are fibrillating these can travel to the brain causing strokes.
which symptoms are associated with atrial fibrillation and flutter?
afib can cuase a variety of symptoms. palpatations or the feeling of the heart racing is common. pts may notice this at rest or with exercise. shortness of breathe also. if heart rate really fast may get dizzy. in extreme cases can get heart failure. pts without adequate blood thinning can have a stroke with afib also.
which symptoms are associated with atrial fibrillation and flutter?
palpitations shortness of breath lightheadedness are all common symptoms with either atrial fibrillation or flutter. other symptoms may be fatigue fast or irregular pulse leg swelling syncope or chest pain.
will stress cause atrial fibrillation?
stress alone usually doesn't cause the arrhythmia unless there is some underlying predisposition. having said that someone with the predisposition can have recurrences especially with acute stress. you should make every effort to manage with stress-reducing techniques.
will stress cause atrial fibrillation?
it can but usually the heart has to have other problems for stress to precipitate this.
what is cardiac arrhythmia? is cardiac arrhythmia partly caused by water intoxication?
the normal heartbeat is from the sinus located in the top of the heart and is called normal sinus rhythm. an arrhythmia is anything other than sinus rhythm - supraventricular tachycardia (svt) atrial fibrillation atrial flutter ventricular tachycardia are all cardiac arrhythmias. they can cause fainting and worse up to and including death. water intoxication does not cause them. alcohol can.
what causes atrial fibrillation? is stress the main cause of atrial fibrillation and is it genetic?
the main cause in ~90% of cases from young persons like you is extra heartbeats starting in structures called the pulmonary veins. sometimes that's all it is; more often than not though the top chambers (atria) also have dilation and scar tissue which helps sustain the fib once it starts. only a small portion of afib is clearly known to be genetic. stress triggers extra htbeats -? -> fib.
what causes atrial fibrillation? is stress the main cause of atrial fibrillation and is it genetic?
the main causes of af are: hypertension alcohol excess rheumatic heart disease with mitral stenosis mitral valve prolapse with regurgitation coronary artery disease aging hypertrophic cardiomyopathy lung disease thyroid hormone excess idiopathic (no identifiable cause) and rare causes. it can run in families but is not predictably genetic. stress is actually only a minor factor.
what causes atrial fibrillation? is stress the main cause of atrial fibrillation and is it genetic?
stress can contribute to high blood pressure so it certainly is a factor for some people. a stressful event can also trigger an episode of atrial fibrillation in people who already have the condition. research suggests that there is a genetic contribution to the development of atrial fibrillation but the genetics are complicated and the syndrome is not inherited in a traditional sense.
what can make my atrial fibrillation worse? what are the risks that my atrial fibrillation will become worse? (more symptomatic)
the symptoms of atrial fibrillation can get better or worse. but this does not mean the a fib is itself getting worse. anything that makes you heart go faster will give you a more significant sensation. things like fever stimulants (caffeine) stress excitement will make your heart beat faster. but again this does not mean your condition is at all worse. medications can also affect symptoms.
what can make my atrial fibrillation worse? what are the risks that my atrial fibrillation will become worse? (more symptomatic)
atrial fibrillation is an interesting heart rhythm because some people do not feel it at all while other people may be highly symptomatic with a very poor quality of life. there is a chance that your atrial fibrillation will become more symptomatic over time but it is impossible to predict. generally speaking controlling all the cardiovascular risk factors gives you the best chance of preventing or minimizing symptoms from atrial fibrillation. this means maintaining good blood pressure and cholesterol and avoiding tobacco.
what causes atrial flutter? what is the cause of my atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter? will my condition go away on its own?
you have ventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? you have a little too much going on - you need to either buy a cardiology textbook or be under the regular care of a cardiologist!
what causes atrial flutter? what is the cause of my atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter? will my condition go away on its own?
the most common cause of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter is a history of high blood pressure (hypertension) and the conditions are both more common as people age. they can also be associated with other forms of structural heart disease and numerous other less common causes. without knowing more about you i cannot say why you specifically have it. atrial fibrillation and flutter are usually chronic conditions and do not spontaneously resolve. treatment option include simply controlling the heart rate since these rhythms tend to go fast (rate control strategy) or using medicines to try and maintain a normal sinus rhythm and keep the person out of atrial fibrillation or flutter (rhythm control strategy). there are also surgical and minimally invasive procedures that can be offered to try and cure the rhythm. it is also important to realize the both conditions can increase the risk of stroke and so many people take additional medicine to minimize this risk.
what meds can i use to control my a fib? what are the risks and side effects of medications to control my atrial fibrillation or to reduce the risk of stroke? what are the risks/benefits of other treatment options?
the treatment of atrial fibrillation has two important components: 1) treating the rhythm and 2) preventing stroke. there are two strategies for treating the rhythm. the first is called the rate control strategy and involves using medicines to prevent the heart rate from going too fast. these medicines do not prevent atrial fibrillation episodes but are generally effective at preventing fast rhythms and also tend to have few side effects. this is a good strategy for people who do not have severe symptoms from atrial fibrillation such as older less active people. the second strategy is called the rhythm control strategy and involves using medications that are designed to maintain normal sinus rhythm and prevent episodes of atrial fibrillation. this strategy may be more desirable for people who are vey symptomatic when in atrial fibrillation such as young active people. unfortunately this strategy tends to be less successful because recurrence of atrial fibrillation is common. the rhythm control medications also tend to have more side effects than the rate control medicines and in some cases the side effects can be severe. neither strategy is better than the other at preventing stroke. for stroke prevention warfarin (also called coumadin) is typically used for people at moderate or high risk. this medication has been shown to be superior in preventing stroke but it also increases the risk of dangerous bleeding because it is a blood thinner. patients at lower risk for stroke may just take an aspirin tablet daily. this has a lower bleeding risk than warfarin. lastly some people are candidates for surgical or catheter-based ablation procedures. these procedures can cure atrial fibrillation but are not always successful and not all people are good candidates.
what meds can i use to control my a fib? what are the risks and side effects of medications to control my atrial fibrillation or to reduce the risk of stroke? what are the risks/benefits of other treatment options?
you're asking for the answers it takes me an hour-long office visit to answer for many people. good questions all but too much for a 400-character based website. may i suggest a visit with a cardiac electrophysiologist to discuss your particular situation?
what meds can i use to control my a fib? what are the risks and side effects of medications to control my atrial fibrillation or to reduce the risk of stroke? what are the risks/benefits of other treatment options?
there is no way to answer all these questions here. beta blockers and calcium channel blockers will slow heart rate. digoxin is frequently used for the same things. discuss with your doctor if you have risk factors for stroke. if yes blood thinners may be indicated.
what are the solutions to an irregular heart beat? what causes the heart to skip and what is the cure?
the answer to your question depends on the type of irregular heart beat. the sensation of a skipped heart beat is most commonly caused by premature ventricular contractions (pvcs) or premature atrial contractions (pacs). neither of these conditions are dangerous but in some circumstances they can be associated with other heart conditions. a sustained irregular heart beat lasting hours or longer is usually atrial fibrillation a common arrhythmia with several potential complications. i would recommend that you talk with your doctor if you are having this symptom because the first step is an accurate diagnosis. depending on what is found you may need nothing done but you may benefit from treatment.
i have sudden dizziness when i walk with burning sensation in my throught and vomiting and palpitation but i'm not pregnant what the possible diagnos?
your description suggests the possibility of an arrhytthmia such as supraventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. an event monitor exam (24 hours to 30 days) would clarify the diagnosis and permit targeted treatment.
i have a heart murmur and an irregularly fast heart rate what does this sound like?
are having an arrhythmia. are you hypertensive? diabetic? smoker? obese? heart disease? get an ekg and an evaluation by a doctor to r/o atrial fibrillation and/or premature ventricular contraction as a cause. good luck.
i have a heart murmur and an irregularly fast heart rate what does this sound like?
it sounds like you need to be checked by your doc or a cardiologist. one possibility is valve disease and atrial fibrillation. there are many possibilities.
if atrial fibrillation after aortic valve replacement (in female 79) how is this usually corrected? bisoprolol metoprolol sotalol already tried.
initially with rate control and anti-coagulation. if the atrial fibrillation is causing you symptoms then a controlled and timed shock to the heart called cardioversion can be administrated tito regulate your heart. this is an outpatient procedure. discuss with your doctor.
if atrial fibrillation after aortic valve replacement (in female 79) how is this usually corrected? bisoprolol metoprolol sotalol already tried.
amiodarone electrical cardio version anticoagulation and time and spontaneous conversion or electrical conversion. if never before the surgery good chance of reversal.
i had atrial fibrillation 4months ago dr found my thyroid levels were high am on flecainide 100mg thyroid level ok do i still need med. ?
we try to identify a reversible precipitating cause for atrial fibrillation so that fixing that cause may result in elimination of atrial fib. in your case hyperthyroidism may be a precipitating cause and once the thyroid fn. has normalized you may be watched off flecainide to see if you have a recurrence.
i had atrial fibrillation 4months ago dr found my thyroid levels were high am on flecainide 100mg thyroid level ok do i still need med. ?
it depends did they give you medicine like ptu (propylthiouracil) or radioactive iodine to make your hyperthyroidism back to normal? even then it may take several months to truly normalize. see an endocrinologist about this. if it is truly normalized you can try a holiday from the flecainide but only do this with your cardiologist's permission and monitoring.
i had atrial fibrillation 4months ago dr found my thyroid levels were high am on flecainide 100mg thyroid level ok do i still need med. ?
fib is a progressive disease and tends to occur more the more you have it. the flecainide may be holding you in normal rhythm. you should also be on a medicine with a name ending in "-olol" like metoprolol (a beta blocker) or diltiazem or verapamil with that flec by the way. ask your cardiologist about why (rate control of flutter in a class ic agent).
i have anxiety experienced the hypertension/tachycardia side effects of valtrex (valacyclovir). if i take it with atenolol will it help what should i look out for?
is this long term or short term. avoid beta blockers unless know what doing. we avoid atenolol as may increase aortic pressure. really need consult physician to determine if you have hypertension and is it tachycardia. lone atrial fibrillation may be culprittreated differently than other forms a. fib. may not know have it. but unless prescribed avoid atenolol. in ur age group beta blockers not.
is there a cure for atrial fibrillation and bundle branch block?
atrial fibrillation can under some circumstances be cured by specialized ablation. bbb is generally not curable. talk to a cardiologist.
i have an unusually fast heart rate for long periods of time. what is wrong?
what do you mean by "unusually fast hr"? causes of sinus (normal) tachycardia include:fever pain anxiety fatigue exercise dehydration caffeine asthma inhalers many other medicines and drugs hemorrhage anemia excess thyroid hormone; then there are abnormal rhythms such as atrial fibrillation or flutter pat/svt wpw and vt - there are many other possibilities. you need an ekg!
if my i have an irregular ekg but my echocardiogram is normal.? what does that rule out?
echo checks for wall motion ie prior heart attacks and contractile function of the heart. can have abnormal rhythm like atrial fibrillation or cardiac extra heart beats with normal echo.
i feel as though i have an irregular heartbeat. i've had 3 ekgs in past few months--they were irregular yet the doctors aren't concerned. advice?
having an irregular ecg may be normal such as a sinus arrhythmia. however having an irregular heart rhythm may be far more serious like atrial fibrillation or svt. you need to find out what specific type of irregular heart beat you have.
i'm suspecting i have atrial fibrillation. ekgs are abnormal. heart is always speedy short of breathe. my echo though was normal. how to diagnose?
ekg should tell u if u have a fib.
i'm suspecting i have atrial fibrillation. ekgs are abnormal. heart is always speedy short of breathe. my echo though was normal. how to diagnose?
the ekg should clearly show if you're having fib at the time. if you're only having it in bursts but not when the ekg was taken you may need a holter monitor or event recorder.
i'm suspecting i have atrial fibrillation. ekgs are abnormal. heart is always speedy short of breathe. my echo though was normal. how to diagnose?
atrial fibrillation can certainly cause palpitations shortness of breath and even chest pain and heart injury so it is good to diagnose. ekg is usually what shows it so would ask for specific reading of it. many things can cause a. fib such as thyroid disease poor blood flow drugs medications etc so once found other studies need to be done.
i had a ct of chest done and it showed hyperinflated lungs. which could be asthma-copd-lung disease right? could these cause atrial fibrillation?
not really there is not direct correlation. however you are more likely to mat (multifocal atrial tachycardia) with lung disease.
i had a ct of chest done and it showed hyperinflated lungs. which could be asthma-copd-lung disease right? could these cause atrial fibrillation?
yes in advanced and untreated copd can cause atrial fibrilation. changes in blood gases abnormalities in pulmonary function studies and hemodynamic changes due to pulmonary hypertension can cause a fib but it does not happen in every case of copd and is not very common cause of atrial fibrilation. stop smoking if you do and follow the tratment prescribed by your doctor.
is irregular heartbeat considered a heart condition on health surveys?
all human beings have some irregular heart beat sometimes. if it's something you've occasionally noticed i wouldn't include it on a health survey but if your doctor has given you a specific diagnosis e. g. atrial fibrillation or supraventricular tachycardia (among others) then i would include it.
is it possible for cardiac ablation cause mitral valve problems?
the mitral valve is a relatively tough structure (it has to be to stand up to 80+ years of brutally forceful contractions) but not tougher than some of the tools used for ablation. a few rare things can damage the valve particularly when performing atrial fibrillation ablations. that said these things are rare. mitral regurgitation is almost always from another cause. cheers!
i have atrial fibrillation but had no success controlling it. any suggestions?
it sounds like you need some help from a cardiac electrophysiologist. there are several world leading cardiac electrophysiologists in the neighborhood of palo alto and i suggest you consult one of them.
i have atrial fibrillation but had no success controlling it. any suggestions?
first try your internal medicine specialist. if he or she fails then go to a cardiologist. if still not sucessful then go see an electrophysiologist ( a cardiologist who specializes in arrhythmias).
is digitalis used to cure abnormal heart rhythms?
no. digitalis also referred to as digoxin can be used to treat symptoms of abnormal rhythms such as atrial fibrillation. it may help keep someone in a normal sinus rhythm or help control the ventricular rate. while it may help with symptoms digoxin does not "cure" dysrhythmias. in fact like most anti-arrhythmic medication it can-especially at high doses- cause dysrhythmias.
is there a reason a surgeon may prescribe beta blockers after surgery? or as a preventative measure
to prevent an abnormal heart rhythm called atrial fibrillation. this occurs up to 5 to 15% after some types of surgeries. beta blockers and calcium channel blockers after surgery have been shown to be beneficial in preventing atrial fibrillation.
is there a relationship between flying and atrial fibrillation?
but any stress can trigger af in certain peopl.
is there a relationship between flying and atrial fibrillation?
no.
is supraventricular tachycardia a common condition?
supraventricular tachycardia (svt) is a broad group of dysrhythmias that include atrial fibrillation (af). svts are a very common rhythm abnormality and af among the commonest svts increasing in frequency as we age. risk factors include thyroid disease age hypertension diabetes and several others. treatments for svt and af include medicines pacemakers (if needed) and ablative procedures.
is a sinus tachycardia same thing as supraventricular tachycardia?
"supra-ventricular" means 'above the ventricle' and the sinus node is indeed above the ventricle so st is one type of svt. atrial fibrillation flutter ectopic atrial tachycardia all fit this description. usually when talking about svt (or psvt) we refer to a rhythm coming from another specific source such as a re-entry loop.
is atrial fibrillation a disability?
if afib is difficult to treat ie unable to convert patient to normal rythm or unable to slow rate down with medicines or perhapse the patient can't tolerate the medications to treat the problem a person can be disabled. pts with pre existing heart problems may not tolerate afib as well. ablation therapy is not always effective and some patients may need a pacemaker. just depends on pt
is atrial fibrillation a disability?
most patients with atrial fibrillation can still work. how ever it may get difficult to function normally if you get heart failure very fast heart rates cannot tolerate the medicines. blood thinners used in treatment for atrial fibrillation may also be a problem for people whose work involves a lot of trauma/injury because of the risk of bleeding.
is afib really stress in disguise?
atrial fibrillation has a long list of possible causes including hyperthyroidism; heart attacks; congenital heart problems; heart valve problems; stimulants like caffeine tobacco and medications; viral infections; stress from surgery pneumonia or other illnesses; sleep apnea; sick sinus syndrome (the heart's natural pacemaker); hypertension; and alcohol drinking binges. stress can exacerbate.
is it possible to die from a heart attack during a dobutamine stress test?
all types of stress test have risks including the rare risk of death. other risks include arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation palpitations copd or asthma exacerbation and passing out. fortunately most are rare.
is atrial fibrillation inherited?
there is a gene that makes the tendency to get it more likely but most a fib is due to environmental and aquired factors such as age valvular heart disease and alcohol.
is atrial fibrillation inherited?
if atrial fibrillation is inherited it is most often because of some other associated condition which is also inherited. there are rare types of atrial fibrillation which can be inherited but generally speaking it follows either aging or other disease processes.
is atrial fibrillation dangerous to have?
increased stroke risk is the major consideration here. talk to your cardiologist about what yours is & whether you should be on blood thinners or just aspirin (for lower risk patients).
is atrial fibrillation dangerous to have?
appropriate management can lower the risk. specifically the heart rate needs to be controlled and stroke risk needs to be addressed. specific guidance should be available from your physician.
is atrial fibrillation dangerous to have?
it can lead to stroke unless you take anticoagulants.
if i have a blood pressure of 120/80 is it possible that i will suffer from atrial fibrillation?
the blood pressure is not necessarily connected with atrial fibrillation. you can have a normal blood pressure as your describe and still acquire atrial fibrillation.
if i have a blood pressure of 120/80 is it possible that i will suffer from atrial fibrillation?
blood pressure and fibrillation are related in that structural changes in the heart can ultimately lead to fibrillation but in the short term blood pressure does not generally provoke afib. there is a common link in adrenaline-like chemicals in your blood which can both raise bp and trigger fibrillation but that's a longer story.
is ablation the only option available for afib? how effective or successful is it?
medications are usually first line therapy for atrial fibrillation. if your afib is bothersome and it can not be controlled by medications then considering a catheter ablation is reasonable. the success rate varies depending on how long you've had af and other clinical factors but is usually around 60-70%. this is typically a better success rate than medications alone.
is ablation the only option available for afib? how effective or successful is it?
ablation is a procedure where a catheter is inserted through the vein and an area of the heart receives rf waves destroying the tissue causing/allowing the atrial fibrillation to occur. conventional therapy is rate control with medicine such as digoxin beta blockers or calcium channel blockers and maintaining regular rhythm with antiarrythmics. if failure then ablation is used with 75% success.
is ablation the only option available for afib? how effective or successful is it?
other options are medications to control the heart rate blood thinners to prevent clots medications to convert the rhythm back to normal or to keep the problem from recurring. a large study showed that patients can do quite well even if they stay in atrial fibrillation. ablation success varies but the results are improving.
i was diagnosed with afib and put on coumadin (warfarin). how will coumadin (warfarin) affect my heart?
the atrial fibrillation can result in clots forming inside the heart. those clots can break lose go to the brain and cause a stroke. the coumadin (warfarin) tends to prevent the clots from occurring. but it also carries the risk of bleeding especially if the blood gets too thin.
i was diagnosed with afib and put on coumadin (warfarin). how will coumadin (warfarin) affect my heart?
the atrial fibrillation can result in clots forming in the heart. if one breaks lose and goes to the brain a stroke can occur. coumadin (warfarin) tends to prevent clots but could result in the complication of bleeding especially if not carefully controlled.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
catheter ablation is available for many different types of arrhythmias - ventricular tachycardia svt as well as atrial fibrillation. they are all a bit different in technique as well as risks/success rates.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
ablation is used to treat many different cardiac rhythm problems both in the upper and lower chambers of the heart. it is safe and highly effective. many patients may be cured of their rhythm problems with ablation.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
ablation is great for a lot of different kinds of heart rhythms. tens of thousands of ablations are done every year and the majority to substantial success.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
ablation can treat atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter but can also treat other conduction abnormalities such as wolf-parkinson-white (wpw) syndrome which involves an abnormal electrical connection between the atria and the ventricles of the heart.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
ablation is a procedure used to treat many different types of dysrhythmias; atrial fibrillation is only the latest in a long line of dysrhythmias treated successfully by ablation. ablative therapy has been used to treat supraventicular tachycardias such as av nodal reentrant tachycardia atrial flutter wolff-parkinson-white and others. it is also used to treat types of ventricular tachycardias.
i have chronic uncontrollable afib. how can i manage my condition?
atrial fibrillation is a rapid irregularly irregular heart rhythm. therapy is aimed at controlling the heart rate and giving anticoagulants to prevent thrombotic emboli and stroke. the rate can usually be controlled with medicine such as digoxin beta blockers and calcium channel blockers. recurrences are treated with antiarrythmics. if still uncontrolled then rf ablation and pacing is used.
i have chronic uncontrollable afib. how can i manage my condition?
basically we either try to controll the rate which tends to be fast with atrial fibrillation or we try to get the patient back into a regular rhythm. either way you may need blood thinners or aspirin to prevent clots. medications are used for both types of treatment. to get the rhythm back to normal might require a shock across the chest also. (called cardioversion) ablation is another option.
i have an irregular heart beat i had a severe copd attack 2 weeks ago which i eneded up in the hospital. yesterday i went to the doctor for a follow up and the doctor noticed that i had a irregular heart beat (as high as 141 bpms) so she ordered a ekg
caffeine can increase heart rate and blood pressure a bit but nowhere near as high as you've indicated. a heart rate of 141 and "skipped beats" sounds to me like new onset atrial fibrillation which in turn could represent a small heart attack or other injury to your heart that happened during your copd attack. it would be important to have this problem addressed since atrial fibrillation can cause blood clots to form in the heart and these can then cause strokes. also it will be important to evaluate whether in fact you did have a heart attack because that might predict more in the future. a. fib can often be eliminated with medications or a procedure called cardioversion. if not then you should probably be on a blood thinner.
i have an irregular heart beat i had a severe copd attack 2 weeks ago which i eneded up in the hospital. yesterday i went to the doctor for a follow up and the doctor noticed that i had a irregular heart beat (as high as 141 bpms) so she ordered a ekg
it is hard to know what kind of 'irregular heart beat' you have. if the rate was truly at 141 bpm (and that was more than a few beats) chances are it is a pathological cardiac arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation atrial flutter or multifocal atrial tachycardia. it is possible but unlikely that it is just sinus (normal) tachycardia but to drinking tea unless you were taking very large amounts or you copd is severe.
irregular heartbeat i had a severe copd attack 2 weeks ago which i ended up in the hospital for 6 days two of which was in the icu on bipap and the other four i was on oxygen because my saturation level would not stay above 90%. yesterday i went to the
it depends on what rhythm the ekg showed. patients with copd get all kinds of odd heart rhythms some need to be corrected and some do not. some like atrial fibrillation where the small chambers of the heart beat in an uncoordinated fashion need to have the blood thinned. other called svts are very fast heart rates that can be slowed by the medication bystolic (nebivolol) and controlled. some are brought on by low oxygen levels in the blood and stabilize as you get better. skipped beats are often "pvcs" which are premature beats in the ventricle and don't really affect your health too much. so a good question to ask your doctor is "what is the heart rhythm called and how is it best treated? ". don't be afraid to ask questions. it's your heart after all.
i have had problems with my vision balance and heart rate for a few years. sometimes i literally feel like my body is just going to give out and die.?
you should consider having your heart and long term blood sugar checked. depending on your age you may be showing signs of atrial fibrillation or psvt both can be dangerous. vision and balance problems could be a result of high blood sugar over time or multiple sclerosis.
i have been to the er for a rapid heartbeat. sometimes it's diagnosed as sinus tachycardia and sometimes atrial fibrillation. i have tried cardyzeme and metopral without much success. what happens if i don't seek treatment next time?
i agree with dr. guyton's excellent and thorough answer and would like to emphasize that with atrial fibrillation there are two main issues: 1) heart rate - a fast heart rate is typically what most people present with and typically can be managed with medications to control heart rate such as the two you described although there are others. sustained high heart rates are not good for the heart but as long as you are not having chest pain shortness of breath dizziness or loss of consciousness then you can call your physician before rushing to the er. 2) stroke - afib presents a very real increase risk of stroke if not properly treated. for this reason an accurate diagnosis is a must and if it is indeed afib the you should discuss with your physician whether you are high enough risk to require blood thinners such as coumadin (warfarin) or pradaxa. this is a long term risk so can be discussed in the outpatient setting with your docotor or a cardiologist.
i have been to the er for a rapid heartbeat. sometimes it's diagnosed as sinus tachycardia and sometimes atrial fibrillation. i have tried cardyzeme and metopral without much success. what happens if i don't seek treatment next time?
atrial fibrillation can be a sign of underlying heart disease such as mitral valve disease or other conditions that can cause stretching of the atria  the upper chambers of the heart. a cardiologists evaluation and an echocardiogram are often useful in ruling out some structural disease affecting your heart. if there is no structural heart disease then the principal risk of atrial fibrillation is that blood clots may form in areas of the heart that are not contracting and possibly travel through the bloodstream to cause a stroke. this risk of a stroke is increased if you are over 65 years old; if you have high blood pressure; if you are female; if you have had a prior stroke transient ischemic attack (or tia  a fleeting stroke) or other blood clot disorder; if you have diabetes; if you have heart failure; or if you have known vascular disease (heart attack aneurysm or limitation of blood flow to the legs). the more risk factors you have the higher your risk of a stroke. with one risk factor many physicians will recommend aspirin therapy or sometimes more potent blood thinners. with two or more risk factors blood thinners are usually recommended. this should be discussed in detail with your doctor.
i have been to the er for a rapid heartbeat. sometimes it's diagnosed as sinus tachycardia and sometimes atrial fibrillation. i have tried cardyzeme and metopral without much success. what happens if i don't seek treatment next time?
if in fact you have been documented to have atrial fibrillation you should be evaluated by a cardiologist to determine the need for medication/treatments. this will depend on his/her evaluation of your history associated risk factors echocardiogram etc. not all atrial fibrillation is treated the same.
i feel ill all the with my pvcs like and uneasy feeling strange. what could cause this?
pvcs do not usually make you feel ill. you may have changed to another rhythm e. g. atrial fibrillation or your heart may be suffering. you need to see your doctor very soon to be checked up. do not wait.
is arrhythmia curable?
there are many types of arrhythmias and the answer depends on the type. atrial fibrillation can be controlled with medications or cured with an ablation procedure. ventricular tachycardia often requires a pacemaker/icd or an ablation procedure. ventricular fibrillation is deadly if not addressed immediately. there are multiple others and the treatment ultimately depends on the arrhythmia type.
if you have afib and you have your heart shocked to get it back on beat but fails. then they do it again if that fails what do if that fails what do they do next.
if your physician still wants to pursue getting the heart back to a normal rhythm there are both catheter based methods and surgical methods to do a maze type procedure which can be successful about 80% of the time. the surgical procedures are generally more reliable but do require general anesthesia and a surgical incision. another option is to decide that allowing the heart to remain in atrial fibrillation and use medications to control the heart rate. generally with this approach a blood thinner is recommended to reduce the risk of having a stroke but this is very dependent on individual circumstances.
i pinched my vagus nerve in my right shoulder and now my arm hurts a lot and my heart rate is irregular. what kind of treatment can i do at home for this?
go to the er. go directly to the er! do not eat a sandwich nor anything else for that matter! the vagus nerve is not associated with sensory signals from the upper extremities. it starts in the brainstem and wanders throughout the neck chest and abdomen to control a variety of organ functions. the symptoms you are describing are more typical of a heart attack. any abnormal heart rhythm should be evaluated immediately in an emergency room. even something like atrial fibrillation can cause blood clots to the brain (a stroke).
is atrial fibrillation a recessive trait?
there are rare cases of genetic atrial fibrillation however for the most part appears to be a degenerative condition caused by aging and heart disease. genes appear to play a minor role only based on current (evolving) understanding.
is atrial fibrillation a recessive trait?
familial atrial fibrillation appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. recent studies suggest that up to 30 percent of all people with atrial fibrillation may have a history of the condition in their family. .
i am taking metoprolo tarta for afib. i recently started having a lot of panic attacks. my? can i take relaquil with my metopro is this safe for me
it is difficult to tell exactly what is responsible for the symptoms that you are experiencing on the basis of the limited information that you provided. metoprolol could be a suspect because it is known to cross what is called the blood-brain barrier or bbb and have direct effects on the central nervous system. these actions may cause such side effects as dizziness lightheadedness memory loss and depression just to mention a few. in addition metoprolol could reduce your blood pressure and slow the heart rate. adding a complex mixture of compounds such as relaquil that can further affect your central nervous system may only complicate the overall situation. at this point a good strategy would be to discuss your symptoms-including the panic attacks-with the doctor who prescribed metoprolol. after a thorough evaluation he or she may decide on a different medication that has similar effectiveness on atrial fibrillation but unlike metoprolol does not cross the bbb.
is it common for teenagers to have atrial fib?
if a teenager has atrial fibrillation damage to the heart needs to be excluded.
is melatonin safe for dementia patients with afib?
but it can increase the sedation associated with tranquilizers and anti-psychotics that some alzheimer's patients take and it can potentiate the heart rate slowing effect of verapamil that some atrial fibrillation patients take.
is an irregular heartbeat considered a heart disease?
if the irregular heart beat is due to sporadic premature beats and the heart is structurally normal that kind of irregularity is present in all normal hearts and not considered a heart disease. on the other hand if you have atrial fibrillation (for example) that is considered a heart disease.
is atrial fibrillation or flutter a more serious condition?
atrial fibrillation and flutter are both common arrythmias. flutter tends to degenerate into fibrillation; the difference is that flutter tends to be regular and fibrillation irregular. generally speaking irregular is worse than regular because there is a higher risk of clots forming in the heart which can then cause strokes and other potential problems. most flutter will become fibrillation.
is atrial fibrillation or flutter a more serious condition?
they both are risk factors for stroke and can cause similar symptoms. the main difference is that flutter is easy to cure by ablation.
is an irregular heart beat usually atrial fibrillation?
it certainly can be. although there are multiple instances when one can have an "irregular heartbeat'. you should see your doctor so an ekg can be done or possibly a monitoring device ordered to evaluate further.
is an irregular heart beat usually atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is certainly one of the most common causes of an irregular heart beat but not the only one. probably most common are benign premature beats which many people have and are of no significance. for a potentially dangerous irregular rhythm atrial fibrillation is the most common.
is an irregular heart beat always atrial fib?
the term irregular isn't really a specific medical term. it's used to help us describe certain rhythms. there are benign irregular rhythms like "sinus arrhythmia. " the term atrial fibrillation tells us a lot more than a rhythm being described as irregular.
is there a difference between an irregular pulse & an irregular heart rate?
they both indicate an irregularity of your heart's rhythm. if you listen at your chest you actually hear the heart beats. if you check a peripheral pulse you're feeling the momentary arterial bulge that results from the heart beat. special case: in atrial fibrillation the pulse rate will always be "slower" than the hr because some beats aren't transmitted.
i feel a strange fluttering in my chest and just sometimes. could this be atrial fibrillation?
however there are many other types of arrhythmias that could cause the same symptoms. also fluttering in the chest may not be even due to an arrhythmia. go see a doctor.
i feel a strange fluttering in my chest and just sometimes. could this be atrial fibrillation?
you can feel your pulse to see if it's irregular during an episode. sometimes what is called an event monitor can be placed to capture the heart's rhythm and have it analyzed by a cardiologist. you should have this evaluated since intermittent atrial fibrillation can lead to stroke and other serious problems.
if you have atrial fib heart rate in the low 50's and 'up and down' blood pressure should you seek help or wait it out?
depend on what symptoms are you having. the heart rate on 50 beats per minutes and variable blood pressure might be even expected in someone with atrial fibrillation. it is important to check with your doctor. bring your medications. include any supplements vitamins or over the counter meds. changes in blood pressure and pulse might relate to other problems or changes in your heart. call your doc.
is an irregular heart beat most commonly atrial fibrillation or something else?
the most common irregular heart beat is sinus arrhythmia which is a respiratory variation in the regularity a perfectly normal heart rhythm and not indicative of any disease. the most common abnormal heart irregularity is atrial fibrillation with some 2-3 million people having this heart rhythm.
is an irregular heart beat most commonly atrial fibrillation or something else?
it depends in what time of person the irregular heart beat is happening. someone young may be more likely to have premature atrial or ventricular contractions (pacs or pvcs) than af.
is atrial fibrillation a serious condition? my friend is 45 and has it.
atrial fibrillation may be a consequence of structural abnormalities of the heart which can indeed be serious. however if the rhythm disturbance is the only abnormality then it can usually be controlled sufficiently that the patient can be free of symptoms. in older patients with af there is significant risk of stroke but this too can be mitigated by treatment to reduce blood clots.
is atrial fibrillation a serious condition? my friend is 45 and has it.
atrial fibrillation increase the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal. strokes from af tend to be worse than non-af strokes. additionally if the af causes a fast pulse for a prolonged period of time this may lead to weakening of the heart and cause heart failure. a very fast pulse even for a short period can precipitate a heart attack in someone with underlying blocked arteries.
i have both premature ventricular contraction and mitral valve prolapse so am i at an increased risk for something bad?
at risk for cardiac arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats) such as atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter with rapid ventricular rate which could lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation which can be fatal.
irregular and rapid heart beat on strong coffee. normal?
an irregular heartbeat is almost never normal. coffee can trigger atrial fibrillation (afib). afib is a heart arrythmia that can cause your blood to clot and this can result in a stroke. if you consistently develop an irregular heartbeat while drinking coffee you should stop drinking it as well as tea. also speak to your doctor about the irregular heartbeat. she/he may prescribe a baby aspirin.
is there a relationship between having a fast metabolism and heart rate?
if you have excess thyroid hormone fast heart rhythm is common. moreover thyroid excess is an important cause of atrial fibrillation which is most people tends to cause a heart rate in the range of 140-180 until it's modified by medication. other than thyroid xs metabolism is hard to measure. how do you know yours is elevated?
if taking flecainide and can you have a drink with it?
no issues with drinking in moderation however alcohol can precipitate atrial fibrillation in large amounts.
if my ekg was irregular (sinus tach from a "normal place" my cardiologist tells me). and the echocardiogram was fine do i have atrial filb? help?
the ekg is the best way to diagnose atrial fibrillation. if your cardiologist has diagnosed it as sinus tachycardia then it's not atrial fibrillation. sometimes the heart beat can be irregular even with sinus rhythm due to respiration or some extra beats.
if my ekg was irregular (sinus tach from a "normal place" my cardiologist tells me). and the echocardiogram was fine do i have atrial filb? help?
if you have seen a cardiologist and had this evaluated with an ekg holter monitor and an echocardiogram and they said you have "sinus tach" with a normal focus then you do not have atrial fibrillation. you should avoid stimulants like caffeine decongestants and diet pills or "energy drinks" to minimize the sinus tach and they may put you on a medication to block it if it is frequent.
i have random irregular heartbeats. what is it?
a perceived irregularity of the heartbeat can be different things. from "skipped" atrial or ventricular beats ("extra" beats originating in the upper or lower chambers of the heart) an irregular rhythm called "atrial fibrillation" etc. the only way to diagnose with certainty is to have a recording of the electrical activity of the heart (ecg) or 24 hour recording of heart rhythm (holter monitor).
is palpitation the same as an irregular heartbeat too?
palpitations usually describe an awareness of ones heart beat. sometimes people are aware of a normal but more rapid heart beat sometimes extra beats are the cause and in some ongoing irregularity of the heart beat (most common example atrial fibrillation) may be the cause.
i have been getting irregular heartbeats almost every night does anyone know what can cause this?
could be normal change in heart rate with change in position when lying in bed but if its persistent and you feel it on other occasions it could be due to extra beats or a some sort of arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation. check with your doctor for evaluation and possibly a holter monitor and/or event monitor to assess your cardiac rhythm during these episodes.
i have been getting irregular heartbeats almost every night does anyone know what can cause this?
this may be a sign of atrial fibrillation or just benign pvcs. many people have skipped beats when they lay down.
if i have a history of atrial fibrillation and tachycardia is it bad that my heart rate has been 144 all day?
if the heart rate is elevated for prolonged periods of time there is a risk for tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy - or weakening of the heart from rapid heart rates. this is usually reversible once the heart rate is corrected. you should see your cardiologist for evaluation.
if i have a history of atrial fibrillation and tachycardia is it bad that my heart rate has been 144 all day?
sounds like atrial flutter especially if your heart rate is almost invariate at that rate. further testing would be required but if the diagnosis is flutter an electrophysiologist could help you bid that problem goodbye for life. at the very least you could get to the bottom of the diagnosis.
i have an irregular heartbeat no appetite and faint regularly can you suggest what it might be?
you may have atrial fibrillation or another cardiac arrhythmia. see a doctor or go to an emergency room immediately!
i have atrial fibrillation. is it safe to drink sodas that contain high levels of caffeine?
generally speaking the high levels of caffeine will promote increased conduction of the very rapid top chamber rhythm to the bottom chamber of them leading to palpitations and increased heart rates. over the long term this can result in significant cardiac dysfunction.
i have atrial fibrillation. is it safe to drink sodas that contain high levels of caffeine?
boost/energy/high caffeine drinks are not recommended in patients with af. occasional drinks with caffeine like coffee and soda usually do not trigger af but must be observed for individual responses. if they trigger af - then need to avoid.
is it possible for a young adult to have atrial fibrillation?
af is a disease that become more common after age 50. it is unusual but not especially rare to have af before this age. often other conditions can be found that trigger af in young people - like hyperthyroidism caffeine alcohol valve disease etc. sometimes af can occur "out of the blue" in young people - usually referred to as "lone af".
is it possible for a young adult to have atrial fibrillation?
yes. if no other medical problems and a normal heart as evaluated by an echocardiogram then the usual diagnosis is "lone af" caused by an irritable focus in the heart. valve disease or weakening of the heart muscle can be a cause. highly active people (runners) can develop this as well. treatment varies depending on the frequency of episodes.
is it bad if my atrial fibrillation is around 150 beats per minute?
the latest data available to us from the clinical trials suggest that an appropriate target is a resting heart rate less than 110 bpm. periodic rise in the heart rate to greater than 150 bpm is not harmful however if this is your rate the majority of time cardiac dysfunction may eventually result.
is it bad if my atrial fibrillation is around 150 beats per minute?
yes. you are likely to have symptoms of palpitations shortness of breath and chest discomfort. also if your heart rate remains elevated for long periods of time it can cause a decrease in heart function. see yoyr doctor asap.
i need to undergo cardiac ablation to treat my atrial fibrillation how do i select a doctor?
i agree that an electrophysiologist wil provide the best information regarding catheter ablation. it is important to ask questions regarding outcomes and success rates. i would recommend a university setting for this type of ablation that will provide the best staff as well as equipment.
i need to undergo cardiac ablation to treat my atrial fibrillation how do i select a doctor?
finding the most competent doctor in your area can be extremely difficult. send me a message and i'll get you a name or two of some nationally recognized people not too far away.
i need to undergo cardiac ablation to treat my atrial fibrillation how do i select a doctor?
a subspecialty of cardiology is specially trained and certified to perform this procedure. have your pcp refer to you to one near you with the proper training and experience.
i had a vasovagal episode in feb lone a-fib in june. now i get fairly frequent muscle jumpiness or jerks especially when resting. any connections?
jumpiness or jerking at rest can be caused by a number of factors but those are not associated with atrial fibrillation or vasovagal episodes unless you are having a side effect of a medication used to treat either condition.
i suffer from debilitating (don't leave house) anxiety and depression. all started when i was diagnosed with atrial fib and had a few bad attacks.?
it is natural to have anxiety after being diagnoses with atrial fibrillation especially at such a young age. anxiety symptoms can mimic cardiac and vice versa. so make sure the atrial fibrillation is being treated and then see if you can work on the anxiety with a therapist or psychiatrist. can use deep breathing/relaxation or consider medications.
is atrial fibrillation hereditary?
congenital heart problems can be inherited and this can lead to afib. but afib itself is not.
is atrial fibrillation hereditary?
while there are no clear genes identified (and in fact we know relatively little about an issue that plagues so many people) there clearly are families in which atrial fibrillation is more common through the generations. so while this is far from medical fact most physicians who treat a lot of atrial fibrillation would argue that there is likely some type of inheritance.
is atrial fibrillation hereditary?
familial af is described and little is known so far. different genes have been implicated and it probably constitutes 5% or less of af cases.
is atrial fibrilation dangerous? im 31 weeks pregnant and it showed up on my ekg. i am now wearimg holter monitor and getting an echo next week.
glad you have an on going evaluation and follow up with cardiology (hopefully! ). all this information can be discussed at your cardiology appointment. atrial fibrillation can be very successfully managed in pregnancy with little to no affect on delivery. good luck. you're almost there!
i started having bad palpitations few months after my ibs resolved they're still with me a year later. can it be af if my pulse & bp are normal/low?
atrial fibrillation is an "irregularly irregular" rhythm. the timing between every beat varies from the beat before and after it. if your pulse is normal you do not have atrial fibrillation. a 24 hour holter exam or 30 day event monitoring exam (depending on how often your get symptoms) would allow for an accurate diagnosis of your rhythm disturbance.
i had a chemical stress test this afternoon. my heart is racing still and i am very flushed. is that normal?
chemical stress tests w dobutamine can cause heart racing but the dobutamine typically wears off quickly. lexiscan or adenosine usually slow the heart rate. let your doctor know. rarely an arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation can occur w a chemical stress test and persist after w fast heart rate (irregular ) and possibly flushing.
is it safe to take zantrex 3 when i have atrial fibrillation i don't take afib meds though?
if you are 22 with chronic atrial fibrillation you should be on some form of treatment to either slow it down or get rid of it as well as blood thinners to prevent potential for stroke. have you seen a cardiologist? zantrex is a weight loss supplement that contains herbal stimulants; these have not been found to be safe in people with af and can make it worse. such supplements are unproven.
i have afib and need to have a couple of teeth pulled. is the anesthesia used to numb your gum safe with afib?
no matter what the cause of your atrial fibrillation medical clearance ahead of time is necessary. you may be taking oral anticoagulation or aspirin-related rx which lengthen bleeding times and pose unique risks. if af is related to organic heart disease or cad you may be at increased risk for the transient rapid heart rate that can come from epinephrine. please see your internist.
i think i might have drank too much coffee. i'm experiencing hallucinations head ache irregular heartbeat. what to do? i can't stop drinking coffee.
excess coffee can cause extra systoles and thus a seemingly irregular heart beat headaches are usually eased with caffeine but hallucinations do not fit. are you sure this is a coffee category or should we evaluate a different situation. do you have atrial fibrillation or another primary cardiac arrhythmia do you have a thyroid issue do you have new medications? get this diagnosed.
is there a cure for atrial fibrillation? diagnosed in 2004. taking medication to control it. still have flare-ups frequently.
yes in some cases. the medical treatment can be focused on just keep your hear rate low or to try to convert you into normal rhythm. cardio version is another treatment when you shock the patient under sedation. procedure wise electro physiologists can do an ablation through the groin. surgeons can do the ablation preferably minimally invasive through the side or a hybrid procedure - convergent.
i had being diagnose atrial fibrillation arrhythmia but also some test thyroides 8. 0 is this can be the cause or is something else?
i presume that the test that you had is a thyroid stimulating hormone (tsh) test. in this case the value of eight represents a low thyroid level not a high thyroid level. low thyroid levels are not associated with atrial fibrillation.
i had being diagnose atrial fibrillation arrhythmia but also some test thyroides 8. 0 is this can be the cause or is something else?
hyperthyroid can cause afib.
if you have atrial fibrillation? and taking flecainide and lisinopril can you still take viagra (sildenafil) for ed or this affects my hearth
the main contraindications to viagra (sildenafil) are nitrates. flecanide and lisinopril are ok.
is there a relationship between heavy weight lifting and atrial fib?
there is an association with age and atrial fibrillation-60 years olds are much more prone to develop it.
is there a relationship between heavy weight lifting and atrial fib?
heavy exertion is one known inciting agent to cause a paroxysm of atrial fibrillation in people prone to it.
i think i have atrial fibrillation. what should i do?
you need to see a doc and verify if you have/had afib. then some basic workup to see if the why can be elucidated. you may or may not need treatment but should be sure the decision is made from the proper information.
i think i have atrial fibrillation. what should i do?
atrial fibrillation is the most common irregular rhythm of the heart. in some peiple they are alway in afib but others go in and out. it can increase your risk of strokes and many times you are put on a blood thinner to prevent them. there is treatment for atrial fibrillation as well. you need to see your doctor and many an electrophysiologist - a cardiologist who specialized in heart rhythms.
if i had atrial fibrillation wouldn't the 30 day event monitor i wore have showed it?
it depends if you have permanent or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. if you did not have an episode during those 30 days i will not show. paroxysmal means that is intermittent.
if i had atrial fibrillation wouldn't the 30 day event monitor i wore have showed it?
event monitors come in lots of flavors. some auto-trigger for suspected fib many don't. and of course you'd also have to consider the possibility you didn't have any fib episodes that month.
if i had atrial fibrillation wouldn't the 30 day event monitor i wore have showed it?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation can occur with virtually any frequency. if the frequency is daily or weekly the 30 day monitor is likely to catch it. if the frequency is less than every two weeks then the chances of missing on a single one month recorder are pretty good.
i take digoxin for a/fib but am reading in one of my medical papers that this is not good for you. could someone please give me their opinion. ?
was a mainstay of managing the heart rate in atrial fibrillation. with time we have other effective medications without the toxicity risk that digoxin has. we still use the drug for afib but less often than the past and often in conjunction with one of the other drugs.
i have an irregular irregular heartbeat and leaky valve. what is that exactly.
irregilarly irregular heart rhythms tend to imply atrial fibrillation which shoud be evaluated by a cardiologist. these can occur in the context of valvular leaking (regurgitation). other causes include thyroid problems alcohol or stimulant exposure cardiac enlargement sleep apnea extreme physiologic stress.
i'm 21 and have atrial fibrillation what can i do?
you should really see a cardiologist who can go over all of the options with you and well as work out any possible underlying causes such as elevated thyroid. you need to carefully discuss whether it is best to try and keep you out of afib with a procedure or medications or not. this is a long discussion that needs to be tailored to the individual.
i'm 21 and have atrial fibrillation what can i do?
see your cardiologist. get some aspirin or anticoagulant.
is sinus tachycardia same thing as the atrial fibillliation?
in sinus tachycardia the rhythm comes from the sinus node of the atria and is regular (good regularly-spaced p-waves on ekg). in atrial fibrillation the dominant role of the sinus nodes is gone there are no p-waves and the atria quiver and the hearbeat is irregularly irregular.
is lifting weights put someone at high risk with atrial fibrillation?
there is mounting data showing that athletes who generate a lot of upper body strain (ie rowers weight lifters) have an increased incidence of a fib felt to be due to back pressure on the heart during straining that ultimately stretches out the top chambers which is where atrial fibrillation comes from. as you continue weight lifting be aware that your paroxysmal afib may become persistent.
is lifting weights put someone at high risk with atrial fibrillation?
no connection. but muscle building steroid may.
is there a link between dvt and arrhythmia? i had swollen legs. no pain no rednes. i noticed that the swelling occurs especially when i feel tired.
if dvt and pe then tachycardia and atrial arrhythmias atrial fibrillation are common. bland dvt is common milk leg appearance swollen pale without much tenderness can happen.
is it normal while taking lipitor (atorvastatin) for cholesterol to have anxiety and heart palps or atrial fibrillation?
if you have anxiety and take lipitor (atorvastatin) it is common to have all the symptoms associated with anxiety including palps and afib. it is not common for lipitor (atorvastatin) to cause them.
is there a number one doctor-recommended reference source to know more about ablation of atrial fibrillation?
american heart association: www. heart. org or american college if cardiology: www. cardiosmart. org.
is there a number one doctor-recommended reference source to know more about ablation of atrial fibrillation?
start with this one: <link> wikipedia. org/wiki/ablation_of_atrial_fibrillation.
i have major depression and atrial fibrillation are there a lot of other people like this out there? also im only 37 years old.
there is a close tie in with heart disease and depression. what you need to be aware of is that one of the medications used to treat a fib beta blockers such as metoprolol can worsen depression so talk to your doctor.
i have major depression and atrial fibrillation are there a lot of other people like this out there? also im only 37 years old.
atrial fibrillation and depression are both common phenomena so there are many people with both. they are not necessarily related and because both are common hard to prove relationship.
i have a-fib v-tach and angina why would tikosyn (dofetilide) be prefrable to flecanide?
treatment of heart rhythm problems can be very complicated. flecainide is contraindicated in patients with hx of heart attack (increased mortality) and chronic atrial fibrillation (excessive rhythm problems).
irregular heart rhythm--should i see a doctor?
an irregular heart beat could be a simple or benign occurrence which does not require any additional testing or treatment. however other irregular heart beats could be the warning signs of a more serious problem. for example untreated atrial fibrillation could lead to a stroke. i would suggest you contact your doctor for an ekg and possibly a holter monitor.
i am 71 have copd on oxygen taking lisinopril and coreg (carvedilol). pulse was erratic for 1 hour. high 139 low 59. bp was fine. why?
it sounds like you may have had an episode of atrial fibrillation which is a rapid and irregular heart rhythm. of it persists it may increase your risk of a stroke. talk to your doctor about the need for testing or medication adjustment to help keep your heart regular.
i am 71 have copd on oxygen taking lisinopril and coreg (carvedilol). pulse was erratic for 1 hour. high 139 low 59. bp was fine. why?
probably atrial fibrillation. you want to have a blood thinner to prevent stroke. check with your doc asap. very important.
is lanoxin (digoxin) given for patient with rhd with irregular rate and ryrthm?
atrial fibrillation is a common type of irregular heart beat and lanoxin (digoxin) is one of several types of medications used to help control the rate. beta blockers and calcium channel blockers are the others medications commonly used.
i have atrial fibrillation but the blood work and ecg are normal. how is that?
many people are not in atrial fibrillation continuously but rather on and off. an ecg is a 12 second strip - you may have been in an "off" period (in normal rhythm) during the ecg recording. blood work is usually not affected in atrial fibrillation.
is tikosyn (dofetilide) truly safe for a-fib patients?
tikosyn (dofetilide) is one of the medications we use for rhythm control in atrial fibrillation. all these medicines have statistical risk associated with their use. they are approved for use in humans which means used properly the risk is low. used in the wrong person the risk could be significant. discuss with the doctor prescribing for information specific to an individual.
i have diabetes and atrial fibrillation. what should i do.
advice. be compliant with diet exercise and medications. see your dr every 3-6 months for check up. ask your dr about your heart kidney and liver functions. ask about your a1c level. i presume u r on blood thinner which will prevent stroke. don't focus on your illness and stay positive. god bless you!
i have diabetes and atrial fibrillation. what should i do.
it depends on what aspect of that bothers you. you should definitely determine your stroke risk and treat that appropriately with warfarin or another blood thinner if needed. medications or ablation may be appropriate for you. i'm moving to clearwater in aug to build out their afib program for them; message me with your contact info and we'll talk.
is heart afibulation and irregular heartbeat the same thing?
not sure where this question is coming from. the simple answer is that atrial fibrillation is one type of irregular heart beats but not the only one.
i have atrial fibrillation. i take daily concor 10mg dabigatran 220mg lasix 40mg and aldactone (spironolactone) 25mg . now i have erectile problem. what shall i do?
aldactone (spironolactone) and concor both could cause ed. please review this with your doctor to find a better alternative. do not stop medications by yourself.
i have atrial fibrillation. i take daily concor 10mg dabigatran 220mg lasix 40mg and aldactone (spironolactone) 25mg . now i have erectile problem. what shall i do?
aldactone (spironolactone) has testosterone blocking properties. consider asking your doctor about a trial discontinuation for a period of time and see if that helps. eplerenone may be an alternative if it makes a difference.
i have atrial fibrillation. i take daily concor 10mg dabigatran 220mg lasix 40mg and aldactone (spironolactone) 25mg . now i have erectile problem. what shall i do?
prescription or herbal medicines for ed are safe for you. best wishes! <link> <link>
i have atrial fibrillation and am considering whether or not to have cardioversion?
the shorter the duration of atrial fibrillation the more effective cardioversion is at converting the rhythm. when underlying cardiac pathology like mitral insufficiency or stenosis is present keeping the patient out of atrial fibrillation or converting the rhythm is quite problematic. the procedure is low risk for most people if they have been anticoagulated for several weeks beforehand as needed.
i have atrial fibrillation and am considering whether or not to have cardioversion?
make sure that your provider is either keeping you on good anticoagulation for the 3 weeks before or performs a "tee" procedure at the time of cardioversion to minimize the stroke risk. the advantages of doing the cardioversion are that you'll know whether you feel better in sinus rhythm than you do with fib and you'll know how easily you can hold normal (sinus) rhythm.
i have always had high heart beat or palpitation problem. what should i do?
palpitation is the sign of abnormal heart functioning known as atrial fibrillation. you need ekg 24 hour holter monitor 2d echo of heart and cardiologist. good luck.
if my heart is in afib can i still have a colonoscopy without any problems?
the rhythm atrial fibrillation is not incompatible with a safe colonoscopy. your dr. performing the colonoscopy needs to know you have afib and what your treatment and other history is.
is there a life long cure for afib?
unfortunately no cure for atrial fibrillation but lots of treatment.
is it common to die suddenly of ventricular fibrillation if i have wolff-parkinson-white syndrome and i'm on propranolol?
most people with wpw have no problem with it. it can however cause vf if certain arrhythmia s like atrial fibrillation happen in a wpw patient. propranolol decreases the risk of this. in patients with wpw arrhythmia ablation can remove the visible pre excitation. talk to your doc about your specific situation.
i have atrial fibrillation. i take nsaids for knee and foot pain relief. please recommend safe painkillers other than nsaids.
are antiinflammatories. curcumin is a natural antiinflammatory.
i have atrial fibrillation. i take nsaids for knee and foot pain relief. please recommend safe painkillers other than nsaids.
in average doses. . but if you are on blood thinners this must be discussed with your physician.
i have no stroke risk factors except age 77 and irregular heartbeat and two short episodes of afib in 8 month. should i take xeralto which i hate?
due to your atrial fibrillation you need to be on chronic anticoagulation medication to reduce your risk if stroke. if you cannot tolerate your current medication discuss other options with your treating physician.
what are drug treatments for atrial fibrillation?
the most important treatment is stroke prevention which is usually done by medications (aspirin or warfarin). sometimes rate control medications are used like metoprolol. if the af is severe enough stronger anti-arrhythmic medications are used like propafenone. if these do not work catheter ablation may be recommended. pacemaker and av-node ablation may be used as a last resort.
what are drug treatments for atrial fibrillation?
all patients with atrial fibrillation should be placed on anticoagulants to decrease the risk of blood clots from the atrium. drugs like warfarin or the newer drugs such as 10a inhibitors are used. drugs such as beta blockers or calcium channel blockers are used to control the heart rate. other drugs such as amiodarone or sotalol are used to try to convert atrial fibrillation back to sinus rhythm.
why does atrial fibrillation cause strokes?
the extremely rapid rates of atrial fibrillation are in fact so fast that they create two problems: the top chamber is not mechanically moving very far at all so it cannot shake clots loose in the overactive atrial tissue secretes chemicals which increase the likelihood of clot formation. these processes come together to substantially increase stroke risk.
why does atrial fibrillation cause strokes?
because blood in the left atrium is not propelled forward normally during atiral fibrillation it allows for the formation of clots. small areas of blood pooling resembling little eddy currents allow blood to slow down and form clots. if one of these clots is then propelled forward it can travel to the brain become lodged in a blood vessel and cause a stroke. a clot the size of a pinhead can do it.
what causes a person to sweat when they have ventricular fibrillation?
ventricular fibrillation causes the heart to not contract blood flow to the body ceases and the patient will die if normal or contractile rhythm isn't returned. sweating is a response to low blood pressure. when blood pressure drops with atrial fibrillation patients may have sweating. ventricular fibrillation long enough to cause perceived sweating unlikely unless reversed to better rhythm.
would a pacemaker repair atrial fibrillation?
pacemakers might be implanted as part of a care plan for af - but this only prevents slow pulses that might come as a result of medications for the af or after av-node ablation. pacemakers themselves can not prevent or control af.
would a pacemaker repair atrial fibrillation?
no it doesn't repair atrial fibrillation.
would a pacemaker repair atrial fibrillation?
efforts to use pacemakers to suppress atrial fibrillation have generally been unsuccessful. that said we do a procedure where we electrically disconnect the top and bottom chambers so the fibrillation doesn't bother you anymore. that requires a pacemaker to be implanted and works quite well for appropriately selected patients.
which exercises are safe with atrial fibrillation?
as long as the heart rate is controlled there is no contraindication to exercise with atrial fibrillation.
which exercises are safe with atrial fibrillation?
if afib is keeping you from doing what you want to do it's time to talk with a cardiac electrophysiologist about your options. as a nuisance diagnosis it's important to make sure the afib doesn't stop you from being "you. ".
which exercises are safe with atrial fibrillation?
this is between you and you cardiologist. if your controlled on meds you should be able to do most exercise that is low to medium impact if thats all you have.
what are the risks of going into atrial fibrillation?
the presence of atrial fibrillation increases the overall stroke risk in a patient however going into the rhythm is not the time of greatest risk. any "risk" is thus likely to be related only to the symptoms experienced during the fibrillation.
what are the risks of going into atrial fibrillation?
there are several risks associated with atrial fibrillation (af). the first is that af may cause the heart rate to go up which can cause symptoms of dizziness palpitations and even syncope. another more serious risk associated with af is the increased risk of stroke if left untreated. finally if the heart rate continues to run high for long periods of time heart muscle damge can occur.
what can cause atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation or afib is a very common rhythm disturbance the most common in this country. it is most often associated with hypertension but can also be associated with valvular disease specifically mitral valve disease. it can be treated with either rate control or converting back to the normal sinus rhythm. patient are often placed on blood thinners to prevent complications.
what can cause atrial fibrillation?
causes for atrial fibrillation. an easy one to evaluate for is an over active thyroid by checking a tsh. other causes are anything that causes structural damage to the heart. high blood pressure heart attacks abnormal heart valves heart defects you're born with (congenital) metabolic imbalance exposure to stimulants emphysema or other lung diseases previous heart surgery sleep apnea.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and nonvalvular atrial fibrillation?
afib is the most common heart rhythm disturbance that we treat as cardiologists and can occur in a number of clinical settings and in association with other diseases both cardiac and non-cardiac. non-valvular atrial fibrillation refers to atrial fibrillation that does not occur in the setting of mitral valve disease such as mitral stenosis or mitral regurgitation.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and nonvalvular atrial fibrillation?
nonvalvular atrial fibrillation refers to the subset of patients with atrial fibrillation not associated with valvular heart disease but constitutes the vast majority of patients with atrial fibrillation.
what are the effects of atrial fibrillation?
the most important effect of atrial fibrillation is the risk of clots arising in the atrium and causing a stroke when the clot leaves the atrium and lands in the brain. patients with atrial fib may have decreased exercise tolerance and shortness of breath due exaggerated heart rate response. patients may have fatigue due to decreased cardiac output. the feeling of palpitations may cause anxiety.
what are the effects of atrial fibrillation?
it increases the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal. additionally if the af causes a fast pulse for a prolonged period of time this may lead to weakening of the heart and cause heart failure. as far as symptoms it may cause palpitations shortness of breath chest pain syncope fatigue and sometimes none: some people are asymptomatic.
i have an afib and i'm under medication. having dizziness most of time & feel getting lost memory. using neuro-ps 200mg help improve memory? options?
the package insert on amiodorone states that it can cause all of your symptoms. apixaban is to my knowledge not available here. i had to read the package insert from germany which clearly states that it can cause light headedness from lowering blood pressure. 30 years ago i was involved in some of the initial studies on amiodarone. we had to draw frequent thyroid function tests. i recommend that you go back to your doctor and have that checked and never change any medications in the context of atrial fibrillation without having a discussion with your physician about risks benefits side effects and alternative treatments. good luck to you. falls sie deutscher sind wnsche ich ihnen das allerbeste und herzlichste gre.
is tia related to arythmia?
tia may happen for various reasons. one of common reasons is a type of heart rhythm abnormality called atrial fibrillation. it results in irregular heart beats and can cause formation of blood clots in the heart. clots may go to the brain and cause tias and strokes.
i have significant mitral valve prolapse. i stopped taking lanoxin (digoxin) when i was 21. i am no 50 and i get bad fluttering in my chest do i need it now?
find out what is behind the fluttering feeling. possibly a rhythm disturbance such as salvo of premature contractions or atrial fibrillation. i both cases i would see the internist/cardiologist as especially having afib exposes you to blood clots in the upper chamber that can lead to strokes. so my humble advise see the cardiologist asap! please do not delay!
what are the risks if i don't treat supraventricular tachycardia?
there are many types of supraventricular tachycardia. among the different types; effects & frequency vary among persons. for example for a very limited av nodal reentrant tachycardia once or twice a year that does not last long and does not go fast the effects are usually benign. however if the heart goes very fast you could pass out. atrial fibrillation of any rate increases stroke risk.
what does alcohol do to heart palpitations?
alcohol in excess can cause alteration of the heart rhythm. the "holiday heart syndrome" refers to the development of atrial fibrillation brought on by excessive alcohol intake. other rhythm disturbances such as early beats may be increased by alcohol especially if excessive.
what does alcohol do to heart palpitations?
binge drinking can lead to a number of different kinds of cardiac arrhythmias including supraventricular tachycardia (svt) and atrial fibrillation. it's so common that it is named "holiday heart. " modest social drinking (1-2 drinks) does not usually do this although there are people who are very sensitive to alcohol's effects on the heart.
which treatments control atrial fibrillation?
the most important treatment is stroke prevention which is usually done by medications (aspirin or warfarin). sometimes rate control medications are used like metoprolol. if the af is severe enough stronger anti-arrhythmic medications are used like propafenone. if these do not work catheter ablation may be recommended. pacemaker and av-node ablation may be used as a last resort.
which treatments control atrial fibrillation?
there are medications to keep the heart in a normal rhythm after a shock to restore the normal rhythm. it is also possible just to leave the patient in fibrillation and give medication to prevent the heart from beating too rapidly. either way anticoagulant drugs such as warfarin or dabigatran might be needed to prevent clots depending on how many risk fractors are present. if not many aspirin.
why would someone be unable to take a deep breaths after cardiac ablation?
when we do this particularly if it's an atrial fibrillation ablation there can be irritation of the lining of the heart (the pericardium) and it causes a sharp pain with deep breaths worse when laying down better when leaning forward. there are also more serious causes though they are more rare by far. speak with your electrophysiologist if you have concerns. simple meds may help.
why is it that i get a rapid heartbeat when i drink?
i'm assuming that by "drink" you mean alcohol? alcohol is pro-arrhythmic in susceptible people. there is generally a dose-response relationship. larger amount of alcohol are more likely to cause arrhythmias. the "holiday heart syndrome" is a term for atrial fibrillation that occurs after a weekend of heavy use. if the shoe fits wear it!
what is digoxin's role before a cardioversion?
digoxin is used especially in cases of atrial fibrillation to control the heart rate usually in conjunction with anticoagulation to thin the blood. cardioversion might then be performed once improved heart rate control had been acheieved with the medications or because the medications were not sucessful.
what is atrial fibrillation? is it serious?
atrial fibrillation is a very common arrhythmia often unclear in origin but usually due to enlarged upper heart chambers (atria). high blood pressure heart valve problems heart failure hyperthyroidism coronary disease alcohol or even spontaneous in normal people. some drop in energy may be noted but one can live normally with it. blood thinners to minimize strokes important if persists.
what is atrial fibrillation? is it serious?
af is a disorder of heart rhythm in which the electrical activity of the upper chambers becomes chaotic contraction stops & the ventricles beat too rapidly. in your age group most people feel better with restoration of normal rhythm. medication can control the rate and correct the rhythm; if not electricity will. if necessary ablation can correct it. blood thinners are sometimes needed.
what is atrial fibrillation? is it serious?
rhythm arising from atria. yes it is serious.
what are the treatments for atrial fibrillation?
the most important treatment is stroke prevention which is usually done by medications (aspirin or warfarin). sometimes rate control medications are used like metoprolol. if the af is severe enough stronger anti-arrhythmic medications are used like propafenone. if these do not work catheter ablation may be recommended. pacemaker and av-node ablation may be used as a last resort.
what are the treatments for atrial fibrillation?
new- blood thinning and cardio version heart rate controlling drugs. age and other chronic medical conditions will likely guide your therapy also.
what are the treatments for atrial fibrillation?
1) stroke prevention: nothing vs. blood thinner vs. aspirin depending on total score for stroke risk. 2) rate control: with meds to goal heart rate 80-110 bpm when in af if that controls symptoms. 3) rhythm control: for symptomatic af. can be achieved with meds or ablation procedure. success rates of either are not 100% yet. ablation can be offered from the get go and not wait till meds fail.
what is the most recommended treatment for atrial fibrillation?
anticoagulation and rate control with po meds.
what is the most recommended treatment for atrial fibrillation?
rate control or rhythm control or ablation with stroke preventative anti-coagulants are the treatments that now exist with treatment individualized based on the clinical situation of each patient.
what is the most recommended treatment for atrial fibrillation?
medications first to slow down the rate and also blood thinners to prevent stroke which could be aspirin only depending on your stroke risk.
what does atrial fibrillation feel like?
you may feel that your heart is racing sometimes you may feel like passing out you feel irregular heart beat.
what causes a rapid heartbeat even when i'm feeling relaxed?
being not relaxed is just one of many things that affects heart rate and rhythm. you could have an overactive thyroid for instance. fever can make you heart beat faster or being dehydrated. some times the heart rhythm can just become abnormal such as when a person gets atrial fibrillation.
what is the most common complication of early myocardial infarction?
the most common complication is arrhythmia which can occur very early in mi. if it's ventricular fibrillation as it tends to be in about 50% of cases the result is sudden death. heart block and atrial fibrillation also occur. other common complications are recurrent pain and congestive heart failure. less common is thromboembolism (systemic and pulmonary) causing stroke or pe and pericarditis.
what is a normal heart rate for an adult mine seems to run 160 even after sleeping all night
a normal adult heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. if your heart rate is running in the 160's you may be in an arrythmia such as atrial fibrillation or supraventricular tachycardia. you need to see a doctor right away as being in this rapid heart rate is tiring to the heart muscle and can cause tissue damager and precipitates blood clots that can lead to stroke and heart attack.
who is at risk for atrial fibrillation?
as per epocrates: cad (coronary disease) hypertension heart failure valvular disease pericardial and pleural diseases diabetes thyroid disorders disorders of the lung and advanced age are known risk factors for the development of acute af. however af may occur in the absence of any underlying cardiac or noncardiac diseases for example as a result of heavy alcohol intake.
who is at risk for atrial fibrillation?
the incidence of af increases progressively with age ranging from 2 to 3 new cases per 1000 population per year between the ages of 55 and 64 years to 35 new cases per 1000 population per year between the ages of 85 and 94 years. [4] the overall number of men and women is equal and af is less common among black people than white people.
who is at risk for atrial fibrillation?
people with other cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension or chf or have had an mi that has damaged the heart itself are all at risk for atrial fibrillation.
what is atrial flutter?
the two top chambers of the 4chamber heart are called atria. the normal heartbeat is set off in sinus node a concentrated bundle of heart cells that sets off the lub (contraction of atria) of the lub dub. every single heart cell has the capacity to depolarize & set the chambers into contraction. atrial fibrillation or flutter causes chaotic atrial contrctns. ekg in flutter looks like a saw tooth.
what is atrial flutter?
this is a rapid regular atrial rhythm from 250-350 beats per minute roughly it rarely conducts to the ventricles at 1:1. it is related to atrial fibrillation and is treated in a somewhat similar manner.
why is atrial fibrillation dangerous?
atrial fibrillation causes stagnation of blood in the atrium contributing to the formation of clots there which may travel to the brain causing a stroke or cva or sudden death.
why is atrial fibrillation dangerous?
afib isn't a fatal condition and while people who have it live shorter lives most of that is because they also have other issues. it's problematic if the lower chamber (ventricles) are driven too fast (>130/min on ongoing basis usually) which can result in impaired pumping function of the heart (rate related cardiomyopathy). many people also have disabling symptoms from the fast/irreg heart rate.
why is atrial fibrillation dangerous?
1 - if the rate goes too fast. . this can become a problem 2 - more commonly when they beat so erratically it gives an opportunity for the blood to clot in the atria and then when that clot is pushed into the ventricles it can be pushed into the circulation where it may cause an mi or cva.
i take dabigatran for atrial fibrillation. is it dangerous if i take cataflam 50 or voltaren (diclofenac) daily for joint pain?
dabigatran and nsaid type medications (voltaren (diclofenac) ; cataflam) can increase bleeding risk and nsaids can affect your kidneys with your other medications. talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits.
i take dabigatran for atrial fibrillation. is it dangerous if i take cataflam 50 or voltaren (diclofenac) daily for joint pain?
to keep my patients off nsaids particularly while taking blood thinners.
is inderal (propranolol) good med for skipped beats and fast heart rate. my dr just put me on it. 10 mg twice a day. 48 year old female with normal bp.
management of hypertension; angina pectoris; pheochromocytoma; essential tremor; supraventricular arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation and flutter av nodal re-entrant tachycardias) ventricular tachycardias (catecholamine-induced arrhythmias digoxin toxicity); prevention of myocardial infarction; migraine headache prophylaxis; symptomatic treatment of hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.
is ablation is better than medical treatment of atrial fibrilation knowing that im controlled on multaq?
catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation is reserved for the management of patients who have breakthrough atrial fibrillation spells despite treatment with arrhythmia meds like multaq. atrial fibrillation is a disease of aging and it is not unusual for patients who are controlled on medications for months or years to eventually require an ablation procedure.
what's the difference between atrial flutter and svt- and can they happen at the same time?
svt stands for supraventricular tachycardia or a fast heartbeat coming from the top part of the heart. there are many fast rhythms coming from the top of the heart: atrial tachycardia atrial fibrillation junctional tachycardia and psvt (paroxyxmal svt). atrial flutter is one of these rhythms and is characterized by a regular rapid rate of the atrium typically between 290 and 310 bpm.
what people need pacemakers?
the typical reason to get a pacemaker is slow heart rate *hr) say below 40 beats a minute. some people get pacemakers because their hr won't increase with exercise. the most common reason is atrial fibrillation which can often lead to slow hr. slow hr causes fatigue or out of breath with exertion or passing out. some people get special pacemakers to improve heart function if the heart is weak.
what is atrial fibrillation a symptom of?
atrial fibrillation is an irregular rhythm in which the atria beat at nearly 400 beats/min. it is common in older patients as a reflection of aging of the conduction system. in younger patients it can be caused by alcohol and drug abuse. it can also occur when the heart dilates as in congestive heart failure. the abnormal contractions put patients at risk for blood clots which may cause strokes.
what is atrial fibrillation a symptom of?
it isn't a symptom but an irregular heart beat that can be brought on by other heart problems thyroid disease high blood pressure genetics and many other causes many of which we are just beginning to understand.
what does someone implant to control atrial fibrillation?
in reality there are no implants that are commonly used to control atrial fibrillation. there used to be atrial defibrillators but these are not used much any more. pacemakers might be implanted as part of a care plan for af - but this only prevents slow pulses that might come as a result of medications for the af or after av-node ablation. pacemakers themselves can not prevent or control af.
what does someone implant to control atrial fibrillation?
some pts with a fib have very fast heart rates. these are treated with medications to slow the rate. if the rate goes too slow or pt has a heart block even with small amts then the patient has sick sinus syndrome or brady-tachy syndrome. you need a pacemaker to prevent slow rates while the medicine treats the fast rates.
is it possible to get atrial fibrillation at age 17?
it is possible however rare.
is it possible to get atrial fibrillation at age 17?
atrial fibrillation in a 17 year old with a normal heart is exceedingly rare. you should see an expert with expertise in looking for congenital heart disease cardiomyopathy accessory connections and cardiac channel abnormalities.
i have lymphangioleiomyomatosis &have sob on exertion. pft's ok. i also have afib. can i do pulmonary rehab w/ afib? it makes me nervous!
lam may not be the one causing you to have dyspnea but your atrial fibrillation. please ask your cardiologist to see if your heart rate increases too high when you are exercising. perhaps your medications for heart rate control may need to be adjusted. if the heart is not causing the problems then your pulmonologist may need to reassess your oxygenation and lung functions. this frustrates!
i have a bad anxiety disorder and notice that when i am stressed that is when my afib acts up and my heart goes crazy. is there an afib/anxiety link?
stress ultimately causes the release of norepinephrine or adrenaline. this can and often does worsen atrial fibrillation. make sure that your cardiologist is aware.
i have a bad anxiety disorder and notice that when i am stressed that is when my afib acts up and my heart goes crazy. is there an afib/anxiety link?
stress and anxiety could produce more catecholamines in the body. it could increase your atrial fibrillation rate. that's why your heart rate is increasing.
what is the intervention for atrial fibrillation of paramedics?
treatment depends on the patient's presentation. for someone with rapid atrial fibrillation who has a stable blood pressure the treatment is often iv medications used to slow the heart rate. the first drug is usually iv diltiazem/cardizem or a beta blocker. for patients with rapid a-fib and low blood pressure immediate cardioversion may be needed.
what is the intervention for atrial fibrillation of paramedics?
if atrial fibrillation is seen and heart rate is very rapid medications are first given by ems which usually slow it down. if however the heart rate doesn't respond to medications or the person is critically ill and the blood pressure is extremely low they need emergent cardioversion (electrical shock) to restart the heart into normal rhythm.
what is pathophysiology of atrial fibrillation?
this still remains unknown to a large extent. we know the pathophysiology is not the same in everyone. many people have afib as a result of frequent bursts of abnormal electrical activity in the pulmonary veins which enter the heart and trigger atrial muscle fibrillation. however stretching of atrial muscle can be a stimulus to trigger fibrillation as can ischemia (limited blood flow) in some.
what happens if someone takes premarin (conjugated estrogens) atenolol candesartan and flecainide acetate?
the medication you are taking are used for distinctly different reasons. premarin (conjugated estrogens) an estrogen is used for post-menopausal symptoms. atenolol and candesartan are a beta blocker and angiotensin receptor blocker used for blood pressure control. flecainide is an antiarrhythmic usually used for atrial fibrillation control. they are all acceptable to be used together for their intended purpose.
what does atrial fibrillation feel like in a person?
symptoms vary from patient to patient. some patients have no symptoms at all. possible symptoms include chest pain shortness of breath palpitations and sweating.
what does atrial fibrillation feel like in a person?
atrial fibrillation feels different to different people. it makes the heartbeat irregular so many feel thumping or pounding in the chest. the cardiac output drops so many feel fatigued tired or unable to perform as much physical activity as they used to. in extreme cases it can lead to sensations that you will pass out.
what is a nursing intervention for atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is an irregularly irregular rhythm of the heart. the biggest risk is due to embolic stroke from stagnation of the blood in the atrium. this risk is decreased by anticoagulation with coumadin (warfarin) or pradaxa. medicines such as digoxin beta blockers and calcium channel blockers control the rate. conversion can occur by adding other medication or by electrical cardioversion.
what is worse: ventricular fibrillation or atrial fibrillation?
vf is worse; it usually causes cardiac arrest which is often fatal. atrial fibrillation while not as severe also has significant health risks. it increases the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal. additionally if the af causes a fast pulse for a prolonged period of time this may lead to weakening of the heart and cause heart failure.
what is worse: ventricular fibrillation or atrial fibrillation?
ventricular fibrillation is essentially one form of heart attack. . atrial-fibrillation is mainly a problem if the resulting ventricular rate is very fast which can cause a very low blood pressure. prolonged atrial-fibrillation can also cause a blood clot to form in the atria which can break off and go to other parts of the body and cause problems such as stroke if clot goes to the brain.
what is worse: ventricular fibrillation or atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation (af) in rare instances can be a life threatening condition. however many thousands of people each day remain in af without any limitations as long as their symptoms and risks are addressed. ventricular fibrillation (vf) on the other hand if not treated immediately (usually by elecetrical defibrillation) is almost always uniformly fatal.
what does it mean when i have an irregular ekg reading during a sleep study?
it could be atrial fibrillation atrial flutter and pvcs. treatment depends on what the monitored showed. lot of times if your sleep apnea gets treated and if it improves your arrhytmia will get better also.
i have palpitations or doc says afib for past 5 months iam 39 year old male it's drivin me nuts only thing takes it away is half 0. 5 ativan (lorazepam)? help <negative_smiley>
atrial fibrillation rate is usually controlled by betablockers /or other meds or conversion by electricity or medications. or other agents ask your doctor that if this is really the culprit.
is a 9 sec episode of afib something to be concerned about? already have idiopathic dcm and bivent and struggle with chf symptoms. i am 52.
atrial fibrillation can relate to strokes heart failure embolism. so it should be controlled eliminated or anticoagulation therapy. brief may be lower risk than prolonged but still not ideal!
is a 9 sec episode of afib something to be concerned about? already have idiopathic dcm and bivent and struggle with chf symptoms. i am 52.
then yes. you should notify your doctor as recurrent atrial fibrillation will potentially worsen your chf symptoms and place you at risk for a cerebrovascular accident. if you are already "struggling" with chf this is not something you want to ignore.
is a 9 sec episode of afib something to be concerned about? already have idiopathic dcm and bivent and struggle with chf symptoms. i am 52.
you may have paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. some people get episodes of atrial fibrillation and they do not feel it. talk to your provider about it. atrial fibrillation increases your chances of stroke and you could be on medications to reduce it.
when should i be concerned of rapid heart rate? experiencing rapid heart rate for several months
the medical term for a rapid heart rhythm is tachycardia. there are many different types of tachycardias and their clinical importance depends on several key factors with heart rate being only one of those. other important variable include the type of tachycardia patients age other associated health problems etc. for example while two people may have the same heart rate (say 175 beats per minutes or bpm) the prognosis is very different in a young health person who reaches that rate only while running a marathon on a hot day (sinus tachycardia or normal fast heart rhythm) than in a heart attack survivor with a history of heart failure who has just been resuscitated from an out of hospital cardiac arrest secondary to ventricular tachycardia (a life threatening from the bottom chambers of the heart). other common tachycardias include atrial fibrillation and paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (psvt). while both of these tachycardias involve the upper chambers of the heart only atrial fibrillation is associated with an increased risk of strokes. in most patients with atrial fibrillation their stroke risk can be decreased with the use of blood thinners such as warfarin. among patients with tachycardias symptoms can range from nothing to palpitations shortness of breath and passing out to death. while most abnormal heart rhythms can be diagnosed and treated by well-trained primary care physicians cardiac electrophysiologists (cardiologists specialized in rhythm disturbances) are the experts in this area.
what do it means when your heart flutters?
atrial fibrillation or flutter is a condition where heart's conduction system is abnormal and puts you at risk for stroke. you need to see a doc to discuss anticoagulation or ablation and a thalium stress test.
what does atrial fibrillation means?
atrial fibrillation is a type of irregular heart beat that results in a fluttering (fibrillating) of the top portion of the heart.
what does atrial fibrillation means?
the atria are the chambers of the heart that pump the blood into the ventricles of the heart. if the atria are not contracting correctly they fibrillate. the atria are quivering as opposed to contracting in an organized fashion. there are treatment for this and it can be diagnosed with an ekg.
what does atrial fibrillation means?
irregular heart rate due to a disease process in the upper chambers of the heart-.
what does rapid irregular heart beats mean?
tachycardia means fast heart rate. irregular heart rhythm means heart beats are occurring irregularly. these are specific and not the same as the 'sensation' that your heart is going fast or irregularly. if the heart beat is in fact rapid and irregular as documented by an electrocardiogram (ekg) then there are a number of possibilities; most common in this category is 'atrial fibrillation'.
why would a patient be on blood thinner for high heart rate?
the fast heart rate is probably a consequence of irregular heart beats coming from the top chambers (atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter). these conditions can lead to formation of blood clots inside the heart that can lead to strokes. as such blood thinners are used to prevent it.
what can cause a heartrate to zoom to over 225 bpm? i went to the hospital but they released me without running tests because i am uninsured.
i'm sorry you had this experience. your heart rate can go that fast if you have been really pushing exercise and you are young. if you are middle aged or older it could be atrial fibrillation which can be serious. rarely anxiety can cause the heart to beat that fast in a normal pattern. high thyroid function can increase the heart rate too. please get some follow up.
what sort of problem is atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation occurs when the atria which deliver blood to the ventricles receive an abnormal electrical signal and then beat erratically instead of in a coordinated strong beat. the danger of atrial fibrillation is that the blood in the atria tends to stay there instead of getting pumped fully into the ventricles. this slow moving blood in the atria can then form blood clots.
what sort of problem is atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is a disorder of heart rhythm and is caused by abnormal electrical impulses originating around the pulmonary vein that spread to the upper heart chambers (atria). it can cause palpitations shortness of breath and fatigue. the main risk is formation of blood clots in the heart that can cause stroke or peripheral embolization.
what sort of problem is atrial fibrillation?
when the upper chambers (atria) stop contracting due to electrical chaos the lower chambers (ventricles) beat rapidly and irregularly. a person with af may be unaware aware or very bothered. if other risk factors are present the risk of blood clots and stroke may be increased. treatment involves rate control anticoagulation and restoration of normal rhythm - all individualized for each pt .
what do you recommend for atrial flutter?
atrial flutter unlike atrial fibrillation most often results in the atria beating at about 300 bpm with the ventricles beating at about 150. this rapid rate is annoying difficult to slow with medication and is best treated by converting the rhythm to normal (or to atrial fibrillation). this requires blood thinning and then special meds plus electrical cardioversion if the meds alone fail.
what would cause your pulse to remain over 100bpm at rest with no history of heart disease?
dehydration caffeine anxiety anemia high thyroid hormone levels are a few. meds like albuterol can also. amphetamines can cause tachycardia for over a day. it sounds like you might be most concerned with arrythmias like atrial fibrillation flutter or others. your physician will evaluate possible causes and treat or refer you to a specialist.
what would cause fast heart rate and pvcs while drinking? ii have a history of pvcs and sinus tachycardia.
atrial fibrillation is disorganized heart muscle activity (looks like quivering) of the upper chambers of the heart. the result is that the bottom chamber doesn't get it's usual rhythmic electrical stimulus and it squeezes after slowly filling for longer than it usually takes. this feels like fluttering with strong beats in between. you need medical attention -- can be dangerous.
what are the causes of atrial fibrillation and can it be transient. i am a 60 yr old male with treated hypertension and elevated cholesterol.?
af can be due to normal wear and tear as occurs in htn and the aging process. aging causes insertion of non-conducting tissue (scar) between normal heart cells which is bad. all old people get this but not all old people get af. why? we know that nests of cells fire crazily at times triggering af. these nests are frequently located in pulmonary veins. but why and what triggers them?
what are the causes of atrial fibrillation and can it be transient. i am a 60 yr old male with treated hypertension and elevated cholesterol.?
atrial fibrillation (af) can be transient. if you use alcohol or caffeine in quantity stop. [seek help if withdrawal occurs]. be sure your bp is well-treated. seek an ideal weight and prudent diet. most af in older individuals is a result of cumulative injury to the conduction system in the heart from thickening/high bp/cholesterol.
i have atrial fibrillation for a couple of hours each month should i ask my doctor for rate control drugs-there seems to be different opinions. thanks?
you're correct there are a lot of options and a lot of it comes down to your preferences and discussions with your doctor. for atrial fibrillation we think of three things: minimizing risk of stroke with anticoagulation controlling the heart rate and managing symptoms. if you are feeling ok a few hours a month of afib symptoms could be ok and may not necessarily need a change in strategy.
if i have experienced atrial fibrillation recently but am back in rhythm should i go on a international trip or cancel.
this really depends on a few things including what your symptoms were like in atrial fibrillation whether your doctor is changing your medications and how you are feeling now. in general it is best to check with your doctor but if your heart rate was ok your symptoms were mild or nonexistent and your stroke risk is appropriately addressed with anticoagulation it would probably be ok to go.
i have a pacemaker due to afib. my medication is solatol and warfarin. is this a correct combination? i have never had high blood pressure.
this certainly sounds like a reasonable medical regimen for someone with atrial fibrillation in whom the physician and the patient are working towards keeping your rhythm normal. however to know for sure more information is really required.
i have afib and anxiety bp normally 116/70 on meds hr65to75. woke up today and bp has been 150/99 hr 99 to 110 all day any cause for concern?
if you have atrial fibrillation and your pulse and bp have been high all day you should see your physician today. if it's now too late for that call the doctor on call -- who may want you to go to an urgent care center to be checked.
what are the common symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
highly variable: some people are entirely unaware. others feel their heart beating irregularly or "fluttering" & may notice rapid heart rate. commonly people notice fatigue and their exercise capacity is mildly reduced. sedentary people usually don't notice any change. younger people & folks with their 1st bout tend to be more aware. frequent bouts and older people are less likely to notice.
what are the common symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
palpitations shortness of breath heavy or pressure sensation in the chest are all frequent symptoms. sometimes weakness or marked fatigue can occur. you can feel your pulse in your wrist or neck and check if it's irregular. while other conditions can cause an irregular pulse atrial fibrillation is one of the more common reasons.
why can't i get accurate reading on my heart rate wrist monitor?
one common reason is if you have an irregular heart rhythm like atrial fibrillation. other possibilities are technical: fresh batteries? correct positioning? good contact? does it work on other people? if not it may be defective. has is ever worked on you? if so what's changed? if it's never been accurate it may not be a good unit - i'd advise an arm cuff if you decide to replace it.
would you take an antiarrhythmic drug to maintain normal sinus rhythm?
it depends. it won't prolong life or prevent strokes but it may improve the quality of life if atrial fibrillation is significantly bothersome. cather ablation is another option if drugs don't work or have significant side effects.
with a-fib is it safe to ride roller coasters if your a-fib is being treated with medications? in sept. i was hospitalized with a-fib with a cardiac cath a hole was found in my heart apparently i was born with it. i am currently taking flecanide acetate
treatment for atrial fibrillation is based on symptoms. the stimulation of the ride may increase your heart rate (which is the reason most people ride them after all). if you don't have problems with rapid palpitation on the roller coaster there is no reason not to ride it.
what does it mean when your heart skips a beat?
the heart beats by electrical conduction system through the cardiac muscles - sometimes it can skip a beat or beat irregularly - these are known as arrythmias. there are benign kinds (such as psvt pvc) and more dangerous kinds such as atrial fibrillation. an ekg will give you the answer.
what causes atrial fib?
there are many factors that can lead to atrial fibrillation. common predisposing conditions include hypertension heart failure sleep apnea and genetic predisposition.
what causes atrial fib?
the two most common causes of atrial fibrillation are hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) and degenerative disease of the cardiac conduction system as we get older. other causes include heart surgery alcohol (chronic intoxication) and conditions which enlarge the atria (like heart valve problems).
what do i do to get my heart palpitations under control?
what's causing the palpitation? that is the key to your symptoms. do you have hyperthyroidism anxiety atrial fibrillation ohter heart dysrythmias severe anemia fever excess alcohol use (binge) energy drinks etc.
i have a very low (41bpm) and irregular heart rate. what are common conditions that cause this?
a low and irregular heart rate of 41 would often be due to atrial fibrillation with high degree av block. hypothyroidism would be a common cause of such a problem.
i had an ekg done today and the doctor found it irregular. is it possible there is nothing wrong and if there is what could it be?
some irregular hb are a variation of normal (sings arrhythmia) many others are very common and quite harmless (pac pvc ) others may require further evaluation or treatment (atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation). check with your doc to get more specifics about your particular irregular rhythm.
i had an ekg done today and the doctor found it irregular. is it possible there is nothing wrong and if there is what could it be?
there are many causes of an irregular heart rhythm. it is possible to have sinus arrhythmia which is a variant of normal. it is also possible to have atrial fibrillation with variable atrioventricular conduction. this is a very fast heart rate in the top chambers with only irregular conduction to the lower chambers of the heart. this can be serious. there are multiple other possible rhythms.
if a patient has an pt of 60. 1 and is taking plavix (clopidogrel) for atrial fibrillation what orders would you take? would you discontinue the plavix (clopidogrel)?
with a pt of 60 your risk of bleeding is high. why you have it is a problem. plavix (clopidogrel) is an anti platelet agent but at the risk of bleeding you have i would stop it. your doctor has to talk to you and find out all the medicine you are taking evaluate your liver and your coagulation system to find out why you have coagulopathy.
what are the risks if you don't treat supraventricular tachycardia?
if you have no symptoms there are no risks. the treatment of svt is for symptomatic relief. (atrial fibrillation patients: this does not apply to you - in af the rate must be controlled and some people need anticoagulation. ).
what's the difference between an svt wolf-parkinson-white syndrome and fibrilations?
svt or supraventricular tachycardia is a condition in which the upper chamber of the heart causes the heart to beat very fast. wpw or wolf parkinson white syndrome is a condition where te heart has a propensity to abnormal electrical conduction that may predispose people to have svt atrial fibrillation (where the upper chamber of the heart beats chaotically) or other heart rhythm issues.
what can a doctor tell me about my risk for fast heart rate?
heart rate itself when in normal rhythm is highly variable and depends on many factors. when abnormal rhythm develops such as atrial fibrillation or flutter fast heart rates are usually avoided with medications or other therapy. if you have some types of valvular heart disease you might be at higher risk for atrial fibrillation and also if your left atrium is large on echo.
would an echocardiogram detect an atrial fibrillation?
although an echocardiogram can detect atrial fibrillation there are easier ways to diagnose it. your doctor should be able to tell if your pulse is irregular and confirm afib with a simple ekg. atrial fibrillation sometimes makes interpretation of an echocardiogram more difficult if the heart rate is too fast.
would an echocardiogram detect an atrial fibrillation?
no not unless you happened to be in af at the time of the echo. it can detect signs that a heart is prone to atrial fibrillation like enlarged atria.
what are the symptoms of rheumatic heart disease?
rhd causes thickening and blockage (stenosis) of the mitral valve which can lead to congestive heart failure (shortness of breath swelling fatigue). in addition the left atrium enlarges which often interferes with conduction of electrical impulses resulting in atrial fibrillation. without treatment blood clots can form in the enlarged and stagnant left atrium leading to stroke.
is ssri antidepressant ok for multi infarct stroke patient age 67 suffering atrial fibrillation heart issues diabetes higher creatine level.
there should be no contraindication the use of ssri and a person who's had a prior stroke.
what are the tests for atrial fibrillation?
if the atrial fibrillation is ongoing then an electrocardiogram will show it. if it only occurs from time to time then there are different types of monitors that a patient can use at home to record the heart rhythm; this is another type of electrocardiogram sometimes referred to as an event recorder.
what are the tests for atrial fibrillation?
the first step is to make a diagnosis and an ekg is the easiest way if you are in the arrhythmia. otherwise a holter or an event monitor would be needed.
what are the tests for atrial fibrillation?
a clue may be irregular pulse on exam. to make the diagnosis officially some recording of the heart rhythm needs to be made. this can be via 12-lead ekg 24-hr holter monitor or 30-day loop monitor. sometimes it is picked up by telemetry when in the hospital. other tests (echo stress test) might be ordered when the diagnosis of af is made to look for other related heart conditions.
what are cordarone betapace (sotalol) procanbid used for?
they are used for abnormal rhythms of the heart usually for atrial fibrillation but also used for ventricular arrhythmias such as ventricular tachycardia.
why do you take betapace xocor digoxin and coumadin (warfarin) with atrial fibrillation and sinus tachycardia?
actually atrial fibrillation and sinus tachycardia are two completely different heart rhythms. none of these drugs would be of any use for sinus tachycardia. in atrial fibrillation betapace may restore a normal rhythm. digoxin can help keep the heart rate down. coumadin (warfarin) reduces the risk of stroke. zocor also reduces stroke risk in some patients but this is unrelated to the atrial fib.
why do you take betapace xocor digoxin and coumadin (warfarin) with atrial fibrillation and sinus tachycardia?
you're all over the map on this one. in order: 1) control the rhythm (keep you in sinus) 2) [unrelated - treat high cholesterol and/or blocked coronary arteries] 3) control the rate when having fibrillation (this drug is largely ineffective in a 37yo) 4) prevent strokes from the fibrillation.
i have afib type ii diabetes hypertension hypothyroidism bipolar ii. wondering if all conditions may be related somehow. all came about in 2 yrs?
patients who are genetically predisposed to metabolic syndrome can develop diabetes and hypertension with weight gain. uncontrolled hypertension and diabetes is a risk factors for atrial fibrillation. severe hypothyroidism can cause some weight gain which reverses with adequate thyroid hormone replacement. so some of these disorders could be linked.
i was wondering is an irregular heart beat bad? could it become deadly?
an ekg will help sort out the risk. an irregular heart beat may represent atrial fibrillation which can increase the risk of stroke heart attack and death. this is very serious but not all irregular beats are so serious. you should be checked out by your doctor.
what is the indication for surgical ablation (av node ablation) for atrial fibrillation?
we don't generally do this with surgery but rather with a "catheter" based procedure (wire we thread into the heart that cauterizes the av node). this procedure provides complete control of the heart rate in the lower chamber and excellent symptom control but makes people dependent on the pacemaker that *must* be implanted with this procedure.
what is the indication for surgical ablation (av node ablation) for atrial fibrillation?
patients with atrial fibrillation and have difficulty controlling their rate can be treated with an av node ablation which is a procedure that damages the av node so that it won't conduct the beat. this results in complete heart block and is treated with a pacemaker. more recent treatments for af include an af ablation which gets rid of the af directly and does not require a pacemaker.
what is the indication for surgical ablation (av node ablation) for atrial fibrillation?
cather ablation of the av node is reserved for patients who can not get the pulse rate under control by any other method - it is usually only used as a last resort. before this medications are tried and usually some sort of catheter ablation for atrial fib specifically (not just the av node). a pacemaker is required prior to av node ablation.
what is the indication for surgical ablation (av node ablation) for atrial fibrillation?
to control the ventricular response rate (pulse rate) to the atrial fibrillation when all other medications have failed contraindicated or are not tolerated due to unacceptable side effects.
why would i sometimes get dizzy shakey and a feel a rapid heart beat all of a sudden?
palpitations with symptoms of dizziness should be evaluated by cardiologist. it could be atrial fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia etc.
what causes clots in patients with atrial fibrillation?
the extremely rapid rates of atrial fibrillation are in fact so fast that they create two problems: the top chamber is not mechanically moving very far at all so it cannot shake clots loose and the overactive atrial tissue secretes chemicals which increase the likelihood of clot formation. these processes come together to substantially increase stroke risk.
what causes clots in patients with atrial fibrillation?
the rapid rhythm in the upper chamber (atrium) cause a stagnation of blood flow through it - it beats too fast to force the blood through it efficiently. because of this the left atrial appendage (laa) is the area where >90% of the clots form in af. clots in the laa break off and flow out of the heart and can cause a stroke. anticoagulation - blood thing medications - reduce this risk.
what is the disease where ventricular fibrillation happens all the time or a lot of the time?
v-fib that lasts more than a few seconds is typically lethal and results in sudden death. atrial fibrillation (a-fib) is a different thing entirely which is a common heart rhythm abnormality. some people live in constant afib some people their afib is come-and-go. if it is afib you are referring to it is commonly managed with a combination of medications and procedures.
what is the most effective way to cure afib?
with the evidence we have currently catheter ablation is probably the most effective cure for atrial fibrillation (afib). however that doesn't mean it's appropriate for everyone. discuss with you electrophysiologist.
what medications are prescribed for atrial fibrillation?
the most important treatment is stroke prevention which is usually done by medications (aspirin or warfarin). sometimes rate control medications are used like metoprolol. if the af is severe enough stronger anti-arrhythmic medications are used like propafenone. if these do not work catheter ablation may be recommended. pacemaker and av-node ablation may be used as a last resort.
what medications are prescribed for atrial fibrillation?
for rare control metoprolol diltiazem carvidelol most common rhythm control is amiodarone most common. also include sotalol procainamide dofetilide (tikosyn) multaq( new medication since last few yr).
is my hr normal playing basketball hr is 160 resting heart rate is 45-55 bpm bp usually is 114/76 i am 6ft 5 inch tall and weigh 215 pnds?
max. hr = 220-age. vigorous workout usually 70-90% of max. (132-170 for a 31 yo male). the heart rate should peak and return to resting rate over few minutes. if rate starts or drops suddenly or the rhythm is irregular you may be experiencing svt or atrial fibrillation (af). if so seek medical attention. taller people are at higher risk of af. go to er if chest pain passing out or dizzy.
i was on dofetilide and it worked for almost 5 yes w/o incident. would drinking a beer affect the potency of this med and cause it not to work.
if you have atrial fibrillation excessive alcohol intake can precipitate an event. dofetilide has an additional potential to cause dangerous cardiac rhythms if you use have low potassium/magnesium levels or use certain medications (see qtdrug. org for meds to avoid).
i was on dofetilide and it worked for almost 5 yes w/o incident. would drinking a beer affect the potency of this med and cause it not to work.
drinking a lot of beer causes atrial fibrillation. it's independent of dofetilide. it's called the holiday heart syndrome. see: <link> how many beers is safe? up to 2 a day. (1 for women).
what can cause a rapid heart beat?
tachycardia can be physiological or pathological. exercise caffiene can increase heart rate. meanwhile diseases of the heart like atrial fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia congestive heart failure ventricular tachycardia can cause heart to speed up.
what is good for treating tachycardia and irregular heart beat?
a thorough work up should be done. if possible the exact type of arrythmia should be determined and this will help target and treat the underlying problem. as a general rule beta blockers will help. if its atrial fibrillation then anticoagulation may be needed. occasionally eps will be needed an ablation used to treat the problem. blood work to check for electrolyte thyroid levels echo for mvp.
why am i having rapid heart beat and breathing problems all of a sudden on stairs. i did ok a year ago at 60?
if you are having rapid heart rate on climbing up stairs (which did not happen before) you really need to get checked it could be atrial fibrillation or chf etc.
why do i get an occasional rapid heart beat when drinking?
there are many abnormalities of the hearts electrical system that may cause a rapid heart beats. occasionally alcohol triggers them. binge drinking can cause atrial fibrillation. we call it holiday heart.
what is the ecg finding for an atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter?
in atrial fibrillation there are no p waves seen or the p waves are highly irregular and not directly correlated with the qrs complexes. in atrial flutter constant regularized activity is seen generally without a fixed baseline.
what is the ecg finding for an atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter?
there are small waves from the atrial activity on 12-lead ecg. normally these are single well defined p waves during sinus rhythm. for flutter they are rapid and regular often with a "sawtooth" pattern. for fib the atrial activity is very random irregular and sometimes hard to see. atypical flutter can be hard to distinguish from "coarse" af by ecg.
i have a-fib and svt. are these one in the same or are they 2 different conditions? what is the difference in the two?
atrial fibrillation is one type of supra-ventricular tachycardia. in atrial fibrillation the atria (top chamber) fires on its own and there is no coordination with the ventricle (the main pumping mechanism). atrial fibrillation is usually associated with an "irregularly irregular rhythm".
i have gerd. i feel some quick spasms/pressure in chest that change my pulse. i'm checking it in the neck and i noticed that it jumps the beat.
you could very well have some cardiac issues occurring (like irregular heartbeat) which can and should be diagnosed soon. they can be very innocent like atrial fibrillation or they can be very serious and need medical intervention to prevent significant problems. see your physician soon to find out if your condition is innocent or if you need medical management for it. \.
what is a cardiac arrhythmia?
arrhythmia is when the heart beats too fast or too slow and when the normal pattern of the heart beats is disturbed. it is a general term that include several conditions like atrial fibrillation or flutter supraventricular and ventricular tachycardia or other forms of heart blocks
whats the relationship between having a fast metabolism and a fast heart rate?
by fast metabolism if you mean that it's actually been measured and is abnormal such as with a suppressed thyroid stimulating hormone level then yes - it causes fast heart rate (sinus tach) atrial fibrillation and psvt (abnormal very fast rhythms). but many people just feel that they are fast metabolizers and there is no direct correlation with heart rhythm.
what is the role of arixtra in the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation?
this particular agent is only given subcutaneously so its use is pretty much limited to if we just focus on atrial fibrillation here those patients who cannot take an oral anticoagulant but are felt by their doctors to be at high risk for an embolic stroke or event in the setting of atrial fibrillation. there are oral medications that have similar mechanisms of action and validated efficacy.
what makes a pacemaker necessary for atrial fibrillation? my husband is in and out of it every few days weak intolerant of beta blockers and has bp.
pacemakers might be implanted as part of a care plan for af - but this only prevents slow pulses that might come as a result of slow pulse with af medications for the af or after av-node ablation. pacemakers themselves can not prevent or control af. a pacemaker may help your husband tolerate bblockers at higher dose (prevent the slow pulse) and therefore more effectively treat his af.
what makes a pacemaker necessary for atrial fibrillation? my husband is in and out of it every few days weak intolerant of beta blockers and has bp.
in people who have failed other attempts we can electrically disconnect the top and bottom chambers controlling the lower chambers with a pacemaker afterward. this provides excellent symptom control in well-selected patients but does nothing to stop the fibrillation. long term blood thinners are still required.
what makes a pacemaker necessary for atrial fibrillation? my husband is in and out of it every few days weak intolerant of beta blockers and has bp.
pacemaker are sometimes placed in people who have atrial fibrillation and need to take meds to stop it but there heart rate is low. the pacemaker serves to keep the heart rate from going too low but won't keep someone out of atrial fib. medicines called antiarrhhythmics and control of blood pressure will keep patients out of af.
what makes a pacemaker necessary for atrial fibrillation? my husband is in and out of it every few days weak intolerant of beta blockers and has bp.
an essential component in controlling af is controlling heart rate which tends to be too fast if not treated. beta blockers are effective but some people are overly sensitive and have a hr that is too slow. a pacemaker is then indicated to avoid xs bradycardia. some antiarrhythmic drugs require simultaneous use of a bb for safety as well. a pm protects against pauses and slow hr.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and ventricular fibrillation?
ventricular fibrillation is from the bottom chamber; vf is worse; it usually causes cardiac arrest which is often fatal. atrial fibrillation - from the top chamber- while not as severe also has significant health risks. it increases the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal.
what does it mean if i have absent p waves on ekg?
on an ekg if you have absent p waves most often it means you have atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and flutter?
atrial flutter is a very organized rhythm in which electricity gets stuck in a loop going round and round much like cars on a nascar racetrack. atrial fibrillation is a more complex rhythm in which the majority of the atrium is in chaos driven by a focus known as a rotor. atrial fibrillation is much harder to cure than atrial flutter however rate control is usually better for fibrillation.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and flutter?
atrial fib is a chaotic irregular contraction of the top chambers of the heart (atria). atrial flutter is a rapid but regular beating of the atria. both can lead to the same symptoms both can cause irregular pulse both have a risk of stroke. usually flutter is easier to treat with a catheter ablation than af is. an ekg can often tell the difference.
what is the effect of atrial fibrillation?
two issues with afib. the first is stroke. afib is a risk for stroke and thus all patients with afib need some sort of blood thinner. whether that is an aspirin or full anticoagulants such as coumadin (warfarin) depends on your risks and your doctor will let you know that. the second is heart rate. if the afib is too fast or too slow the rate will need to be treated also.
what is the effect of atrial fibrillation?
a fib causes the upper chambers to beat very fast so that they quiver instead of beating in a coordinated fashion. this can result in blood pooling in the upper chambers increasing the risk of clot formation which can cause stroke. a fib results in an irregular sometimes fast pulse rate which can cause symptoms such as palpitations shortness of breath fatigue dizziness and chest pain.
what conditions require the use of an automatic electric defibrillator (aed)?
well only ventricular fibrillation ventricular tachycardia and ventricular flutter require the use of a defibrillator though we also use them to treat atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter in symptomatic patients.
why do people take beta-blocker's?
angina coronary artery disease high blood pressure chf atrial fibrillation and other heart rhythm disorders palpitations public speaking anxiety tremor and migraines all can see some benefit from beta blockers. cad chf af and bp are the most common reasons.
what is lanoxin (digoxin) used for?
lanoxin (digoxin) is used in treatment of heart failure & atrial fibrillation.
what does it mean if i have heart palpatations?
palpitations have a number of potential causes. at your age and of course presuming no use of illegal substances caffein is the most common cause. a very bad heart arrhythmia called atrial fibrillation is also a cause and this does need immediate medical attention. seek medical advice and an ecg and possible holter monitor. stop the coffee.
which medicines are good for atrial fibrillation?
some meds are good to control the heart rate in af others are to try to control the rhythm and maintain normal sinus rhythm. in addition blood thinners (anticoagulant meds) need to be considered for some people. so there is not an easy answer. if this applies to you and you are only 40 you should also consider a curative ablation procedure.
what are the symptoms of wpw?
wpw can be completely asymptomatic if no tachycardias. when symptomatic it is the symptoms of the tachycardia caused by the reentry. if the arrhythmia is atrial fibrillation with excessive av conduction the symptom could be syncope or death.
what can we do if my mother has been in atrial fibrillation for the last three months?
the most important question is what previous treatment has been tried for the atrial fibrillation. if the answer is none a cardioversion and use of an antiarrhythmic drug may be a reasonable option. if your mother has repeatedly failed this treatment a cardiac electrophysiologist may be able to assist you.
what can we do if my mother has been in atrial fibrillation for the last three months?
there are many options for someone in this situation. she may need to consider going on a blood thinner to prevent a blood clot in the heart as well as medications to control her heart rate. but it is important for her to see a cardiologist and if possible where you live a cardiac electrophysiologist who specializes in abnormal heart rhythms.
what's an irregular heartbeat called?
the most common are atrial fibrillation or premature atrial contractions.
what can be done for a patient in india with atrial fibrillation?
the same as we do in usa or any other country in the world. the geographic situation in the times of globalization makes the treatments widely available. another story is the cost of them across the globe.
when is? digitalis? used to cure abnormal heart rhythms?
digitalis is used to control the ventricular rates of some abnormal fast atrial arrhythmias or svt. in atrial fibrillation it is utilized to control the fast rate. it does not "cure" the problem nor does it actually prevent the atrial arrhythmias as antiarrhythmic medications would.
is psvt the same as afib?
paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia is a fast and regular arrhythmia. atrial fibrillation is a fast and irregular arrhythmia.
is psvt the same as afib?
atrial fibrillation is a form of svt. psvt is a specific paroxysmyal regular supraventricular abnormal rhythm. atrial fibrillation may be paroxysmal and is a rapid supraventricular rhythm but is irregular.
i have copd and asthma i had a ecg done 2 weeks ago and had the results my left and right atrial are enlarged i am not on oxygen. any advice please!
it is very unusual just on the basis of copd and asthma alone to have both atria to be enlarged unless there is something else like an arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation which is not uncommonly associated with chronic lung disease. other causes like coexisting mitral valve disease would have been identified by the echo
i was pause for 7 seconds when my heart fibrilation. is it dangerous? whether requiring a pacemaker? thank you
a pause of 7 seconds is long enough for some people to case symptoms of weakness dizziness etc particularly if it is happening regularly. a pacemaker would help in this instance but it is just that. it prevents the heart from slowing but it does not make the heart any stronger. the atrial fibrillation however has more serious consequences like stroke and requires more attention
what makes atrial fibrillation not immediately life threatening while ventricular fibrillation is?
the rhythms in the top chamber during atrial fibrillation can reach and exceed 600 bpm. if this were conducted directly to the lower chamber it would be as fatal as ventricular fibrillation. however nature built in a circuit breaker called the av node between the two such that only some of the top chamber heartbeats in fibrillation make it to the bottom chamber.
what makes atrial fibrillation not immediately life threatening while ventricular fibrillation is?
afib has the protection of the av node which is electrical relay station between the artia and ventricles which slows conduction and limits rate of signals to the ventricles. with vfib no protection exists.
what could cause sudden rapid heart beat and shortness of breath?
cardiac causes atrial fibrillation flutter svt v. tach myocardial infarction pericarditis etc. noncardiac causes- pneumonia pleurisy copd etc.
what is the role of enalapril and digoxin when taken together?
enalapril is a bp medication. digoxin is frequently used as intorope in chf or for rate control in atrial fibrillation.
why are chf patients in and out of afib a lot?
atrial fibrillation is common when left atrium is dilated or under a pressure or volume load. these are the loading conditions which are present during chf. this is why afib is common in chf.
why are chf patients in and out of afib a lot?
not all are however in chf the atria become stretched from increased filling pressures over time & as these atria enlarge the electrical conduction system becomes damaged or dud formed with the result being atrial fibrillation.
i am on flecainide and warfarin for atrial fibrillation and i am now in sinus rhythm. do i also need bisoperal fumerate?
flecainide is a specific medication to prevent recurrence of atrial fib. bisoprolol is a beta blocker and can prevent rapid heart rate if you go back to atrial fib although it is not the drug commonly use. you may have another reason that your doctor preferred this such as hypertension. check with your prescribing doctor. it is always best to ask when given a prescription.
i am on flecainide and warfarin for atrial fibrillation and i am now in sinus rhythm. do i also need bisoperal fumerate?
flecainide should always be combined with a beta-blocker or calcium channel blocker
what is relatinoship of low blood pressure high pulse rate?
get high enough blood pressure can fall but this is usually observed in irregular rhythms like atrial fibrillation or flutter or ventricular tachycardia where the atrial contribution to filling is lost.
what medicine is good for atrial fibrillation?
to prevent stroke we need to use coumadin (warfarin) or pradaxa for rapid atrial fibrillation we can use digoxin beta blockers and antoarrythmic drugs or calcium channel blockers.
what's the difference between vfib and afib?
ventricular fibrillation is from the bottom chamber; vf is worse; it usually causes cardiac arrest which is often fatal. atrial fibrillation - from the top chamber- while not as severe also has significant health risks. it increases the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal.
what's the difference between vfib and afib?
fibrillation is disorganized electrical activity in cardiac cells due to numerous reasons. when it happens in the upper chambers of the heart it's called atrial fibrillation and when it happens in the lower chambers of the heart it's called ventricular fibrillation. ventricular fibrillation leads to death unless the heart is defibrillated. atrial fibrillation does not but it can lead to stroke
what could it mean when you wake up at the middle of the night woth your heart beating fast?
at age 35. this could be as simple as too much caffiene. . but it could also represent a more serious problem of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or arrhythmias due to sleep apnea. an evaluation by your pcp should be done possibly a holter monitor and a sleep study.
i have sarcoidosis of the lungs but i'm having heart palps already had mri my heart was fine but still having heart palps could mri miss cardiac sarc?
would miss it. sarcoidosis is a strange illness that can affect the heart and lungs. most common us congestive heart failure but atrial fibrillation is also a complication and could be felt as palpitations and would not show up on the mri. has your doctor checked for this with an event recorder or holter? just a thought. mri looks for structural things. i'm thinking more electrical.
i have a pacemaker now. my heart doctors want to do another surgery. my heart is still going to fast are to slow. what other surgerys would they do.
you might have atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular heart rate. the pacemaker can support your heart when it is slow but will not be helpful for a fast heart rate. in this case the doctor will go in and ablate or cut the atrial ventricular node and allow the pacemaker to pace your heart at a regular slower rate alternately if is a flutter or paroxysmal atrial tachycardia then ablate
what are rapid heart beat dizziness and blurred vision symptoms of?
dizziness and blurred vision can be symptoms of a rapid heart rate. now we need to find out why you or some one has rapid heart rate--- several causes- atrial fibrillation flutter sinus tachycardia ventricular tach supraventricular tachy cardia. it is imperative that you see a doctor asap if you have these symptoms.
irregular heart rate the last week. bpm 90-95 and irregular rate. cause for concern?
a heart rate that feels irregular could be a number of things from benign variations in heart rate with breathing inspiration versus expiration to abnormal irregular rhythms such as atrial fibrillation. you should see your doctor to have it checked and have an ekg done to determine the specific rhythm it is to make sure it is not an abnormal one that would need further attention.
irregular heart rate the last week. bpm 90-95 and irregular rate. cause for concern?
irregular heart beat with bpm 90-95. probably atrial fibrillation causes;coronary artery disease thyroid disorder hypertension atrial septal defect cardiomyopathy mitral valve prolapse ihss. tests:keg holter monitoring echocardiogram x-ray chest ct scan cardiac catheterzation eps evaluation thyroid function tests tsh stress testing with stress echo thallium stress test. treatment:beta blockers card
is it possible to have atrial fibrillation and not detect it by a bp monitor or taking the pulse? my husband feels weak and lethargic.
blood pressure machines can detect an irregular pulse but cannot diagnose atrial fibrillation and they are far from perfect. same goes for taking your pulse. at times atrial fibrillation and especially atrial flutter can be fairly regular and not even show up as an irregular rhythm by these methods. he needs an ekg or a heart monitor that shows the rhythm
is it possible to have atrial fibrillation and not detect it by a bp monitor or taking the pulse? my husband feels weak and lethargic.
generally atrial fib is detected by checking the pulse which is "irregularly irregular. " sometimes if the rate is fast it could be hard to tell if it is indeed irregular. but if your husband feels weak and lethargic one would expect that his pulse would not be "normal. " it should be too fast too too slow or too irregular.
i had a pacemaker put in last year and had a ablation done also. now they want to do a atrial ventricular node. how would this help me?
av node ablation prevents the fast heart rhythm in the upper chambers (such as svt or atrial fibrillation) from affecting the lower chambers. if the fast rate of the lower chambers can not be controlled it could damage your heart. the concern is that the av node ablation leaves you dependent on the pacemaker for life. continue discussing with heart rhythm specialist to answer all questions.
what are the chances that a 55 yr old man's atrial fibrillation can be corrected?
the answer to your question depends on several factors including your overall state of health other medical conditions you have and the extent of changes already present within your heart. a healthy 55-year-old man with no other problems has as much as 50 to 70% chance of getting rid of fibrillation with a procedure we call an ablation. surgical options are also available.
what diet can i eat which will digest more easily since hard to digest foods causes afib? is there medicine for this?
i know of know foods except stimulants that agravate atrial fibrillation. ie caffein. there are many medications to help control atrial fibrillation. note atrial fibrillation has a very real risk of stroke. need to discuss diagnosis and treatment strategy with you doctor and cardiology. atrial fibrillation can occur spontaneously but also can have underling cause that needs treatment.
i'm a cardiomyopathy patient and i've been extremely fatigued. my heart rate has been elevated in the 100-105 at rest. should i be concerned?
depends on the type of cardiomyopathy. if this is different from your baseline then you should get checked by your physician. cardiomyopathy patients are at risk of arrhythmias particularly atrial fibrillation and decompensation both of which will increase your baseline heart rate
i'm on warfarin and flecainide. why should flecainide should always be used in conjunction with a beta blocker or a calcium channel blocker?
atrial fibrillation can still recur with flecainide and flecainide does not prevent rapid heart rate from atrial fib. thus the need for drugs like beta blockers and either of the 2 calcium channel blockers that effectively controls the rate just in case.
i have a small left sided heart abnormal septal motion and svt can this cause blood clots to form?
atrial fibrillation can predispose to heart clots but not svt or abnormal septal motion. they are very different problems.
i am in rhythm on flecainide. if i stop it and af recurs and i take it again a) is stop and start more dangerous b)less likely to be successful?
you should have this discussion with your physicians for the best viewpoint on your situation. from the information here of a pfo closure and afib possibly related to it one might expect a higher risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation recurring.
i understand that i should monitor potassium on flecainide/warfarin. why and how do i do this?
persons with atrial fibrillation often are taking a diuretic which can deplete potassium from the body. that in turn can contribute to arrhythmias. the potassium test is part of the metabolic panel of blood tests which can be drawn by your doctor.
what happens if the doctor defibs someone not in cardiac arrest?
if ventricular tachycardia atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation they will be cardioverted possibly. if person was in normal rhythym they will have had a shock and muscles will be sore!
what r the long term side effects to being 100% paced with a dual lead pacemaker? i have one &am paced100%@bottom 70%@top i am almost 30yrs old.
right ventricular apical pacing(tradtional lead position) greater than 40%is associated with increased risk of atrial fibrillation ventricular dysfunction and heart failure. new pacing algorythms(programming) and alternative right ventricular lead positions that permit more natural impulse conduction may reduce this risk.
what r the long term side effects to being 100% paced with a dual lead pacemaker? i have one &am paced100%@bottom 70%@top i am almost 30yrs old.
long term ventricular pacing can lead to atrial fibrillation (af) or development of left ventricular (lv) systolic dysfunction. one should monitor the pacemaker to identify silent af episodes and periodically obtain an echocardiogram to monitor lv size and function. it could be helpful to see an electrophysiologist to explore programming or upgrade options of the pacemaker to prevent the above.
what is the difference between supraventricular tachycardia and supraventricular arrthymias?
most likely they are the same; theoretically supra ventricular arrhythmia can include atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. however when people talk about it they most commonly mean supra ventricular tachycardia.
what are some causes for a rapid heart beat?
stress or any state where your body is producing epinephrine (adrenaline) will increase your heart rate. increased activity like exercise will alter your hr. certain drugs like cocaine can dramatically increase your hr. also severe infections. then there are rhythm problems of the heart like atrial fibrillation svt and other abnormal electrical conduction can cause rapid heart rat.
wh is my heart rate all over the place. they are anywhere from 84-121?
that much heart rate variation could signify an arrhytmias called atrial fibrillation. you should have an ekg done.
whenever i eat carbs or drink alcohol my heart races and skips. what is my problem? i'm 22 and have had ekg and a stress test done. bp is normal.
i don't know the issue with carbs except that if you have reactive hypoglycemia and are taking in too much simple sugar you can get periods of low blood sugar which can cause a racing heart. alcohol is a different story which is itself toxic to the heart in high doses and can cause cardiac arrhythmias especially svt and atrial fibrillation. talk to your doctor about your drinking.
what will an ekg show on a person with rhematic fever?
acute: nothing or first degree av block chronic: nothing or left atrial enlargement rbbb atrial fibrillation.
what is the difference between plavix (clopidogrel) and rivaroxaban? which one is a superior bloodthinner for patient with stent and atrial fibrilation?
plavix (clopidogrel) is a "blood thinner" that acts on the cells called the platelets. usually people take plavix (clopidogrel) after a stent. rivaroxaban is a true blood thinner that makes the blood unable to form a clot. that is taken with atrial fibrillation to prevent strokes. that's the difference.
what is the difference between plavix (clopidogrel) and rivaroxaban? which one is a superior bloodthinner for patient with stent and atrial fibrilation?
the easiest way to think about anticoagulants is to separate them into categories. plavix (clopidogrel) and aspirin prevent clotting on the arterial side and are designed for coronary artery disease and stents (plavix (clopidogrel) in particular. ) rivaroxaban prevents venous clotting and is good for atrial fibrillation and venous thromboembolic disease. you need plavix (clopidogrel) for your stent and rivaroxaban for your atrial fib.
i have been told eliqis is the better drug for the elderly taken twice a day at 2. 5 per time. why is it better than xeraltothis is for lone afib.
3 new alternatives (eliquis pradaxa & xarelto) to warfarin traditional oral anticoagulant (blood thinner) of choice for decades don't require monitoring nor are affected by what you eat. all 3 are approved in states for preventing stroke in atrial fibrillation. some are approved for more uses. none of 3 new ones has been proven better than others at preventing strokes but may be safer than warf
is mono related to extreme heart palpitations so bad to the point where i can feel my heartbeat in my sleep all night every night and also brain fog?
mono can cause atrial fibrillation and can give you a "foggy"brain. you should seek immediate help from your doctor or see a cardiologist asap
why one should not worry about lafb? my ecg says i have lafb. i am a very active healthy and so far no hbp or diabete. how bad is prognosis?
dr. john sirak has a high success totally curing lone atrial fibrillation surgically for good. check out his videos <link> video 1: <link> this easily explains everything. i suggest you go to see him. atrial fibrillation increases the risk of a clot forming inside the atrium and being ejected to the brain causing a stroke.
what does atrial fibrillation look like in ekg or holter? if you are already taking beta blockers to suppress arrhythmia does it mask af in ekg?
the key is in the atrial signal on the ecg. the normal discharge from the top chambers (atria) which is the "p" wave is now missing and there is either a coarse erratic signal from the top or sometimes even a near flat signal. this will make the bottom chamber signal also erratic/irregular but the key to the definition is in the signal from the top.
what does atrial fibrillation look like in ekg or holter? if you are already taking beta blockers to suppress arrhythmia does it mask af in ekg?
atrial fibrillation is irregularly irregular (no pattern to the rhythm). three issues with af: rate. the rate of untreated af is typically around 150 beats per minute which is too fast; secondly whether it should be converted to a normal rhythm. and thirdly whether anticoagulation is needed. there are drugs to slow down the rate and drugs for conversion. a beta blocker would tend to slow down th.
what could be causing my occasional palpitations breathlessness and irregular heart rate? the last episode lasted most of last week.
your symptoms required a full evaluation. you could be describing intermittent atrial fibrillation which requires treatment. at age 61 however a lot of things can happen to your heart. your symptoms are somewhat nonspecific and could be a number of things.
what could be causing my occasional palpitations breathlessness and irregular heart rate? the last episode lasted most of last week.
without doing an actual exam and/or ekg it is difficult to tell what you have. however your symptom pattern suggests possible cardiac arrhythmia called atrial fibrillation the most common type of in the adults/elderly. chronic hypertension is a common cause of this risk of blood clot/strokes= concenring and it is more common as one gets older. consult doc for eval and treatment. good luck.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic and nervousness?
this can be either due to heart or non-heart reasons. of heart causes would consider a tachyarrhythmia (e. g. svt atrial fibrillation atrial flutter) - would need an event monitor to check this. also consider some other causes (not a comprehensive list due to space limitations for answers but more commonly tested): hyperthyroidism anemia illness pheochromocytoma or panic/anxiety attack .
i had pvcs on my 48hr heart monitor but nothing from the atrium. does that mean no atrial fibrillation?
the monitor did not pick up any evidence of atrial fibrillation during the 48 hour period you wore it. it is still possible that you could have had episodes of atrial fibrillation at other times but from the information at hand there is no proof of that.
what wave on an ecg would show poor blood flow?
an ecg/ekg is not really a test of flow--unless you counted the rate and assumed a faster one meant more flow. it better assesses the electrical conduction of/through the heart. certain rhythms (like atrial fibrillation) are associated with less efficient pumping. an echo would be a better test to examine flow / stroke volume / etc.
what's the underlying causes of atrial fibrillation? echo done was normal.
look out for left atrial enlargement or mitral valve narrowing/leakiness on echocardiogram which would indicate structural heart problems. . if echo is totally normal rule out hyperthyroidism sleep apnea excessive alcohol intake.
what's the underlying causes of atrial fibrillation? echo done was normal.
there are many causes such as ischemia infection trauma neurological metabolic and etc. . you need to know what caused it.
what is it about mexican food that could trigger atrial fibrillation?
only in john mccain. . he is so scooped wilth immigrants. tea party republicans also can be affected.
what is the the difference between wolf parkinson's white syndrome and atrial fibrillation?
wpw is a syndrome with bypass tracts that make rapid heart action possible. atrial fibrillation is a rapid disordered heart rhythm that is fairly common. when associated with wpw it can be fatal because of too fast conduction of impulses. they are different conditions but when they happen together tragedy can result.
is af and palpitations a sign of a leaky valve? sometimes worse when laying on left side
atrial fibrillation is a cause of palpitations. sometimes a leaky valve causes atrial fibrillation. all atrial fibrillation is not caused by leaky valves. all palpitations are not caused by atrial fibrillation.
i have atrial fibrillation. should i go to barbados?
discuss with your doc. if your afib rate control is good the anticoagulation is stable and the rest of your condition is good; barbados trip is not unreasonable.
i have atrial fibrillation. should i go to barbados?
if you are on treatment and your ventricular rate is controlled and you anticoagulation if indicated is adequate
i have atrial fibrillation. should i go to barbados?
you should be enjoy life as you wish. . taking your meds regularly. and following doctors advise.
would it be possible that a person work a warehouse job if he has atrial fibrillation?
it is possible to work a warehouse job with atrial fibrillation would depend on the person and their conditon.
why would my atrial fibrillation seem to like to run at around 150 beats per minute?
atrial fibrillation sends hundreds of impulses down to the ventricles and as many as can get through cause the rapid rate. this is why one of our main treatment efforts is to slow the ventricular rate in afib.
what effect does altitude of 5280 feet have on a person with atrial fibrillation?
in general one mile altitude won't have a lot of effect on afib other than maybe some speed up of the heart rate. oxygenation is still good at that altitude but its possible some shortness of breath and decreased exercise tolerance with exercise would be noted.
what is the role of arixtra in the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation?
until they they go through untrackable bribing process and get the indication just have to use unofficially.
what is the treatment for atrial flutter?
atrial flutter is likely to turn into atrial fibrillation but the treatment is similar and depends on symptoms onset and duration other medical problems and what the cause is thought to be. there are 2 main strategies. rate control to slow down the rate. the other is rhythm control to get you into sinus. this can be done with medications or electricity. anticoagulation may be indicated.
what is the reason for having fast pulse beat if 112 per min?
it could be an irregular heart beat such as atrial fibrillation. if so you need to get to a doctor of emergency room urgently. alternatively you could be anemic low blood counts and that could do it. if your thyroid is too active that will cause a rapid heart beat also. please get to your doctor to have this checked out.
what are the symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
atrial fib presents differently in everybody. sometimes it can be completely asymptomatic. other times it can be flutters in the chest shortness of breath dizziness to name a few.
what are the symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is disorganized irregular electrical activity in the upper chamber of the heart (atrium). symptoms included sensation of pounding irregular or rapid heart beats lightheadedness flushing weakness shortness breath. but most people with atrial fibrillation have no symptoms and do not know it!
what are the symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
irregular heartbeat pounding heartbeat dizziness difficulty breathing crackles in lungs low blood pressure.
what are the symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
the most common symptoms is the sensation of the heart beating funny. should be checked out right away as a potential major cause of stroke if not treated.
what are the symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
some people have no symptoms whatsoever. others depending how fast the ventricular heart rate may have "fluttering" or palpitations or sudden loss of energy with fatigue sometimes dizziness. if they have underlying cardiac problems they can get chest discomfort or breathlessness if they go into af with a rapid resultant heart rate. to avoid complications like a stroke get urgent evaluation!
with atrial fib can u have symptoms of chilling and fever and leg pain headache?
those are not common symptoms of atrial fibrillation.
what could lead to atrial fibrillation in me?
you are a man too young for the disease. so manufactoring problem with your heart heart valve electrical system. high thyroid is very common cause. some chemo agents are cardiotoxic also some pschych meds also. see pmd for more focused approach.
which type of ventricular fibrillation is not dangerous or life-threatening?
v-fib is not compatible with life. it is a medical emergency. atrial fibrillation can be be tolerated for years but it is a cause of strokes and if you have heart failure a. fib. can make worse.
if laying on my left side is causing afib why would that be so?
there is more space on the right side of the chest compared to the left side of the chest in the chest cavity. it has been observed that patients with heart failure tend to do better when they sleep on their right side compared to the left side. for atrial fibrillation this phenomenon has not been described but it is possible that the left atrium is more likely to be compressed in that position
what caused what? dm anemia htn hyperlipidemia peripheral vascular disease coronary art. disease pulm. htn copd chf afib kidney dis. andcva?
smoking c copd salt in diet c htn obesity c diabetes bleeding c anemia age c atrial fibrillation fatty diet c hyperlipidemia hyperlipidemia c peripheral vascular disease and coronary disease coronary disease c chf chf c pulmonary htn htn c kidney disease diabetes c kidney disease atrial fibrillation c cva htn c cva. syndrome x causes all of the above.
what is atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation (afib) is the most common sustained rhythm abnormality. it's characterized by an irregular heart rate. the upper chambers of the heart (atrium) do not beat but quiver. many people don't notice it. but many do. it can lead to strokes in some patients so blood thinners are important. it can be treated with medications ablation thru iv's in the groin or surgery. see a cardiologis.
what is atrial fibrillation?
it is an irregularity of your heart beat. it is quite common in older patients. you need to be under the care of a cardiologist as you may need to be placed on a blood thinner in order to avoid blood clots going into your circulation. this can cause a stroke. so be very attentive to see and follow your doctorr egularly.
which medicines are good for atrial fibrillation?
we have a lot of medicines we use with specific reasons for each. your doctor can explain why he/she is using what is prescribed.
which is the preferred atrial fibrillation (afib) treatment?
treatment of afib is tailored to the patient. the treatment that gives the individual the best results varies.
which is the preferred atrial fibrillation (afib) treatment?
funny you should ask - i'm just about to move to clearwater to help morton plant with that very question. the best treatment is stroke prevention with blood thinners but that's not what you meant. in terms of drugs six of one 1/2 dozen of the other. ablation is usually done by pulmonary vein isolation. when i get down there we'll start a new technique as well that was until recently rsrch only.
woke up went outside for a smoke felt heart flutters and then fainted. went to doc and ekg is normal. could the issue be head related?
fainting is an important symptom. to be head related it would have to be a seizure and this is very unlikely based on what u describe. because u had a fluttering sensation first it implies that u fainted due to a heart issue. most common problem would be brief atrial fibrillation but u r quite young for that. i would do a holter monitor on you to track your heart rate through the day.
what can be the cause irregular heartbeat and high heart rate aorta ultra sound is normal?
atrial fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia pvcs pacs and sinus tachycardia are common causes. a 24 hour holter recording of your heart rhythm would provide important clues.
how often do cardiac ablation surgeries result in complications requiring pacemakers implantation?
it depends on the ablation type: almost never for wpw atrial fibrillation/flutter or ventricular tachycardia; 1% or less for avnrt (atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia). in avnrt there is an extra 'lane' in the av node that conducts electrical impulses leading to tachycardia and the ablation can unintentionally damage the whole av node resulting in heart block and need for pacemaker.
how often do cardiac ablation surgeries result in complications requiring pacemakers implantation?
in ablating cardiac dysrhythmias the ablation catheters can sometimes affect the conduction to or from the atrio-venticular node (avn). this is an important regulator of heart rate and if affected the reslutant 'escape rhythm' may be too slow to accomadte normal activity; thus a pacemaker is required. in some conditions like atrial fibrillation the goal may be avn ablation and pacemaker implant.
how does someone prevent atrial fibrillation?
may not be able to prevent this arrhythmia. but some people can get episodes after drinking alcohol.
how does someone prevent atrial fibrillation?
avoid alcohol caffeine decongestants valvular heart disease obesity hyperthyroidism chf hypertension and old age.
how do doctors diagnose atrial fibrillation?
the atrial fibrillation is diagnosed on a routine electrocardiogram (ecg).
how do doctors diagnose atrial fibrillation?
an irregular pulse especially if rapid would suggest possible atrial fibrillation. an ekg would confirm the diagnosis.
how successful is cardiac ablation?
depends on the arrhythmia. for atrial fibrillation about 80% for atrial flutter close to 95% for ventricular tachycardia 90+%.
in terms of symptoms are there any differences between svt and atrial fibrillation?
svt is often sudden limited duration and can cause a drop in blood pressure sufficient to make someone dizzy or even faint. svt does not increase risk of stroke and doesn't require anticoagulation. whereas a-fib can be asymptomatic and increases the risk of stroke. a-fib usually occurs in older patients and exertional shortness of breath is the usual symptom. both require evaluation & treatment.
in terms of symptoms are there any differences between svt and atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is a form of svt. some people with art fib may not even feel it but other types of svt s are almost always symptomatic.
in terms of symptoms are there any differences between svt and atrial fibrillation?
the symptoms of both of these can be very similar: skipped heart beats extra heart beats and possibly lightheadedness. if you are really good at taking a pulse you can figure out if it is regular (svt) or irregular (atrial fib) - but this is really hard when the heart is going fast.
in terms of symptoms are there any differences between svt and atrial fibrillation?
svt is a regular tachycardia and somewhat transient and discrete while a fib is usually a constant but irregular arrhythmia but everybody may perceive things differently.
in terms of symptoms are there any differences between svt and atrial fibrillation?
with svt (supraventricular tachycardia) you are likely to feel dizzy or light-headed and a sense of very rapid/racing heartbeat. with atrial fibrillation the palpations may feel more like fluttering there may just be an awareness that your heart is beating chest pain/discomfort shortness of breath fatigue or lack of energy. you might not be sure your heart is the problem with af!
in terms of symptoms are there any differences between svt and atrial fibrillation?
some people can have atrial fibrillation and no symptoms. most patients have symptoms with svt. hope this was helpful. dr. r
is there a difference between atrial fib and skipped beats? i have both at different times. skipped beats may proceed atrial fib but not always.
atrial fibrillation is a special kind of irregular heart rhythm. skipped beats can occur for a variety of reasons such as simply a normal beat that comes early to a beat coming from a place in the heart that is atypical from the normal beat. some people may also have other rapid irregular heart rhythms that are not atrial fibrillation. a heart monitor usually can distinguish among these.
will i need a pace maker if my heart stopped beating for 4 seconds twice in two weeks?
depending upon your usual rhythm (sinus rhythm or atrial fibrillation and some other factors) you may require a pacemaker. the most important factor would be if you are aware of the pauses or suffer from weakness or dizziness during these episodes. i strongly encourage you to see a cardiologist.
what is thachy_brady syndrome? is it the cause of pacemaker implantation by the kind of pacemaker used? single or dual chamber. thank you
tachy-brady means sometimes the heart goes too fast and other times too slow. we need a pacemaker to prevent the slow beats so we can more safely give medication to control the fast beats. the type of pacemaker depends on what type of rhythms are involved. usually it's dual chamber unless someone is in atrial fibrillation all the time.
what is atrial fabrillation?
atrial fibrillation (af) is a heart rhythm problem due to disorganization of the electrical activity in the atria (upper heart chambers). af is the most common heart rhythm disorder. patients with af may have no symptoms or may have symptoms such as decreased energy palpitations or heart failure. af also increases the risk of stroke. various therapies may be used to treat af and stroke risks.
how can food affect atrial fibrillation?
afib is a rythm that can be very fast and can cause a stroke from blod clots going to the brain. many patients are on coumadin (warfarin) a blood thinner that works through vitamin k. so if the patient eats green leafy veges and other foods high in vitamin k it can reverse the coumadin (warfarin) and make pt suseptable to stroke. foods and items high in caffiene like coffee chocolate etc can stimulate the heart rate.
how can food affect atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation can be aggravated by medications such as stimulants decongestants caffeine alcohol. daily nutrition usually does not affect rhythm.
how can atrial fibrillation and flutter be treated?
generally speaking we can attempt to control the rate we can attempt to keep you in a normal rhythm with medications or we can attempt a long-term tour of the rhythm using a catheter ablation. there are also surgical treatment for the arrhythmias but these are generally not first-line treatments unless you have another reason to have heart surgery.
how can atrial fibrillation and flutter be treated?
both are atrial arrhythmias. they often occur in the same person sometimes moments apart. in fib the atrial electrical activity is completely disorganized. in flutter the atrial rate is usually 300. in untreated fib the ventricular rate is usually 160-200. in flutter the vr is usually 150.
how can atrial fibrillation and flutter be treated?
medications are used to control the heart or restore normal rhythm. depending on the risk factors blood thinners may be prescribed to lower the risk of stroke. catheter and surgical procedures are also available in some patients to restore sinus rhythm.
how many times can you perform cardioversion to revert atrial fibrillation to normal sinus rhythm?
however there is not much point in doing it repeatedly if the patient continues to go back into fibrillation especially if on medicine to maintain normal rhythm. patients can do quite well even if in fibrillation as long as the heart rate is controlled with medication.
how many times can you perform cardioversion to revert atrial fibrillation to normal sinus rhythm?
there is no limit. however if atrial fibrillation keeps recurring it would make more sense to explore other options (medications ablation) rather than to keep undergoing cardioversions - which are not risk free.
how is atrial fibrillation usually treated?
beta blockers and digoxin are often used first to slow down the heart when there is rapid heart rate of af. in some patients electric shocks can be utilized to convert the irregular rate of af to normal. in most all cases blood thinners such as coumadin (warfarin) and new drugs like pradaxa are utilized to reduce the risk of blood clots forming inside the heart and causing complications such as strokes.
how is atrial fibrillation usually treated?
control & is specific to individual. talk to your physician.
how is atrial fibrillation diagnosed?
different ways. listening to the heart there is obvious irregular rhythm with irregular rate. the electrocardiogram is diagnostic. some times atrial fibrillation may appeared transiently or paroxystically. a holter monitor or cardiac monitor could show the characteristic features of the ekg changes.
how is atrial fibrillation diagnosed?
multiple different ways such as physical exam most of them usually have to be confirmed by e k g.
how much does atrial fibrillation affect longevity?
i don't think atrial fibrillation affect longevity that much as long as treatment is initiated before developtment of embolic stroke.
how much does atrial fibrillation affect longevity?
atrial fibrillation will (provided you don't have an exceedingly rare condition called wolff-parkinson-white) not lead directly to your death but there are several ways it can hasten it. stroke is the biggest risk of atrial fibrillation and your risk with fibrillation can be directly calculated from certain risk factors. heart attacks from fast rates are also possible though not common.
heart valve mv repair cath test on friday / no blockages in arteries no stents used! heart beat was atrial fibrillation. on friday after. / need to get pradaxa. ! have not sense was discharged on saturday. am i in any danger! blood clots / platelets
it is normal to have feelings of anxiety prior to having a major surgey like mv repair. a minimally invasive heart surgery has not been created. a mitral valve repair requires the surgeon to work within the chambers of the heart so opening the chest cavity is essential to access these valves. during the surgery the heart must be stopped and blood is bypassed to an external medical device so that blood can be delivered to the body. pradaxa is a medication that is used to control the presence of and formation of blood clots. being on a blood thinner is essential as you are in atrial fibrillation which can precipitate blood clots. talk to your doctor about your concerns. you will learn that the pros of undergoing this surgery will out weigh the cons and improve the quality of your life. your concerns are normal and anxiety is to be expected. talk to your doctor and feel free to check on his background perhaps using avvo. com.
how many people in the united states are living with supraventricular tachycardia?
according to the new england journal of medicine nejm "the incidence of supraventricular tachycardia is about 35 cases per 100 000 per persons per year and the prevalence is about 2. 25 per 1 000 (excluding atrial fibrillation atrial flutter multifocal atrial tachycardia which were not covered in this (2006) review).
i had a sleep study last night with cpap and have been experiencing heart palpitations most of the day. can initial cpap cause vagus nerve irritation?
that does not usually happen. it can trigger changes in your level of carbon dioxide since with apnea you tend to retain more and cpap will force you to blow that out. if this is persistent go get an ekg. heart arrhythmia is common in apnea including heart block pvcs and atrial fibrillation. some can be dangerous.
what are the preemptive problems on the pulse rate 124 to a 84 yrs. old patient?
i'd be suspicious that an 84 yo has atrial fibrillation. at any rate someone that age is not likely to tolerate the fast heart rate for long so they need medical attention if the rapid hr is persistent.
how come some people with atrial fibrillation don't even know it?
atrial fibrillation may not cause any symptoms especially if the blood pressure is not affected. .
how come some people with atrial fibrillation don't even know it?
atrial fibrillation by itself does not produce symptoms usually it is often the fast heart rate that may result from it that causes the symptoms of "fluttering" in the chest. even with fast heart rates some people do not feel anything in their chest because not everyone is as sensitive to these things to the same degree. some people feel fluttering and it is not related to their heart at all.
how does quinidine procainamide and disopyramide treat atrial fibrillation?
these medications are older antiarrythmics that have been around for decades and may suppress af. they must be used very cautiously and only by very experienced cardiologists due to their potential to actually cause potentailly life threatening ventricular arrythmias in certain patients - called a pro-arrthymic effect. newer medications have been shown to be both safer and more effective.
how does quinidine procainamide and disopyramide treat atrial fibrillation?
these medications known as class i antiarrhythmics work by blocking sodium channel conduction in the heart. this causes cardiac excitation to progress more slowly hopefully preventing the formation of the driving force behind atrial fibrillation.
how does diltiazem and flecainide affect the heart?
these are typically drugs to treat arrhythmia. commonly fast heart rate from a rapid atrial arrhythmia (typically atrial fibrillation) is treated. flecainid is a class ic drug that helps restore rhythm. diltiazem is calcium channel blocker that is an av blocking agent that slows down the heart rate.
how effective are ablations for atrial fibrillations?
ablation for regular tachcardias such as supraventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation is very successful (>90%). ablation for atrial fibrillation which is chaotic rhythm is either not successful or if initial success the positive outcome is not sustained. in other words there is a high rate of recurrence.
how effective are ablations for atrial fibrillations?
i'm going to assume you're 25 and have "paroxysmal" atrial fibrillation (afib some of the time but not most of the time). in that case an initial procedure using current techniques is 50-70% likely to leave you free of fibrillation. a second procedure if needed will increase that to 70-85%. some next generation ablation techniques may give even better results than these.
had cardiac ablation 3 weeks ago today started having arrhythmia again should i be concerned?
generally speaking atrial fibrillation ablations can see patients developed a wide variety of abnormal heart rhythms for up to three months after the procedure. if however the procedure was for atrial flutter avnrt or avrt (wolf parkinson white) this may reflect the need for additional procedural work.
had cardiac ablation 3 weeks ago today started having arrhythmia again should i be concerned?
it largely depends on the arrhythmia that was ablated. if you had svt ablation you may have non sustained runs of arrhythmia that will subside overtime. if you had ablation for atrial fibrillation you may have short runs of atrial fibrillation up to 3 months as the scars form in the heart. best to evaluate this is to have an event monitor to see if you have recurrence or not.
how is atrial fibrillation treated?
there are a variety of medications which can either control the heart rate or convert the rhythm back to normal. sometimes cardioversion is used to correct the heart rhythm. also in some cases ablation can be done which will correct the abnormal rhythm.
how is atrial fibrillation treated?
with medications to slow down the heart rate or control the heart rhythm in the right setting blood thinners to minimize the risk of stroke electrical shock to restore a normal rhythm and also catheter based approaches in order to remove the trigger for afib.
how is atrial fibrillation treated?
if heart rate is rapid medications to slow it. depending on your risk factors blood thinners to decrease stroke risk. electrical cardioversion to get back to normal rhythm. antiarrythmic medications and/ or ablation treatment to maintain normal rhythm. controlling blood pressure and statin medications to treat cholesterol also help. with proper meds many patients do okay with permanent afib.
how to differentiate between atrial flutter and fibrillation?
atrial flutter has a regular rhythm at a steady pace whereas atrial fibrillation is erratic and irregular. flutter frequently degenerates into fibrillation. an ekg easily can tell them apart.
how to differentiate between atrial flutter and fibrillation?
ekg is the best way to know. there can be clues. untreated atrial fibrillation tend to cause a heart rate of 120s to 180s and is irregular whereas untreated atrial flutter is often hovering right around 150 and is usually regular. there are many exceptions but the above is a good rule of thumb.
is the pulse a reliable indicator of atrial fibrillation or can you sometimes have it without it affecting the pulse? thanks.
pulse can be misleading as atrial fibrillation cause irregular beats and pulse. it can be sometimes fast sometimes slow. a lot of people can't tell if they are on atrial fibrillation which can be dangerous (by causing strokes from blood clots). if you have paroxysmal (i. e. once in a while) atrial fibrillation you should buy an ecg connected to the smartphone (e. g. alivecor) which can record it.
is the pulse a reliable indicator of atrial fibrillation or can you sometimes have it without it affecting the pulse? thanks.
for people with experience they can detect atrial fibrillation with pulse if it is noticeably irregular but it is not as easy as it sounds. there are different types of classifying atrial fibrillation. lone acute paroxysmal persistent and permanent. - depending on your duration there are situations in which patients are in and out of the rythm so harder to detect. get alivecor it could help
i have been in af about 1 year also cad 1 month ago i do heart cabg. after 1 month may i do holter ( ecg 24 hours) to know my heart rhytme?
in some cases at the time of a cabg an additional procedure is done (maze) which may correct the atrial fibrillation. a simple ekg will tell what your current rhythm is but a longer recording such as a holter or event recorder may be better if the arrhythmia is intermittent.
i have atrial fibrillation my knees require replacement surgery. is there any alternative procedure to surger?
that would me a question for your orthopod. i am assuming the question you are having regarding the surgery has to do with anticoagulation? you can actually be bridged with heparin or lovenox (enoxaparin) if such is the case. if the question is purely based on addition procedures more info will be required to tell you about options
in what situations other than atrial fibrillation (having to do with the heart-not dvt) would a patient be on iv heparin?
a heparin drip is often used to treat heart attack or in cases where heart attack is suspected.
in what situations other than atrial fibrillation (having to do with the heart-not dvt) would a patient be on iv heparin? for example preop for cabg
iv heparin can be given for multiple reasons such as mi ( heart attack) dvt pulmonary embolism atrial fibrillation mechanical heart valves other thromboembolic diseases. in certain situations patient are on outpatient anticoagulants which may need to be stopped during preop and iv heparin is initiated. unsure what the reasoning in this situation is. hope this helps.
what is an abnormal heart rate that can impair cardiac output called?
cardiac output equals stroke volume x heart rate. that means if the heart rate goes up the cardiac output will go up. the stroke volume is how much the heart pumps out with each contraction. that can go down if the heart rhythm is off like in atrial fibrillation.
what is the definition or description of: atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is an irregular and often rapid heart rate that commonly causes poor blood flow to the body. during atrial fibrillation the heart's two upper chambers (the atria) beat chaotically and irregularly  out of coordination with the two lower chambers (the ventricles) of the heart. atrial fibrillation symptoms include heart palpitations shortness of breath and weakness.
what is more dangerous atrial fibrillation or ventricular fibrillation?
any chances to "recover" from vfib one need to be in an intensive care an hooked to an ekg. and a slim chance to live. if someone collapses on the street help has to come in minutes to jump heart back to normal rhythm. people who go in vfib have an underlying and severe heart disease. conclusion vfib kills a afib can be controlled even normal rhythm may be restored. big difference!
what is the true cause of afib?
there are several risk factors that contribute to atrial fibrillation (left atrial size hypertension obstructive sleep apnea aging etc) however all of these risk factors influence the way atrial cardiac cells interact. they do this by increasing collagen deposition (scarring). scar formation leads to electrical structural and contractile changes in the cells which leads to afib.
how do i get rid of my heart palpitations?
this depends on the type and cause. some extra beats may be due to exogenous factors such as caffeine or alcohol. simply eliminating them may get rid of the palpitations. some may be hormonally related and come and go. some may be genetic such as familial atrial fibrillation and require more intense diagnostics and therapies. if they persist or if you have prolonged episodes and/or sxs f/u w/md.
heart skipping beats. what's the usual cause for such?
could be as simple as pvcs or somthing more significant as atrial fibrillation which needs medical attention.
how can i slow my heart rate down by just meditation?
meditation does the slow the heart rate. it's not a matter of how. if you can successfully lose yourself in meditation your heart rate (assuming normal rhythm not a pathological rhythm like atrial fibrillation or svt) will slow. self-hypnosis transcendental meditation yoga prayer - all will slow the heart as does sleep (every night! ). but it only works while you're doing it.
has anyone had any experience with fasting and irregular heartbeats?
fast and irregular heartbeats could imply atrial fibrillation. this is an arrythmia wherein their is an uncoupling of the electrical synchronization between the upper cardiac chambers (atria) and lower chambers (ventricles). this leads to a fast and irregularly irregular (irregular cadence). this can result in light headedness and potentially in clot formation and stroke risk.
if i had atrial fibrillation would it have shown up on my ekg and stress tests?
it depends if you have afib all the time or intermittently. would only show up on ekg and stress tests if it was present at the time. if you have intermittent afib there are simple tests that can show how often it is present and how kong it lasts. some people can always or sometimes feel it's presence while others are totally unaware of when it occurs.
if i had atrial fibrillation would i have been able to vigorously play sports and workout all of my life?
in a young person as yourself if you have no structural heart disease and this is "lone atrial fibrillation" then that ought not to prohibit you from playing sports. most important see a cardiologist figure out why you had a bout of af and then you should be set with appropriate advice.
in a fit healthy 18 year old. whats the worst that could happen if i have atrial fibrillation? normal echocardiogram ekg but didn't have palps during
other than the sensation of palpitation atrial fibrillation in young healthy persons are benign. since in this age group the arrhythmia is often associated with a very rapid heart rate they often require treatment to control heart beat or intervention to convert them back to regular rhythm
what is tickosyn?
you probably mean tikosyn (dofetilide). this is a drug used to treat advanced forms of atrial fibrillation a very common irregular heart rhythm or arrhythmia. it is started in the hospital.
have fast heartbeat then slows down sometimes skips a beat?
i would recommend you get an electrocardiogram(ekg) which measures the electrical activity of your heart. you could possibly be having something known as atrial fibrillation or an irregular type of heartbeat. you may also consider something called holter monitoring or an event recorder(these measure the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time i. e. 24 hours or more).
how risky is an afib cardiac ablation on a 33 yr old with no heart disease or other significant problems other than a cspine herniation. ?
in general it is very low risk; however atrial fibrillation ablation tends to carry some of the highest risk of any the catheter ablations. the worldwide data shows that af ablations have a risk of death of 0. 15% tamponade 1. 3% pseudoaneursym 0. 9% stroke 0. 2% tia 0. 7% pv stenosis 0. 3 and ae-fistula 0. 04%. there is a small risk of pacemaker in some types as well.
how long does ventricular fibrillation last?
fibrillation is a random chaiotic electrical pattern. atrial fibrillation is common an some older adults live in continuous a-fib and feel ok while on medications that slow the ventricular response to the atrial rate. ventricular fibrillation is not tolerated meaning someone having true ventricular fibrillation will loose consciousness in seconds. true vf is life threatening in seconds.
i drive a large truck for a living when i'm driving i can feel symptoms of afib skipped heart beats when i'm active not driving no symptoms why?
you have high bp and high cholesterol and if you have concern about skip beat get it checked by your doctor it is highly unlikely that you have atrial fib due to few skip beats you feel. atrial fibrillation causes ireregulary irregular heart beat and pulse constantly and not just a skipped beat noe and then
is atrial flutter serious and can it be induced by flecainide?
atrial flutter is similar to atrial fibrillation. both are significant arrhythmias. when atrial fibrillation is treated with flecainide sometimes the rhythm is converted to atrial flutter instead of to sinus rhythm. sometimes after the atrial flutter appears and flecainide is continued sinus rhythm eventuates. both afib and aflutter are appropriately anticoagulated. discuss with your doctor.
if atrial fibrillation with sick sinus syndrome changes from intermittent to continuous is further treatment needed? taking coversyl & pradaxa now.
this discussion should be with your doctor who knows you and your entire situation. in general if maintaining sinus rhythm is no longer realistic we still need to continue rate control and usually anticoagulation. these treatments however need to be patient specific.
what type of medicine is digoxin? what are the side effects?
digoxin is a purigfied cardiac glycoside. digoxin is used in the treatment of atrial fibrillation atrial flutter and sometimes heart failure that cannot be controlled by other medication. common adverse effects: loss of appetite nausea vomiting and diarrhea. other common effects are blurred vision visual disturbance confusion drowsiness dizziness insomnia nightmares agitation depressio.
when i was 30 years old i had 3 bouts of a-fib & it has not returned. i had test and all is ok. i now have pvc when laying down.?
your paroxysmal atrial fibrillation should be treated. as long as pvcs are rare and less than.
why are heart palpitations so annoying and scary? can it itself lead to heart attack ever?
palpitations are a symptom. it is a feeling of an irregular heart beat. this can be due to a fast heart rate or an irregular heart rhythmn such as with atrial fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia. palpitations can be benign or very serious.
what is leading to a fast heart rate at rest or an irregular heart beat?
you might be having atrial fibrillation or flutter or multifocal atrial rhythm. these are kinds of cardiac arrythmias that could cause irregular heart beat. consult your physician to get work-up to adignoser underlying arrythmia (if any).
heart skips for no reason. had an ekg but just an 'irregularity. ' is there something else going on? sometimes wake up to racing heart (+/- 160 bpm)
the most common arrhythmia in someone young is supraventricular tachycardia (svt) in older people atrial fibrillation is a common arrhythmia that can show up as you described. i'd recommend a 24 or 48 hour holter monitor if the feelings are frequent however if the tachycardia is infrequent a looping or non-looping event monitor may help diagnose the arrhythmia.
how do you know if you're having a heart attack if you have no pain and just have elevated hr?
tachycardia can heralds a heart attack as a lone symptom but is rare. usually shortness of breath confusion fatigue nausea dizziness weakness sweats or other symptoms accompany it. rapid heart rate is more likely to mean one of several other diagnosis if encountered alone (hyperthyroid infection atrial fibrillation anxiety etc). if you have a rapid heart rate get seen in an er today.
heart beating fast at night when im relaxing after a couple of glasses of wine?
wine and coffee can trigger atrial fibrillation or flutter. see your physician to determine what it is exactly.
how is digoxin used in the management of acute pulmonary edema?
digoxin is used for management of atrial fibrillation and chronic heart failure. it has no role in the management of acute pulmonary edema or acute heart failure.
how can you tell the difference between atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation?
generally speaking atrial flutter is conducted in a more regular fashion to the lower chamber of the heart though this is not always true. the best way to tell the difference between the two is to obtain an ekg.
how can you tell the difference between atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation?
they look different on an ekg. atrial flutter is regular and atrial fibrillation is irregularly irregular. often the treatment is similar as an outpatient. symptomatically they would probably feel about the same to a patient.
how long will it take for a blood clot to form during paroxysmal atrial fibrillation?
it depends on lots of things - is the patient on a blood thinner (it would take longer)? most people think it takes at least 48 hours but some studies have show an increase in stroke with as little as 5 hours of atrial fibrillation.
how long will it take for a blood clot to form during paroxysmal atrial fibrillation?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation means that it comes on suddenly and then often goes away. sometimes people can't tell so it's often recommended to use anticoagulation such as aspirin or coumadin (warfarin). when and if a clot will form is an inexact science but is determined by other risk factors ultimately with your participation in the decision of whether to take medication or not.
have atrial fibrillation as a result of childhood rheumatic fever. it is affecting a heart valve. will the valve need to be replaced?
you need to see cardiologist to evaluate your heart valve with echocardiogram. the cardiologist can determine if valve need to be replace or not.
i usually get this type of palpitation (my heart skips a beat) for a few seconds. i get it about once a day but it's been happening all today nonstop?
persistent palpitations need assessed soon to assess for atrial fibrillation
what to do about abnormal heart rhythm. please help!?
variable rhythm abnormality are there some dangerous and some nuisance arrhythmia. any way if there are abnormal rhythm will need evaluation as to what type and how severe are them. might need special attention for different types. dangerous ones are ventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation svt flutter.
husband awoke with legs shaking rapid pulse perspiring (8 weeks post bi-pass). should i be alarmed?
the biggest concern is could his bypasses have a problem. he could also have developed a heart arrythmia (atrial fibrillation) that could cause this. if this persists it may be prudent to visit your local er. otherwise talking with your cardiologist would be important to do.
how can alcohol cause atrial fibrillation?
excessive alcohol can be toxic to your body including the heart. the cardiac cells that make up the sinus node (the automatic pacemaker) on the top part of your heart as well as the rest of the heart are subject to the toxic effect of alcohol and thus can fibrillate(shaky) just as your brain cells do that make you unable to walk-a-straight-line test! cut it down. drink responsibly. good luck.
how can alcohol cause atrial fibrillation?
heavy drinking iver time can lead to cardiomyopathy as alcohol works as a myocardial suppressant but even in smaller but usually excessive quantities it can cause atrial fibrillation due to its dehydrating and electrolyte depleting effects. this is often referred to as "holiday heart".
has anyone successfully cured atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is a degenerative disease of the upper chamber which results in deposition of microscopic amounts of scar tissue a generally irreversible process. however certain procedures such as a surgical maze or catheter ablation can prevent patients from developing the rhythm of atrial fibrillation or barring that the symptoms from the arrhythmia with up to ~70% success.
has anyone successfully cured atrial fibrillation?
catheter ablation and surgical maze procedures can cure atrial fibrillation for many patients.
having lots of heart palpitations and very tired all the time?
palpitations are quite common and some people are aware of the heart beating and others not. skipped or extra beats are more common but often should not be causing tiredness/dizziness. prolonged palpitation causing tiredness could be atrial fibrillation a heart arrhythmia. hyperthyroidism can cause palpatitation and tiredness so consult doc for an eaval/treatment. good luck.
how much rate atrial fibrillation with slow ventricular?
most people left untreated have rates between 70 and 150. it's a bit unusual to fall below that without drugs or other treatment.
how much rate atrial fibrillation with slow ventricular?
what are you asking exactly? the definition of slow ventricular rate? or specific symptoms?
i'll be having a sleep study done soon as i think the low oxygen in blood is causing my afib and maybe the root cause all among is it possible why?
rem sleep cycles causes irritability of your cardiac circulation and intrinsic pacemakers which are oxygen-hungry. as a result hypoxia of your intrinsic pacemaker (sinus node) may develop into atrial fibrillation. hope the sleep test and its treatment improve your condition.
what 3-5 drugs are commonly given for atrial fibrillation?
if the goal is just to control the heart rate the common choices are drugs that slow the heart rate like a beta blocker or calcium channel blocker and a blood thinner to lower the risk of stroke. classically coumadin (warfarin) but there are newer ones ( xarelto for example). sometimes there are drugs given after the heart has been restored to a normal rhythm that help maintain this such as amiodarone.
what do you recommend if i have a history of atrial fibrillation but this did not show up on the holter monitor. any suggestions on an actual cause?
if you are continuing to have symptoms that you feel are possible atrial fibrillation but you were unlucky enough to not have symptoms during a 24 hour ecg you physician can order an event monitor. this is an ecg monitor that you can wear for 30 days which will increase the likelihood of detecting an arrhythmia.
what could happen when you have an epsode of af?
atrial fibrillation is a medical condition describing an abnormal heart rhythm. there are many complications of a-fib. in general when your heart is in a-fib it is not functioning at it's normal capacity and is less effective when pumping blood. also a-fib can cause turbulent blood flow within your heart which can put you at risk of developing blood clots.
had atrial fibrillation too much thyroxine on 150mg down to 100 straight away on beta blockers and aspirin will i get off these pills?
if the atrial fibrillation is self-limited and clearly the result of excess thyroxine the beta blockers and aspirin could eventually be discontinued. if you have persistent or recurrent episodes of arrhythmia despite proper thyroxine dosing long-term medications for the atrial fibrillation may be necessary.
had atrial fibrillation too much thyroxine on 150mg down to 100 straight away on beta blockers and aspirin will i get off these pills?
if the atrial fibrillation was from too much thyroxine and not from an underlying heart problem you should be able to get off the beta blockers and aspirin eventually.
how does atrial fibrillation with ventricular standstill differ from fine v-fib?
they could look alike on ecg. both would also result in cardiac arrest. as no perfusion would result one would expect af waves to be less visible than vf very quickly. if arrest had been present for say more than 30sec. vf would be more likely as the af waves should likely not be visible.
have bronchitis. up much of night coughing. should i be flying 4 hrs to florida tomorrow for week vacation. also have supra ventricular tachycardia?
i would see an md before flying. cardic arrhythmia can be problematic. sometime it can precipitate atrial fibrillation and may need anticoagulantion to prevent systemic embolism!
i've been to so many docs/ specialists in 2 years regarding uncomfortable hr sometimes above 200. i'm 27 & can't take beta blockers. no docs so far know what to do. besides fast hr heart healthy. ?
paroxysmal supraventicular tachycardia is the most likely cause sometimes associated with atrial fibrillation. would recommend consulting a cardiologist with training in ep studies & mapping of the electric circuits of the heart. ablation therapy may be a good option.
i have chf and take coreg (carvedilol) for blood pressure. can i take ventolin hfa for asthma?
those drugs are often used together but be aware that you are subject to side effects such as rapid heart rate atrial fibrillation and other arrhythmias - so always use the smallest effective dose. also: coreg (carvedilol) can make asthma worse. metoprolol might be a better choice for you because it's somewhat selective whereas coreg (carvedilol) is not but metoprolol can also make asthma worse in some people.
i believe i have myocarditis. i have been known to suffer from anxiety but i have had palpitations that reccur every so often also coughing because i feel mucus. i have periods of being fatigued and am not willing to get up from bed every morning.
to assess for myocarditis you need an echocardiogram to see if there is inflammation around the heart muscles. palpitations are not really specific and you should get an ekg to assess the underlying electrical activity of the heart. if palpitations are more spaced out i suggest wearing a holter monitor which can detect underlying atrial fibrillation pvcs which cause palpitations.
i have frequent heart palpitations and it kinda worrys me but my doctor said it was due to caffeine and smoking. does that sound right?
nicotine (in tobacco) is actually a neurotransmitter & is used by the body to tell the heart & vessels how to adapt. methylxanthines (like caffeine) can interfere w/ this system just like taking a mega-hit of nicotine (by smoking). excessive caffeine intake is associated with (but debated as to cause of) atrial fibrillation an irregular heart beat that can cause palpitations. smoking helps no 1!
i am taking eliquis and i had to have a stent in my leg and am now on clopidogrel as well. is it necessary to take both. i really bleed easily.
if you're taking eliquis for atrial fibrillation and now have had a stent placed you do need both as they work by different mechanisms and are used for different indications. you are entirely justified to be worried about bleeding and should pray that doesn't happen as you would have to stop 1 or both which would increase your risk of a clotting complication. good luck!
what are the issues with cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
patients with congestive heart failure are at risk for several different abnormal heart rhythms including life threatening and more benign rhythms that can affect quality of life. the most common arrhythmia is called atrial fibrillation - it is treated with blood thinners medications to control the rhythm and sometimes procedures. an implanted defibrillator (icd) can protect from sudden death.
what to do if my 98 year old great grandad has been taken into hospital with atrial fibrillation is he okay?
most folks do fine with atrial fibrillation re this: <link> nhlbi. nih. gov/health/health-topics/topics/af/.
would atrial fibrillation show up on an ekg or is a holter monitor needed to diagnosis? i am convinced i have af but my ekg was normal.
atrial fibrillation is an abnormal heart rhythm which occurs mostly in the elderly. it can be persistent or paroxysmal (intermittent). an ecg shows the heart rhythm at the time it is being done. an abnormal rhythm would be seen only if the heart was in that rhythm at that time. a holter monitor would follow the rhythm over a period of time >24hrs and could show if it happens intermittently.
would atrial fibrillation show up on an ekg or is a holter monitor needed to diagnosis? i am convinced i have af but my ekg was normal.
the ekg does not always reveal atrial fibrillation. if the af is paroxysmal in nature then it may not be present at the time the ekg is performed. in these situations a holter monitor is a better test since you wear the monitor for several days. if the af occurs during this period it will be seen on the holter monitor. if it does not occur you will still not be able to see it.
what are the risks of getting a blood cloth from ectopic atrial tachycardia? it has not come many times.
unlike atrial fibrillation and flutter atrial tachycardia is not associated with significant increased risk of intracardiac thrombus formation.
hi! is a inr at 1. 4 with an irregular heart beat safe.
your exact heart rhythm diagnosis should be discussed with your doctor. if you have something called atrial fibrillation an inr of 1. 4 is probably too low and your coumadin (warfarin) dose should be adjusted appropriately. otherwise you may be at risk for a blood clot to form within your heart which may ultimately cause a stroke.
hi! is a inr at 1. 4 with an irregular heart beat safe.
if irregular "heart beat" is atrial fibrillation and if you are on warfarin for anticoagulation ( is that why you are checking your inr? ) then a therapeutic level to prevent stroke is between 2 to 3.
hi! is a inr at 1. 4 with an irregular heart beat safe.
if you are on an anticoagulant such as coumadin (warfarin) for treatment of atrial fibrillation that would be too low. the reading should be between 2. 0 and 3. 0 for therapeutic benefit. if you are not on a blood thinner an inr of 1. 4 would be unusual.
how often should an ekg be done on an individual with chf?
an ekg is important to diagnose an acute heart attacks or to see if a patient has an abnormal heart rhythm such as atrial fibrillation. an echocardiogram will give an idea of the ejection fraction (ef) of the patient. it can visualize the wall motion of the heart. in addition it will see if the patient has pulmonary artery hypertension. this is another cause of edema that can be treated by meds.
hi after heart attack can i take two pegs of rum?
no it is not recommended. it can increase the chances of atrial fibrillation and other arrhythmias. also it will increase the work load on the heart by causing high blood pressure and increasing the heart rate.
how many patients on revlimid (lenalidomide) may develop atrial fibrilation?
from the study that leads the approval of revlimid (lenalidomide) -the data showed that there were 9/346 (2. 6%) patients in the revlimid (lenalidomide) group who developed grade 3 atrial fibrillation compared to 2/345 (0. 6%) patient who developed grade 3 atrial fibrilation in the placebo group.
how is af atrial fibrillation diagnosed? please name all tests and criteria. thank you.
electrical activity during afib needs to be recorded for official diagnosis. standard ecg or longer tests such as holter monitor (24-48 hrs) zio patch (14 days) event recorder/mcat (up to 30days) or even an implantable loop recorded (3+ years). there needs to be a poorly defined irregular rhythm from the top of the heart. for more information check out www. heart. org.
how is af atrial fibrillation diagnosed? please name all tests and criteria. thank you.
name all tests and criteria eh? i think you're over-reaching. afib is a simple diagnosis to make in most cases. a single ekg or even a rhythm strip is usually sufficient. the lower chamber beats are markedly varied in their timing and there's no clear organized rhythm of the top chamber visible on the strip/ekg. the end. <positive_smiley> every one in a while it's weirder than that but not often.
i had a heart palpitation when i went into the ocean to swim. i had had a gin drink. i'm 23 and a female. in good shape. my heart rate was a little fast and i felt lightheaded. i'm ok now. what to do?
some people are highly sensitive to the well-known ability of alcohol to precipitate cardiac arrhythmias (in fact they were known as "holiday heart" because holidays were usually associated with above-average drinking). the most common are svts - supraventricular arrhythmias including paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. your doctor can evaluate you. the combo of alcohol&exercise is the culprit.
would paroxysmal atrial fibrillation cause mental impairment?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (afib) refers to a brief episode of irregular heart rhythm that may cause a variety of symptoms including confusion palpitations sweating chest pain nausea vomiting and sometime even stroke symptoms including changes in language facial drooping weakness and numbness to name a few symptoms. it is important to be seen by a doctor to have a complete exam.
what to do if i have a history of atrial fibrillation but this did not show up on the holter monitor. any suggestions on an actual cause?
timing is critical. if a holter monitor did not show any atrial fibrillation it's most likely because there was no such activity during the time you carried the monitor considering the limits of such a test. that does not mean you did not have atrial fibrillation prior to the test or a chance to develop another self limited episode anytime in the future.
how does coronary heart disease affect pulse rate?
some folks may have palpitations arrhythmia s including atrial fibrillation pvcs and slow- bradycardias or complete heart block. with an acute event ventricular tachycardia. and/ or ventricular fibrillation may occur and cause death. many persons with cad do not have pulse symptoms.
how do you deal with the fatigue from atrial fibrillation?
this is a tough one. fatigue is a plague in america. start with the simple things: many patients with afib also have sleep apnea; failure to treat the osa (sleep apnea) renders all other questions moot. increase your fitness and exercise levels as best you can. get plenty of sleep.
how do you deal with the fatigue from atrial fibrillation?
with med slow your heart to around 60-70/ min. bp to around 120 systolic. sometimes the betablocker med makes you feel that way; over correction usually at fault.
help please! is atrial fibrillation a progressive condition?
af tends to progress over time in the majority of patients but this progression is slow often over years or even decades. uncontrolled hypertension other heart diseases obstructive sleep apnea etc. can accelerate this process. treatment of af with medications (antiarrhythmic drugs) and treatment of the predisposing conditions often slows or prevents progression.
how can i best take care of atrial fibrillation?
treatment of af depends on the type of af the age of the patient the presence or absence of underlying heart disease and patient's personal preferences (more medications vs. procedural approach (ablation). you should discuss this with your doctor or an electrophysiologist.
how can i best take care of atrial fibrillation?
2 strategies: rate and rhythm control. for rate control diltiazem is generally slightly more effective than beta blockers like metoprolol. for rhythm control drugs work for some. among these amiodarone and dofetilide are the most effective for long-term control but each has serious concerns. catheter ablation has a ~4% risk of major complications but is more effective than any drug therapy.
how long is it supposed to it take for a blood clot to form during paroxysmal atrial fibrillation?
difficult to be very specific because other factors weigh in. how stagnant and how long is considered while treating.
how are atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter different?
heart rythm problem is more unpredictable in a fib. in flutter the are more predictable and regular rate. the treatment approach differs and risk of intracardiac blood clot also in that context.
how to know what is atrial fibrillation and is it serious?
afib is a rapid irregular heart rhythm which can decrease heart efficiency as much as 20% in some patients. it can also be associated with clotting and clots travelling around the body to cause stroke or other problems. some people have atrial fibrillation as their normal rhythm. talk to your dr. about it if you have it.
how to know what is atrial fibrillation and is it serious?
af is the commonest heart rhythm disturbance in humans. in af the top chambers (atria) twitter and twitch instead of pumping normally. af can be serious for some patients but not for all. please see your doctor preferably a cardiologist ideally an electrophysiologist and they'll help you sort it out.
how to treat atrial flutter?
this is a rapid regular atrial rhythm from 250-350 beats per minute roughly it rarely conducts to the ventricles at 1:1. it is related to atrial fibrillation and is treated in a somewhat similar manner.
i have svt and it rarely bothers me. i take propranolol daily to prevent episodes. is it safe to consume a cup or two of coffee?
heartbeats skips are usually not life threatening see a doctor to exclude serious heart conditions such as atrial fibrillation or heart artery blockages before assuming a begnin cause. stay hydrated try magnesium supplements avoid stimulants such as caffeine alcohol (beer wine & spirits) pseudoephedrine and similar agents that are often present in decongestants cough & allergy medications.
hoping you can tell me is minimally invasive treatment for atrial fibrillation available?
all catheter-based techniques are considered minimally invasive. conventional techniques are up to 75% effective though multiple procedures are frequently required. there is a mini-thoracotomy procedure they can do with slightly improved efficacy over this but it involves making a lot of scar tissue around the left atrium; we usually reserve that for people needing other procedures in the chest.
hoping you can tell me is minimally invasive treatment for atrial fibrillation available?
radio frequecy ablation is fairly available. see pmd for referral.
have hcm recently had svt pulse over 220 - troponin levels were 70 on admission -1700 after 30 minutes - what are risks heart failure?
hcm course can be benign but can cause syncope arrhythmias ( like svt) ischemia heart failure and brain stroke. can progress to dilated cardiomyopathy and heart failure in 5 to 10% of patients as a result of fibrosis a ventricular remodeling. atrial fibrillation 10-20% patients can precipitate heart failure and stroke. focus management by close follow up with cardiology.
help please! is an irregular heart beat always atrial fibrillation?
an irregular heart beat can be due to several arrhythmias. the best way to make a diagnosis is to get an monitor while you are having the irregular rhythm. a holter or an event monitor would be needed.
help please! is an irregular heart beat always atrial fibrillation?
there are many types of arrythmias a-fib is one one them abide a more common type. here is a great summary from an excellent source! <link>
what do you suggest if i have atrial fibrillation (irregular heartbeat) - can i still go on the pill?
you should have a detailed discussion with your doctor about the implications of atrial fibrillation for you. there is no single answer to this question and it needs to be specific to the individual and their situation.
have proxysml afib on coreg (carvedilol) bp iin the 120/65 range and pulse around 65 pulse sspikes to 95 sometimes short of breath and heart seems to race ideas?
it is difficult to say if your symptoms are in fact due to afib. if you are in atrial fibrillation a significant amount of time that might explain sob. beta blockers can make some patients short of breath so that is another possibility. rate seems pretty well controlled but you might consider an ambulatory monitor say for 3 weeks to determine your actual afib burden. ask your cardiologist.
how to deal with skipping heart beats after an ablation?
for the first 3 months after an atrial fibrillation ablation you get a free pass. don't worry about it until afterward. for other procedures if it's still a problem a few weeks out from the procedure i'd usually repeat an event or holter monitor to see what's going on. sorry to hear it didn't get resolved on the first shot. bear with them; it happens to the best.
had a bad case of afib when should one go to the er have greenfield filter sometimes leg feels warm?
sometimes atrial fibrillation is caused by blood clots going to the lung this can happen despite the presence of an ivc filter and especially if your inr is not therapeutic. you should get checked out since this can be life threatening.
how is an irregular heartbeat different to pvcs? zolpidem warns about irregular heartbeat and i have been getting a lot more pvcs (normal echo )
i'm glad that you had a normal echo but that only tells us about your anatomy not about your electrical signaling or rhythm. for that you need a 24 hour holter monitor if you get your pvcs daily or an event monitor if you get them every now & then. atrial fibrillation is due to abnormal pacemaker leading to pulse speeding up & slowing down on its own different from occasional skipped beat (pvc).
i have afib and i'm 55. i was told by my cardiologist that it will continue to get worse. does this limit my lifespan? i am confused.
atrial fibrillation is usually a progressive disorder. spells tend to become more frequent and last longer as one ages. if you follow your doctors' advice and take the medications that are prescribed it won't limit your lifespan.
i don't like drugs as a belt and braces approach. is it safe to take bisoprosol fumarate only if i go back into af. opinions of my two doctors differ.
bisoprolol is beta blocker and could help control the heart rate with atrial fibrillation. uncertain what the other different opinions are. talk to your physician whom you trust and see a cardiologist you trust
i am in rhythm bp fine. one doctor says to take bisoprosol fumarate if i go back into af. my other doctor says to take it all the time. opinion please?
if you are having atrial fibrillation frequently then taking the bisoprolol regularly will likely reduce this burden. if however you get it infrequently and bisoprolol has historically helped convert you from af to normal rhythm it can be utilized as a "pill-in-the-pocket" approach. alternative would be to assure your flecainide dose is maximized or switch to alternative antiarrhythmics.
i am in rhythm bp fine. one doctor says to take bisoprosol fumarate if i go back into af. my other doctor says to take it all the time. opinion please?
beta blockers slows your heart rate and lowers your blood pressure. beta blockers are helpful to lessen your heart rate when you are in afib. they help reduce symptomatic episodes of atrial fibrillation by controlling your heart rate. bottom line the more frequent and symptomatic your episodes are the more it might sense to take it daily. i would base the decision on what minimizes your symptoms
ive started having an irregular heart beat this afternoon. its beating causing a cough a lttle light headed. this is new for me should i go to er?
yes- could represent atrial fibrillation. you should have an ekg and electrolyte evaluation in an er today. good luck!
what to do if i have been diagnosed with atrial fibrillation what can i expect?
af tends to recur. not always but usually. at your age (3<positive_smiley> you don't need anticoagulation unless you have diabetes chf or hx of stroke. the symptoms are annoying but not dangerous. medications if your spells are frequent enough to warrant treatment can help. ablation is indicated if you fail at least 1 medicine.
what is paroxysmal atrial fibrillation?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation is an abnormal heart rhythm that is intermittent (or paroxysmal) arising from the upper chambers of the heart (or atria) and is very chaotic or irregular (fibrillating). it can cause problems because it usually drives the heart rate up too fast (giving symptoms and eventually weakening the heart) and can increase the risk of stroke. causes of paf are multiple.
what is paroxysmal atrial fibrillation?
this is af that comes and goes on its own lasting anywhere from minutes to less than 48 hours. this is usually early stage af and generally this is the easiest to treat.
what do you suggest if my mom has a pacemaker why would she still need to take 80 mg of beta pace 3 times a day?
i assume she has atrial fibrillation? betapace (sotalol) helps prevent recurrent episodes of af. a side effect is that it makes the heart beat too slowly or even pause in susceptible people and when that occurs a pacemaker is necessary to counteract that side effect. the pacemaker by itself won't stop the af.
had echo after stvs (which i've had intermittently for years) that turned into afib. doc said my left atrium is "slightly" enlarged. i'm 59 female. he said it's not unusual at my age. agree or recs?
of atrial fibrillation in usa is hypertensive cardiovascular disease. enlarged left atrium cause the abnormal atrial arrhythmia. heart rate control and prevention of thromboembolic event a must. sinus rhythm convertion always a possibility to avoid complications. electrical drug and ablation therapy are 3 possible treatments. consult your cardiology for the best regimen for you.
had echo after stvs (which i've had intermittently for years) that turned into afib. doc said my left atrium is "slightly" enlarged. i'm 59 female. he said it's not unusual at my age. agree or recs?
the fact is that most 59-year-olds don't have atrial fibrillation. however as we get older the incidence increases.
i have afib and wolf parkinson white. symptoms are chest pain shortness of breath etc what are the treatments for those conditions?
depending on the nature of the cause of your symptoms. with atrial fibrillation and wpw there can be a number of different options. this is not something that can be easily addressed over the internet. you need to establish or reestablish with a health care professional who can address your concerns and manage your symptoms. get checked out today. cardiac electrophysiologist would probably be best
what do you suggest if my dad has atrial fibrillation?
make sure he sees a doctor and determine what possibly cause it. after that inquire from him or his doctor wether he needs medication including blood thinner (anticoagulant. ) usually a decision will be made on the initial evaluation wether to try converting the rhythm back to normal or leave it as it is.
have proxsymal afib had two cases of a pe have a filter when should i consider an ablation?
lone standing(not associated with valvular disease) atrial fibrillation may be cured with the cox maze procedure. dr. sirak at ohio state university has excellent cure rates performing the operation videothoracoscopically. i advise you go see him and his cardiology electrophysiology team.
help please! could diazepam and alcohol cause atrial fibrillation?
alcohol has many consequences not frequently noted such as cancer heart disease suicide ; motor vehicle accident. heart disease is among the most common causes of death for alcohol dependent people.
i have a fib do i really need to take betablockers with a resting pulse rate of 85 per min. maxium. thanks?
consider a cardiology consult for best strategy for management of atrial fibrillation. this is a nuanced question and merits an individualised answer to best guide you.
if you had an irregular heartbeat (benign) can an anxiety attack make it more pronounced and bothersome?
any stress can increase the symptoms of irregular heartbeat which usually refers to "pvcs" or "pacs. " irregular heart beat could also mean atrial fibrillation but this would be unlikely at your age. anxiety sleeplessness illness stress of any sort alcohol caffeine can increase palpitations. check out my website <link> for heart health education.
my dad had is pacemaker checkup today they said the top half of his heart was getting 400 bpm how bad it this?
it sounds like atrial fibrillation which increases the risk for stroke. ask a doctor about this risk. anticoagulants are frequently used to lower this risk.
my dad had is pacemaker checkup today they said the top half of his heart was getting 400 bpm how bad it this?
it sounds as though he now has atrial fibrillation af.
male 65 yo prev atrial fib on 10/1 today short of breath fatigue erratic heartbeat all after moving boxes. go to er? had other incidents of a. fib. today heartbeat was initially 124 (at carotid) & erratic. then down to 82 still erratic. he looks un
if you have had prior episodes of atrial fibrillation are on treatment and are back in a-fib and symptomatic it needs to be treated. go to the ed for immediate therapy and follow-up with your cardiologist.
without any physical activity my heart rate can go to 160-190 for 2-3 minutes and then back to 80-90. terrible feeling but what could be the reason?
sounds like atrial fibrillation. . definitely need to see your dr have this evaluated and treated. you might consider er if this is new problem.
what the reason some of ep may not want to stop tambocor (flecainide) before af ablation? n why some of ep want to stop tambocor (flecainide) before af ablation?
if you are in atrial fibrillation then you can take either approach. however if you are in sinus rhythm and taking tambocor (flecainide) i prefer to stop it prior to the ablation to make it easier to induce atrial fibrillation at the time of the ablation. i ask my patients to take an anti arrhythmic after the ablation during the healing phase (3 months) to minimize arrhythmias.
would echo ekg stress test xray bloodwork rule out any arrhythmia problem such as premature ventricular contraction and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation?
occasional pvcs are normal. paroxysmal atrial fibrillation by definition is only present some of the time and the tests you list could easily miss this if done while the heart is in normal rhythm. diagnosis of intermittent arrhythmias can be difficult and frequently requires consultation with a cardiologist subspecialized in electrophysiology holter monitor test is frequently used.
would echo ekg stress test xray bloodwork rule out any arrhythmia problem such as premature ventricular contraction and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation?
the tests you list may not diagnose an arrhythmia like pvcs or atrial fibrillation. the best way to diagnose these arrhythmias is to have a holter heart monitor placed. these monitors can be placed for days-weeks and are more likely to diagnose an arrhythmia. so see your doctor and ask if the heart monitor can be placed!
hello docs is atrial fibrillation heart disease hereditary?
it can run in families but mainly it's just a common entity that has increasing prevalence with aging.
how come lanoxin (digoxin) being prescribed to patients with pneumonia?
other reasons are cardiac arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation most likely from stress of infection.
help please? how long of a life span for people w/afib heart disorder after age 76?
in an otherwise normal patient a long survival is possible with lone atrial fibrillation.
hi docs would afib make my heart failure worse if i don't get it cardioverted?
yes. atrial fibrillation could worsen your heart failure if rate is not well controlled. recent data shows that at least one attempt of cardioversion should be attempted for a fib patients. if atrial fibrillation is secondary to heart failure then it could be difficult to maintain in rhythm even with antiarrythmic drugs after cardioversion.
is it true that over a long period of time of heart palpitations can cause blood clots?
heart palpitations can range from benign premature atrial contractions to sustained abnormal rhythms such as atrial fibrillation. atrial fibrillation /flutter can causes stasis of blood flow in a heart chamber from asynchronous atrio-ventricular contractions and hence blood pools so to speak and can form clots.
i get around 20-50 pacs/day could it cause any complications? someone told me it could trigger atrial fibrillation i'm worried? also got mvp/trivialmr
you to atrial fibrillation however recognizing that 25% of all people over 40 develop atrial fibrillation may give you some perspective in this regard. your health care provider can offer you appropriate treatment and assist you in making management decisions.
i have afib. i read that 1 out of 3 people with afib will have a stroke. is that true even if i'm treated with warfarin and rhythm medications?
there are a few guidelines that can be used to estimate the risk of stroke in a patient with atrial fibrillation. one of the best is the "cha2ds2-vasc" score. if the risk of stroke is high anticoagulation with warfarin or one of the newer oral anticoagulant meds is usually advised. antiarrhythmic drugs may reduce episodes of atrial fibrillation but won't eliminate the risk of stroke.
my husband has atrial fibrillation and today while walking had a 5-minute episode of burning left-sided chest discomfort. should we be concerned?
if it occurs again tonight you should call the answering service for the cardiologist or go to the er. chest pain with physical activity is always a concern especially in someone who already has heart disease like a fib. regardless one of your husbands doctors should be made aware of this in the morning if no symptoms recur sooner.
my husband has atrial fibrillation and today while walking had a 5-minute episode of burning left-sided chest discomfort. should we be concerned?
i would be concerned. we must rule out a coronary artery disease like angina or a heart attack. i hope that you already consulted with his cardiologist or taken him to the er by the time you read my answer.
my wife thinks i should see someone for my cardiac arrhythmia. should i?
many cardiac arrhythmias are benign - abnormal but don't cause any problems; while others are not. first find out what arrhythmia then ask your doctor for advice. pacs and rare pvc may require no treatment atrial fibrillation may need anti coagulation and possibly cardioversion vt may need defibrillator. choice will depend on your medical history too. see a doctor.
my doctor told me yesterday that i have svt. is this dangerous? my last stress test was 3 years ago. do i need a cardiologist appt.?
hello svt (supra-ventricular tachycardia) is a broad term that covers many different kinds of fast heart rates originating from the top of the heart. it could be caused by a fast sinus node conduction loop atrial fibrillation. it is usually not very dangerous but the treatment for each is different. you should see someone fairly soon to identify the kind of svt and possible cure it.
what issues could there be with my thyroid profile given that i suffer from high blood pressure and atrial fibrillation?
both hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism produce changes in cardiac contractility myocardial oxygen consumption cardiac output blood pressure systemic vascular resistance. well known that hyperthyroidism can produce atrial fibrillation less well recognized that hypothyroidism can predispose to ventricular dysrhythmias. in almost all cases cardiovascular changes reversed by thyroid hormone therap
what issues could there be with my thyroid profile given that i suffer from high blood pressure and atrial fibrillation?
if this is caused by thyroid disease it would be hyperthyroidism--which causes a low tsh and a raised thyroxine level.
what is the difference between panic attack vs atrial fibrillation?
if you think you could be having cardiac problems this needs to be evaluated. medical causes for symptoms should be ruled out before making diagnosis. panic attacks sxs: anxiety; rapid pounding heart; chest tightness/pain; shortness of breath w hyperventilation; hot /cold flashes; butterflies in stomach nausea or vomiting; tingling of mouth or extremities; ^ sweating; feeling faint or >
why is it important t monitor potassium levels on flecainide?
potassium is the most important ion affecting your heart's conduction. low potassium increases your risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation as well as other rhythm disturbances (pvcs). if you're on a diuretic monitoring potassium is crucial. flecainide is not the primary issue but low potassium can interfere with flecainide's efficacy.
why does acid relux cause heart palpitations and skipped heart beats? thanks
the heart is a sensitive organ and as such likes a certain mileu. acid reflux (heart burn) is not a comfortable condition with acid in an otherwise alkaline mileu (esophagus) hence can cause gi pain and/or masquerade as chest pain. this perturbs the heart and has been associated with atrial fibrillation and/or simple extra beats. this is the explanation that is believed presently.
why would i be completely be dependent on my pacemaker if i have the av node ablation such as svt are atrial fibrillation?
the heart is a house with 2 chambers upstairs (atria) and 2 chambers downstairs (ventrical). the electricity to the downstairs chambers comes from the upstairs chamber. the connecting point between the tow floors is called av node. if you cut this av node the lower chambers will not have electricity to work so u need to provide the lower chamb with anther source of electricity that is pacemaker
why would i be completely be dependent on my pacemaker if i have the av node ablation such as svt are atrial fibrillation?
at your age an av node ablation is a last resort unless you have congenital heart disease
how can high blood pressure cause atrial fibrillation?
first - high blood pressure increases the pressures in your heart and left atrium which triggers the pulmonary veins to fire and send out electrical signals that can short circuit the heart. second - long standing hypertension dilates the atria and causes fibrosis which makes it easier to short circuit those chambers and stay in atrial fibrillation.
how can high blood pressure cause atrial fibrillation?
high blood pressure can cause the left ventricle to enlarge. as the walls of the ventricle thicken they also become stiff and the left atrium then has a hard time to pump blood into it. this then causes the atrium to enlarge (dilate) and once it gets to about 5 cm2 it has a hard time to contract normally and may instead contract in an uncoordinated and disorganised manner called fibrillation.
my mom is now in afib again. doctors want to do a cardiac conversion tomorrow shock her i guess. now remember she has copd chf and is a diabetic with fluids around lungs and organs. how serious is this procedure? should i be present for the conversion? i
a cardioversion is a procedure used to restore sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation. it is usually a safe procedure performed with minimal anesthesia usually versed or propofol. the key important thing is that she has been on blood thinners for an appropriate period of time to prevent a stroke. sometimes antiarrhythmic medication is administered afterwards to maintain sinus rhythm.
my pulse reached up to 195! the other day so i went to the er and they gave me a huge dose of ativan (lorazepam) which brought it down to normal. it shoots up again that high unless i take the ativan (lorazepam) what could be causing this m?
well this is interesting with such a young person but i would see my own doctor. not clear if this is cardiac in nature like ventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. or is this anxiety. really need a thorough work up and not just er visits.
what kind of arrhythmia would cause your heart to flutter dizzy like no beats in between and scared. it felt like a lot if pvcs in a row.
there are several arrhythmias that can cause these symptoms including atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter pvcs that can occur as "runs" where there are several in a row. ventricular arrhythmias besides pvcs would likely cause more symptoms like passing out. the best way to figure out what is wrong is to have a holter monitor placed for at least a few days so see your doctor asap or go to er!
what can i do to treat persistent atrial fibrillation?
you should see a cardiologist to have a workup to see if a treatable cause for the atrial fibrillation can be found. if the cardiologist can also recommend appropriate treatments for rate and rhythm control and if appropriate for anticoagulation also. some folks require drug therapy some will benefit by ablation of the arrhythmia.
how safe is a cardiac ablation? will it help to cure atrial fibrillation? if it does will i have to continue taking medication
although many serious complications can occur during an ablation when performed by a skilled physician with plenty if experience in a good hospital it is usually very safe. when successful an ablation may allow a patient to come off medications prescribed for the arrhythmia which was ablated. atrial fibrillation is an arrhythmia which can be cured with ablation.
heart palps while sleeping. slow heart rate. feels like skipped beats (thumps). chest discomfort. have had all cardio tests. any ideas?
people with undiagnosed sleep apnea can have slow heart rates with pvcs paroxysm of atrial fibrillation etc a sleep study may be just the test to see what and why your having nighttime palpitations.
heart rate fluctuating between 130 to 145. taking metoprolol 25mg 2wice daily. taking diuretic 5mg. bp is 85/60. feeling tired. pl advice?
sounds suspicious for atrial fibrillation a rapid rhythm emanating from the upper poles of the heart frequently seen in older patients and in patients with previous heart disease. should preferably confer with your pcp to confirm. might be able to take diltiazem in low doses in addition to other meds and have minimal effect on bp but this would have to be approved/monitored by a local doctor.
heart rate normally 68 bpm brief jump to 208. intermittent cardiac arrhythmia on recent neck scan but no follow up palpitations 2 days ago. ideas?
the younger patients like yourself experiencing palpitations could have paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. if you do not have any affiliated medical problems and considering you are young doctors might not prescribed any medications.
my pulse rate has been running 122 all the time why?
it is important to known exactly what your underlying heart rhythm is. you need an electrocardiogram (ecg). likely potential causes: sinus tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. also could be a supraventricular tachycardia or atrial flutter. sometimes fast heart rhythms can be due to high thyroid level or anemia.
would you be able to feel afib? what are the symptoms?
you certainly can feel atrial fibrillation. read this : www. nhlbi. nih. gov/health/health-topics/topics/af/
what are the differences between tachycardia & tachyarrhythmia?
both mean rapid heart rate but tachycardia usually refers to the normal rhythm just beating faster than normal (sinus tachycardia). tachyarrhythmia usually refers to an abnormal and fast heart rhythm such as atrial fibrillation atrial flutter supra ventricular tachycardia (svt) or ventricular tachycardia (vt).
what is it called when a patient goes in and out of atrial fibrillation?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation
had stroke heart attack seizures trmors liver damage and now auto immune hypothyroidis this lupus?
some of these conditions could be related. none of these necessarily means lupus though. atrial fibrillation is a common cause of stroke and stroke is the most common cause of seizures in adults.
i'm in afib n atrial flutter. can i do some physical exercise? what is the best exercise for patient afib n atrial flutter like me? thank you
exercising with atrial fibrillation: prescription for health american college of sports medicine <link> medscape. com/viewarticle/719110
my resting heart rate is between 70-75 on lopressor (metoprolol tartrate) for afib but every time i wake up even from naps it is between 90-100. what could cause this?
atrial fibrillation/flutter gives irregular heart ratethat may have wide or narrow range. this rate can be altered with activity caffeine or other drug intake. there is also a daily increase in adrenaline just before awakening in morning. i don't know how this relates to naps. if symptoms other than awareness of heart rate occur (short of breath chest pain lightheaded) seek medical attentio.
my dad's heartbeat has been very sporadic lately his pulse has been as high as 167. what could this mean?
he maybe having atrial fibrillation. please see an md.
my husband has perm a-fib. has had maze conversions hcm mitral repair pacemaker/defib tikosyn (dofetilide) (stopped). left atrium 6. 4 cm. will the afib lead to heart failure?
i really can't say what the risk of heart failure is for your husband. i would need more information and test results. in fact one reason for a difibulator is heart failure. atrial fibrillation can definitely impact heart failure. but there are many in heart failure w/o afib. other issues: does he still have mitral regurgitation? did he have complete maze? how big is his lv?
my father in law aged 72 yrs. hospitalized for last 28 days. diagnosed as follows : 1. atrial fibrillation. 2. multi drug resistant klebsillia pneumona
sounds like your father in law is very ill and the klebsiella resistant is an additional very serious problem. what is your question?
my father in law aged 72 yrs. hospitalized for last 28 days. diagnosed as follows : 1. atrial fibrillation. 2. multi drug resistant klebsillia pneumona
what is the question? your father in law sounds very sick if he's been hospitalized for almost a month and a multidrug resistant klebsiella pneumonia could be the cause of that. there still isn't a question to answer.
my father in law aged 72 yrs. hospitalized for last 28 days. diagnosed as follows : 1. atrial fibrillation. 2. multi drug resistant klebsillia pneumona
well the fib is likely a combination of his age and the fact that he's got an acute illness. mdr k. p is a bummer. they'll do special testing to see what antibiotics still work against the bug then start him on that. good luck.
my 62yo mom diagnosed with chf and living with pacemaker is having atrial fibrillations esp at night for which she takes 25mg of atenol. is it safe?
atenolol is a beta blocker and used for treatment of a fib.
my 62yo mom diagnosed with chf and living with pacemaker is having atrial fibrillations esp at night for which she takes 25mg of atenol. is it safe?
she needs to follow up with her cardiologist asap. while the atenolol may decrease her heart rate she will need evaluation and possible identification of etiology/possible anticoagulant treatment if she really has a. fib.
my 62yo mom diagnosed with chf and living with pacemaker is having atrial fibrillations esp at night for which she takes 25mg of atenol. is it safe?
atenolol will help keep down the rate of atrial fibrillation but if your mom has what we call systolic heart failure (usually with a low "ef" measured on an imaging test) she'll be expected to see better survival and health benefits taking either toprol (metoprolol) xl or coreg (carvedilol) instead of atenolol. coreg is as cheap as atenolol if bought at $4 pharmacies. if the ef is not low it doesn't matter.
my 62yo mom with pacemaker chf and a. fib is on warfarin therapy; what should be her target inr?
from what you're describing the reason for warfarin therapy is for her atrial fibrillation ("a-fib") a condition in which this arrhythmia may cause blood clots to form in the heart. being on warfarin helps to keep this from happening and to help prevent pieces of the clot from breaking off and traveling all around the blood vessels. an appropriate inr for this is generally between 2 and 3.
my ep prescribed flecainide for my benign pvcs/pacs. should i get a 2nd opinion cause i'm scared to take a heart med for something that's "benign"?
perhaps there is something of greater concern (to your cardilologist) on your cardiac studies. however if your echo is unremarkable and your holter exam shows pacs and pvcs without ventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation then obtaining a second opinion is reasonable before initiating an anti-arrhythmic med.
what is the side effect if our laa do the atriclip?
recent research in the u. s. suggests that atriclip may be the most effective procedure so far in preventing clots leading to stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. the most common complications occur shortly after the procedure and include bleeding & infection. even if you're doing fine right now you still need regular follow-up to evaluate both the device and your overall health.
why do i have a high pulse rate? is it dangerous?
depends on the reason for an increased heart rate. increased heart rate can be a normal response to heart rate >100 -> sinus tachycardia - other possibilities are arrythmias like atrial flutter/atrial fibrillation/ and supraventricular tachycardias an ekg will be very useful in this case. depending on ekg results and symptoms holter might also help. infection can also cause increased heart rate
my heart has this weird beat to it; could it be atrial fibrillation?
at your age atrial fib would be a bit unlikely but yes it could certainly be a culprit. the other respondant is correct in stating that we need to capture this on an ekg or a wearable monitor to correctly identify its nature. there should be a good electrophysiologist in galveston if you want to investigate further.
my heart has this weird beat to it; could it be atrial fibrillation?
to know what your heart rhythm is you need an ecg and perhaps a holter monitor if nothing is present on the ecg. this can show your abnormal rhythm and identify it.
what does "with run of multiform premature atrial complexes with increasing aberrancy" on a borderline ecg mean?
it means pacs from different foci. severity depends on the cause. usually it is caused by copd by smoking cad ht dm-2 old age cardiomyopathy digoxin toxicity electrolyte disturbances. and they usually lead to atrial fibrillation. must do a thorough w/u with a cardiologist.
what is the difference between a-fib and palpitations?
atrial fibrillation is one form of palpitations. there are many other forms of palpitations also however.
why might my pulse reading spike so high?
many options 1) regular response white coat syndrome 2) too much caffeine or other stimulants 3) arrythmias like atrial fibrillation or flutter 4) nervous or stressful situation
why is ventricular fibrillation worse than atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation has normal left ventricular contractions put poor atrial function. ventricular fibrillation has no real ventricular contractions so blood pumping essentially stops. atrial fibrillation is a rhythm you can live with. ventricular fibrillation is a rhythm you die with unless it is corrected quickly.
why does my heart rate the next morning even after drinking 1-2 beers become over 100? say 125 bpm! but blood pressure is 110/70 or lower.
both binge drinking and long-term drinking can affect how quickly a heart beats. the heart depends on an internal pacemaker system to keep it pumping consistently and at the right speed. alcohol disturbs this pacemaker system and causes the heart to beat too rapidly or irregularly. more commonly secondary to atrial fibrillation
heart rate fluctating every few mins from 55- 130. patient 90 years old. please comment?
this is quite possibly atrial fibrillation but could be a variety of other heart conduction problems and should be checked out by your primary physician or cardiologist if you have one as soon as you can.
had atrial fibrillation is it okay to take kamagra sildinafil oral jelly?
if you do not take nitrates and bp is not too low u may take it.
my heart rate has been really fast for the past few days. i'm not doing any greuling activities either. what could this be?
you may be in an abnormal heart rhythm that requires treatment. supraventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter are often the culprit for an on-going rapid heart rate.
my brother was diagnosed with arrhythmia. how many types of arrhythmia s exist?
there are many arrhythmias or dysrrhythmias. paroxysmal svt atrial fibrillation atrial flutter v-tech v-fibrillation wolff-parkinson's-white syndrome sick-sinus-syndrome. some are serious and some not. please see <link> thanks.
my heart rate is still fast in the 90's after my mitral valve repair is this normal. will it get slower after some time only been three weeks.
you're still in the very early recovery period. although your heart is repaired your heart takes time to remodel. give it 3-6 months. be sure you're in normal rhythm as atrial fibrillation is very common after mv repair (it would be irregular) and it tends to be faster than normal.
my cardiologist prescribed a med for atrial flutter but not blood thinners. he said my echo is perfectly normal. should i be on blood thinners anyway?
anticoagulation (blood thinner) is prescribed to prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation and flutter. need for such treatment depends on risk vs. benefit. patients with diabetes hypertension prior stoke or tia congestive heart failure vascular disease and older would be at higher risk. if your doctor did not recommend anticoagulation for you it is possibly due to your risk profile.
will atrial fibrillation make my heart failure worse if i don't get it cardioverted?
afib decreases cardiac output about 5%
how can i distinguish between a panic attack and atrial fibrillation?
if your pulse is very regular but fast it is likely a panic attack if it is very irregular than it is more likely to be atrial fibrillation. an ekg however is the best method
how long is digoxin (0. 25) normally prescribed for after mvr surgery?
but digoxin is definitely not a first line drug that cardiologists go to these days as there are many better drugs we have in our armamenterium nowadays. if you have atrial fibrillation in the setting of mvr may be it is being given for rate control or conversion back to normal rhythm. even then there are far superior antiarryhtmics. if being given for lv dysfunction again beta-blocker better.
is there documented relationship between degenerative spinal diseases like disc prolapse and atrial fibrillation how to treat this?
ship to the 2 diseases.
is aspirin&plavix enough blood thinners to prevent stroke if chad score (2) if no then what is the safest noac to avoid s/e for paroxysmal afib?
anticoagulation is recommended for patients with atrial fibrillation and chads2 score of 2 or higher for stroke prevention. aspirin and plavix (clopidogrel) do not offer the same protection. noacs have not been compared head to head to determine which one is the safest. any one of them would be a good choice.
is a pulse of 120 while standing ok? sitting pulse is 80 to 85.
a normal resting pulse (whether sitting or standing) is 60-100 (though most commonly 60-80). 120 is abnormally high and deserves evaluation by a doctor. if you're not having discomfort it's not an emergency but you should see a doc soon to evaluate. potential causes include hyperthyroidism cardiac arrhythmias like atrial fibrillation stress excess caffeine side effects of drugs and infections.
is 8-16 and occasionally up to 24 ounces of wine daily or almost daily for 2 years enough to cause cardiomyopathy?
the toxic effects of alcohol on the heart have been known for centuries. alcoholic cardiomyopathy is a condition where the heart muscle grows weak; the amount of alcohol needed to cause this varies a lot among individuals. the dose you describe would be considered heavy alcohol consumption for a woman and could cause high blood pressure atrial fibrillation cardiomyopathy and stroke.
my 85 yr old grandma's blood pressure cuff has been displaying a blinking icon indicating an irregular heart rhythm. could this be an emergency?
any untreated irregular heart need urgent investigation and appropriate treatments take her to her doctor for examination. add note atrial fibrillation could be converted or treated with medication not the condition you have to buy defoliator follow her md advise ; treatment.
what causes tachycardia/pounding heart wheb laying down? not anxiety
arrhythmia which mean abnormal heart beat could be simple tachycardia easy treat it with medication. or it could be complicated and with consequences like atrial fibrillation could cause a clots to the vital organs in the body like brain with stroke or kidney or guts. or it could be a bad tachycardia that could lead to fibrillation and cardiac arrest. so please see a doctor
what do dr think about the new alivecor mobile ecg available without a prescription can this help someone catch possible heart arrhythmia? worth buy
for a patient with a history of or suspected intermittent atrial fibrillation this may be helpful particularly if the arrhythmia has not been associated with symptoms.
had palpitations for years. had heart holter 2 years ago managed to have one faint palpitation not like usual palps i get. test came normal. afib or no?
anxiety patients have symptoms from all kinds of things. you can't say you have atrial fibrillation without ecg or physical diagnosis evidence of the rhythm. you should talk to your doc about your concerns and work with the doc to help your symptoms.
how can differntite between rapid and controlled atrial fibrillation?
controlled atrial fibrillation has an irregular beat with normal heart rate. rapid atrial fibrillation has a rapid rate(over 100)they both have fibrillating atria(small chambers of heart).
heart rate around 150-160 while standing and feeling really dizzy. been having chest pain but all my heart test come back normal what could this be?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter wpw and more. see cardiology and get holter monitor to discriminate the rhythm.
hi i went to the hospital after having a panic attack with irregular fast heartbeats. at hospital i had an ekg that turned out to be abnormal with the mention of 743: possible inferior infarction iii avf after that cardiologist made me do a stress te
the issue here is you are 26yrs looking old and the likelihood of heart attack is less. i am curious on what the st segments looked like in the ekg for someone your age. seems you might have partied too much to the point you got atrial fibrillation. they probably did cardiac enzymes and re commended stress tests as outpatient study
my wife is on ventilater mechanical(8 days) for ards. but its difficult to extubate coz her heart rate becomes 150 and above after desedation. soln?
sorry to hear about this unfortunate illness. in cases of ards i've cared for the rapid heart rate is a barometer of the lung problems not the primary reason why the patient is sick and not an impediment to extubation. check with your docs there and confirm the rhythm isn't atrial fibrillation. if it isn't then primary treatment remains healing the lungs well enough to withstand being off vent.
without treatment is atrial fibrillation deadly?
it depends on how many other diseases you have. for the people with the highest risk it can cause strokes which can be deadly. anyone with this condition needs to see a cardiologist.
what is apixaban used for?
to reduce risk of stroke & blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation not due to heart valve problems.
what causes heart palpitations? i feel like heart skips beat. in my chest and neck. is this dangerous? started last night been on and off.
most likely benign (normal) from premature atrial or ventricular contractions. . but need to have a short visit with your doctor and have ekg in the office the heart monitor for a 1-4 weeks to rule out atrial fibrillation which needs to be identified to reduce the risk of stroke on the future with treatment
how to control afib?
if you are constantly in atrial fibrillation there are medications that can slow down the heart rate. there are medications called antiarrhythmics which can prevent the onset of atrial fibrillation. antiarrhythmics are usually considered in patients with paroxysmal afib and in some patients with persistent afib. every patient needs to have anticoagulation on board based on his/her stroke risk
how accurate is a bloodpresure monitor if used to measure my pulse rate while i have an attack of atrial fibrillation? does it miss any heart beats?
some monitors may miscount if you have a very fast irregular pulse but it'll probably be accurate. there are a number of other apps you could use to correlate or do it the old fashion way: feel your pulse in your neck (or wrist) for thirty seconds and multiply by 2.
holter. graph shows hr >100 entire 4-5pm. but table for 4-5pm says time in tachycardia only 11min & only 1459 /6661 were tachy bts. same prob 9-10pm.
the difference between the chart and the graph has no significance. you should let the ordering physician review the data to assist in your care. the type of tachycardia that is revealed is important as is the actual rate observed over 100. for instance a rate of 160 is more significant than 101 and atrial fibrillation more significant than sinus tachycardia. -see cardiologist
having atrial fibrillation i do not feel fast heart beat or shortness of breath due to medication. would air travel for 6 hours be a problem?
you have asymptomatic afib. depending on your chads2 score or chadsvasc you should be at least on aspirin. my guess is that you likely should be on warfarin also. - air travel is as safe as staying at home watching a tv show. what is important is your antiplatelt therapy or anticoagulation as needed.
how effective is warfarin (coumadin) for managing atrial fibrillation?
warfarin doesn't manage atrial fibrillation. it is an anticoagulant we give to afib patients to decrease the possibility of their having a clot form and cause an embolus to the brain or other part of the body.
my bp is normally on the lower side 95/55 (60). heart rate is between130to140. last 2 days hr is60 andbp is same. shld i continue with my diuretic. ?
it is not clear why your heart rate is that high. i wonder if it is irregular and you might then have atrial fibrillation. as for now it looks better and this could be the effect of medications like beta blockers. as long you are not dizzy you can take your medications and increase water intake. you should try to talk to your md as well and get an ecg. check your bp and pulse at the drug store.
mother in law has atrial fibrillation but cannot handle blood thinners( they cause her bleeding issues). what else can treat atrial fib besides blood thinners?
blood thinners are used mainly for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation. there are numerous proposed personal scores/scales based on which they are recommended. the bleeding risk is usually the limiting factor in the use of blood thinners. atrial fibrillation treatment is a different topic and it involves mainly controlling the heart rate/ heart rhythm.
mother in law has atrial fibrillation but cannot handle blood thinners( they cause her bleeding issues). what else can treat atrial fib besides blood thinners?
without directly reviewing the patients full history labs etc. i cannot give specific medical advice but there has been an entirely new group of treatments and might be less risky for some patients. <link> dabigitran.
mother in law has atrial fibrillation but cannot handle blood thinners( they cause her bleeding issues). what else can treat atrial fib besides blood thinners?
she can be seen by a ep cardiologist to be evaluated for atrial ablation. she may or may not be a good candidate. also based on her risk factors rate control with b-blockers (ie metoprolol) may suffice as a proper treatment for a fibrilation.
my mom had 3 ablations and still has af. is it recommended to try a 4th ablation or go for the pacemaker? could a 4th ablation be successful or useles
is she taking antiarrhythmic medication now - even if it failed previously it often works after an ablation. tikosyn (dofetilide) is particularly effective. a pacemaker will not restore normal rhythm. she'll still be in atrial fibrillation but her rate will be made regular by av node destruction and pacing. it's the very last resort. finally a 4th ablation may well work if the others haven't.
my dad 75 yrs no htn/diabetes got palpitation at 8:am in office. having no stress/anxiety but had sleep lack before palpitation any possible reason?
at your dads age arrhythmia specially atrial fibrillation is a common occurrence and needs to be pursued as it has potential serious consequences. at least a 24 hour holter monitor is to be considered after a complete cardiovascular exam
which is better for atrial fibrillation: antiplatelets or anticoagulants?
anticoagulants are the drugs we use in atrial fibrillation antiplatelets are not as useful.
what medicines are best for atrial fibrillation?
we have a variety of medications we use for afib. first we need to diagnose that its there and why before we choose medications. we have anticoagulants rate control medications and rhythm modulating medications. there are multiple choices for each with advantages and disadvantages to each. there is no one 'best' we choose depending on the patient's status and individualize for each.
why should you take coumadin (warfarin) after getting a pacemaker placement?
warfarin is not routinely administered after getting a pacemaker. we would prescribe warfarin if the pacemaker patient had an indication for the anticoagulation such as atrial fibrillation at risk of thromboembolism.
how dangerous could atrial fibrillation be in a healthy very fit 18 year old with no other problems? normal echocardiogram ekg and stress test
atrial fibrillation is not as common in young individuals as in elderly. sometimes benign arrhythmias are over diagnosed as atrial fibrillation. in your case how was your atrial fibrillation diagnosed? otherwise atrial fibrillation remains a significant medical condition with a variety of possible complications the most common being stroke.
how dangerous could atrial fibrillation be in a healthy very fit 18 year old with no other problems? normal echocardiogram ekg and stress test
having a normal ekg essentially rules out having atrial fibrillation.
h attack and stroke 11 months ago 1 des in lad took plavix (clopidogrel) all the time & aspirin for 3 5 months. can plavix (clopidogrel) be substituted with eliquis?
to date most information favors eliquis over plavix (clopidogrel) in several studies mainly having to do with atrial fibrillation. data on your particular situation is not really available yet partly because we have to test eliquis with des to see if there are any problems. keep watching as i am sure if eliquis proves out you may be able to switch in future
how effective is diltiazem (cardizem) for managing atrial fibrillation?
controlling the heart rate is an important part of treating atrial fibrillation. this can be done with a calcium channel blocker such as diltiazem or verapamil or a beta-blocker. also important is anticoagulation and consideration of restoring sinus rhythm.
hi i had a little chest pain that moved into my back and am having shallow heart beat / irregular heart beat what could it be and should i be seen?
you could have a variety of conditions anywhere from atrial fibrillation to pericarditis seek evaluation in person or via health tap concierge
i have atrial fib. and knee pain due to osteoarthritis. now have swollen elbows with pain?
there are multiple potential cause of painful swollen elbows in a patient with no injury; not likely related directly to your atrial fibrillation or bad knees. most common causes are usually arthritic or inflammatory such as gout or an ilex rankin bursitis for example. don't hesitate to be seen for an accurate diagnosis and discussion of treatment options.
if attacks of paroxysmal still come(feel palpitation only) despite cordarone (amiodarone) use and anticoagulant in72htn which is better giving flecanideorablation?
why? all are options promoted for treating symptoms (not causes) & all further complicate the situation &? (not? ) mortality rates. they are promoted for treating symptoms (not improving health) & complicate/degrade health long-term. for some people in atrial fibrillation (unusual at age 27) some anticoagulants? stroke rates by up to 40% yet inherently also? bleeding events sometimes fatal.
should i get my heart checked? my heart flutters a lot at least 8-15 times a day if not more. its starting to really worry me.? could you please give me some answers.
fluttering heartbeats are generally termed palpitations and can be triggered by stress exercise medication or sometimes by an underlying medical condition. they are usually harmless. they can be a symptom of a more serious heart condition such as an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) that may require treatment. since you have frequent palpitations you should see to your doctor to see if you need heart-monitoring tests to see if your palpitations are caused by a more serious heart problem. this evaluation could be urgently needed if your palpitations are accompanied by chest pain shortness of breath fainting or dizziness. palpitations can be caused by stress or anxiety exercise fever caffeine nicotine or stimulants in some medications. occasionally heart palpitations are a sign of a serious problem such as an overactive thyroid gland or an arrhythmia. arrhythmias can be very fast unusually slow an irregular heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation). atrial fibrillation can be a sign of underlying heart disease such as mitral valve disease or other conditions that can cause stretching of the atria  the upper chambers of the heart. a cardiologists evaluation and an echocardiogram are often useful in ruling out some structural disease affecting your heart. if there is no structural heart disease then the principal risk of atrial fibrillation is that blood clots may form in areas of the heart that are not contracting and possibly travel through the bloodstream to cause a stroke. this risk of a stroke is increased if you are over 65 years old; if you have high blood pressure; if you are female; if you have had a prior stroke transient ischemic attack (or tia  a fleeting stroke) or other blood clot disorder; if you have diabetes; if you have heart failure; or if you have known vascular disease (heart attack aneurysm or limitation of blood flow to the legs). the more risk factors you have the higher your risk of a stroke. with one risk factor many physicians will recommend aspirin therapy or sometimes more potent blood thinners. with two or more risk factors blood thinners are usually recommended. this should be discussed in detail with your doctor. unless your palpitations signify of an underlying heart condition there's little risk but if there is an underlying heart condition possible complications include fainting stroke heart failure or it can cause your heart to stop beating effectively.
sinus arrythmia what is it and what is the treatment. my doctor has prescribed me cordarone (amiodarone) 100 mg once a day?
sinus node is the first organ inside your hear that is responsible for the heart rate. sinus arrhythmia is when the rate set by the sinus node is no longer regular. perhaps you have atrial fibrillation that happens when the whole atrium chamber is fibrillating creating an irregular rhythm of the heart and cordarone (amiodarone) would serve to revert it back to sinus rhythm.
should i get ablation for my atrial fibrillation and is the robot the right way to go?
the robot for atrial fibrillation will probably not improve the outcomes of the ablation. it may make the procedure slightly faster or perhaps less xray use - but the outcomes are about the same as the non-robot ablation.
should i get ablation for my atrial fibrillation and is the robot the right way to go?
the most common reason to pursue af ablation is ineffective or poorly tolerated medical treatment. i don't think it matters whether it is done robotically or not. what is most important is the expertise of the physicians and ablation center.
should i get ablation for my atrial fibrillation and is the robot the right way to go?
ablation is useful for those who are symptomatic despite a trial of medication. robotic ablation may help reduce radiation exposure and achieve better ablation results if done by an experienced operator.
should i get ablation for my atrial fibrillation and is the robot the right way to go?
that is the trend these days but your cardiologist is the best one to answer this.
sometimes i feel just slightly out of breath for no reason. could this be atrial fibrillation?
possibly. you can check your pulse during these episodes and see if it is irregular which may be a clue the shortness of breath is coming from some heart arrhythmia. to make the diagnosis officially some recording of the heart rhythm needs to be made. this can be via 12-lead ekg 24-hr holter monitor or 30-day loop monitor.
sometimes i feel just slightly out of breath for no reason. could this be atrial fibrillation?
but it could also be one of many other medical conditions. go see a doctor and have a thorough medical exam.
when i am standing up the heart rate is always above 100 and sometimes even 120. weight is 50 kg and height 6 feet?
common causes of tachycardia - or a elevated heart rate is people are dehydrated. if your from india i am sure you are dehydrated from all the humidity in the air. drink plenty of fluids. if your heart still has an elevated rhythm obtain an ekg to determine if there is an abnormal electrical arrhythmia that needs to be treated. you may have pvc's or atrial fibrillation. get checked.
how effective is apixaban for treating stroke?
apixaban can be beneficial to "reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. " see" <link>
how effective is verapamil (calan) for managing atrial fibrillation?
it helps control rate in afib but because it causes vasodilation must be used with care especially in the geriatric patients
how effective is digoxin (lanoxin) for managing atrial fibrillation?
we have used it for hundreds of years recently it has been falling into disfavor. it needs to be used with great care and this may be why recent usage problems are seen. it is an ancient poison so it can't be taken lightly.
how effective is cardiac monitoring for managing atrial fibrillation?
when you are dealing with afib monitoring can tell you the rhythm and rate pattern of the heart. this is a great help in decision making
is using flecanide with amiodarone effective incase of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation refractory to amiodarone 200 mg alone what doses should be used?
the type 1 antiarrhythmic agents as documented in the cast trial & analysis of other trials neither work for most individuals (cast trial selected out the minorities for which these agents did decrease arrhythmias by holter) increased mortality event rates. these agents promoted for symptoms not health. focus on underlying issues wiser. see: <link>#user_questions/689879.
is sintrom(cumarin) safe for kidneys if s creatinine 1. 7 what inr range to keep in stroke prevention in afib?
atrial fibrillation is responsible for c 25% of all strokes. consideration of anti-coagulation (coumadin / warfarin) is important in prevention of ischaemic stroke. use cha2ds2-vasc and hasbled scores at www. mdcalc. com to make a decision with your dr about whether to embark on anticoagulation. warfarin is processed by the liver and is usually safe in kidney disease. target inr is 2-3 in afib.
is sinus tach the same as a fib been battling this for 3 years they keep saying sinus tach.? my mother has a fib. i'm curious if that is what mine is
sinus tachycardia is very different from atrial fibrillation. in sinus tachycardia the heart is beating faster than normal but is otherwise functioning normally. sinus tachycardia is normal during exertion such as running. in atrial fib the upper atrial chambers are not contracting and propelling blood to the ventricles. instead they are fibrillating(quivering). this can cause blood clots > stroke
is sinus tach the same as a fib been battling this for 3 years they keep saying sinus tach.? my mother has a fib. i'm curious if that is what mine is
atrial fibrillation is an abnormal heart rhythm that is potentially very fast. sinus tachycardia is a normal heart rhythm that is running faster than normal usually above 100bpm. there should be a reason for this but it's different that what your mom has.
my heart has been fluttering and heart rate around 100 at rest but jumps to 146-160 when i'm up and moving what are some possibilities?
when heart rate goes above 100 beats per minute you start feeling heart beats that is called palpitations. most commonly it is from anxiety / stress but at times could be due to underlying heart problems such as atrial fibrillation sinus tachycardia. need to see your doctor and he may put you on medicine such as beta blocker to control your hear rate.
my father has atrial fibrillation. what does this mean?
afib is a rapid irregular heart rhythm which can decrease heart efficiency as much as 20% in some patients. it can also be associated with clotting and clots travelling around the body to cause stroke or other problems. some people have atrial fibrillation as their normal rhythm. talk to your dr. about it if you have it.
my heart rate is irregular for 3 days. thought it was anxiety but even at rest my pulse rate is over 150. can anxiety do that on an ongoing basis?
it's possible but it can also be atrial fibrillation which is an irregular fast heart beat. if your heart rate is that high go to an er.
my heart rate is irregular for 3 days. thought it was anxiety but even at rest my pulse rate is over 150. can anxiety do that on an ongoing basis?
you very likely have atrial fibrillation. this is not life-threatening but requires attention. if you've never had this before visiting the emergency room now would be appropriate.
my heartbeat is so irregular i can't count it! could this be a symptom of a caffeine overdose?
it sounds like you have atrial fibrillation. without modifying medication it would usually be in the range of about 170 beats per minute and highly irregular. if you've never had this before you should go to the er now to document it and receive initial treatment.
sometimes i have heart palpitations. should i be worried?
palpitations are the symptom manifestation of everything from the more benign isolated pvc or ectopic beat to more complex rhythm problems like atrial fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia. to determine the cause you would be thoroughly evaluated. see a doctor.
should a patient with a history of intermittent arial fib be started on norvasc (amlodipine). already on beta blocker. is there a better choice?
the usual problem with atrial fibrillation is tachycardia or a rapid heart rate. a beta blocker will help control the heart rate response to you tachycardia while norvasc (amlodipine) will not. a fib is usually caused by hypertension and adequate blood pressure control is important. maybe a combination of the 2 is what you need. check with your doctor.
would a person with a high amount of arterial plaque be likely to have a faster than normal resting heart rate?
not necessarily a person with a " high amount of arterial plaque" has a higher chance to have a myocardial infarction ( heart attack) but heart rate can be either high or low it can be low if this person has a heart block or high if he/she has atrial fibrillation or some type or arrhythmia
how long should it take a heart rate to normalize after activity? i have ans dysfunction/ist. hours after exercising a bit hr is around 120-140 bpm.
people with normal heart function after vigorous exercise have their heart rates return to normal or baseline within 10-20 minutes of rest. your heart rate of 120-140 hours after exercise is very abnormal and if over 120 suggests that its not simple sinus tachycardia but probable svt atrial flutter atrial fibrillation nodal tachycardia or even ventricular tachycardia. ? echo thyroid holter stress
hr 206 last week. this week low 80s constant skipped beats. mild pain. 2 ekg abnormal 4 days apart. no insurance cardiologist won't see me. wts wrong?
you might have atrial fibrillation (<link> mayoclinic. org/diseases-conditions/atrial-fibrillation/basics/definition/con-20027014). regardless you can obtain care even w/o insurance. check out <link> for low cost possibly free options. find familydoc 1st to help oversee your care. in meantime go to er if symptoms return.
my heart rate is 145bpm. i am 38yr old woman. i take high blood pressure medicine daily and potassium. should i be concerned?
an? ing basis for this as people get older is atrial fibrillation which markedly? es stroke rates from clots in the left atria. in af pulse rate is usually irregular yet can be had to appreciate. this could be some other form of supraventricular often emotion driven &/or wpw/lgl syndrome; rarely ventricular tachycardia strongly associated with heart muscle damage & sudden death.
sickle cell paitent heart is fluttering why?
there are many explanations for a patient feeling a rapid heart beat. an irregular heart beat like atrial fibrillation or supracentricular tachycardia will give the sensation of fluttering heart. in a sickle cell patient severe anemia can lead to sinus tachycardia that can be perceived as fluttering heart. as your symptoms could indicate something serious i recommend that you see a doctor soon.
what does short pr interval and early repolarization combination on ecg signify?
possible cause of a short pr interval on ekg include av junctional rhythm lown-ganong-levine syndrome (pre-excitation with a short pr interval and a normal duration qrs interval) or wolf-parkinson-white syndrome (pre-excitation with a short pr interval a long qrs interval with a delta wave often with paroxysmal tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. an electrophysiologist can help with management.
why has doctor put me on ace inhibitors for atrial fibrillation? i am already on betablockers and rivaroxaban thanks
an ace inhibitor can further reduce your blood pressure and curtail the progress of fibrosis in the left atrium both of which can exacerbate the substrate for atrial fibrillation.
what could have caused occasional 'irregular heartbeat' indication in omron bp monitor for 57+ yr female? the reading shows bp 116/77 & pulse 69.
bp machines are not really designed to detect abnormalities of heart rhythm. causes may include machine error sinus arrhythmia (i. e. normal) or arrhythmias such as premature contractions or atrial fibrillation. if there are no symptoms it is much less likely to be worrisome. if you have sustained palpitations chest pain shortness of breath or lightheadedness then see a doc.
hi doctors can frequent atrial ectopics ( 12063 beats holter moniter ) cause problems? angiogram 3 years ago all clear. thankyou.
assuming you have a normal heart rate your apcs are >10% of your total heart beats. that can cause your heart muscle to weaken and increases your risk of atrial fibrillation. you need a full evaluation for any treatable cause and your heart rate should be assessed to be sure it's well controlled to avoid injury. is your sleep apnea treated? cpap may help your arrhythmia if you haven't tried it.
hi i been having fast heart rates of 130 150 should i be concerned?
it is not normal heart rate. if is related to problems like atrial fibrillation it can cause stroke. you should get an ekg soon. i would go to nearby urgent care er or contact pmd or cardiologist.
hi i been having fast heart rates of 130 150 should i be concerned?
need know what rhythm is it. atrial fibrillation: need immed evaluation because of embolus risk. another rhythm svt. however there can be more rhythms. rhythms are diagnosable on ecg at time it occurs. if happens often ambulatory monitoring (1-3 days wear a small box) may make diagnosis. there are conditions of abnormal hormone release obtained with blood test. going fast at rest no good for heart
hello i am a 32 year old male with no heart related problems in the past. had a stress test one year ago and past with flying colors. i recently had an incident of atrial fibrillation randomly. i converted spontaneously after 1. 5 hours. a week later i we
is very common. 25% of all people over the age of 40 have atrial fibrillation. almost 1/3 of all over age 65 have it. certainly coronary artery disease can be an etiology (excluded by your stress test) but there are many other associated causes. obesity and obstructive sleep apnea are highest associated issues. many treatments are available. see your health care provider for evaluation.
my doctor said my left atrium was slightly enlarged and a little leaky valve but wasn't concerned should i be?
as long as there is no atrial fibrillation or incresed regurgitation donot worry
my husband had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation but now it's almost every day. he's ignoring it. what are the dangers? he takes pradaxa.
atrial fibrillation can lead to blood clot formation in the heart which can possibly break off and go to the brain and cause a stroke. the treatment is pradaxa which helps prevent the blood clots from occurring. if your husband is taking pradaxa then is treating it well and not ignoring it.
should i be concerned if my husband suffers from atrial fibrilation. who is the top authority on this condition in the uk?
your husband should be evaluated with echo stress testing and thyroid function tests. if he has lone atrial fibrillation (no structural heart disease) his prognosis is very good. i can't tell you who the "top authority) in the uk would be but electrophysioloigsts are the subspecialists who are the experts. here's a starting place: <link>
what is the loading oral dose cordarone (amiodarone) in old patient with atrial fibrillation returned to sinus rhythm and how to reduce its side effect?
there are a number of schemes to load but to obtain levels one uses 800 mg for 5 day 600 mg for 5 days and 400 mg maintenance for 3-6 months and then attempt to lower dose to 200 mg daily. side effects are followed by monitoring thyroid chest x-ray and liver function as well as sun screen
mom had ablation in january dr had her stop heart meds and and afib came right back nearly 3 months post surgery.
the failure rate is quite high in ablation for atrial fibrillation that' s why follow up with cardiology is critical. medicine adjustment will be done at follow up appointment.
my partner has a slow irregular heart beat sometimes it can go as long as 32 beats a minute and he's worried he may not be able to work/active life?
is he taking any medication that could slow down thevherst rate? does he have any history of irregular heart beat? atrial fibrillation? does he feel tired and dizzy sometimes? if so he will need to see a doctor.
my dad is 79 years old when he walks on treadmill 10 minutes heart rate drops to 90 or less as he is walking. his resting heart rate is 119. whats up?
his resting heart rate appears high & is suggestive of an arrhythmia. the most likely arrhythmia in his age group is atrial fibrillation. he should see his health care provider for a thorough history and physical exam likely along with an ekg & possibly heart monitor or treadmill testing. call 911 if passing out chest pain very dizzy or short of breath or signs of stroke.
pvc's afib i recently have felt palpitation in my chest i assume they are pvc's since i have had those before. this am i wokde with what felt like a rapid heart rate when i tol my pulse it was regulare and strong. the rapid heart rate feeling went awy
it sounds as though you have engaged in the appropriate tests to figure out this problem. certainly atrial fibrillation can come and go. a holter monitor which records an electrocardiogram over a long period of time should pick up your arrhythmias and allow your doctor to prescribe the best treatment.
pulminary embolisms should i expect pulse rate and blood pressure to be elevated during recovery. pe's developed about 2 weeks after valve replacement surgery. i am femail 57 years old. ?
pe will cause increase heart rate but does not affect blood pressure unless large pe and this cause drop in blood pressure. in case of recurrent pe patient may develop pulmonary hypertention in chronic cases and this may cause hypertention. if after any cardiac surgery you develop fast pulse you need to be checked for arrhythmia especially atrial fibrillation.
possible causes for shortness of breath and irregular heart rate 85 yo male has high bp and hiadle hernia? resting rate of 46 but was 85-130
sick sinus syndrome atrial fibrillation pulmonary embolism ischemic heart disease. see an internist asap. these are not the only possible reasons.
please describe the medication: digitek (digoxin)?
this is a branded form of digoxin or digitalis which is a medicine used to regulate heart rate. most often to control heart rate in patients with atrial fibrillation. on occasion it is used to improve contractility or pumping in patients with heart failure. it was obtained from the digitalis or foxglove plant.
please describe the medication: lanoxin (digoxin)?
medication quite old used for slowing heart rate in supra ventricular tachycardias atrial fibrillation and as positive inotrope to help strengthen heart muscle that is weak. it is not used as often now as in the past but digitalis the parent compound made from foxglove dates back to the 18th century. lanoxin (digoxin) is the brand name. it can and has been safely used in children and during pregnancy .
please describe the medication: digoxin?
it is a heart drug. . a purified product of the foxglove plant. it has effects which include strengthening the contraction of the heart muscle slowing conduction of the heart's electrical impulse through the av node and thereby helping to slow the heart rate during atrial fibrillation. because of potential toxicity its use has been largely replaced by beta blocking drugs.
sometimes my gf's heart beats fast &hurts were worried about it it started last night on 6/23 &has happened 3more times today what can be the problem?
your gf may be having an abnormal rapid rhythm disturbance - examples are ventricular tachycardia supraventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation. the 3rd is most likely. he needs to be seen tomorrow - all 3 are very controllable and untreated can be dangerous. please urge him to see his doctor tomorrow (if he's having a spell with pain tonight he shouldn't even wait till tomorrow).
sometimes wake up in night with vibrating chest. pulse ok & heart rate. under a lot of stress. oophorectomy 9 yrs ago. going for heart scan soon?
if your sure your pulse is normal -- less that 105 per minute and regular is probably not heart but one can have atrial fibrillation with fairly normal heart rate but would be irregular. stress can certainly cause muscle spasms but i would think more of a twitching sensation over vibration. is heart scan the ct scan or echocardiogram? u should see doctor and consider ekg and heart rhythm monitor
should i be taking tikosyn (dofetilide) after having ablation?
in the first 2-3 months after ablation episodes of atrial fibrillation can occur due to inflammation from the cauterization so tikosyn (dofetilide) can be used during this period. additionally sometimes it takes the combination of tikosyn (dofetilide) or other anti arrhythmic to maintain normal sinus rhythm post ablation
since this morning intermittent flutter/twitch just below ribs left side. heart rate normal and strong. no pain but sometimes feel out of breath.
you should feel your pulse. if it's regular then it's not atrial fibrillation. however it could be atrial flutter. furthermore it could be premature ventricular contractions. i would suggest an ekg tsh and basic labs to start.
which is better and more safe in general for treating hypertension and atrial fibrillation metoprolol succinate or bisoprololesp. if s. creatinine1. 56?
trials carvedilol has significantly better outcomes than either metoprolol (e. g. 3%/yr lower mortality rates continuing for many years) or bisoprolol. creatinine is quite another issue produced by all muscle cells yet used to crudely estimate renal filtering function not the 4 known responses to carvedilol. yet the clinical trial data for all the beta blockers is as augmenters to acei agents.
what are the important triggers for attacks of afib in paroxysmal type and is anticoagulant a must if age72with hypertensive male s. creatine 1. 5?
you are unlikely to prevent paroxysmal atrial fibrillation by trying to identify "triggers". it's a grave mistake to forego anticoagulation in any atrial fibrillation patient unless they have some other very serious contraindication. the risk of a devastating stroke is much too great.
what is the recommended blood thinners for 72 yr male with hypertension (apixaban) or combined antiplatlet (a&p)which regime is more safe andeffective?
there is not enough information to answer this question. what is the underlying reason for anticoagulation? atrial fibrillation dvt ventricular dysfunction due to lv aneurysm.
having fluttering/ palpitation feeling upper stomach no chest pain but it's very uncomfortable lasts about a minute. happens more when laying down?
given your age the most likely cause is heartburn. try taking maalox or mylanta. if there are any family heart problems or if you feel dizzy lightheaded with or heavy sensation in chest like crushing or something sitting on chest and cant breath that is more likely cardiac. i would see your doc for an ekg to r/o irreg heartrate like atrial fibrillation
i'm a free-diver with mild mvp. i experience ~30 skippedheartbeatperday doc. said over 10000 skipped heartbeat we start drugtreatment is it safetodive?
this is a difficult question to answer in this forum: use healthtap prime to convey your medical condition in more detail. do you know the arrhythmia type caused by mvp? (atrial fibrillation? pvcs? pacs? ) diving will increase your heart rate & the demands on the heart (due to pressure / volume changes in the lungs). potentially your "skipped" beats will increase - but this depends on the diagnosi
mitral valve thickening with mitral regurgitation. could this be causing the rapid heart beat and palpation i have been feeling? or contribute to the stroke i recently had? i'm 36 year old female
chronic mitral regurgitation is often associated with enlargement of left upper chamber (left atrium) and irregular heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation) that can lead to stroke. i recommend that you discuss your ekg echo findings with your cardiologist.
male 66yrs old afib bp137/90 heart rate 107 go to er or wait for appt with cardiologist 10/12?
there is significant risk of stroke if one remains in an irregularly irregular rhythm such as atrial fibrillation and therefore urgent medical attention is needed. go to er. do not wait till 10/12/15!
mildly enlarged left atrium with atrial fibrillation. should i be worried about the enlarged left atrium? thank you.
slowed atrial conduction are classic precursors & setup for atrial fibrillation. afib is rare without these. less commonly discussed are atherosclerosis plaque ruptures & compromises of circulation to atrial muscle a setup for? ed atrial function just as it is for ventricular muscle. thus optimize nmr lipoproteins hba1c & systolic bp the 3 biggest drivers of atherosclerosis.
mildly enlarged left atrium with atrial fibrillation. should i be worried about the enlarged left atrium? thank you.
left atrial dilation is expected with atrial fibrillation. discussion with your doc including risk/benefit of anticoagulants in alcoholics with afib should take place.
my ecg result reads "sinus rhythm @ axis nonspecific intraventricular conduction delay". is this a normal reading?
intraventricular conduction delay indicates that part of the ecg tracing the qrs complex is wider than normal. it is not necessarily a significant finding but one study did find that even if the rest of the heart was normal ivcd was associated in the long term with higher risk of developing atrial fibrillation. so it is not perfectly normal.
please help! i have been diagnosed with atrial fibrillation?
<link>
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation - i'm only 19 year old please help?
you need to see an electrophysiologist for evaluation and possible treatment.
please tell me could atrial fibrillation cause st heart depressions?
atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response often causes st depression in the ecg recordings.
there are drugs for treatment of vagal atrial fibrillation?
vagal-mediated atrial fibrillation typically occurs at night while people are sleeping or may occur when drinking something cold or going to the bathroom. an antiarrhythmic called norpace or disopyramide works well in this situation as it has anti-vagal properties.
there are drugs for treatment of vagal atrial fibrillation?
drugs for treatment of atrial fibrillation but i am confused by the term vagal af.
the patient i'm caring for has rapid atrial fibrillation and dyspnea-- why is she being prescribed heparin?
afib is a dis-coordinated chaotic heart rhythm where the heart can not effectively move blood the way it should. when blood sits stagnant it can clot. the heparin helps prevent the stagnant blood from clotting to avoid a clot or "thrombus" being sent to the brain or lungs where it may cause a stroke or pe.
the patient i'm caring for has rapid atrial fibrillation and dyspnea-- why is she being prescribed heparin?
stroke presentation with atrial fibrillation.
the patient i'm caring for has rapid atrial fibrillation and dyspnea-- why is she being prescribed heparin?
atrial fibrillation significantly increases the risk of stroke. the heparin could be used for one of two reasons: either to provide anticoagulation while warfarin/coumadin is being started or to treat the patient temporarily while a decision is made whether to use long-term medication.
taking dilitiazem 120mg 1xday raising heart rate to 125+. bp got higher. same thing when i took metoprolol. taking for arrythmias. suggestions to try?
it depends on the type of arrythmia. in general diltizem dose can be increased above 120 metoprolol can be gradually increased. verapamil or carvedilol can be considered. if the arrhythmia is atrial fibrillation could also consider digoxin. some can be taken in combination. need to make sure there is not other underlying cause for fast heart rate such as high thyroid anemia or dehydration.
tachycardia of 102-116 for ten straight days no other symptoms---dangerous? wearing patch monitor. on no medications after two years on toprol (metoprolol).
a tachycardia of that magnitude that is persistent at your age is strongly suggestive of an arrhythmia or cardiac irregularity more likely due to atrial fibrillation. you need to see your doctor as this put you at risk for stroke even if you have no symptoms. also you need an adjustment of your medication to control your heart rate.
these days what's the medical treatment for atrial fibrillation?
afib is a rapid irregular heart rhythm which can decrease heart efficiency as much as 20% in some patients. it can also be associated with clotting and clots travelling around the body to cause stroke or other problems. some people have atrial fibrillation as their normal rhythm. we use drugs to control rate rhythm and if not successful ablation therapy by electrophysiologist.
which beta blocker is more safe and effective for treating hypertension and(paroxysmal atrial fibrillation) carvedilol or metoprolol succinate?
both those drugs are effective.
what is the antiarrythmic drug of choice for paroxysmal afib started before 1yr in 72yr male hypertensive with mild left ventricular hyper trophy?
there are options for treating atrial fibrillation. 1) use beta blockers &/or calcium blockers to control the heart rate but this does not prevent a-fib episodes. 2) anti-arrhythmic drugs vary in effectiveness and side effects: amiodarone sotalol flecainide and dofetilide are used. 3) an ablation procedure is another strategy. get a consult on healthtap to look at your particular case!
what cld cause an irregular heart beat symbol on an at home blood pressure monitor? i get one on a few of my readings. ekg was normal 4 months ago
we all have extra beats once in a while that might be interpreted by the bp machine as irregular heart beating. by age only you are low risk for atrial fibrillation (the most common cause of irregular beats). if you are not feeling any chest pain shortness of breath or lightheadedness when the bp machine says you are "irregular" i wouldn't be too worry. but is symptoms consult your doc again
what are some of the non-drug treatments for atrial fibrillation?
watchful waiting cardioversion cardiac ablation.
heart rate high 120 at rest. can't do any activity. when walk a little have to stop. sometimes chest pain and sweat. i take diltazem240 not help
for how long you had these symptoms. you are describing typical symptoms of congestive heart failure. a heart rate of 120 is very abnormal if is irregular you may have uncontrolled atrial fibrillation. you should see a cardiologist like today or go to an er now. do not waist time as other conditions may be present. you may require cardiac cardioversion. l
is it possible to have atrial flutter when on ppm? (dual chamber ppm for complete heart block range 60-150 bpm). what will happened in that scenario?
control atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. pacemakers do one thing only and that is make slow hearts go faster. some pacemakers have special tachycardia recognition and pacing treatments which may help control atrial arrhythmias but it is entirely possible to have atrial flutter with a pacemaker. if programmed well this should not be an issue. if not you might experience fast heart beats.
if my cardiologist thinks i worry too much about sinus tachycardia at night and heart health is excellent then why do i need to take betablockers?
are good for people. in addition they are useful for migraine treatment. they also may be beneficial for suppressing arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation. is that a better answer than "because i say so! "
is this an accurate description of nonsustained ventricular tachy an extremely fast flurry beats lasting <3-10secs without symptoms few times a year?
the definition is three or more ventricular beats faster than 120 bpm. unfortunately what you describe could be atrial fibrillation atrial tachycardia atrial flutter or any of a number of other arrhythmias. nonsustained=not lasting ventricular=coming from the ventricle tachycardia=fast heart beat.
please advise what is prescribed for atrial fibrillation?
myriad of drugs here are some of the drugs with categorized by treatment strategy. 1. to control heart rate - beat-blockers calcium channel blockers digoxin. 2. for rhythm control - flecainide rythmol (propafenone) multaq sotalol tikosyn amiodarone. 3. to decrease stroke risk - aspirin warfarin pradaxa xarelto eliquis.
please advise what is prescribed for atrial fibrillation?
the main goal of treatment is to control the heart rate and prevent the blood clot formation. heart rate prevention: beta blockers will be used blood clot prevention: blood thinners will be used.
pacemakers in use for what? whether to normalize atrial fibrillation?
a pacemaker kicks in when your heart rate drops below a preset heart rate.
three days taking pravastatin. today tingle in throat and fast and irregular heart beat. normal 82-85 today 102-105. will this go away?
if you do not have a history of an irregular heart rhythm (like atrial fibrillation) then it may not be the medication and you should be checked asap by your dr or in the er with your symptoms.
there's so much tv advertising about atrial fibrillation. john's hopkins publishes that af is found in about 1% of the general population. maybe true?
results from population studies vary a bit but one i keep in mind is : 1% of 40 year olds have afib 2% of 50 yo 3% of 60 yo 7% of 70 yo 20% of 80 year olds have afib
there's so much tv advertising about atrial fibrillation. john's hopkins publishes that af is found in about 1% of the general population. maybe true?
moreover the incidence rises with age. by age 80 10% of the population have atrial fib.
what can lead to or is associated with atrial fibrillation?
hemorrhagic stroke tricuspid stenosis wolff parkinson white syndrome.
what is atrial fibrillation a risk factor for?
congestive heart failure ischemic bowel disease sleep apnea transient ischemic attack stroke heart failure.
which is better warfarine or sintromfor stroke prevention in afib are those home monitor device for inr accurate?
i have no experience with sintrom & doubt that anyone on healthtap does as it is not used in the us. warfarin is quite common though in atrial fibrillation newer drugs like rivaroxaban are being used because they don't require inr. according to published data warfarin has a longer effective period (36 hr vs 10 hr) than sintrom & therefore less fluctuation in inr. fingerstick inr shld be accur
i have paf do i need a beta blocker? normal heart 35 female normal bp
the most important therapy for paf (paroxysmal atrial fibrillation [afib]) is a blood thinner to prevent stroke (a complication of afib). beyond that rhythm control is generally dependent on whether or not afib itself causes symptoms like low bp or discomfort. beta blockers are 1 treatment option. calcium channel blockers like diltiazem are another. talk to your cardiologist or use healthtap prim
lately my heart rate has been fluctuating for no apparent reason what could this be?
it is normal for the heart rate to fluctuate throughout the fau due to the control by the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system. sometimes this could be a sign of an arrhythmia (e. g. supra ventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation) or blocked heart beats (heart blocks). if there are associated symptoms (fatigue shortness of breath dizziness) you may require to wear a monitor.
last night i got drunk then i got really cold and started shaking and my heart beat was fast and today i've woke up i'm still really cold and shaking?
see your doctor. ? atrial fibrillation due to alcohol binge.
left side of body feels weird irregular heart beat. what do these symptoms sound like?
you need detailed work up. you could be having atrial fibrillation. they are more prone to transient ischemic attacks and strokes. it could cause your symptoms. also need to rule out blocks in heart arteries. you need to consult your physician.
my ekg showed atrial fibrillation. i'm 22 should i be concerned?
see a cardiologist immediately and get placed on medication. you are at risk for stroke.
purpose of arixtra in the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation?
it's a low molecular weight heparin given subcutaneously to anti-coagulate ("thin the blood") and prevent clotting.
patient received pacemaker to control atrial fibrillation. does she still need to be on blood thinner (xarelto)?
the pacemaker only protects from too slow a heart rate. the indication for anticoagulation remains.
short of breath irregular heartbeat hight heart rate?
there are a few reasons for this but because of the high and irregular heartbeat you should be checked as soon as possible. i would recommend being evaluated at your doctor if you can be fit in now an uc or er. these could be symptoms of anxiety but also an "arrhythmia" such as atrial fibrillation or flutter. it needs to be checked out but don't panic.
this is probably a common question but how do you know when the end is near when you have stage 4 non smoking lung cancer and atrial fibrillation?
there is no telling how long you have left. death may come suddenly or be preceded by increasing disability. what you must do is begin each day with gratitude for the wonderful gift of life. be glad that there are people who love you and that you can see something of the world's beauty. even now there's probably a lot of good in your life. cherish every day.
this is probably a common question but how do you know when the end is near when you have stage 4 non smoking lung cancer and atrial fibrillation?
doctors often give an answer based on statistics but people aren't statistics and there is always a wide "spread" of answers. i had a patient with pancreatic cancer who was told he had 1 month to live and lived 19 months. a cancer can erode a blood vessel and death come within minutes or it can cause very slow&gradual respiratory compromise and take months or years. good luck & my prayers.
taking 200 mg of flecainide daily and still having episodes of atrial fibrillation and pvcs. what should the next course of treatment be? thanks
you need to be patient and stick to the treatment offered by your cardiologist or electro physiologist and discuss your options and doubts with them. do not over read or look for answers on the internet. this can be harmful when the arrhythmia in general is not.
will daily exercise eating healthy and not smoking protect my heart from things like atrial fibrillation as i get older and other heart issues?
in general 2 b much more healthy but a-fib can occur in the healthy as it is more a genetic predisposition than ur diet & exercise. but by all means don't stop what ur doing or worry about it. if it happens in later life it is not a sudden fatal episode but 1 the comes on suddenly but can b treated &/or converted.
which one of the dhp ccb has better safety profile and less triggering atrial fibrillation and palpitations amlodipine or lercanidipine which strong?
if atrial irritability is a concern i am of the opinion that you are much better off taking a nondyhydropyridine calcium channel blocker like diltiazem or verapamil for hypertension treatment. however i have no experience with lercanidipine.
how how would heart rate get if i had wolf-parkinson-white syndrome? my heart rate is usually in the 70s-80s. sometime 100+ during activity.
the heart rate may accelerate from 120-200 beats per minute but can also be associated with atrial fibrillation which can be in the 300's and even degenerate into ventricular fibrillation. it can also be normal. the pre-excitation syndrome can be diagnosed by ecg. please see your pmd.
he has cogestive heart failure he had a cabg done in february 2016 i'm worried he is getting cramps breathing funny irregular heartbeat.
developed atrial fibrillation. with this heart history it would be advisable to make an appointment with his cardiologist as soon as possible for an evaluation. if symptoms worsen he should go to an emergency room.
i used to have a period of time when my heart rate was 120-145b/min and high bp and now it is below 60 and both at rest. what's the cause of changes?
atrial fibrillation turned into bradycardia. sometimes in the absence of treatment which i assume to be so in your case atrial fib spontaneously converts. i appears that yours has spontaneously converted into a state of bradycardia (low heart rate); this is problematic as you may not be getting sufficient blood to your brain and other organs. you need a consultation with a cardiologist
last night i drink alchool and when i wake up my bpm was 116 and this pulse keep during the day. is this an effect of alchool?
there are a couple reasons the heart rate can race after drinking too much alcohol. one is being dehydrated and a faster pulse is a normal response. the other however is an abnormal rhythm called atrial fibrillation. this rhythm can cause a fast and irregular pulse and requires medical treatment. if your pulse remains fast during the day you should get medical attention.
last month af was only 2 days. i've been fatigued and now have pain in my lower abdomen radiating into my groin. pt is negative. what is this pain?
are you in atrial fibrillation?
left side of chest knife pain heart palpitations doctor said i have gerd found nothing in blood work what do i do it goes away?
chest pains ; palpitations in a young person iare due to mitral valve prolapse which can be confirmed by echocardiogram avoid tobacco use. heart palpitations may also be due to thyroid disorder atrial fibrillation etc. hpertension in young person may be due to pheochromocytoma renal artery stenosis etc. pain may be related to above conditions.
my pulse runs from 114 down to 40. my bp is also erratic. i have afib but it has never been like this. any ideas what would cause this. ?
sometimes patients with atrial fibrillation develop periods of fast & slow heart rate response. medicines (eg beta blockers) are generally very good at controlling the rate from being too fast but if it is also too slow at times and especially if associated with symptoms then a pacemaker device may be needed as well. for personal advice about your case consider a consult on healthtap.
my pulse goes up to 150 without exercising should i be concerned?
i'm assuming your pulse is elevated only intermittently. the most common cause is a supra-ventricular tachycardia (svt) which is usually not serious. there are other arrhythmias that can cause a tachycardia that are more serious such as atrial fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. your physician who will order a holter monitor test to determine which type you have. see: <link>
my hr rarely went below 77bpm last night sleeping--majority of night over 80. barely slept. i'm an athlete. when stood up this morn hr120-135. ?
may have developed an arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation. otherwise something is driving your heart rate like anxiety fever dehydration or infection. it would be worthwhile getting checked out to confirm the absence of a treatable cause for the heart rate elevation.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
there is some evidence that ssris help with post stroke remodeling where the brain works on regrowing connections between brain areas that were not killed by the stroke. there is also evidence they help prevent post stroke depression that is very common. not much reason to think one ssri is better than another. see your prescriber for specific dosage recommendations.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
i'd start with an anti-depressant from the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor group that have shown to be beneficial in cases of vascular dementia. either zoloft (sertraline) (starting at 12. 5 or 25 mg wth increase to 25 or 50 mg eventually and even higher doses) or celexa starting at 10 mg and then increasing to 20-40 mg eventually may be a good start.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
one does not get mental health treatment on the internet. this is not how medicine works. treatment for these serious conditions must come from a physician who knows and is treating the patient. the health tap application clearly states that we cannot provide treatment advice.
need to lower hearts extreme reacton to everything and high pulse but can't lower my resting hr anymore ( 45-50 ). which beta or what can i do/take?
rapid heart rate can be due to several conditions such as thyroid disease and electrical conduction problems in the heart such as atrial fibrillation and supraventricular tachycardia. those conditions could be serious. before treatment tests need to be done to determine the cause such as holter monitor and echocardiogram and blood test for thyroid and anemia see your doctor.
please inform me is the dual chamber pacemaker is contraindication with atrial fibrilation? what the best pacemaker for af people? better icd or ppm?
ask your doctor what kind of atrial fibrillation you have. if dealing with paroxysmal atrial fib. and your doctor recommended pacemaker then dual chamber pacemaker is better suitable for you. if dealing with persistent or chronic af and you have indication for pacemaker then single chamber pacemaker. also discuss the current medication regimen with your doctor as some medication can affect rhythm
how can i determine if i have atrial fibrillation or panic disorder? during anxiety 100-137 bpm. relax 75-85 bpm. take place only during panic i think.
needs to come first. medical causes need to be ruled out before it can be stated that the problem is solely psychiatric in origin.
is there a higher chance of sudden death if you have permanent atrial fibrillation? thanks
see: <link> com/sudden-cardiac-death-is-the-most-common-cause-of-death-in-atrial-fibrillation-patients-engage-af-timi-48-shows/
last ekg show atrial fib i took diltazem 240 but it didn't help. any supplements or medications to take fix that. i have chest pain and dizziness?
symptomatic atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response definitely deserves immediate medical attention. would recommend seeking immediate medical attention ideally closest er.
last night after eating i had constant heart fluttering lasting through the night with pounding heart beat. i do have gerd. is this normal?
the symptoms you relate suggest a rapid heart beat- there are many different rhythms and causes and you must get checked out by a cardiologist with ekgs and 24 hr holsters and get a thyroid function test to determine cause especially if it repeats. likely it was a sinus tachycardia but sometimes people can get ventricular tachycardia. atrial fibrillation is also a possibility.
my husband's atrial fibrillation seems to have progressed. he's breathing very rapid and loud while sleeping has higher heart rates sick sinus syndr?
there is a well known association between hypoxemia (low circulating oxygen in blood) and stress on heart manifesting as arrhythmia. in ur husbands case loud breathing may be snoring. have him see a reputable pulmonologist for eval and treatment of sleep apnea if he has it. treat underlying cause of what may be worsening his af. cardiologist ought to coordinate with pulmonary doc.
my husband's atrial fibrillation seems to have progressed. he's breathing very rapid and loud while sleeping has higher heart rates sick sinus syndr?
please review him with his cardiologist asap. his symptoms are suggesting worsening atrial fibrillation obstructive sleep apnoea and therefore a possibility of heart failure as well. he needs ti be reviewed by a doctor as soon as possible to avoid any complications developing.
my husband's atrial fibrillation seems to have progressed. he's breathing very rapid and loud while sleeping has higher heart rates sick sinus syndr?
he could be having sleep apnea which can exacerbate arrhythmias. best thing to do is see a doctor for further testing.
my heart will go up to 160+ and start w a jolt or shock i get dizzy then it fades away and comes back. chest pain too. is it svt? cardio app friday
could be svt atrial fibrillations or even runs of vt. unless ecg is done at the time of symptoms it is not possible to diagnose it. if u have symptoms then present to er as you may not have the symptoms when u see the cardiologist. they may have to put u on holter monitoring if u are asymptomatic at the time of cardiologist appointment.
my resting heart beat average is 90bpm. at present it is 113bpm. is this normal?
resting heart rate of 113 is not normal. you should see your doctor to rule out an overactive thyroid or other heart rate abnormality such as atrial fibrillation.
non st t waves changes issue with atrial flutter newly mitral regurgitation. are they all tied together somehow. history ofchest pain cabg stent. should more testing be done?
cad and infarct may cause dilation of left ventricle leading to mitral regurgitation. myocardial infarct might also precipitate arrhythmia including atrial fibrillation. advise regular follow up with your cardiologist to optimize your treatment
o've had two heart surgeries as a child and had an ablation for atrial fibrillation. how often should i see my cardiologist?
frequency for re checks really depends on the problem(s) and the symptoms. not knowing what your surgeries were or the success of the ablation it is hard to say. if all has been repaired and no symptoms and sinus rhythm are stable then yearly visits would likely be fine. if you're having problems then they would dictate the frequency of return visits.
okay so docs r saying my mom fluid retention is due to her being in and out of afib and hypertension. she's been in hosp for a month now and hasnt got better. dierutics dosage is low because kidneys act up if they increase it. what's the cure? how long c
controlling her heart rates in atrial fibrillation is the first step but if kidneys are impaired diuretics get dicey. chalk to her physicians caring for her.
other than cat scan eeg ekg mri and neuro exam what other tests should follow a tia with no residue?
cardiac echocardiogram carotid ultrasound perhaps holter monitor or other test for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or other arrhythmias.
oftentimes i feel just slightly out of breath. could this be atrial fibrillation?
atrial fib presents differently in everybody. sometimes it can be completely asymptomatic.
oftentimes i feel just slightly out of breath. could this be atrial fibrillation?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation couold cause periodic shortness of breath but so can lots of other things. shortness of breath. just slight is not uncommon so if there's a specific reason you're concerned about atrial fibrillation ought to discuss with your doctor. there are tests we can do to see if a patient has it.
on a night whilst resting i get fast rapid heart racing and only seems to be at his worst at night time. why could this be!?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (paf) is seen in some young persons especially athletes after alcohol consumption. it typically occurs late in the evening at rest or during sleep but not with exertion. if it fits this pattern it's called "vagal atrial fibrillation" because it's due to increased activity of the vagus nerve. it is quite benign and usually self terminating. u need a heart monitor.
on coumadin (warfarin) for paroximal afib/tia in the past. considering switching to palvix w/aspirin is this advisible? is there a greater risk of bleeding?
if you have had atrial fibrillation and a tia then you are at risk of stroke. barring a strong contraindication you really need to be on an oral anticoagulant--either warfarin or eliquis or xarelto or pradaxa. plavix/aspirin do decrease your risk of stroke a little but not nearly as much as an anticoagulant. talk to your doctor about which anticoagulant is best.
on 25mg tramadol + 2 xtra strngth tylenol/3 aleve (naproxen) (alternate) every 4 hrs for neck disc last 2 yrs. heart rate now @120. er says heart ok. think meds?
if you are asking purely about your heartrate then as long someone has ruled out things such as atrial fibrillation and other heart rhythm disorders then in my opinion the elevated heartrate may be simply on the basis of anxiousness or pain. i don't see the medications as being contributory to the elevated heartrate.
odd sve from 24 hr holter cardio "not convinced paroxysmal afib" short burst of miss beats and strong beat twice in a week from lifting. not afib?
seeing the rhythm strips in question it is difficult to advise you. given your history it would not be surprising to find you have atrial fibrillation. perhaps extended monitoring would be beneficial or implantation of a loop recorder. you wouldn't want your first confirmation that you have atrial fibrillation to be your presentation with a cva!
palpitations after lifting light medium suitcase while walking an talking about 30 steps to car had echo 2 mths ago cardiologist"excellent". ideas?
for exercise to induce extra heart beats and therefore palpitations but given your heart history and operative intervention one would worry about episodes of atrial fibrillation that are undiagnosed. this could put you at risk for stroke in the absence of appropriate anticoagulation. you should discuss this with your health care provider and perhaps obtain a screening monitor for safety's sake.
this morning when i got up to brush my hair my hear rate got up to 156. i was also dizzy upon standing while brushing my hair. is that bad?
for sure is not normal i do see your age do you smoke have any other conditions. do you had similar events in the past? see a cardiologist have a holter you mat have a supra-ventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation you need a diagnosis and a treatment. make an appointment today.
what is the prognosis for a 75 yr old who had a massive stroke and now has mrsa infection in his finger bone? copd alcoholism atrial fibrillation
there are so many variable regarding prognosis after stroke and the presence of associated diseases creates even more variables. there are tables regarding degrees of consciousness and outcome but these are not definitive even if they are historically relevant. suggest you speak to the treating physician(s) involved in care and have most of the historical information.
am i at an increased risk of stroke? with atrial fibrillation am i at increased risk of having a stroke?
i'm assuming you're a woman which makes the answer a definite "yes. " the only question then is how much extra. google yourself something called a "cha2ds2-vasc calculator" and plug in your info. the baseline population risk is ~0. 8%/year for comparison.
am i at an increased risk of stroke? with atrial fibrillation am i at increased risk of having a stroke?
if you possess atrial fibrillation it should be cardioverted and/or controlled and if not possible you should be taking an anticoagulant. several choices so discuss with your cardiologist.
am i at an increased risk of stroke? with atrial fibrillation am i at increased risk of having a stroke?
yes atrial fibrillation increases the chances of having a stroke because there is an increased risk of blood clots forming in the heart which can then travel to the brain. the risk is proportional to the amount of other stroke risk factors. in other words the increased risk is small in people without other health conditions but risk increases with additional risk factors such as advancing age hypertension diabetes heart failure and if there has been a prior stroke. you should talk to your doctor about your stroke risk if you have atrial fibrillation. if the risk is moderate or high this would warrant taking the blood thinner warfarin. if the stroke risk is small you should at least take an aspirin.
can 100 mls methadone reduction in 12 months cause skipped heartbeat had 1 episode of afib after large amount of red bull but never returned?
i'm not familiar with 100 mls of methadone reduction per se but a large amount of red bull could precipitate atrial fibrillation because it causes premature atrial extra systoles which if they fall in a vulnerable period of the cardiac cycle degenerate into atrial fib. have your electrolytes (esp potassium and magnesium) been checked?
can a paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and av node reentry tachycardia increase the risk for a heart attack?
these dysrhythmias can lead to a malignant dysrhythmia such as ventricular fibrillation; the cause of sudden death.
can a paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and av node reentry tachycardia increase the risk for a heart attack?
this is a tough one. if you already have severe coronary disease fibrillation can produce rapid heart rates which exceed the available blood supply and lead to a heart attack due to "demand ischemia. " the same is true though even more rare for avnrt. afib but not avnrt is often a marker of (is seen with) other heart disease which of course puts you at increased risk of heart attack.
can someone have atrial fibrillation and never know it or will there be shortness of breath?
some patients are asymptomatic.
can someone have atrial fibrillation and never know it or will there be shortness of breath?
yes if heart rate is slow person might not have any symptoms like palpitation chest pain or shortness of breath.
can a defibrillator restart a heart that stopped?
by "stopped" it is implied a complete absence of any rhythm or electrical activity other wise known as asystole. defibrillation is the application of electricity to the heart to treat chaotic electrical transmission through the heart. this is seen in several rhythms atrial fibrillation/ flutter ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia. defibrillation does not treat asystole.
can atrial fibrillation resolve itself?
sometimes it may resolve on it's own. this is especially true if it was caused by some single event like an operation illness caffeine or alcohol.
can atrial fibrillation resolve itself?
sometimes it comes and goes (paroxysmal) and sometimes it is a onetime thing because of. stimulants like alcohol or caffeine. most of the time in an older person it is permanent.
should you take warfarin or aspirin if you have had a previous stroke?
depends on what type of stroke you had. if it was ischemic(form hardening of the arteries) then aspirin is generally recomended. if it is embolic( from a clot traveling to the brain sy form atrial fibrillation) then warfarin is recomended.
should i be worried if my hands are shaking and my heartbeat is irregular 5 days after my triple bypass?
five days out? not uncommon to have both. "atrial fibrillation" a few days after"cabg" is about 20% it is successfully treated with medication or other remedies. 5 days out i would assume it was picked up in hospital if not let your physician know immediately because irregular heartbeat should not be untreated. hands shaking? let your body recover for a while you had a big surgery.
what is the effect of percutaneous mitral vavuloplasty on pregnant mother and foetus - a tertiary care hospital experience?
goal of perc mitral valvuloplasty is to relieve the degree of mitral stenosis which can cause right heart failure symptoms atrial fibrillation pulmonary hypertension in the mother often not well tolerated in pregnancy. the procedure is done with fluoroscopy (xray) and thus there is exposure to the mother and baby which should be minimal with judicious use of fluoro and shielding.
why does my heart race and i get dizzy?
it's possible that you have an arrhythmia. examples include: atrial fibrillation and paroxysmal atrial tachycardia. a 24 hour or 30 day event monitor exam (one or the other based on the frequency of your symptoms) would disclose the cause. there are many treatments depending on the cause.
whar are natural remedies for atrial fibtillation?
there are substances to avoid in order to not trigger atrial fibrillation. but this is not something you would use natural remedies to control. best wishes.
what diagnostic procedure would you expect prior to direct current cardioversion?
this would not apply to an emergency situation. obviously an electrocardiogram is done in all patient requiring cardioversion. also echocardiogram in most. additional studies may be done based on situation/diagnosis. for example in patients with atrial fibrillation a transesophageal echocardiogram maybe needed.
what would be the duty of pulmonary veins in heart?
the pulmonary veins exist to bring the blood back from the lungs so it can be pumped to the rest of the body. the veins however have electrical properties that means they give extra heartbeats to some people and on occasion even cause atrial fibrillation in which case the veins must be modified so they do their job without causing extra trouble.
was in er last night for chest pain and trouble breathing. heart monitor showed a fib but all doc said was its costrocodritis. should i be worried?
atrial fibrillation may carry risks of too fast of a heart rate symptoms of the irregular heart rate and carries an increased risk of stroke. you may indeed have costochondritis but the atrial fibrillation does need futher evaluation and management.
what is the racing feeling in my heart and in my chest and my stomach it's like a fluttering panicky feeling?
need to seek urgent care atrial fibrillation suspect. short circuit conduction system of heart over drives lower portion of heart. carries risk for stroke and heart failure has many causes.
what are the risks of quitting coumadin (warfarin)?
you are taking it. atrial fibrillation? stroke. artificial heart valve? death. deep venous thrombosis? pulmonary embolus. pulmonary embolus? death. not a good idea to stop it if your doctor put you on it unless there is a serious bleeding complication then it should be stopped under a doctor's supervision.
what is the definition or description of: flutter?
atrial flutter is an abnormal heart rhythm in the top of the heart in which the top of the heart beats very fast but very regularly (as opposed to atrial fibrillation which is always irregular) and can lead to a rapid heart rate and increased risk for stroke.
what is the definition or description of: heart surgery?
open intervention on the heart to correct congenital cardiac anomalies repair replace heart valves ascending aortic dissection repair coronary bypass heart transplant surgical removal of heart tumors ventricular assist devices cox maze procedures to cure atrial fibrillation repair of trauma to the heart. repair of iatrogenic injuries to heart heart-lung transplant to include some.
what types of conditions are cured by calcium channel blockers?
calcium channel blockers do not actually cure any heart disease but are usually used to control the heart rate or the rhythm. in some patients who have abnormal circuits within the heart's electrical system it can keep the rhythm in check but does not actually fix the problem. catheter ablation is a procedure used to "cure" the problem. with atrial fibrillation it can be used to control the rate.
what's the difference between an a-fib and a stroke?
symplistically atrial fibrillation is an irregular heart rhythmn that can increase the risk for stroke. a stroke occurs when the blood supply to an area in the brain is cut off for a long enough period of time causing surrounding brain tissue death.
what are the side effects of lopid (gemfibrozil)?
potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation.
what is the latest breakthrough for a-fib?
the answer already given is correct; there are several new drugs to treat the stroke risk. there is also a new ablation strategy just about to be deployed known as rotor ablation. it targets a different aspect of the process that keeps atrial fibrillation going. this is an approach entirely unlike that we've used for the last 10 years. stay tuned!
what is the latest breakthrough for a-fib?
i assume you mean pradaxa which is a new anticoagulant medication that is given to prevent strokes from atrial fibrillation. it does not require the constant monitoring of coumadin (warfarin) and is thus less intrusive to the patient but is also more expensive at this time. that should improve in time.
what is the most common cause of heart flutter?
tachycardia (rapid heartbeat) causes one to feel palpitations in the chest. it can be caused by exertion fever or a cardiac arrhythmia such as atrial tachycardia atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation.
why would a patient need a cardioversion?
cardioversion is an electronic technique used to convert an abnormal rhythm back to a normal one. the procedure is performed in a hospital under light anesthesia. various rhythm disturbances such as atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter among others are treated with cardioversion. the results are usually successful and apparent immediately.
what is an electrical shock delivered to the heart to correct abnormal heart rhythms called?
if non-fatal (like atrial fibrillation) it's cardioversion in which a lower energy & specific electrical phase is given with the patient sedated but awake so that the rhythm can be converted to the normal sinus rhythm.
why could your heart flutter when you yawn?
because in young people flutter or atrial fibrillation could be activated by the structure in the right atrium and at the superior aspect of the inferior vena cava and yawning is usually a symptom of vagal tone and may lead to arrythmias through the same process. cold drinks with ice can lead to acute atrial fibrillation through the same process.
what is the function of an cardioversion?
cardioversion is used to stop certain arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation ventricular tachycardia) and restore the regular sinus rhythm.
what are the applications of an echocardiogram?
cardiac echo allows your doctor to quantify the strength and function of your heart. it gives us information about size flow valve anatomy and detects abnormalities. it can also be used to detect clot in the event of an arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation.
what is the difference between angina coronary artery disease and heart disease?
angina and angina equivalents are symptoms of cad: coronary artery disease - which is often pooled with other heart aliments and described as heart disease. heart disease could potentially encompass other conditions such as congestive heart failure chf atrial fibrillation or flutter af kinds of cardiomyopathy bundle branch block and valve disorders and potentially more.
what are common complications of open heart surgery?
common would consist of atrial fibrillation need for oxygen and swollen legs.
what would cause mental status changes after a cardioversion?
patients will typically still be under effects of sedation after a cardioversion duration depends on what sedation used. this should improve and resolve but may take several hours to totally resolve. also since cardioversion is done to convert a rhythm problem most commonly atrial fibrillation there would be a risk of a small clot leaving the heart and travelling up and causing a stroke.
what is a stroke? what are the causes of strokes and what are the signs?
most strokes are caused either by blockage or rupture of a blood vessel in the brain. about three quarters of strokes occur when a blood clot closes a blood vessel in the brain; most of the remainder is due to a blood vessel bursting and bleeding into the brain. major risk factors for stroke include atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) atrial fibrillation (a heart rhythm disorder) hypertension high cholesterol diabetes and smoking. family history of stroke also increases risk. signs of stroke vary. common signs are sudden paralysis in one part of the body such as an arm or leg drooping of one side of the face slurred speech or difficulty speaking. headache and vertigo can be signs of stroke but are much less common. sudden onset of "the worst headache of my life" is very worrisome for a ruptured blood vessel in the brain. if stroke symptoms occur it's critical to take action quickly. stroke symptoms should be treated as a "brain attack" just as urgently as chest pain would be. call 911 or go to the closest emergency room without delay.
what's a shock to the heart called? when someone delivers a shock to the heart to treat abnormal rhythms what's that called?
there are two types of shocks where electrical energy is delivered to the heart to restore a normal heart rhythm. when somebody experiences cardiac arrest the shock is called a defibrillation. this can be delivered by an external defibrillator applied by medical personnel or by a bystander. many common areas such as airports and malls now have automatic external defibrillators (aeds) that can be applied by a layperson and have been shown in research studies to increase the chances of survival after cardiac arrest. some people at risk for cardiac arrest have defibrillators implanted in their body capable of recognizing abnormal rhythms and automatically delivering a shock. the other type of shock is called a synchronized cardioversion. this is performed when the heart is in an abnormal rhythm but is still functioning fairly well and so is typically not performed in an emergency situation. atrial fibrillation is the most common rhythm that requires cardioversion. this is a very safe and common procedure.
who is at greater risk for stroke?
strokes are more common in men under 75 and women above 75. and african americans are twice as likely to have a stroke. some other factors for stroke include: high blood pressure history of previous strokes women who smoke while on hormonal birth control diabetes heart disease such as atrial fibrillation high cholesterol and atherosclerosis.
who is at risk for stroke?
diabetics anyone with cardiovascular disease high blood pressure not controlled high cholesterol especially with known plaques those with a strong family history atrial fibrillation mechanical valves and more.
what is synchronized cardioversion?
this is a cardioversion (shock) given to the heart that is timed to a certain point in the cardiac cycle so that the heart rhythm can be reset without causing further rhythm problems. this is the most common type of shock delivered for rhythms such as atrial fibrillation.
what is synchronized cardioversion?
this is important because if the heart is depolarized externally during the wrong portion of the cardiac cycle it can actually induce worse heart rhythms than it was intended to treat. synchronized cardioversion is typically used to treat atrial fibrillation atrial flutter stable ventricular tachycardia.
what are the symptoms of mitral valve prolapse?
if its mild no symptoms are likely. if moderate palpitaions and some shortness of breath with exercise. severe mvp usually reults in significant regurgitation with atrial fibrillation and possible heart failure.
what is the name of an electrical shock delivered to the heart to correct abnormal heart rhythms?
cardioversion. commonly done for certain atrial fibrillation conditions.
what is the significance of mitral valve stenosis?
it means that you had (whether or not you know it) rheumatic fever with scarring of your valve. when severe it causes atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure. when it causes symptoms it requires surgical intervention with commissurotomy or valve replacement.
what are enhanced external counter pulsation's contraindications?
moderate to severe aortic regurgitation active heart failure severe peripheral vascular disease and recent cardiac cath. also atrial fibrillation can be a problem.
what are the risks involved with catheter ablation?
in general it is very low risk. there are different types of ablations with varying degrees of risk. atrial fibrillation ablation tends to carry some of the highest risk of any catheter ablation. af ablations have a risk of death of 0. 15% tamponade 1. 3% pseudoaneursym 0. 9% stroke 0. 2% tia 0. 7% pv stenosis 0. 3 and ae-fistula 0. 04%. there is a small risk of pacemaker in some types as well.
what are the risks involved with catheter ablation?
this depends in large part on what exactly is being ablated. ablation in the right heart is usually a lower risk than in the left heart due to risks of clots in the arterial circulation. all procedures include risk of bleeding blood clots in a vessel or the heart and perforation. atrial fibrillation ablation also poses risk for esophageal or pulmonary vein injury.
what are the steps of an elective cardioversion?
assuming it's for atrial fibrillation (af) it depends on duration of the af. if it's been a few days anticoagulants to avoid systemic embolization possible echocardiography to look for clots and determine chamber sizes for prognostic purposes. good informed consent modest fasting establishing an iv for the medications possibly an anesthesiologist synch testing and a good cardiologist!
when is synchronized cardioversion used?
mostly for flutter and atrial fibrillation.
when is synchronized cardioversion used?
atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter.
what disorders can cardioversion be used to treat?
cardioversion can convert most ventricular arrhythmias (i. e. originating from bottom part of the heart) to normal rhythm and several supraventricular (i. e. from top part of the heart). atrial fibrillation is the most commonly cardioverted rhythm with very high success rates. other supraventricular rhythms (e. g. psvt atrial tachycardia avnrt) can also be treated though not as reliably.
what's so bad about high blood pressure? is it really that harmful?
pandora it is truly like opening pandora's box! it the leading cause of congestive heart failure stroke atrial fibrillation and kidney failure. it is a major risk factor for heart attack and eye disease. yes it's a very treatable and preventable factor and it's control has been instrumental in prolonging our life expectancy in the 20th century!
what is a sync cardioversion?
this is a cardioversion (shock) given to the heart that is timed to a certain point in the cardiac cycle so that the heart rhythm can be reset without causing further rhythm problems. this is the most common type of shock delivered for rhythms such as atrial fibrillation.
what causes mini strokes?
mini strokes or tias are caused by the same things that cause regular strokes. here are the common causes: smoking high blood pressure atrial fibrillation high blood sugar arterial disease / atherosclerosis high blood cholesterol
what are the possible complications of sick sinus syndrome?
sick sinus syndrome results in the top chamber being unable to effectively regulate its rate. it can also occur in the setting of atrial fibrillation. with this combination both extremely fast and extremely slow heart rates are possible. symptoms can include dizziness lightheadedness or palpitations chest pains exercise intolerance or even feelings as though you might pass out.
what is the role of anticoagulation in stroke?
i presume you are asking about heparin/coumadin. they are used in condition like dissection of artery to brain-still not a evidence based atrial fibrillation or source of emboli from heart some hyper coagulate states. use of heparin in other type of stroke is not advised.
what is more serious atrial or ventricular fibrilation?
atrial fibrillation is a rapid irregular rhythm which retains the ability of the heart to contract. the ventricular fibrillation is a rhythm which results in death if not resolved to a better rhythm.
what is medicinal therapy for stroke prevention?
prevention (ie in someone who has not had a stroke and is keen to avoid one) we modify risk factors. if indicated consider medication to lower blood pressure (ace inhibitor / calcium channel blocker etc) or to lower blood cholesterol (statin). antiplatelet drugs (aspirin) have an unclear role in primary prevention. anticoagulants (warfarin or noac) if atrial fibrillation and high chadsvasc2.
who is minimally invasive heart surgery performed on?
it depends on what and how much needs to be done. how much experience does the surgeon and team have? to start aortic valve surgery mitral valve and tricuspid valve surgeries. closing some holes in the heart. bypass surgeries especially left sided vessels. some atrial fibrillation surgeries. previous surgeries can make it harder. morbid obesity also. poor heart function too.
what could cause difficulties with a cardiac perfusion scan?
some difficulties with a perfiusion scan can cause the quality of the scan to be diminshed thus reducing its predictive ability. these include motion artifact rapid heart rates or disrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation. certain body habitus for example very obese a high riding diaphram or large pendulous breats can also cuase artifacts and affect test results.
what are the typical signs and symptoms of mitral stenosis?
palpitations chest pain syncope shortness of breath respiratory failure arrythmias - inluding atrial fibrillation liver failure edema renal insufficiency congestive heart failure.
what is the potential for failure that exists for a cardioversion?
the success rate for elective cardioversion depends on how long the pt has been in atrial fibrillation (af) the cause of the af the size of the heart chambers and medications. talk to your doctor about the procedure and the likelihood of success.
what's next if cardioversion didn't work?
as a large study showed (the affirm) study people do fine even with atrial fibrillation as long as the heart rate is controlled with drugs and anticoagulants are given if indicated.
what are signs and symptoms of chf?
symptoms: breathlessness especially with exertion or lying down awakening short of breath easy fatigability weight gain swelling. signs:elevated jugular venous pressure sinus tachycardia or atrial fibrillation an s3 gallop dullness and decreased breath sounds at the right base rales hepato-jugular reflux shifting dullness (late) peripheral edema.
what are the disease leading to needing an open heart surgery?
critical calcific aortic stenosis severe aortic insufficiency severe mitral valve stenosis severe mitral valve regurgitation atrial fibrillation(maze) tetrallogy of fallot truncus arteriosus tapvr transposition of the great arteries ascending aortic aneurysm ventricular septal defect atrial septal defect sinus of valsalva aneurysm coronary stenosis cor triatriatum cardiomyopathy 2include s.
why does my heart flutter after i had a triple bypass?
it may feel like fluttering since heart sac disrupted. it may really have flutter or atrial fibrillation or pvcs or other arrhythmias after heart surgery. about 1/3 of patients do and most get over it by 6 week followup.
what does a rapid irregular pulse mean after a car accident?
if the heartbeat is irregular and not just fast it is either what/s referred to as atrial fibrillation or supraventricular tachycardia. it's not unusual to have a rapid heartbeat after an accident as your body has a huge catecholamine output. it can be irregular for the same reason but it should resolve. if the blood pressure is affected it may require medical intervention.
what results can be expected from a successful cardioversion?
for cardioversion from atrial fibrillation to normal sinus rhythm success would be restoration of normal conduction. patient may notice decreased palpitations less fatigue less dizziness less shortness of breath and other symptoms.
what does cardiac chest pain mean?
cardiac chest pain simply means that the reason for chest pain is due to something abnormal with the heart. this doesn't necessarily mean a blockage of a coronary artery or heart attack but that is usually the case. other cardiac etiologies include but not are limited to pericarditis atrial fibrillation or other rhythm disturbances and aortic dissection.
why do they monitor your heart during a sleep study?
vagal tone (parasympathetic) is increased during sleep. does heart rates are slower during sleep. in some sleep-related conditions such as sleep apnea potentially serious heart rhythms can be seen such as atrial fibrillation or profound bradycardia. your dr. may choose to use a heart monitor to detect potential arrhythmias.
when i have an alcohol beverage my heart beats a lot faster is this a serious issue?
alcohol can cause a number of conditions of rapid heartbeat called tachyarrhythmias. the most common is supraventricular tachycardia or svt and the next common is atrial fibrillation. if this happens every time you drink i would suspect you are having a significant number of drinks. if so it is to much for you and you need to cut down. if not you may be inordinately sensitive. talk to ur md.
what's the safest and most effective drug for lowering diastolic bp?
most htn pts require at least 3 different drugs to control hypertension. the guidelines recommend to start with low dose diuretics but it is ok to use calcium channel blockers like amlodipine or beta blockers like metoprolol. ( especially if they have coronary disease or atrial fibrillation). acei's like lisinopril are also good for chf and in diabetics. arbs:diovan or losartan have good profile.
what are some reason id be nauseated dizzy tired and sjort of breath?
it would have been helpful if you'd provided more info including your age medical history and medications you may be taking. however what you are describing could be due to cardiac causes including atrial fibrillation heart failure angina or even heart attack. it could also be due to infectious causes like pneumonia. medication side effects or allergies are also possible. go see your doctor!
what causes a blood clot in heart. how long will it take for heparin to break up the blood clot?
acute heart attack and surface clot quite quickly! atrial fibrillation/ mitral vale may develop more slowly. heart failure and enlarged chambers. heparin reduces progression but natural clot lysis occurs over time naturally or with lyric agents.
what happens to the heart if you have high blood pressure?
high blood pressure over time results in response called hyper trophy. this affects the main pumping chamber the left ventricle. the chronic pressure overload can also cause the left upper chamber to dilate which can lead to arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation. the end stage result can be heart failure.
what is source of cardiovascular embolus?
emboli occur when atherosclerotic plaques or plaques with thrombus formation break off and travel up stream in the flow through the heart and through the circulation to the head abdomen or legs. these plaques or thrombi can originate in the left or right atrium of the heart particularly in patients with atrial fibrillation. they can originate in the aorta or major arteries in the neck.
what are the newest cardiovascular drugs?
pradaxa (dabigitran) and xarelto (rivaroxaban) are the 2 newest that i can think of: both are coumadin (warfarin) alternatives for anticoagulation (blood thinning) in atrial fibrillation.
what's of a way to thin blood other than aspirin or coumadin (warfarin)?
there are two new anticoagulants on the market for prevention of stroke in the setting of atrial fibrillation trade-named pradaxa and xarelto. there are other antiplatelet drugs used in coronary artery disease plavix (clopidogrel) effient and brillinta.
what are some drugs which may be used in the management of the patient with heart failure?
several different classes of drugs are used to treat hf. beta-blockers(carvedilol bisoprolol metoprolol succinate) ace inhibitors or arb's (angiotensin receptor blockers) aldosterone antagonists (spironolactone eplerenone) and diuretics as needed. digoxin can be added for heart rate control in those patients who have atrial fibrillation but is not a mainstay of therapy.
what are the side effects of a drug called lopid (gemfibrozil)?
potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation.
what are typical side effects of gemfibrozil 600mg?
common side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea fatigue nausea/vomiting lfts elevated ck elevation more severe side effects: myositis myopathy rabdomyolysis cholelithiasis cholestatic jaundice acute appendicitis anemia thrombocytopenia leukopenia atrial fibrillation cataracts(animal studies) hypersensitivity rxn exfoliative dermatitis.
what is the procedure for heart ablation things i should worry about i need to know prior to surgery? steve
any invasive body procedure must by law be discussed with you beforehand. u need to know what u have what the procedure will hopefully correct how often the procedure does not work what are the potential risks (including fataliities). there are a number of indications for ablation most common atrial fibrillation. it involves cutting nerve fibers in specific areas of heart. informed consent.
what are side affects of gemfibrozil?
gemfibrozil (lopid) potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation. side effects (
what are side affects of gemfibrozil?
common side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea fatigue nausea/vomiting lfts elevated ck elevation more severe side effects: myositis myopathy rabdomyolysis cholelithiasis cholestatic jaundice acute appendicitis anemia thrombocytopenia leukopenia atrial fibrillation cataracts(animal studies) hypersensitivity rxn exfoliative dermatitis.
what are some common heart problems?
common heart problems include coronary artery disease (heart attacks) chf (failing heart) valvular problems (aortic and mitral disease for the most part) and cardiac arrhythmia (atrial fibrillation and palpitations/syncope).
whats it mean if a rapid irregular pulse following blunt trauma to the chest?
blunt trauma can precipitate irregular pulse which usually is atrial fibrillation. sometimes life threatening ventricular fibrillation can occur as well.
what are symptoms of? mild mitral stenosis?
mild mitral stenosis does not usually cause symptoms. some people with more severe mitral stenosis have atrial fibrillation or heart failure.
who is at risk for a stroke?
risk factors for stroke include such things family history hypertension diabetes hyperlipidemia smoking peripheral or cardiovascular disease atrial fibrillation clotting disorders rheumatologic disorders renal/liver problems and sleep apnea.
what are the most important clinical trials currently being done in cardiology?
cardiology has always led the search for answers and improving our field. currently trials are ongoing on newer generation of stents newer medications for thinning the blood newer devices to help with atrial fibrillation etc.
what is the cause of cardiovascular embolus?
cardiovascular embolism typically would be due to a blood clot that formed in the heart or along the arterial or venous circulation. common causes would be atrial fibrillation (abnormal rhythm leading to stagnant blood) a heart attack or cardiomyopathy causing weak heart or a blood clotting disorder or local injury leading to a venous blood clot in peripheral vein or pelvis. rarely chol or air.
what is cardizem er and what does it do?
cardizem er ( extended release) are calcium channel blockers most often used for hypertension and also given for atrial fibrillation flutter and sometimes for supraventricular tachycardia.
what is the significance of congestive heart failure in the medical history if it has now resolved?
chf is a symptom. we treat possible causes that makes heart weak (htn diabetes atrial fibrillation irregular heart beats thyroid conditions anemai etc) so your medical history is all significant.
what is a mini stroke? does it mean that something is wrong with the heart?
mini-strokes are colloquially thought of as transient ischemic attacks or tias which are neurologic deficits that may resolve over a relatively short period of time. although these are commonly associated with disease of the blood vessels feeding parts of the brain some may be a result of clots forming in the heart e. g. sluggish contraction with blood sludging or atrial fibrillation.
why was my my husband on coumadin (warfarin) for his rhythm in his heart?
this is a blood thinner maybe he has an ongoing rhythm problem called atrial fibrillation or he may have prosthetic heart valve.
what are the most common type of heart conditions?
arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation is most common. congestive heart failure is the most common admission to hte hospital heart attacks are the #1 killer.
would daily intake of scotch whiskey cause any heart trouble?
significant alcohol intake can cause heart damage(cardiomyopathy). binge drinking can lead to arrythmias like atrial fibrillation. 1-2 drinks daily should not cause a problem. however moderation is best.
what exactly is left ventricle defibrillation?
defibrillation is electrical impulse used to reset heart rhythm is life threatening electrical arrhythmias (v-fib or v-tach). . synchronous cardio version is used in non life threatening arrhythmias (e. g. atrial fibrillation ).
what will happened if i don't treat hyperthyroism?
many issues depending on how severe. these may include: arrythmias such as atrial fibrillation hypertension cardiomyopathy and heart failure. other issues could also include weight loss elevated blood sugar anxiety hair loss shortness of breath and the list goes on. bottom line get treated.
what are some of the major causes of stroke?
hypertension for many years atrial fibrillation and arteriosclerotic blockage in the carotid (neck) arteries are the 3 commonest causes. rarer causes are: ruptured berry aneurysms cns infections vasculitis endocarditis hypercoagulable states and strokes of unknown cause (cryptogenic).
what are the long term consequences of acute on chronic diastolic heart failure?
i assume you mean chronic diastolic heart failure with acute exacerbation. its what happens in diastolic heart failure-subject to intermittent acute exacerbation. it is particularly sensitive to heart rate and fluid volume. sudden death is another consequence besides heart failure. atrial fibrillation is common and therefore stroke risk. others die from comoerbiditieswhich are frequent such as kidney
what is random heart flutter with tickle sensation random attacks of breathlessness in day and while sleeping all started after pain in chest 1 time?
there are a number of possible explanations but an irregular heartbeat called "atrial fibrillation" is the most concerning. an electrocardiogram (ecg) is needed but your symptoms suggest the presence of an irregular heart rhythm which usually is found to be atrial fibrillation. you should consult with your physician soonest to have this issue evaluated.
what are the alternatives to coumadin (warfarin)?
for atrial fibrillation there are direct thrombin inhibitors approved for stroke prevention. these are not approved for patients with mechanical valves.
why do i have to stay on pradaxa for life if my heart is in rythm? why not just take asprin?
if you are on pradaxa it is likely you have atrial fibrillation. if your heart pops in and out of this rhythm it is called paroxysmal a fib - counterintuitively this is actually more dangerous than constant afib. depending on your other medical factors (diabetes hypertension age heart disease and history of stroke) the risk of future stroke may be high enough to need pradaxa or warfarin.
why do i have to stay on pradaxa for life if my heart is in rythm? why not just take asprin?
presume you had atrial fibrillation and it can reoccur. stroke risk is one of the major concerns. need your doc to review all known parts of your exam and relevant history and decide re risks of stroke and risks of complications of pradaxa which is a newer drug! ad we may not have all the data!
what is the best way of operation for the removal of clot from the carotid artery?
carotid thromboendarterectomy is the safest and standard approach for a clot in the carotid artery. clots in the carotid artery are not common plaque and thrombus formation from an ulcerated lesion are by far the primary source of a clot in the carotid artery ocasionally in patients with atrial fibrillation a large clot will lodge at the bifurcation and will require emergent intervention.
wat type of acute mild chf is reversible and how?
some chf causes are reversible such as blocked coronary arteries which can be opened or if due to rapid heart rate from atrial fibrillation. hyperthyroidism anemia and vitamin/nutrient deficiency can also be important to rule out. some chf is due to a virus. other than treating the cause of chf medications are also important such as beta blockers ace inhibitors. and spironolactone.
what happens if you have left atrial enlargement and mitral valve prolapse?
lad can be seen with mitral valve prolapse from mitral regurgitation and makes you more prone to arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation.
what irregular heart rhythms can be treated with an external defibrillation?
any rapid abnormal heart rhythm can be treated with external defibrillation. atrial fibrillation atrial flutter svt ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation can all be treated this way but some are emergent and some are elective.
what irregular heart rhythms can be treated with an external defibrillation?
aed is automatic external defibrillator designed to identify and treat ventricular fibrillation. we treat other forms of rapid heart rhythm with elective or urgent external shock(defibrillator)such as atrial fibrillation.
which one is better a manual bp machine or an automatic one and why?
if it's used right. automated machines are frequently and easily fooled by irregular heart rhythms such as atrial fibrillation. the problem is that there are things (such as "auscultatory gaps") that can fool the user of a manual blood pressure cuff too. my usual advice to pts is to get an omron automated cuff that lists an ability to take bps in irregular rhythms. i've had good luck w them.
when your heart/arteries flutter what is that called?
there are many reasons to feel your heart beating--oftentimes called palpitations. sometimes it is innocent and normal such as a rapid heart rate after exertion. other times it may be serious and is a concerning arrhythmia. common abnrormal arrhythmias causing palpitations include atrial fibrillation/flutter and supraventricular tachycardia.
will clopidogrel (7mg/day) compliment warfarin therapy for patients with chf with a-fib? is it really required? +dabigatran?
clopidogrel is an anti-platelet drug used mainly to prevent clots on coronary stents for up to a year after implantation. warfarin is used to prevent clots in patients with atrial fibrillation. alternatives are dabigatrin xarelto and eliquis. the combination of clopidogrel + warfarin would be used for a patient with a fib who needed a stent. bleeding risk is increased with this combination.
what long term effects of pulmonary hypertension are common?
long term pah causes pressure overload on the right ventricle. often atrial fibrillation and right heart failure results with gradual loss of organ perfusion liver and renal failure.
what is proper amnt of asprin to give 93 year old after stroke?
seriously. there is no right answer. 75-81mg is minimum dose these days but more may be warranted. need to know which kind of stroke eg ischemic or hemorrhagic. any other risk factors eg atrial fibrillation high bp etc. check out <link> <link> <link>
what pharmacologic treatment of stroke are there?
as far as prevention is concerned people with a high risk of stroke can begin medications that can affect the chances of stroke. ( example- anticoagulants for atrial fibrillation patients). treating hypertension can also reduce the chances of stroke as can proper diabetic regimens. as you can see there are too many considerations for this venue. talk it over with your physician
what test can be used to locate cardiac arterial blockages "visually? " would an mri or a sonography be the most efficient?
cta & mra are the preferred noninvasive imaging modalities in diagnosis of coronary artery disease. the advantage of cta over mra are wider availability better spatial resolution shorter exams and better patient adherance. advantages of mra are a lack of ionizing radiation & lack of iodinated contrast adminitration. both tests are suboptimal in patients with atrial fibrillation & other arrhythmias.
what should be the normal inr leval for a woman?
if your are not taking warfarin the normal values for men and women is between 0. 8-1. 2 if you are on warfarin you level depends on the indication for example for patient with atrial fibrillation the level should be closely monitored and maintained between 2-3. again it depends on why you are on blood thinners.
would it be possible that a heart attack really cause permanent brain damage. if so how?
a heart attack is heart damage. but if the heart attack causes low blood pressure shock hypoxia cardiac arrest etc. then brain damage can occur. atrial fibrillation clotting and embolism to the brain can cause strokes as well.
what is the meaning of synchronized external cardioversion?
when we shock ventricular fibrillation we just deliver the shock as soon as possible. when we cardiovert a rhythm like atrial fibrillation that kind of shock can cause ventricular fibrillation so we synchronize the shock to a safe part of the ecg complex. we call this synchronized cardioversion.
what is the difference between a heart cath and ablation?
a heart cath is the term for a heart catheterization or coronary angiography. this is to evaluate the coronary arteries for blockages. an ablation is a procedure to stop abnormal electrical heart rhythm pathways such as in svt wpw atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation.
what causes a blood clot to form behind the heart?
i'm assuming you mean "in the heart" as clots don't form behind the heart. the 2 most common causes are atrial fibrillation (clots form in the atria or upper chambers because of the abnormal rhythm) and early in the setting of a large anterior - apical heart attack (clots form in the ventricle or lower chambers).
what are common heart diseases for older women?
most common is ischemic heart disease which represents 85-90% of heart disease. afte this would be atrial fibrillation.
what are common heart problems after lung removal surgery?
do you mean pneumonectomy? total removal of one lung? well atrial fibrillation may occur in about 20%. bouts of pulmonary hypertension may cause right ventricular dysfunction. left pneumonectomy usually better tolerated than right. depending on preoperative overall ventricular function and the quality of the remaining lung symptoms minimal to catastrophic.
what is coumadin (warfarin)?
used for conditions that cause or predispose someone to abnormal coagulant states such atrial fibrillation mechanical heart valves or clots in leg or arm veins as well as during certain sugeries on blood vessels.
what drug is superior pradaxa or warfarin? i have two metal bare stents and a history of atrial defibrillation.
both are anticoagulants and are used for prophylaxis in atrial fibrillation. bare metal stents are better treated with aspirin and plavix (clopidogrel). between pradaxa and warfarin both are effective with pradaxa requiring no monitoring but warfarin much less expensive.
would stopping my coumadin (warfarin) give me a stroke? i am 78 and have multiple myeloma (untreatable) with copd.
if you're taking coumadin (warfarin) because of chronic atrial fibrillation or a mechanical artificial heart valve then stopping coumadin (warfarin) would put you at risk for a clot in the atrial chambers or on the valve which could travel to the lungs or organs like the brain. if your heart rhythm is normal there is less risk of stroke or other complications from blood clots. the same is true if your valves are norma.
what are the health risks of having an enlarged right atrium?
an enlarged atrium can predispose one to development of cardiac dysrhythmias like atrial fibrillation and can be caused by factors such as lung disease. a cardiologist can advise you further.
what specifc therapy can be given to multi infarct stroke dementia patient 67 to improve cognitive functions and part memory loss. also need tips for the caregiver to understand the patients needs?
the brain is more capable of recover than we once thought. most important would be to stop further injury. this allows the brain to begin to heal. the condition of atrial fibrillation suggests recurrent embolic events. make sure the use of an anti-coagulant has been considered.
what specifc therapy can be given to multi infarct stroke dementia patient 67 to improve cognitive functions and part memory loss. also need tips for the caregiver to understand the patients needs?
prevent further emboli from atrial fibrillation. natural therapies are nattokinase vinpocetin and dan shen. the later two have cognitive benefits. improve brain circulation with movements like circulating outstretched arms walking swimming in air skin contact loving attention and belief in recovery all help.
with chronic a/f and severe nosebleeds i'm off warfarin and using aspirin. with no antidote to new anticoagulants what are my options as i age?
in general atrial fibrillation does not cause nose bleeds. however anticoagulants certainly may. you need a good look at the side of the nose by a rhinologist (nose specialist) to determine whether there is a blood vessel that could be cauterized. there are several areas of the nose that are the sources of bleeding. the doctor can determine the site and hopefully stop this problem.
what is the progression for rheumatic fever?
depends. hopefully minimal repercussions if treated early and if appropriate antibiotic therapy continued for many years. if inflammation ensues in a chronic fashion then gradual thickening and potentially leakiness of one or more of the heart valves may occur. occasionally rhythm disturbances such as atrial fibrillation can develop down the road.
what causes people with no congenital cardiac condition to suddenly have af?
abnormalities or damage to the hearts structure are the most common causes of atrial fibrillation. mayo clinic has a great website that you can surf and learn about afib causes and treatment plans.
what do you advise if i'm currently on warfarin for a blood clot disorder. anyone know about the progress on replacements?
there have been 3 "warfarin substitutes" since 2010 that have fda approval for venous thromboembolism prevention treatment of venous thromboembolism or stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation. they include the oral direct thrombin inhibitor dabigatran and the oral direct factor xa inhibitors rivaroxaban and apixaban. all agents have predictable pharmacokinetic profiles and do not require monitoring
what do you advise for heart races after drinking alcohol?
alcohol and drinking binges are know to cause atrial fibrillation which can lead to blood clots in the heart which can lead to strokes. one simple option may be to cut back on the drinking. more than 7 drinks a week (14 for men) or 4 a day (5 for men) would be risky behavior. beta blockers are a common cardiac drug which reduces a fib. also digoxin and amiodarone.
what do you advise if i'm takingt multaq for blood pressure?
i would advise you to see a doctor because multaq is not indicated for or useful for controlling bp - it's used to maintain sinus rhythm in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
what could cause your heart to start randomly racing at 130-160 bpm?
you should be checked for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation (former is more common in your age group).
weeks of hr increase of 25+ lying to standing. from the 50's and reach 120 just walking across room. looked at pots but bp goes up not down. hydrated.
you may have an irregular heart rhythm. . possible atrial fibrillation (usually an inconsistent heart beat) or atrial flutter (can be consistent heart beats). see your doc and get an ecg.
what do you suggest if my heartbeat is so irregular i can't count it! symptoms of a caffeine od?
irregularly irregular heart rate can be due to atrial fibrillation an unstable rhythm that needs to be treated. other rhythm disturbances may occur as well. caffeine alcohol tobacco stimulant drugs other meds lack of sleep dehydration other factors may cause or aggravate. see md
what heart condition which make ablation af not be performed?
ablation is rarely effective over the long term for permanent atrial fibrillation and therefore is rarely used for this. also af with no symptoms should not be treated with ablation. i see you take tambocor (flecainide). if it's partially but not completely effective you would be a good candidate for ablation.
what do you suggest if my grandma had 2 massive strokes so on?
it is important to find the cause of her strokes. that way it will be possible to effectively prevent another stroke from happening. frequent causes include narrowing of the blood vessels heart arrhythmia (such as atrial fibrillation) hypertension diabetes high cholesterol.
what does chest pain from mitral valve prolapse feel like? and is it life threatening
chest discomfort fatigue shortness of breath and anxiety are common with mitral valve prolapse. the prognosis is considered to be benign with chance of complications at about 2% per year. if no complications (like atrial fibrillation heart failure infective endocarditis or embolism - blood clots - to the brain) then not to worry. do keep your regular checkups. hope that helps.
what do you suggest if i put on rythmol (propafenone) to convert back to nsr. echo showed no problems any idea how long to get out of a fib?
rhythmol is a drug that can be used to prevent or convert atrial fibrillation. there is no good way to predict if it will convert the rhythm and/or predict how long it will take. in general however if its going to work at the dose being given it will generally take less than a day to convert.
what happens to the body when you have hypertension?
short term: nothing long term: damage to the kidney heart and brain. it's the leading cause of stroke and a major cause of congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation & heart attack.
what causes strokes?
strokes are caused by insufficient blood and oxygen flow to the brain. the common types of stroke are ischemic stroke (when blood flow is impeded) and hemorrhagic stroke (when a broken blood vessel leaks blood into the brain). most strokes are related to high blood pressure smoking diabetes mellitus high blood cholesterol and atrial fibrillation.
what are the causes of a micro stroke?
the causes of a mini stroke or tia are the same as the causes of a regular stroke- high blood pressure arterial disease diabetes mellitus smoking atrial fibrillation and high cholesterol.
who is at risk of getting a stroke?
people at risk for a stroke are people with high blood pressure people who smoke people with diabetes mellitus people with atrial fibrillation people with elevated blood cholesterol or people with carotid artery disease. many of these conditions are tested for in routine physician check ups.
whether if my laa tied(sewing) while cabg it can added many bleeding risk and cause infection on cabg? could cause any complication / dead risk?
patients who have atrial fibrillation and coronary artery disease that requires surgery will benefit from ligation of the laa. while this adds a minimal risk to the procedure it is worthwhile since it is likely to reduce your lifetime risk of strokes.
when should doctors use a synchronized cardioversion?
when normal ventricular activty is present as in atrial tachycardias/atrial fibrillation we use synchronized cardioversion also with regular ventricular tachycardia. we primarily use cardioversion without synchronization when ventricular fibrillation is present.
why might defibrillation be required for a post-op appendectomy?
defibrillation is only performed as an emergency when the heart has ventricular fibrillation. this can (rarely) happen on induction for anesthesia for any surgery. if a patient has atrial fibrillation during surgery they may want to "cardiovert" to regular rhythm post op but it is not required i do not think you have the right info.
what can cause someone to have a stroke?
smoking and high blood pressure are probably the two most common causes of stroke. atrial fibrillation is an important risk factor diabetes mellitus and high cholesterol can also lead to a higher risk of stroke.
should i be concerned about this heart pounding after heavy drinking?
a condition known as "holiday heart" is caused by too much drinking. it is atrial fibrillation and needs attention!
what are the high-risk groups for strokes?
smokers people with high blood pressure and diabetes mellitus. these are the most common risk factors. atrial fibrillation is also an important risk factor. there is a rare condition called berger's disease that has a very high risk of stroke in particular in berger patients who smoke.
can stress cause atrial fibrillation?
if there is no underlying cardiac problems that may predispose one to atrial fibrillation it would be unusual for stress to be actual cause; however stress can be the underlying to so many maladies that one never says never. if one develops atrial fib must look for underlying heart disease and--even it none is found-be treated for it by cardiologist specializing in cardiac rhythm disorders.
can stress cause atrial fibrillation?
yes it is possible especially if the heart is damaged or enlarged.
can magnesium help atrial fibrillation?
"they" looked into that years ago. no benefit to high dose mag supplementation though it did show initial promise. too bad <negative_smiley> would have been a lot simpler than the measures we use now.
can magnesium help atrial fibrillation?
while magnesium is not one of the primary treatments for atrial fibrillation there are situations where supplementation may be beneficial. atrial fibrillation is typically a results of many factors and thus there is no one single treatment.
can magnesium help atrial fibrillation?
research studies on this topic have yielded inconsistent results. these studies were done in patients who had undergone coronary bypass surgery. some of the studies seem to suggest that magnesium levels need to be increased to 2. 0 meq/l or more to prevent atrial fibrillation. provided that kidney function is normal there would be no harm in using magnesium supplements in this setting.
can you describe the maze procedure for atrial fibrillation?
in its earliest form this was a very involved and high risk open heart surgical procedure. over the years it has been refined to the point where it is much less risky and is often performed as part of other types of cardiac surgery. catheter-based techniques are also used to treat afib in a less invasive way but should be performed by an experienced cardiac electrophysiologist.
can you describe the maze procedure for atrial fibrillation?
the maze procedure is not commonly used these days. however electrophysiologist cardiologist do ablations in the lab that can cure atrial fib if the patient is a good candidate.
can you describe the maze procedure for atrial fibrillation?
of pulmonary veins. to complex to adequately describe beyond that in this space.
can someone take viagra (sildenafil) if he or she have atrial fibrillation?
as long as the patient is not on nitroglycerine there is no contraindication to viagra (sildenafil) related to atrial fibrillation.
can someone take viagra (sildenafil) if he or she have atrial fibrillation?
as long as you are not taking it together with medications that can lower the blood pressure (such as nitrates) you should be fine.
can someone take viagra (sildenafil) if he or she have atrial fibrillation?
just stay away from levitra (vardenafil). cialis and viagra should be fine. the reason has to do with potential interactions with meds used to control fibrillation.
what are they symptoms of a blood clot in the heart? what test diagnosis this?
often there's none until it's too late. there are clinical situations in which it's expected -- famously damaged valves atrial fibrillation or a previous myocardial infarction. an ultrasound / echocardiogram is often the key. your pvc's headache and tachycardia are almost certainly not due to an intracardiac thrombus.
can someone take tramadol if he or she have atrial fibrillation?
yes but it can interact with digoxin and with verapamil which are 2 medicines that some patients that have atrial fibrillation take to slow down their heart.
can someone take tramadol if he or she have atrial fibrillation?
but be advised that if you are taking any of the following which may be used with af there is an interaction: warfarin (increases the inr) digoxin (increases the dig level) amiodarone (increases the tramadol level) diltiazem or verapamil (increases the tramadol level) rhythmol (increases the tramadol level) quinidine (increases the tramadol level).
could heart palpitations be related to ibs?
there are new studies that showed connection of atrial fibrillation with irritable bowel syndrome.
can atrial fibrillation be found in an ekg?
yes that is the way to confirm the diagnosis.
can atrial fibrillation be found in an ekg?
an ekg is the best test to detect atrial fibrillation other than placing wires directly into the heart. any cardiologist and for that matter almost all internal medicine doctors should be able to recognize this rhythm problem on a standard ekg.
can radiofrequency cardiac ablation help cure arrhythmia?
it's an excellent modality for certain arrhythmias like wolf-parkinson-white and refractory atrial fibrillation. it is also helpful for symptomatic ventricular tachycardia in conjunction with a defibrillator. because it's invasive and carries some risk it's not usually a first line therapy but there are exceptions.
can radiofrequency cardiac ablation help cure arrhythmia?
oblation is a widely used in extremely successful procedure for a variety of different cardiac rhythm problems. the success rate for the procedure can range from 70% for atrial fibrillation to 85% for atrial tachycardia and is much as 98% for rhythms like atrial flutter and wolf parkinson white (avrt). a cardiac electrophysiologist can give you an answer specific to your situation.
can someone work with atrial fibrillation?
as long as the heart rate is not to fast and the risk of strike is appropriately dealt with people work with af. some people might feel better if they are in normal rhythm. specific questions regarding rhythm vs. rate control should be directed to your doctor.
can someone work with atrial fibrillation?
it depends on the person's overall functional status but in general patients can work with atrial fibrillation.
can you describe non-valvular atrial fibrillation?
it is atrial fibrillation and no significant valvular heart disease. it is also called " lone " atrial fibrillation. when talking about pradaxa it means no artificial heart valves because it does not yet have approval for that condition.
can you describe non-valvular atrial fibrillation?
non-valvular atrial fibrillation means that the underlying cause(s)of the atrial fibrillation is not related to rheumatic heart disease or valvular surgery rather factors such as high blood pressure diabetes congestive heart failure sleep apnea prior heart attack alcohol etc.
can atrial fibrillation cause ed?
afib cannot directly cause ed. medicines used to treat afib can impair erections and conditions associated with afib such as heart failure coronary disease also can cause ed.
can atrial fibrillation cause ed?
to achieve erection you have to have enough inflow to the penis and basal constrictors working to damp the outflow. afib in some people can impair blood flow enough to interfere with inflow especially in patients with atherosclerotic disease in the pelvic vessels.
can atrial fibrillation cause ed?
atrial fibrillation is frequently associated with other cardiovascular disease. in patients with cardiovascular disease damage to the blood vessels is rarely limited to only a single vessel or even a single organ. the artery supplying the penis is relatively small and relatively easily occluded and so cardiovascular disease may unify these two problems.
can a person continue to work a warehouse job if he has atrial fibrillation?
the keys in managing atrial fibrillation are assessing stroke risk (& treating appropriately) & controlling heart rates in order to minimize impact on physical activity. please follow regularly with your physician to achieve these goals.
can a person continue to work a warehouse job if he has atrial fibrillation?
but the heart rate blood pressure and blood thinner need to be addressed appropriately.
can a person continue to work a warehouse job if he has atrial fibrillation?
yes. only stipulation is that if you are on blood thinners (coumadin pradaxa etc. ) you would be at a higher risk of bleeding if you got hurt.
can ibs cause atrial fibrillation?
no unless severe diarrhea causes hypokalemia( low potassium) which in turn can cause atrial fibrillation.
can ibs cause atrial fibrillation?
usually as a result of electrolyte imbalance from ibs.
can atrial fibrillation be life threatening?
it can lead to stroke or heart attack of left untreated.
can atrial fibrillation be life threatening?
atrial fibrillation increase the risk of stroke which can be disabling or fatal. strokes from af tend to be worse than non-af strokes. additionally if the af causes a fast pulse for a prolonged period of time this may lead to weakening of the heart and cause heart failure. a very fast pulse even for a short period can precipitate a heart attack in someone with underlying blocked arteries.
can atrial fibrillation be psychosomatic?
atrial fibrillation is a specific rhythm abnormality caused by certain specific electrical changes in the upper chamber of the heart. this cannot be faked. however the stress from certain psychological conditions can increase the likelihood that a patient goes into or experiences the symptoms of atrial fibrillation.
can atrial fibrillation be psychosomatic?
stress can increase your adrenaline which can precipitate a. fib but usually the heart has to have an enlarged atrium or valvular heart disease in addition to the stress.
can a heart arrhythmia cause a "tia"?
tia stands for transient ischemic attack which is usually manifest by a temporary neurologic impairment such as loss of vision or weakness. an arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation can lead to clot formation. if a small clot dislodges it can cause a tia or a permanent injury known as a stroke.
can alcohol bring on an episode of svt?
svt from alcohol is so common in fact that the binge drinking that surrounds lots of holidays has resulted in calling it "holiday heart. " it also can bring on other arrhythmias particularly atrial fibrillation.
can ibs cause atrial fibrillation in a person?
the two are unrelated conditions.
can ibs cause atrial fibrillation in a person?
there are studies suggesting a connection between ibs and atrial fibrillation.
can an increase of blood level cause palpitation?
well i don't know what you mean. blood level of what? if you mean blood pressure high blood pressure can be related to rhythm problesm such as atrial fibrillation so the answer could be yes.
can you recommend the best reference source to learn more about ablation of atrial fibrillation?
hello marina -- yes you can find comprehensive reference and patient educations at the american college of cardiology or american heart association websites -- please just google them.
can you recommend the best reference source to learn more about ablation of atrial fibrillation?
<link>
can atrial fibrillation affect ed?
afib can be a symptom of multiple medical problems that can affect sexual function. metoprolol and other beta-blockers are common medications for afib that have negative impact on erections.
can atrial fibrillation affect ed?
atrial fib should not affect erectile dysfunction in any direct way. however two classes of medications commonly used to control heart rate in atrial fib (beta blockers and calcium channel blockers) can cause ed or more commonly worsen ed symptoms that already exist.
can someone take tramadol if you have atrial fibrillation?
tramadol is generally speaking say for use in atrial fibrillation though this is general advice and may not apply to your specific situation.
can someone take tramadol if you have atrial fibrillation?
yes i do not know of any contraindication there.
can pacemaker fix all cases of atrial fibrillations?
pacemaker (ppm) are used to treat a slow heart rate. most patient with atrial fibrillation (afib) have a fast heart rate. sometimes a ppm in combination with an av node ablation is used to control heart rate but the patient is left in afib. there are other types of ablation available to cure afib.
can pacemaker fix all cases of atrial fibrillations?
a pacemaker can not fix atrial fibrillation(adib). pacemakers can help suppress afib in conjunction with medication but can not cure you of it. there are various options for treatment such as medications cardiac ablations and surgical ablations. your doctor can discuss all options with you and determine which is the best suited for you. he/she may refer you to an electrophysiologist for more info.
can pacemaker fix all cases of atrial fibrillations?
atrial fibrillation is an irregular heartbeat of the upper chambers of the heart. its greatest danger is the formation of bloodclots within the heart which can trravel up to the brain and cause a stroke. patients with af are generally treated with anticoagulants or blood thinners like aspirin warfarin (coumadin) or dabigatran (pradaxa) to prevent strokes and medication to control the heart rate.
can an atrial fibrillation be lethal?
only if the atrial rate is conducted in a very rapid fashion to the lower chamber. your heart has built-in protection to keep this from happening. however patients with a condition known as wolff parkinson white sometimes lack this protection and under the right circumstances can die as a result of atrial fibrillation.
can an atrial fibrillation be lethal?
when the heart is in atrial fibrillation it causes blood to clot in the chambers of the heart. these clots can flow out of the heart and cause strokes. strokes can be lethal. doctors sometimes put people on a blood thinner called warfarin (coumadin) to help prevent clots in people with atrial fib. it's a serious condition but manageable! cheers!
can pulse rate be different than your heart rate my ant went to the dr an he said her heart rate was hige an her pulse rate was low did she miss under stand him or is that posable
not every beat of the heart is transmitted to the periphery. when the heart beats but there is no accompanying pulsation it is termed "pulse deficit" and it occurs routinely with atrial fibrillation and with premature ventricular or atrial beats. the reason is that the heart hasn't filled sufficiently to produce a full stroke volume on the beat in question.
can you have a heart attack and your arteries and heart okay?
yes possible. you may have had a very small heart attack from spasm of your blood vessel or due to clot thrown into your coronary artery from your heart due to atrial fibrillation. your arteries may look normal on angiography and your heart function may be normal. also stress induced cardiomyopathy may simulate a heart attack but heart function may return to normal and arteries are normal.
can you tell by taking a person's pulse if they have atrial fib?
atrial fibrillation by definition is an irregularity in the heartbeat and therefore is detectable by manual palpation of someone's pulse. it should always be confirmed with an ekg tracing because there are other causes of pulse irregularity which occasionally can be difficult to distinguish on physical exam and which have different implications for therapy from atrial fib.
can wine aggravate arrythmia?
particularly atrial fibrillation.
can cardiac arrhythmia be cured?
some arrhythmias have definitive treatments (atrial flutter re-entry tachycardias) others have helpful treatments (atrial fibrillation and monomorphic ventricular tachycardia) and others you can reduce the risk of side effects and risk of death. see your electophysiologist (cardiologist with special training in arrhythmias) about yours.
can pvcs cause fast heart rate while drinking?
certain of arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation are known to be more frequent with drinking/heavy food. however if you drink too much alcohol' you may develop cardiomyopathy (condition of heart pump failure) and that can cause pvcs and even dangerous and prolonged arrhythmias causing sudden cardiac death.
consumption of alcohol safe if causes tachycardia?
alcohol can cause many abnormal heart rhythms and none of them are very good for you particularly if you are older and not in shape. some of these abnormal rhythms like atrial fibrillation ("holiday heart") can be serious and even life-threatening in some people and if prolonged can increase the chance of both heart failure and stroke.
can young adults get atrial fibrillation?
most likely genetic when it afflicts young people.
can young adults get atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation can occur in young adults although it is more common as we get older. there are many causes including congenital heart disease valvular heart disease and sometimes alcohol intake.
can a stroke be caused by an irregular heart beat with a low heart rate?
irregular heart beat (atrial fibrillation may cause stroke. as upper chambers of the heart (atria) do not contract effectively and blood tends to clot due to slow flow or stasis in these chambers. with occaissional normal beats or convertion to normal rythm may cause these clots to break loose and block the circulation in the brain. that is why in most cases blood thinners are prescribed.
can a stroke be caused by an irregular heart beat with a low heart rate?
an irregular heart beast (such as atrial fibrillation) may lead to the development of blood clots within the heart. these blood clots may eventually travel to the brain and cause a stroke.
cardiac electrophysiology -- can anyone give me more information please?
this is speciality that treats and addresses arrhythmias of the heart i. e. 'electrical' disturbances of the heart. this can range to pacemaker and icd therapies to ablation of atrial fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
can metoprolol and digoxin (lanoxin) be taken at the same time?
this combination is often used to control heart rate in atrial fibrillation. it might also be used in chf.
