what could cause a heart attack in a pre-teen child?
kawasaki's disease and coronary vasospasm should be considered. children with a hypercoagulable disorder and an intracardiac shunt (such as an atrial septal defect or patent foramen ovale) should be considered. lastly congenital heart defects that affect the coronary arteries may cause an early heart attack.
i have an incomplete right bundle branch block is it dangerous nd can cause a cardiac arrest?
irbbb is usually an ecg anomaly that may speak of some right sided enlargement or strain (can occur in atrial septal defect or in pulmonary processes with right heart strain ). it can also occur innocuously and unrelated to cardiac structural changes. it does not typically imply impending conduction system collapse and is not a predictor for cardiac arrest or sudden cardiac death.
what does it mean to have an incomplete right bundle branch block?
it is a benign ekg finding related to a slight delay in the conduction system (like electrical wiring) of the heart. it is more common in those with an atrial septal defect (hole between left and right heart) but in general is benign nothing to worry about.
i have atrial septal defect. can i exercise still? what can i do to prevent worsening of right ventricular hypertrophy from to asd before surgery?
you may continue to exercise normally. it would be prudent to abstain from scuba diving. the enlargement of the right heart is caused by the extra volume of blood flowing into the right heart through the asd. it will improve after the asd is closed.
i have atrial septal defect. can i exercise still? what can i do to prevent worsening of right ventricular hypertrophy from to asd before surgery?
normal activities are ok to be continued probably avoid heavy exercise like weight lifting that increases the intra thoracic pressure. no scubar diving.
i have atrial septal defect. can i exercise still? what can i do to prevent worsening of right ventricular hypertrophy from to asd before surgery?
you likely can still exercise. in fact exercise is often good to promote your overall cardiovascular health. there is not much you can do to prevent rvh though some studies suggest that regular cardiovascular exercise may help by reducing your pulmonary artery pressures. discuss this with your physician before starting an exercise program though.
i had an atrial septal defect repaired 24 years ago. i have had no heart problems. will i always have an abnormal ekg because of this? i feel great!
because of scar tissue present you will always have an "abnormal ekg". that does not mean a bad ekg. it's just not going to send your electrical signals through the exact same routes as a heart that has not had surgery. it is more important that you are "feeling great" and symptom free but aware that your ekg is "different" than most so that if something ever happens you know what your base is
irregular heart rate the last week. bpm 90-95 and irregular rate. cause for concern?
irregular heart beat with bpm 90-95. probably atrial fibrillation causes;coronary artery disease thyroid disorder hypertension atrial septal defect cardiomyopathy mitral valve prolapse ihss. tests:keg holter monitoring echocardiogram x-ray chest ct scan cardiac catheterzation eps evaluation thyroid function tests tsh stress testing with stress echo thallium stress test. treatment:beta blockers card
is a right bundle branch block serious? i have a history of svt thanks!
generally rbbb is not serious - it can even be present from birth. with your hx of svt there are certain abnormalities that need to be considered and excluded: atrial septal defect and mitral stenosis. lung conditions can cause it. sometime high blood pressure is the cause. there are rare causes too but in most cases it's an isolated finding of no significance. in itself rbbb causes no symptoms
had open heart surgery for my atrial septal defect 3 years ago. everyday since then my heart skips a beat at least once a day is this normal?
depends on whether anything else is going on; i. e. any symptoms passing out chest pain cough? any changes on your ecg? a few "early" heart beats can be normal but a cardiologist would have to ensure nothing else bad was happening and evaluate an ecg. bring this to the attention of your cardiologist but it is not immediately worrisome in the absence of significant symptoms.
had open heart surgery for my atrial septal defect 3 years ago. everyday since then my heart skips a beat at least once a day is this normal?
relax dont worry.
what does anteroseptal t wave changes mean? i have a history of atrial septal defect and sinus tachycardia.
there may be ekg changes in asd depending on its type severity right ventricular size pulmonary hypertension etc. t wave changes in leads v1-v3 are anteroseptal changes (meaning changes occurring in front part of the wall dividing right and left chambers of heart). i would discuss with congenital heart specialist may be you need repeat echo to reassess rv size and estimated pulmonary pressure.
so now my 17 year old cousin has a grade 2 heart murmur leftward axis and incomplete right bundle branch block. what can all this mean? i'm scared!
heart murmur left axis deviation of the frontal plane qrs axis and an rsr' in v1 (irbb) makes pediatric cardiologists suspicious of an osmium primum atrial septal defect. typically this presents in the first few months or years of life but it can present in adulthood. to sort this out your cousin needs an echocardiogram.
possible reasons for abnormal ecg - probable rvh w secondary repol abnormality?
any chronic lung disease pulmonic stenosis or severe regurgitation left to right intracardiac shunting such as from atrial septal defect atrioventricular septal defect ventricular septal defect or a variety of complex congenital heart diseases.
hi i'm an 18 year old male my ecg shows irbbb and probably normal ecg i don't have any heart related symptoms but i have tsh of 0. 013 should i worry?
irbbb without any cardiac symptoms is common and not specifically worrisome but can be seen in atrial septal defect so if that were a clinical concern an echocardiogram would be helpful. the tsh level is low and needs further evaluation. here is a helpful article on low tsh. <link>
what to do if i have a hole in my heart plz help?
two of the commonest congenital heart problems are atrial septal defect and ventricular septal defect. they both are 'holes in the heart. ' often they close as the patient ages from birth. if you aren't sure see your doctor likely an echocardiogram will show whether you still have a problem.
what to do if i had my atrial septal defect repaired over a week ago through my groin. when can i start to smoking again?
you are an adult. smoking is your choice. if you understand the risks and still choose to smoke good luck. just don't claim addiction bad genes or that the boogey man made you do it.
what is the definition or description of: atrial septal defect repair?
an atrial septal defect is a congenital defect of the heart. a hole in the wall between the left and right atria permits blood to mix. there are several types of asd's and depending on the type and size they can either be closed with closure device placed thru the veins or by heart surgery (often minimally invasive surgery).
what is the definition or description of: atrial septal defect repair?
an asd is a whole between the two upper chambers of the heart the atria. depending on the size and location asds can be closed in the cath lab with one of two fda approved devices or it can be closed by open heart surgery.
what are the risks associated with having a pfo while i am pregnant?
are you asking if the pregnant mother has a patent foramen ovale or an atrial septal defect? most women with asd in pregnancy do fine and the management is not really different from normal pregnancy other than a possible baseline echocardiogram. risks especially in those over the age of 40 include arrhythmias heart failure thromboembolism and severe bleeding at the time of delivery.
what can i do if i have an atrial septal defect if i'm a 32 year old women?
there are some potential problems for anyone with an asd in adulthood & hopefully you have access to a cardiologist. small defects can often be closed today thru a catheter by an interventional cardiologist. disorders in heart rhythm and or other problems may need attention. call your pcp discuss your options.
what can i do if i have an atrial septal defect if i'm a 32 year old women?
on your symptoms related to shunting of oxygenated blood from left atrium to right atrium and getting mixed with unoxygenated blood. these symptoms relate to right heart strain and pulmonary hypertension. clot may also develop and can cause stroke. see a cardiologist for evaluation.
what can i do if i have an atrial septal defect if i'm a 32 year old women?
see a cardiologist. if the defect is relevant he will refer you for (device) closure a quick and simple procedure in experienced hands.
what is an atrial septal defect?
an asd is a defect (opening) in the wall (septum) that should form to separate the upper chambers of the heart.
what's the difference between a vsd and asd and murmur?
an asd (atrial septal defect) and vsd (ventricular septal defect) or diagnoses. asd the hole is between left and right atria. vsd the hole is between left and right ventricles. a murmur is diagnostic finding (sign). it is a sound caused by turbulent flow (rough like rapids in a river). murmurs can be heard with many issues in the heart. an asd may not even have a murmur.
what does it mean to have atrial septal defect?
an atrial septel defect is a hole or opening in the tissue that separates the left and right atrium. they are classified by location and named primum secundum or patent foramen ovale. they can be observed or in some cases treated surgically to close them.
what sort of problem is an atrial septal defect?
asd is a congenital (present since birth) heart defect in which the wall that separates the 2 upper chambers (atria) is perforated allowing the abnormal mixing of oxygenated and un-oxygenated blood. if large enough it can lead to rhythm disturbances and heart failure but if small no treatment is necessary. echo and mri are very accurate in assessing the severity. it is correctable/curable.
what sort of problem is an atrial septal defect?
atrial septal defect is a hose in the division between the heart atrial a common congenital heart defects and usually isolate. closing an atrial septal defects in childhood can prevent serious problems later in life. the long term outlook is excellent.
when and where was open heart surgery first performed?
john gibbon and his team fixed an atrial septal defect. many closed operations lead up to the development of the bubble oxygenator and subsequent pump systems.
what will happen if i don’t' close the asd in my child's heart?
large and long-standing atrial septal defects can damage your heart and lungs. an adult who has had an atrial septal defect for decades may have a shortened life span from heart failure or high blood pressure in the lungs.
what are the disease leading to needing an open heart surgery?
critical calcific aortic stenosis severe aortic insufficiency severe mitral valve stenosis severe mitral valve regurgitation atrial fibrillation(maze) tetrallogy of fallot truncus arteriosus tapvr transposition of the great arteries ascending aortic aneurysm ventricular septal defect atrial septal defect sinus of valsalva aneurysm coronary stenosis cor triatriatum cardiomyopathy 2include s.
what does it mean if the echo showed pfo?
a patent foramen ovale (pfo) is a common type of atrial septal defect which means there is a small hole in the wall separating the right atrium from the left atrium. small pfos are usually inconsequential whereas larger ones may require treatment.
what are common methods of repairing a ventrical septal defect?
in general surgery is required. investigationally this can be repaired by inserting a catheter into a blood vessel in the groin up into the heart and across the defect. a closure device is then opened up and occludes the vsd. this is commonly used for atrial septal defect but technically more difficult for a ventricular septal defect.
what's it mean to have atrial septal defect?
depends on the size and the amount of blood it is allowing to leak from the left to the right heart chambers which in turn causes strain on the right heart. this can cause shortness of breath and arrhythmias. patient with medium size defects may not have any problems until their middle age and patients with smaller defects can lead a full healthy life without even knowing it.
what's it mean to have atrial septal defect?
congenital absence of part or all of the interatrial septum. secundum primum type sinus venosus type foramen ovale type and unroofed coronary sinus(does not involve the septum but behaves the same). these lesions result in left to right shunting and right ventricular and pulmonary volume overload. may be missed at birth symptoms worse after 2 weeks old if large. diagnosed on echocardiogram.
what's the most effective way to treat atrial septal defect?
depending upon the characteristics of the defect; there are 2 ways to close an atrial septal defect. the traditional approach has been surgery with a success rate of nearly 100%; however there is a risk of arrhythmia and effusion. more recently catheter delivered closure devices have been used for select patients. the overall success rate is about 98% and the risk of complications is lower.
what's the most effective way to treat atrial septal defect?
you need a cardiologist to assess and advise the best thearpy. some need no therapy because of no symptoms. some may need surgery. depends upon what is happening.
what options for getting an atrial septal defect repaired in an adult?
a lot of asd's can be closed by trans catheter approach. occasionally (if thery are so large with no rims) need cardiac surgery.
what options for getting an atrial septal defect repaired in an adult?
sinus venosus asd requires surgical correction. although rare a ostium primum asd may have escaped diagnosis in a young adult and that also requires surgical closure. a small ostium secundum asd might be able to be closed with a clamshell device as well as a patent foramen ovale. large secundum asd still surgical closure is the treatment. other conditions like unroofed coronary sinus and papvr r/o.
what options for getting an atrial septal defect repaired in an adult?
it can be repaired percutaneously through a catheter inserted through the leg or arm or by open surgery.
what should i ask my doctor before i have a pfo closure?
pfo do not need to be closed unless causing stroke or systemic embolism or if associated with severe migraines. this needs to be distinguished from a atrial septal defect. so what i would ask is whether surgery indicated.
what are the chances of passing an atrial septal defect from a parent to a child?
an asd as well as most heart defects are not hereditary traits that are passed on from parent to offspring.
what are the chances of passing an atrial septal defect from a parent to a child?
the incidence of congenital heart disease in the general population is 0. 8%. in patients with first degree relatives with chd the incidence is 3-5%. there are some forms of familial asd and the risk may be higher. genetic testing is being developed but not yet available for asd. i recommend that all of my patients with asd have thier first degree relatives screened with echocardiograms.
what is cardio thoracic surgery for patch closure of asd?
basically patient is put on heart-lung machine (cardiopulmonary bypass) so right atrium can be opened and a patch (usually from pericardium) is sewn in to close the atrial septal defect (or hole in the wall between right & left atria of heart). . but can be done endovascularly by cardiologist with device that goes across asd and opens up to cover asd on both sides of asd.
what are the symptoms of atrial septal defect?
many asds are asymptomatic but when patients have symptoms it's usually shortness of breath and exercise intolerance. if the asd has been present for many years it may cause an abnormal heart rhythm as well as lung injury.
what are the symptoms of atrial septal defect?
most people with asds do not have symptoms. most children are diagnosed when sent to a cardiologist for a murmur. however as people age they can develop right heart failure with swelling of their extremities liver enlargement and decreased ability to exercise. wit hthe most severe cases patients turn blue. some young patients get more frequent and/or more severe respiratory infections.
what are the tests for atrial septal defect?
echocardiogram is an ultrasound of the heart that can see if there is a hole between the 2 upper chambers of the heart (atrial septal defect). a cardiac catherization can also determine if asd exist but is invasive.
what are the tests for atrial septal defect?
echocardiogram transesophageal or surface cardiac catheretization with oxymetry cardiac mri vectocardiogram.
what are the symptoms of heart disease in down syndrome?
down syndrome can have multiple congenital heart disease which includes atrial septal defect hypoplastic left ventricle tetrology of fallot transposition of great vessels and ventricular septal defect. some defects can have very few or no sign and symtoms while other may have bluish tinted nails or lips or fast or trouble or others may tire easily when feedind or to be very sleepy.
what is "cardio thoracic surgery for patch closure of asd? "
between the two chamber of the heart. atrial septal defect or asd is a congenital anomaly of the heart and most asd's are not serious and can be easily fixed. in adults repair of an ostium secundum or the sinus venosus defect is very safe and effective. surgery carries a very small risk and in most centers the operative mortality is less than 1% for repair of an ostium secundum asd.
what are the symptoms associated with an atrial septal defect?
even patients with large asds often have no symptoms until later in life. some young children with large asds get respiratory infections more commonly. as patients age they can have symptoms of right heart failure (decreased energy large liver swollen ankles) rhythm abnormalities or cyanosis (turning blue from not enough blood getting to the lungs). we try to treat asds before symptoms develop.
what are the symptoms associated with an atrial septal defect?
asd sx are dyspnea fatigue exercise intolerance and cardiac arrythmias due to left to right shunt and pulmonary hpn. heart murmur is heard at the upper left sternal border.
why is atrioventricular septal defect common? with down's syndrome?
the association of atrial septal defect with down syndrome is part of the constellation of body abnormalities that characterize it.
what is a secundum atrial septal defect?
an atrial septal defect is a common congenital geart defect. it is a hole in the atrial septum - the wall between the left and right atrium. this lets blood flow from the left into right atrium (usually). if not caught at an early age it results in excessive blood to right side of heart and lungs. fixed with surgery (sutyred closed) or with a umbrella like device via cath.
what is a secundum atrial septal defect?
a communication between the right and left atrium is called a atrial septal defect. its a congential defect. the secundum type is in the middle of the septum and easily fixed with surgery or catheters.
what is a secundum atrial septal defect?
a secundum atrial septal defect is the most common of the 4 types of atrial septal defects. this occurs when a hole develops in the tissue separating the l and r collecting chambers of the heart. some small and moderate sized secundum asds will close in time in children but larger ones and ones that persist to adulthood often require surgical or catheter-based closure.
what is a secundum atrial septal defect?
a secundum atrial septal defect (asd) is a hole between the upper two chambers of the heart. small hole are followed monitored to determine if the heart is becoming dilated due to the extra work. most secundum asds can be closed in the pediatric or adult cath lab using a amplatzer or gore septal occluder. open heart surgery is required in a small percentage of patients.
what is a secundum atrial septal defect?
there are many interventional devices on the market to close defects between the the filling chambers of the heart. surgery is rarely needed.
whats it mean when a pediatric cardiologist says diagnosis is adf?
i'm not sure that "adf" is what was meant to be said? an asd is a hole between the upper two chambers (asd = atrial septal defect) please ask your pediatric cardiologist to explain the issue in a more simple way. .
what is the chance of survival for a 54 year old woman that has had surgical repair for atrial septal defect?
asd repair is common and unless there are extenuating circumstances like poor overall health then she should do fine. i would hope the surgeon covered this in a preoperative visit and answered all your questions and concerns.
what is a common type of congenital heart defect?
the most common congenital heart defect is bicuspid aortic valve. the other most common defects are atrial septal defects ventricular septal defects and patent ductus arteriosus.
what needs to be done after you suffer from a tia?
tia or ministroke usually recovers without any residual effects. you may need a blood thinner such as aspirin or aggrenox. also you need to identify if you have any underlying conditions such as a. fib carotid artery stenosis ventricular oratrial septal defects high bp high cholesterol--- you need to control all these to prevent a stroke from happening in the future.
what exactly is atrial septal defect?
an atrial septal defect (asd) is a communication (hole) in the atrial septum (wall between top two chambers of the heart). it usually results in extra blood flowing through hole from left to right side resulting in eventual enlargement of the right side of the heart. this can take years to decades depending on size of defect. asd closed with surgery or interventional cardiology (device closure).
what exactly is asd behavior?
autism spectrum disorder atrial septal defect ? please be more specific & use less initials when u ask questions.
what does it mean if my child has atrial septal defect?
you have 2 upper chambers in the heart & 2 lower. an atrial septal defect is a hole in the wall between the upper chambers. it is under less pressure than the lower chambers so it often causes no obvious problems early on. most are closed using various methods before school age.
what does it mean if my child has atrial septal defect?
4 types. ostium primum ostium secundum sinus venosus asd patent foramen ovale. ostium primum and sinus venosus require open heart repair. secundum depending on size may be amenable to clamshell device vs open heart surgery repair. pfo most amenable to endovascular repair. diagnosed by echocardiogram cardiac cath. shunt fraction arrythmias reversibility of pulmonary hypertension all important.
what're other heart defects that could be present along with an atrial septal defect?
but anything is possible. an echocardiogram will tell.
what're other heart defects that could be present along with an atrial septal defect?
most congenital heart defects are a combination of several defects. a lot of them require some degree of shunting to allow the patient to survive like an asd.
what is meaning of a congenital heart defect in baby especially the atrial septal defect?
the heart develops originally from a long tube that folds on itself in the embryo & forms the main chambers & features. the walls between the chambers are outgrowths that come together. if the walls did not completely form a gap will exist. in the upper chamber if a gap is left the atrial septal defect is "unfinished formation".
what are the symptoms of an atrial septal defect?
an atrial septal defect (asd) often causes no symptoms. the somewhat subtle changes can be identified during a careful childhood exam. but an echocardiogram is often needed to confirm the diagnosis. a small asd may only show up later in life. 30's or 40's.
what are the common congenital heart diseases?
bicuspid aortic valve is thought to be present in 2% of the population. other forms of chd are present in 0. 8% of live births most common are ventricular septal defects then pulmonary stenosis patent ductus arteriosus and atrial septal defects. hope this answers your question.
would a small atrial septal defect cause a murmur? or does it usually have to be a certain size to cause murmur?
murmurs occur when blood flows turbulently from one area to another area. if the pressure between the two atria is different blood can flow through even a small defect from one side to the other. in fact small defects often cause louder murmurs because the blood going through a smaller hole is noisier than through a big hole.
would a small atrial septal defect cause a murmur? or does it usually have to be a certain size to cause murmur?
a murmur is literally the transmission of vibrations through the body to the skin surface. i mention this because an individual's body type plays a role in murmur quality. small asds may cause murmurs in thin children whose hearts are close to the chest wall. on the contrary a large asd may not create a murmur in a large person with significant tissue between the heart and chest wall.
would a small atrial septal defect cause a murmur? or does it usually have to be a certain size to cause murmur?
asd has to have significant flow to cause murmur. murmur in asd is due to increased flow across pulmonary valve and not due to flow across asd. excessive flow through lungs causes damage to pulmonary vascular tree. this will decrease the flow through asd. a murmur can then disappear due to absence or reversal of flow. an asd must be treated before it is too late!
what is different between pfo and ostium secundum atrial septal defect?
a pfo is the persistence of a normal fetal communication between the top two chambers of the heart. a secundum asd is an abnormal hole in the atrial septum. they vary in size though so treatments vary.
what is different between pfo and ostium secundum atrial septal defect?
asd is a defect ( hole) in the atrial septum and usually requires closure. pfo ( patent foramen ovale ) is a potential opening between two flaps of atrial septum which usually does not produce shunt. if atrium enlarges pfo can open up. recently pfo has been implicated in stroke and migraine.
what is different between pfo and ostium secundum atrial septal defect?
location is essentially same. patent foramen ovale- pfo is small and a flap may intermittently cover asd secundum is at foramen ovale and always open and variable in size. asd primum is higher may be larger and include superior pulmonary vein anomaly.
what is the best treatment for patent ductus arteriosus and an asd hole?
both patent ductus arteriosus (pda) and atrial septal defect (asd) can be closed at heart catheterization with closure devices. another option is surgical closure. the best treatment depends on the size of the defects the size of the patient and in asd the location in the atrial septum. both surgery and cath closure have good early success and good long-term outcomes.
what is the likelihood of hole in heart birth defect occur?
it depends on the size the type and what methods are used to look for it. broadly atrial septal defect occurs in 1 in 1500 live births. patent foramen ovale is extremely common and present in 10-20% of all adults but not significant.
what are the 5 congenital heart diseases?
there are dozens of different unique congenital heart diseases (defects). the most common congenital heart defects are ventricular septal defect atrial septal defect and bicuspid aortic valve. bicuspid aortic valve is often undiagnosed until adulthood.
what to do if i have atrial septal defect repaired?
if you had a problem and got it fixed what is your concern? most would expect you to followup with your physician periodically but beyond that the intent of your question is elusive. if you can define it better reword it and submit a new question to the site.
what to do if i'm a twenty year old female. caucasian. born with a hole in my heart(think it healed itself?
two of the commonest congenital heart problems are atrial septal defect and ventricular septal defect. they both are 'holes in the heart. ' often they close as the patient ages from birth. if you aren't sure see your doctor likely an echocardiogram will show whether you still have a problem.
what causes a heart to get structurally damaged?
could be a valve problem(e. g. mitral stenosis aortic stenosis mitral prolapse)or a heart chamber problem(e. g. atrial septal defect). you have listed "chest pain"& "normal ekg". i hope this answers your question. you are only 23. if it is you or a loved one i am sure help is being sought.
what are common congenital heart diseases?
some of the more frequent congenital heart defects include atrial septal defect ventricular septal defect patent ductus arteriosus and valvular stenosis or atresia. the most common complex heart defect is tetralogy of fallot which is a combination of four defects.
what heart defects produce mixing of oxygenated and unoxygenated blood?
atrial septal defects. partial anomalous venous return
what are the symptoms of having a hole in the heart?
depends on how big the "hole" (atrial septal defect or ventricular septal defect) is -- it may never cause any problems at all. depending on exactly what is happening people may notice swelling on the legs shortness of breath or that the extremities turn blueish.
what is the purpose of the sinus venosus?
this is a transient anatomic structure that occurs during cardiac development. a form of atrial septal defect (10% of asd) can involve imperfect maturation of the heart with pathologic communication between the right atrium (collector of deoxygenated blood from the body vena cavae and pulmonary veins usually resulting in l to r shunt (oxygenated blood diverts to r side of heart).
why does asd (atrial septal defect) cause fatigue?
asd can cause fatigue. you need an ekg/echo and card consult. you need full exam& labs. cbc/cmp/b12/folate /tfts/vitd/crp//sed rate//iron studies/lyme titers. start a. gluten free diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com. and high potency vitamins. rejuvenation-science. com then review results if no firm diagnosis is made a sleep study may be necessary many subtle sleep disorders cause fatigue
