i am due to have an ablation on tuesday. i have 2 previous c sections and i am overweight. what are my risks and how high are they?
depends on type of ablation- since this pops up under cardiovascular the major types of ablation include for svt atrial flutter or atrial fibrillaton. your electrophysiologist should have given you a risk analysis of your particular prodedure. most ablations are done under conscious sedation and thus your conditions mentioned may not markedly alter the risk of procedure. i wish you well.
can i have a gastric sleeve surgry with disrythmia?
generally speaking yes. whether it is atrial fibrillation atrial flutter etc. even if you are on coumadin (warfarin) you can usually undergo a weight loss operation. you would need to have a full cardiac workup and clearance from your cardiologist but after that there shouldn't be any barriers to having surgery.
could a caffeine induced day long heart arrhythmia be the cause of a stroke added to having very high colesteron and being overwight?
sometimes it is hard to know what the cause of a stroke was. but a day long arrhythmmia at least if it was atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter could be a cause of stroke. high cholesterol could increase the risk of stroke. being overweight may affect the risk of stroke at least indirectly. for people with elevated cholesterol there may be atherosclerosis this is a common cause of stroke
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
atrial fib has increased risk secondary to irreg. firing of atria and valves causing damage to blood cells. in flutter there is a more regular rate and atrial contractile function offers some protection but there is still a slightly increased risk. in chronic flutter coagulation is necessary given the risk of stroke is the same as atrial fib. pts with chronic flutter often have a fib as well.
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
atrial fibrillation is completely uncoordinated electrical activity in the atria. this leads to virtually no atrial contraction. blood stagnates and you get clots. flutter is an electrical circuit so there is some contraction. several studies have shown less embolic events with flutter but it is still possible. hope this helps!
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
blood pools in the left atrial appendage (auricle) because the atrium does not contract. with flutter the atrium contracts (and empties) static blood tends to clot.
what could be the cause of a fast heart rate in a term fetus?
if the fetal heart rate remains above 160 beats per minute for over 10 minutes then fetal tachycardia is diagnosed. this can be due to maternal fever or fetal hyperthyroidism cardiac defect circulatory compromise excessive fetal activity (benign transient) cardiac failure or fetal tachyarrhythmia (atrial flutter fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia).
what sort of problem is an atrial flutter?
atrial fluter less common than atrial fibrillation and is often a indcator of future atrial fibrillation onset. you may not notice them or you may feel a flutering in your chest. atrial flutter can be caused by scarring in the heart resulting from prior cardiac disease or heart surgery but it can also occur in some patients with no other identifiable heart problems.
what sort of problem is an atrial flutter?
a fl is a pathologic rhythm in which the atria beat at approx 300 times a minute and transmit these impulses to the ventricles in a ratio which is variable but often tends to be 2:1 resulting in a heart rhythm of about 150 bpm. treatment is individualized but usually includes anticoagulation and restoration of normal conduction.
what is cardiac arrhythmia? is cardiac arrhythmia partly caused by water intoxication?
the normal heartbeat is from the sinus located in the top of the heart and is called normal sinus rhythm. an arrhythmia is anything other than sinus rhythm - supraventricular tachycardia (svt) atrial fibrillation atrial flutter ventricular tachycardia are all cardiac arrhythmias. they can cause fainting and worse up to and including death. water intoxication does not cause them. alcohol can.
what causes atrial flutter? what is the cause of my atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter? will my condition go away on its own?
you have ventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? you have a little too much going on - you need to either buy a cardiology textbook or be under the regular care of a cardiologist!
what causes atrial flutter? what is the cause of my atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter? will my condition go away on its own?
the most common cause of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter is a history of high blood pressure (hypertension) and the conditions are both more common as people age. they can also be associated with other forms of structural heart disease and numerous other less common causes. without knowing more about you i cannot say why you specifically have it. atrial fibrillation and flutter are usually chronic conditions and do not spontaneously resolve. treatment option include simply controlling the heart rate since these rhythms tend to go fast (rate control strategy) or using medicines to try and maintain a normal sinus rhythm and keep the person out of atrial fibrillation or flutter (rhythm control strategy). there are also surgical and minimally invasive procedures that can be offered to try and cure the rhythm. it is also important to realize the both conditions can increase the risk of stroke and so many people take additional medicine to minimize this risk.
what causes heart palpitations and what do you do about it? i have had a problem for many years with heart palpitations. i know that caffeine is a real culprit and i try to stay away from it as much as i can. what else can i do?
if it's just a single out of place beat here or there it's just an irritable extra beat from either the top or bottom chambers. if it's a sustained thing with a fast run it's usu one of 3 different rhythms we collectively call svts. if it's all the time it could be inappropriate sinus tach atrial flutter or atrial fib. a cardiac electrophysiologist can help you get to the bottom of this.
is it possible for atrial flutter to cause cardiac arrest?
cardiac arrest is a term when the heart can't pump any blood. atrial flutter rarely causes this problem unless there is very fast conduction into the lower part of the heart or if the atrial flutter degenerated into another rhythm condition (this may occur in patients with significant structural heart disease).
is it possible for atrial flutter to cause cardiac arrest?
atrial flutter is when the atrium beat 2 3 or 4 times for every time the heart beats. you run a small increased risk of stroke because blood will pool in the atrium and shoot to the brain later on. i have no heart of a case where aflutter caused a cardiac arrest.
is it bad to drink alcohol if i have an atrial flutter of the heart?
it will increase the underling chances or recurring/increasing flutter.
i had catheter ablation for svt and atrial flutter yesterday. should i feel a different heartbeat if i'm cured?
if you were constantly in an abnormal rhythm and the ablation was successful you should feel different. however if the rhythm was intermittent it may be more difficult to discern a difference.
i had catheter ablation for svt and atrial flutter yesterday. should i feel a different heartbeat if i'm cured?
some individuals do not have symptoms or feel their rhythm disturbance. others that do have palpitations or other symptoms often feel immediately better.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
ablation can treat atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter but can also treat other conduction abnormalities such as wolf-parkinson-white (wpw) syndrome which involves an abnormal electrical connection between the atria and the ventricles of the heart.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
ablation is a procedure used to treat many different types of dysrhythmias; atrial fibrillation is only the latest in a long line of dysrhythmias treated successfully by ablation. ablative therapy has been used to treat supraventicular tachycardias such as av nodal reentrant tachycardia atrial flutter wolff-parkinson-white and others. it is also used to treat types of ventricular tachycardias.
i have an irregular heart beat i had a severe copd attack 2 weeks ago which i eneded up in the hospital. yesterday i went to the doctor for a follow up and the doctor noticed that i had a irregular heart beat (as high as 141 bpms) so she ordered a ekg
it is hard to know what kind of 'irregular heart beat' you have. if the rate was truly at 141 bpm (and that was more than a few beats) chances are it is a pathological cardiac arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation atrial flutter or multifocal atrial tachycardia. it is possible but unlikely that it is just sinus (normal) tachycardia but to drinking tea unless you were taking very large amounts or you copd is severe.
i have both premature ventricular contraction and mitral valve prolapse so am i at an increased risk for something bad?
at risk for cardiac arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats) such as atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter with rapid ventricular rate which could lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation which can be fatal.
if i have a history of atrial fibrillation and tachycardia is it bad that my heart rate has been 144 all day?
sounds like atrial flutter especially if your heart rate is almost invariate at that rate. further testing would be required but if the diagnosis is flutter an electrophysiologist could help you bid that problem goodbye for life. at the very least you could get to the bottom of the diagnosis.
im taking sotalol at the moment for atrial flutter but it's constantly making me dizzy and on the verge of fainting. should i consult my cardiologist?
absolutely. sotalol is a drug for atrial fib. it could cause other type of sometimes serious rhythm disturbance. if you are dizzy it is possible that your heart beat is slow. you need to see your cardiologist. if you have blood pressure calf check your bp & your pulse when you feel dizzy.
im taking sotalol at the moment for atrial flutter but it's constantly making me dizzy and on the verge of fainting. should i consult my cardiologist?
you may be having more effects from the agent causing the symptoms.
if i have atrial flutter but beta blockers control it well do i still need blood thinner?
usually the need for blood thinners depends on several factors. see below link to calculate the cha2ds2-vasc score. this helps to identify risk of stroke and tia's. <link> in a young person with just hypertension you may not need anticoagulation. need to see a physician regarding this.
if i have atrial flutter but beta blockers control it well do i still need blood thinner?
the need for blood thinners (to prevent a stroke) depends upon many factors including age medical history if there is structural heart disease (e. g. of the valves) etc. the absence of symptoms does not necessarily mean that the arrhythmia is gone you may still be having episodes of trial flutter that do not race fast enough (on your beta blocker) to cause symptoms.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
atrial flutter does not require antibiotics before dental procedures.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
no however you need to see a specialist to see if your condition can be treated with cardioversion or drug therapy. you also run the risk of blood clots due to the pooling of blood in the atria. see a specialist to determine the best treatment for you and get treated.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
for atrial flutter your dentist may want to use an anesthetic with no or less epinephrine have your dentist consult with your md.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
according to the ama antibiotics before dental procedures are needed if you have anything foreign in your heart have had endocarditis before or have a congenital condition of the heart. as always though dentists usually defer to whatever your heart doctor or family physician wants you to do.
i'm on klonopin (clonazepam) for anxiety&pseudoseizures. i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. is it okay to continue the klonopin (clonazepam) with my new med metoprolol?
it is ok to take the metoprolol while continuing the klonopin (clonazepam). there are no interactions known but if you have any problems with either medication you should follow up with your doctor.
i'm on klonopin (clonazepam) for anxiety&pseudoseizures. i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. is it okay to continue the klonopin (clonazepam) with my new med metoprolol?
most likely there will be no problem but always be aware of how you feel when adding a new medicine! beta blockers ( metoprolol) can make you fell blah / slowed down and clonazepam ( klonopin) can also make you tired but no likely bad interactions.
i have lam disease -a rare lung disease. just diagnosed w/atrial flutter &prescribed metoprolol tartrate. any lung side effects from new med 2 watch 4?
in sensitive patients with reactive airway disease beta blockers may trigger airways spasm leading to asthma-like symptoms such as shortness of breath and wheezing.
what is atrial flutter?
the two top chambers of the 4chamber heart are called atria. the normal heartbeat is set off in sinus node a concentrated bundle of heart cells that sets off the lub (contraction of atria) of the lub dub. every single heart cell has the capacity to depolarize & set the chambers into contraction. atrial fibrillation or flutter causes chaotic atrial contrctns. ekg in flutter looks like a saw tooth.
what is atrial flutter?
this is a rapid regular atrial rhythm from 250-350 beats per minute roughly it rarely conducts to the ventricles at 1:1. it is related to atrial fibrillation and is treated in a somewhat similar manner.
what's the difference between atrial flutter and svt- and can they happen at the same time?
both originate with the "pace-maker" in the right atrium. in svt it leads to a sinus rhythm over 100-140 beats per min (bpm). atrial flutter is a specific type of svt that causes (by definition) an atrial rate of around 300 bpm. depending on the electrical conduction of that heart it will lead to a ventricular rate of some multiple of 300 (150 100 75 etc).
what's the difference between atrial flutter and svt- and can they happen at the same time?
svt stands for supraventricular tachycardia or a fast heartbeat coming from the top part of the heart. there are many fast rhythms coming from the top of the heart: atrial tachycardia atrial fibrillation junctional tachycardia and psvt (paroxyxmal svt). atrial flutter is one of these rhythms and is characterized by a regular rapid rate of the atrium typically between 290 and 310 bpm.
when does someone use a defibrillator?
threatening arrhythmia or to cardiovert rhythms like afib svt or atrial flutter.
what does it mean when i have an irregular ekg reading during a sleep study?
it could be atrial fibrillation atrial flutter and pvcs. treatment depends on what the monitored showed. lot of times if your sleep apnea gets treated and if it improves your arrhytmia will get better also.
why would a patient be on blood thinner for high heart rate?
the fast heart rate is probably a consequence of irregular heart beats coming from the top chambers (atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter). these conditions can lead to formation of blood clots inside the heart that can lead to strokes. as such blood thinners are used to prevent it.
what do you recommend for atrial flutter?
this is the standard of treatment and it is a quick and easy noninvasive outpatient procedure.
what do you recommend for atrial flutter?
atrial flutter unlike atrial fibrillation most often results in the atria beating at about 300 bpm with the ventricles beating at about 150. this rapid rate is annoying difficult to slow with medication and is best treated by converting the rhythm to normal (or to atrial fibrillation). this requires blood thinning and then special meds plus electrical cardioversion if the meds alone fail.
i had an ekg done today and the doctor found it irregular. is it possible there is nothing wrong and if there is what could it be?
some irregular hb are a variation of normal (sings arrhythmia) many others are very common and quite harmless (pac pvc ) others may require further evaluation or treatment (atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation). check with your doc to get more specifics about your particular irregular rhythm.
what are the tests for atrial flutter?
if the atrial flutter is ongoing then a standard electrocardiogram will show it. if it only occurs on occasion then home monitoring devices known as "event recorders" can be used so that the patient can record an electrocardiogram when he\she feels the symptoms.
what is the ecg finding for an atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter?
in atrial fibrillation there are no p waves seen or the p waves are highly irregular and not directly correlated with the qrs complexes. in atrial flutter constant regularized activity is seen generally without a fixed baseline.
what is the ecg finding for an atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter?
there are small waves from the atrial activity on 12-lead ecg. normally these are single well defined p waves during sinus rhythm. for flutter they are rapid and regular often with a "sawtooth" pattern. for fib the atrial activity is very random irregular and sometimes hard to see. atypical flutter can be hard to distinguish from "coarse" af by ecg.
what does a fast heart rate indicate in a fetus?
if the fetal heart rate remains above 160 beats per minute for over 10 minutes then fetal tachycardia is diagnosed (unless the pregnancy is in the first trimester). this can be due to maternal fever or fetal hyperthyroidism cardiac defect circulatory compromise excessive fetal activity (benign transient) or fetal tachyarrhythmia (atrial flutter fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia).
what does an atrial flutter feel like?
palpitations shortness of breath chest pain syncope fatigue and sometimes none: some people are asymptomatic.
what does it mean if i have absent p waves on ekg?
on an ekg if you have absent p waves most often it means you have atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and flutter?
atrial flutter is a very organized rhythm in which electricity gets stuck in a loop going round and round much like cars on a nascar racetrack. atrial fibrillation is a more complex rhythm in which the majority of the atrium is in chaos driven by a focus known as a rotor. atrial fibrillation is much harder to cure than atrial flutter however rate control is usually better for fibrillation.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and flutter?
atrial fib is a chaotic irregular contraction of the top chambers of the heart (atria). atrial flutter is a rapid but regular beating of the atria. both can lead to the same symptoms both can cause irregular pulse both have a risk of stroke. usually flutter is easier to treat with a catheter ablation than af is. an ekg can often tell the difference.
what conditions require the use of an automatic electric defibrillator (aed)?
well only ventricular fibrillation ventricular tachycardia and ventricular flutter require the use of a defibrillator though we also use them to treat atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter in symptomatic patients.
what would cause his heart rate to jump from around 80 to 150?
a tachyarrythmia. . rate of 150bpm makes me suspect atrial flutter if not associated with vigorous exercise. see a cardiologist for further evaluation.
i had catheter ablation for atrial flutter at bw. how long before i resume normal exercise. i was a rower & am used to strenuous workouts. i am 62.
i would give yourself time to heal. atrial flutter ablations are not simple and benign procedures. i would make sure you stay in a good rhythm and give yourself a couple of weeks.
i had catheter ablation for atrial flutter at bw. how long before i resume normal exercise. i was a rower & am used to strenuous workouts. i am 62.
right away if you're up for it -- and make sure your cardiologist agreed with your exercise program
when i'm laying down it feels like my heart flutters? no pain just fluttering. this doesn't happen all the time but when it does strange feelin
you may have atrial flutter or fibrillation. please consult your doctor to discuss the need for a holter monitor to study your heart rhythm over a day or so.
is it possible to have atrial fibrillation and not detect it by a bp monitor or taking the pulse? my husband feels weak and lethargic.
blood pressure machines can detect an irregular pulse but cannot diagnose atrial fibrillation and they are far from perfect. same goes for taking your pulse. at times atrial fibrillation and especially atrial flutter can be fairly regular and not even show up as an irregular rhythm by these methods. he needs an ekg or a heart monitor that shows the rhythm
is there a difference between pac's/pvc's and atrial flutter/fib on holter monitors? when i got tested had a few skipped beats more frequent now?
pac's originate in the atrium as the pvc's originate from the ventricle. both can be normal but the pvc can become more problematic with the type and frequency. atrial fib is where the atrium fires irregularly and needs to be treated. almost always with a medication to stop blood clots and for regulation. atrial flutter is a more regular rate and less common than fib. your ekg will be diagnostic.
is there a difference between pac's/pvc's and atrial flutter/fib on holter monitors? when i got tested had a few skipped beats more frequent now?
it is essential to distinguish between atrial flutter/fib and pacs/pvcs because one carries a risk of stroke and the other does not. pacs and pvcs are extra beats that sneak into an otherwise sinus rhythm. atrial flutter or fibrillation are a more fundamental disruption to sinus rhythm. a large number of pacs and/or pvcs can cause symptoms and need to be treated. essential to distinguish.
what is the definition or description of: atrial flutter?
atrial flutter is an abnormally fast heart beat usually originating from the right atrium of the heart. it can cause the rest of the heart to beat very fast (called tachycardia). it may cause symptoms of palpitations chest pain or shortness of breath to name a few. this serious issue should be evaluated by your cardiologist and further treatment is dependent on the particular cause.
i have anxiety and ocd about my heart rate and blood pressure. can your heart beat go so fast you die? often when i see it higher this the worst fear.
if sufficient tachycardia continues over time it is possible to cause heart failure and eventually die. it would have to be significantly above sinus tachycardia >120 for hours or days. people with paroxysmal atrial tachycardia can have heart rates around 150-250bpm. atrial flutter around 300bpm. of course ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation leads to death quickly within minutes.
what happens if the doctor defibs someone not in cardiac arrest?
if ventricular tachycardia atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation they will be cardioverted possibly. if person was in normal rhythym they will have had a shock and muscles will be sore!
what is the difference between supraventricular tachycardia and supraventricular arrthymias?
most likely they are the same; theoretically supra ventricular arrhythmia can include atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. however when people talk about it they most commonly mean supra ventricular tachycardia.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic and nervousness?
this can be either due to heart or non-heart reasons. of heart causes would consider a tachyarrhythmia (e. g. svt atrial fibrillation atrial flutter) - would need an event monitor to check this. also consider some other causes (not a comprehensive list due to space limitations for answers but more commonly tested): hyperthyroidism anemia illness pheochromocytoma or panic/anxiety attack .
what are the symptoms of atrial flutter?
butterflies in chest or a palpitations can indicate atrial fib or flutter. make sure your blood pressure controlled.
what are the symptoms of atrial flutter?
sometimes it can be asymptotic or regular palpitations until the heart rate is controlled. people with heart disease or poor exercise tolerance may develop symptoms such as dyspnea chest pains dizziness nausea or anxiety. prolonged fast flutter can lead to tacchycardia induced congestive heart failure!
what is the treatment for atrial flutter?
treatment of a flutter depends on the type of flutter (typical or atypical) whether it's the 1st episode the age of the patient the presence or absence of underlying heart disease and patient's personal preferences (more medications vs. procedural approach (ablation). ablation is an excellent option for typical flutter. you should discuss this with your doctor or an electrophysiologist.
what is the treatment for atrial flutter?
atrial flutter is likely to turn into atrial fibrillation but the treatment is similar and depends on symptoms onset and duration other medical problems and what the cause is thought to be. there are 2 main strategies. rate control to slow down the rate. the other is rhythm control to get you into sinus. this can be done with medications or electricity. anticoagulation may be indicated.
what is the treatment for atrial flutter?
radio frequency ablation medication surgery. . see this: <link>
how successful is cardiac ablation?
depends on the arrhythmia. for atrial fibrillation about 80% for atrial flutter close to 95% for ventricular tachycardia 90+%.
how successful is cardiac ablation?
for avnrt and avrt (the latter also called wolf parkinson white) the success rate can be as high as 98%. the same can also be true for typical (right atrial) atrial flutter. atrial tachycardias in expert hands can be as successful as 85% even if of a complicated type. ventricular tachycardias are a much more diverse group and more info would be needed to give a good answer.
how many people in the united states are living with supraventricular tachycardia?
according to the new england journal of medicine nejm "the incidence of supraventricular tachycardia is about 35 cases per 100 000 per persons per year and the prevalence is about 2. 25 per 1 000 (excluding atrial fibrillation atrial flutter multifocal atrial tachycardia which were not covered in this (2006) review).
how common is it for somebody to get atrial flutter?
not an uncommon arrhythmia that is not life threatening but can be quite symptomatic.
had cardiac ablation 3 weeks ago today started having arrhythmia again should i be concerned?
generally speaking atrial fibrillation ablations can see patients developed a wide variety of abnormal heart rhythms for up to three months after the procedure. if however the procedure was for atrial flutter avnrt or avrt (wolf parkinson white) this may reflect the need for additional procedural work.
how do you define atrial flutter?
atrial arrhythmia rate 230-270 or so with a particular electrocardiographic pattern from abnormal focus of initiation in the atrium.
how do you define atrial flutter?
rapid atrial rhythm 250-350 beats per minute.
how to differentiate between atrial flutter and fibrillation?
atrial flutter has a regular rhythm at a steady pace whereas atrial fibrillation is erratic and irregular. flutter frequently degenerates into fibrillation. an ekg easily can tell them apart.
how to differentiate between atrial flutter and fibrillation?
ekg is the best way to know. there can be clues. untreated atrial fibrillation tend to cause a heart rate of 120s to 180s and is irregular whereas untreated atrial flutter is often hovering right around 150 and is usually regular. there are many exceptions but the above is a good rule of thumb.
what is a common pulse rate in a person with atrial flutter?
2 3 4 most commonly but variable.
what is a common pulse rate in a person with atrial flutter?
it may vary from normal (60-100) to abnormal (low or high). it can change suddenly as well.
what is a common pulse rate in a person with atrial flutter?
heart rate is variable with atrial flutter and it can be quite difficult to control. acceptable rate is less than 100-110. the most common heart rate without medication is about 150 beats per minute.
is cardioversion or ablation more effective for treating an atrial flutter?
cardioversion is used to treat individual episodes if they don't recurr frequency if chronic or recurrent atrial flutter is present then ablation attempts to prevent the rhythm from recurring long term hopefully permanently.
is cardioversion or ablation more effective for treating an atrial flutter?
cardioversion does not cure it but ablation does in most cases.
is cardioversion or ablation more effective for treating an atrial flutter?
they will both likely restore normal rhythm. a cardioversion is more of a reset than a cure for the problem. an ablation modifies the tissue in the heart so that it is very unlikely that the arrhythmia will recur. this is typically permanent.
is atrial flutter serious and can it be induced by flecainide?
atrial flutter is similar to atrial fibrillation. both are significant arrhythmias. when atrial fibrillation is treated with flecainide sometimes the rhythm is converted to atrial flutter instead of to sinus rhythm. sometimes after the atrial flutter appears and flecainide is continued sinus rhythm eventuates. both afib and aflutter are appropriately anticoagulated. discuss with your doctor.
what type of medicine is digoxin? what are the side effects?
digoxin is a purigfied cardiac glycoside. digoxin is used in the treatment of atrial fibrillation atrial flutter and sometimes heart failure that cannot be controlled by other medication. common adverse effects: loss of appetite nausea vomiting and diarrhea. other common effects are blurred vision visual disturbance confusion drowsiness dizziness insomnia nightmares agitation depressio.
how can you tell the difference between atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation?
generally speaking atrial flutter is conducted in a more regular fashion to the lower chamber of the heart though this is not always true. the best way to tell the difference between the two is to obtain an ekg.
how can you tell the difference between atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation?
they look different on an ekg. atrial flutter is regular and atrial fibrillation is irregularly irregular. often the treatment is similar as an outpatient. symptomatically they would probably feel about the same to a patient.
heart flutters what's with this symptom i'm getting?
it depends on what the "flutters" are caused by what type of cardiac arrhythmia. you need to wear a monitor sometimes for three weeks until they can be identified. they can be as simple and benign as premature atrial or ventricular beats to atrial flutter or fibrillation or supra-ventricular tachycardia. anything more serious would be making you pass out or worse.
how do you calculate the atrial rate in atrial flutter since it is fast?
by looking at the p-waves ( atrial electrical conduction) however in atrial flutter this almost always 300 bpm.
heart rate of 50 and asymptomatic does this warrant a call to the md?
if your heart rate has always been slow and you have no symptoms you don't need an md. but i should also advice to see a doctor make sure you don't have an irregular slow heart rate which is a symptomatic for the moment i. e. atrial flutter which needs treatments.
was having sever heart palpitation's yesterday at wok once home they subsisted n today they r completely gone cud this be my anxiety?
hi it's quite possible that this is related to anxiety. it's prudent though to rule out other possible causes of palpitations. please consult your pcp to get a work up for heart rhythm irregularities (atrial flutter/fib etc) endocrine( hyperthyroidism etc) or medication related side effects( though i don't see any obvious meds listed). cut down on caffeine intake if possible. hope this helps.
how do i explain atrial flutter to someone in layman terms?
it is a rapid usually regular rhythm of the top chambers of the heart caused by a electrical signal spinning around very quickly usually around 300 bpm. the bottom chambers usually only let no more that every other beat through so the pulse rate is usually 150bpm or 100 or 75.
how are atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter different?
heart rythm problem is more unpredictable in a fib. in flutter the are more predictable and regular rate. the treatment approach differs and risk of intracardiac blood clot also in that context.
how to treat atrial flutter?
this is a rapid regular atrial rhythm from 250-350 beats per minute roughly it rarely conducts to the ventricles at 1:1. it is related to atrial fibrillation and is treated in a somewhat similar manner.
how long does an episode of atrial flutter typically last?
no usual each case is individual.
what is atrial flutter with variable av block with premature ventricular or aberrantly conducted complexes? is same with av block heart degres 1?
no it's not the same. a flutter can conduct at variable rates down av node that's why it's called with variable conduction
what is atrial flutter with variable av block with premature ventricular or aberrantly conducted complexes? is same with av block heart degres 1?
atrial flutter is a cardiac irregularity whereby the upper chamber(atrium) is beatiing very fast and regular. because of the fast rate not all beats are conducted to the lower chamber(ventricle) on a one to one basis as it usually occurs normally. instead a block naturally occurs at the junction of the upper and lower chamber thus allowing only some beats to go through and this can be variable
is the dual chamber pacemaker contraindicated with persistent or chronic afib or atrial flutter? why? could u explain more to me?
a dual chamber paces the top and bottom chambers - if the top chambers (atria) are always out of rhythm then they really can't be paced - if it is intermittent afib or flutter then there may be value in the dual pacing - depends upon your exact situation.
my brother has atrial flutter. should i be worried about this?
relatively benign condition and easily treated. make sure he sees an electrophysiologist who will be able to get rid of that particular arrhythmia fairly easily.
my brother has atrial flutter. should i be worried about this?
arrhythmia where atrium beats about 250 beats per minute but does not cause sudden death.
my results showed off my 7 day monitor that my heart rate never went below 150bpm through the day at nigh t would drop to 80bpm when get up back 150?
i'm suspicious that you have atrial flutter (rate is typical) or paroxysmal atrial tachycardia (the heart rate is not typical). it's also possible that you have normal rhythm that's abnormally fast. your monitor strips should contain the info to distinguish among the above. has your thyroid been checked? do you use medication or recreational drugs? is your general health ok? many possibilities.
what kind of arrhythmia would cause your heart to flutter dizzy like no beats in between and scared. it felt like a lot if pvcs in a row.
there are several arrhythmias that can cause these symptoms including atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter pvcs that can occur as "runs" where there are several in a row. ventricular arrhythmias besides pvcs would likely cause more symptoms like passing out. the best way to figure out what is wrong is to have a holter monitor placed for at least a few days so see your doctor asap or go to er!
my pulse rate has been running 122 all the time why?
it is important to known exactly what your underlying heart rhythm is. you need an electrocardiogram (ecg). likely potential causes: sinus tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. also could be a supraventricular tachycardia or atrial flutter. sometimes fast heart rhythms can be due to high thyroid level or anemia.
what are the differences between tachycardia & tachyarrhythmia?
both mean rapid heart rate but tachycardia usually refers to the normal rhythm just beating faster than normal (sinus tachycardia). tachyarrhythmia usually refers to an abnormal and fast heart rhythm such as atrial fibrillation atrial flutter supra ventricular tachycardia (svt) or ventricular tachycardia (vt).
i'm in afib n atrial flutter. can i do some physical exercise? what is the best exercise for patient afib n atrial flutter like me? thank you
you must exercise; it is not harmful to your heart rhythm. but do it with moderate pace like a brisk walk for one to two miles daily(start slowly and build it up). avoid heavy duty weight lifting etc. good luck
i'm in afib n atrial flutter. can i do some physical exercise? what is the best exercise for patient afib n atrial flutter like me? thank you
you may exercise if it is not too vigorous. walking and lifting light weightlifting. no contact sports. kayaking is fine. jogging is fine. good luck! feel better!
i'm in afib n atrial flutter. can i do some physical exercise? what is the best exercise for patient afib n atrial flutter like me? thank you
exercising with atrial fibrillation: prescription for health american college of sports medicine <link> medscape. com/viewarticle/719110
why do i have a high pulse rate? is it dangerous?
depends on the reason for an increased heart rate. increased heart rate can be a normal response to heart rate >100 -> sinus tachycardia - other possibilities are arrythmias like atrial flutter/atrial fibrillation/ and supraventricular tachycardias an ekg will be very useful in this case. depending on ekg results and symptoms holter might also help. infection can also cause increased heart rate
how can you tell difference on ekg of a resting heart rate of 160 is svt or just sinus tach?
first: resting hr is never 160. if hr is 160 at rest it's svt. second: w carotid massage or valsalva: sinus slows svt breaks or blocks down. third: iv adenosine: same as #2. narrow complex tach of 160 maybe svt or atrial flutter.
my heart rate has been really fast for the past few days. i'm not doing any greuling activities either. what could this be?
you may be in an abnormal heart rhythm that requires treatment. supraventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter are often the culprit for an on-going rapid heart rate.
my brother was diagnosed with arrhythmia. how many types of arrhythmia s exist?
there are many arrhythmias or dysrrhythmias. paroxysmal svt atrial fibrillation atrial flutter v-tech v-fibrillation wolff-parkinson's-white syndrome sick-sinus-syndrome. some are serious and some not. please see <link> thanks.
my cardiologist thinks my atrial flutter is due to a severe anxiety disorder. if the anxiety gets controlled can the atrial flutter go away?
atrial flutter is due to an abnormal electrical pathway. it may be triggered by anxiety if the anxiety make you have extra early beats (palpitations) which may trigger the rhythm problem. otherwise atrial flutter may resolve on its own (but may return) may be controlled by medications or may need a procedure called an ablation to cure.
my cardiologist prescribed a med for atrial flutter but not blood thinners. he said my echo is perfectly normal. should i be on blood thinners anyway?
anticoagulation (blood thinner) is prescribed to prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation and flutter. need for such treatment depends on risk vs. benefit. patients with diabetes hypertension prior stoke or tia congestive heart failure vascular disease and older would be at higher risk. if your doctor did not recommend anticoagulation for you it is possibly due to your risk profile.
what can cause an atrial flutter?
in general atrial flutter is often seen in the setting of an enlarged atrium (which in turn is a result of an enlarged left ventricle) or it could be because of underlying congenital heart disease or it could just happen without any real well known understanding of exactly why.
how would atrial flutter or fib feel different to normal sinus tach or psvt? are there telltale symptoms or must need to be caught on ecg to tell?
variable symptoms can be none to an awareness of palpitations or a general sense of being unwell-a wide range exists;diagnosis can often be made on exam;certainty requires an ecg
i looked back at health records from three months ago and saw on an eeg i had "atrial flutter with 4:1 av conduction" i was never told! what is this?
an ecg or ekg ( eeg is a brainwave! ) the presence of flutter with 4 to 1 conduction is a benign arrythmia however i do think yoy ahould ask for more details about it and it should not be ignored! was it temporary? usually it is but this should be "followed up" hope this helps! dr z
i got a holter test done came back that my heart was adding beats and i feel my heart beating on my back when laying down and i can see my pulse on top of my wrist is this dangerous?
it all depends on what the holter says. did your symptoms (back heart beat and wrist pulse) correlate with an abnormal rhythm on the holter? (hopefully you kept a symptom. diary when wearing the holter) if the underlying rhythm i'd dangerous (vtach or other) then a cardiologist consult is needed. if the underlying rhythm is aberrant it could still be benign (atrial tach or atrial flutter). ttyd.
what is a typical vs. atypical atrial flutter?
read this: <link>
which is better for an atrial flutter: cardioversion or ablation?
what does better mean? initial atrial flutter ablation success rates run around 80-85%. this for the typical flutter variety. a form of atrial flutter called atypical atrial flutter has a much lower success rate. but ablation is invasive meaning there is inherent risk such as perforation of the heart pericardial effusion need for permanent pacemaker implantation etc. such risks are very rare
which is better for an atrial flutter: cardioversion or ablation?
ablation since it cures most of atrial flutter cardioversion is only temporary measure to stop it.
how many types of atrial flutter?
from a practical standpoint think of it as one. no need to go beyond that. if a specific case arises see a cardiac electrophysiologist (eps) for further definition
how long should it take a heart rate to normalize after activity? i have ans dysfunction/ist. hours after exercising a bit hr is around 120-140 bpm.
people with normal heart function after vigorous exercise have their heart rates return to normal or baseline within 10-20 minutes of rest. your heart rate of 120-140 hours after exercise is very abnormal and if over 120 suggests that its not simple sinus tachycardia but probable svt atrial flutter atrial fibrillation nodal tachycardia or even ventricular tachycardia. ? echo thyroid holter stress
may atrial flutter can be normal for forever with shock cardioversion treatment? or it just temporaly?
after cardioversion you may have regular rhythm for a long time unless the reason for your atrial flutter is still present. not one standard answer. it depends if your md found a reason for it and/or prescribed medicines to keep in sinus rhythm. ask your doctor (again)
please can you explain what atrial flutter with variable av block compatible with a bundle branch block. possible inferior infarction probably old is?
atrial flutter: your heart rhythm is abnormal (the atria are contracting very rapidly); variable block: there are a variable number of atrial contractions for every ventricular contraction. a bundle branch block: the ecg complex representing each ventricular contraction is widened due to a block of one branch of your heart's conduction system. q waves on the ecg suggest an infarct (? age).
please can you explain what atrial flutter with variable av block compatible with a bundle branch block. possible inferior infarction probably old is?
abnormal ekg suggesting atrial arrhythmia conduction delay and possible old heart attack. talk to a cardiologist please!
please can you explain what atrial flutter with variable av block compatible with a bundle branch block. possible inferior infarction probably old is?
atrial flutter abnormal rhythm of the heart beat. electrical impulses from the atria go thru the av node to ventricles. when there is blockage of those transmissions it can vary in degree and regularity. it can be difficult to differentiate from a bundle branch block. an inferior infarction is damage to the bottom of the heart by blockage of flow thru a coronary artery and occurred long ago.
since this morning intermittent flutter/twitch just below ribs left side. heart rate normal and strong. no pain but sometimes feel out of breath.
you should feel your pulse. if it's regular then it's not atrial fibrillation. however it could be atrial flutter. furthermore it could be premature ventricular contractions. i would suggest an ekg tsh and basic labs to start.
is it possible to have atrial flutter when on ppm? (dual chamber ppm for complete heart block range 60-150 bpm). what will happened in that scenario?
control atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. pacemakers do one thing only and that is make slow hearts go faster. some pacemakers have special tachycardia recognition and pacing treatments which may help control atrial arrhythmias but it is entirely possible to have atrial flutter with a pacemaker. if programmed well this should not be an issue. if not you might experience fast heart beats.
is this an accurate description of nonsustained ventricular tachy an extremely fast flurry beats lasting <3-10secs without symptoms few times a year?
the definition is three or more ventricular beats faster than 120 bpm. unfortunately what you describe could be atrial fibrillation atrial tachycardia atrial flutter or any of a number of other arrhythmias. nonsustained=not lasting ventricular=coming from the ventricle tachycardia=fast heart beat.
non st t waves changes issue with atrial flutter newly mitral regurgitation. are they all tied together somehow. history ofchest pain cabg stent. should more testing be done?
yes:: a flutter is an unstable rythm it may break or convert to afib. the t waves are flipped with flutter. given the brief hx you gave you probably had an mi from underlying cad if you had a cabg at such a young age it was either 3vdz or lm. the dilated cardiomyopathy that develops after an mi has likely created the mr. you should get copies records and get a second card consult thalium/tee
non st t waves changes issue with atrial flutter newly mitral regurgitation. are they all tied together somehow. history ofchest pain cabg stent. should more testing be done?
cad and infarct may cause dilation of left ventricle leading to mitral regurgitation. myocardial infarct might also precipitate arrhythmia including atrial fibrillation. advise regular follow up with your cardiologist to optimize your treatment
non st t waves changes issue with atrial flutter newly mitral regurgitation. are they all tied together somehow. history ofchest pain cabg stent. should more testing be done?
these changes may be associated with symptoms so i would suggest you let your cardiologist make the diagnosis as to whether these changes are of any consequence
atrial flutter what effective treatment do you advice also with left brendle branch block thank you?
many meds can be effective -- talk with your cardiologist -- you also may need to be on anticoagulation.
what is the definition or description of: flutter?
atrial flutter is an abnormal heart rhythm in the top of the heart in which the top of the heart beats very fast but very regularly (as opposed to atrial fibrillation which is always irregular) and can lead to a rapid heart rate and increased risk for stroke.
what is the most common cause of heart flutter?
tachycardia (rapid heartbeat) causes one to feel palpitations in the chest. it can be caused by exertion fever or a cardiac arrhythmia such as atrial tachycardia atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation.
why would a patient need a cardioversion?
cardioversion is an electronic technique used to convert an abnormal rhythm back to a normal one. the procedure is performed in a hospital under light anesthesia. various rhythm disturbances such as atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter among others are treated with cardioversion. the results are usually successful and apparent immediately.
why do hearts flutter?
when someone's heart rate is fast (more than 100 beats per minute) it can feel like heart fluttering. it can have different causes from very benign no needing treatment to life threatening. the term 'atrial flutter' describes an abnormally fast rhythm where the electricity in the upper chamber of the heart goes round and round a large circle.
why do hearts flutter?
usually for various reasons the rhythm of the heart changes and the patient feels a flutter. typical reasons are supraventricular or arrhythmias from above the ventricle. these include atrial flutter and fibrillation.
what are some of the symptoms of a heart flutter?
if you mean atrial flutter that is a specific rhythm where the heart skips or beats fast causing a fluttering or skipping sensation in the chest which we call palpitations. this can eventually lead to shortness of breath dizziness even chest pain if the heart is beating fast enough.
what is synchronized cardioversion?
this is important because if the heart is depolarized externally during the wrong portion of the cardiac cycle it can actually induce worse heart rhythms than it was intended to treat. synchronized cardioversion is typically used to treat atrial fibrillation atrial flutter stable ventricular tachycardia.
when should a heart flutter be a cause for concern?
atrial flutter predispose a patient to hev a strok therefore it is always a cause of concern.
when is synchronized cardioversion used?
atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter.
why does my heart flutter after i had a triple bypass?
bypass ptshave a irritable heart after surgery this can cause irreg heart rythm called atrial flutter or atrial fib. this is usually transient but can be permanant.
what is the surgical procedure to fix a heart flutter?
ablation is a technique performed in in electrophysiology laboratory where the electrical behavior of the heart is mechanically altered. although this is an invasive procedure it is not technically surgery. early in the history of ablation surgical ablation was performed. now that the percutaneous techniques have been refined surgery is rarely performed for atrial flutter.
what irregular heart rhythms can be treated with an external defibrillation?
any rapid abnormal heart rhythm can be treated with external defibrillation. atrial fibrillation atrial flutter svt ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation can all be treated this way but some are emergent and some are elective.
what are the names of conditions where your heart just randomly stops for a period of time?
arrhythmia heart block conduction defect etc. . these are some of the names that can be used when the heart does not beat normally or scape some beats when the heart completely stop this is called "asystole" some arrhythmia has specific names such as " artrial fibrillation atrial flutter multifocal atrial tachycardia ventricular fibrillation etc. ".
what's it mean to have a fluttering heart?
atrial flutter is a special type of rhythm disorder in which there is an extra pathway in the upper chamber of the heart that cycles and stimulates the lower chambers of the heart. the rate can be quite rapid or can be more controlled depending on how the lower chambers respond to the extra signals. this condition is treated with medications cardioversion and/or ablation of the pathway.
what causes your heart to increase to slightly over 100 and you can feel it race/pound when sitting and not changing position? then it comes back down
tell your doc what you just mentioned and ask for either a holter or event/loop monitor. the former works best if you have symptoms daily while the latter works best if you have symptoms every few weeks to a month. atrial flutter & frequent pvcs can also do this. but it's still best to see your doctor for analysis.
what is the difference between a heart cath and ablation?
a heart cath is the term for a heart catheterization or coronary angiography. this is to evaluate the coronary arteries for blockages. an ablation is a procedure to stop abnormal electrical heart rhythm pathways such as in svt wpw atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation.
weeks of hr increase of 25+ lying to standing. from the 50's and reach 120 just walking across room. looked at pots but bp goes up not down. hydrated.
you may have an irregular heart rhythm. . possible atrial fibrillation (usually an inconsistent heart beat) or atrial flutter (can be consistent heart beats). see your doc and get an ecg.
which imaging tests should be done in case of flimmer and/or flutter? physical collapsing 4x peripheral radiatition and chest pain. congenital possib
atrial flutter requires an ekg a 24 hr holter analysis and an echocardiogram to assess cardiac function and output. if you truly have atrial flutter you also need an anticoagulant med at the least and possibly an anti arrhythmic medication. see a cardiologist for more help and treatment immediately!
can radiofrequency cardiac ablation help cure arrhythmia?
oblation is a widely used in extremely successful procedure for a variety of different cardiac rhythm problems. the success rate for the procedure can range from 70% for atrial fibrillation to 85% for atrial tachycardia and is much as 98% for rhythms like atrial flutter and wolf parkinson white (avrt). a cardiac electrophysiologist can give you an answer specific to your situation.
can cardiac arrhythmia be cured?
some arrhythmias have definitive treatments (atrial flutter re-entry tachycardias) others have helpful treatments (atrial fibrillation and monomorphic ventricular tachycardia) and others you can reduce the risk of side effects and risk of death. see your electophysiologist (cardiologist with special training in arrhythmias) about yours.
can i die from atrial flutter if i ignore it?
you can die from drinking too much water but it's unlikely. untreated atrial flutter usually causes a heart rate of 150 which is annoying for most people and over several months will weaken the heart muscle leading to heart failure. blood clots can form inside the atria increasing the risk of stroke. don't mess with atrial flutter - it needs attention.
can i die from atrial flutter if i ignore it?
probably not -- but you won't be well and the condition is easy to treat.
strange dropping sensation in chest makes breathing short and heart fast. ct scan clear chest xray clear not pulmonary embolism or dvt. what is it?
supraventricular tachycardias are fairly common in young adults. this can cause similar symptoms. to know if that is the case you need to have an event recorder to determine what is your heart rythm when you are having the symptoms. transient atrial flutter or other supraventricular tachycardia with rapid ventricular response could cause it. cut caffeine nicotine and stress. beta blocker.
