what are causes of bradycardia?
bradycardia indicates that the heart rate is too slow (< 60 bpm in adults). it may be associated with a normal electrical impulse (such as sinus bradycardia in a well-trained athlete or during sleep) or an arrhythmia (abnormal electrical impulse). some of the more common abnormal rhythms associated with bradycardia include atrioventricular block sick sinus syndrome and junctional rhythm.
what is av block?
av block is atrioventricular block. the heart beats in a synchronized manner because we have an electrical system. the generator of the electical pulses is the av node. if this becomes "sick" there is no impulse generated or there are other malfuncitons of the av node or the electrical pathways and the hear may slow to dangerous levels. a pacemaker may be needed. a cardiologist is needed.
what is second degree atrioventricular block or wenckebach phenomenon. i am diagnosed with this.
a delay of the elcetrical message in your heart coordinating the squeeze between your left upper chamber (atrium) and the left lower chamber (ventricle). this is not serious and can be monitored by ekgs.
how common is mobitz 1 wenckebach at the age of 28 female? is it reversible?
morbitz 1 atrioventricular block (wenkebach) is common and usually benign and asymptotic. because you are only 28 it suggests that the electrical conduction system of your heart may be predisposed to disease. you need to follow up with a doctor to check periodically to make sure it does not get worse.
what do you suggest if my ecg test indicated 1st -deg atrioventricular block complete right bundle branch block. what should i do now?
best to consult an electrophysiologist
what do you suggest if my ecg test indicated 1st -deg atrioventricular block complete right bundle branch block. what should i do now?
neither of those cause symptoms. you should have an echocardiogram done to rule out occult rheumatic heart disease. if your echo is normal forget them.
what is complete heart block?
third-degree atrioventricular block or complete heart block is a disorder of the cardiac conduction system where there is no conduction through the atrioventricular node. therefore complete dissociation of the atrial and ventricular activity exists. it results from various pathologic states causing infiltration fibrosis or loss of connection in portions of the healthy conduction system.
my mom is 65 yrs. old with familial hyperlipidemia (5'2/128 lbs). she is having bradycardia when she sleeps and eats. her pulse is 36. what is this?
it sounds severe bradycardia. it may be due to nerve condition in the heart having problem. like atrioventricular block. she should see her doctor to check up. sometime it can be fatal.
male 22. laid down in bed hr was 47. usually above 60 in day. happens often. is my sinus node broke? had heart mri/angio ecg echo stress ecg.
if you had complete atrioventricular block it would be quite evident on the routine ecg. if the ecg is normal you don't have complete av block. you are likely normal.
male 22. heart rate in bed 47. had ecg 24h ecg echo mri stress ecg. can i have complete heart block?
if you had complete atrioventricular block it would be quite evident on the routine ecg. if the ecg is normal you don't have complete av block.
my ecg test indicated 1st -deg atrioventricular block complete right bundle branch block. what are my next steps?
the next step after finding an abnormal ekg on a routine exam is to determine why. this is where a cardiologist will be most helpful. he will determine wether there is underlying structural heart disease or not and will likely order testing to find out
what is the definition or description of: toprol (metoprolol) xl overdose?
toprol overdose sx's & signs may include nausea/vomiting slow or uneven heartbeat (bradycardia or atrioventricular block) shortness of breath (with hypoxia) dizziness weakness or fainting hypotension heart failure & coma.
what is cyclic adenosine monophosphate camp?
adenosine works thro' adenosine receptors a1 causes depletion of camp causing hyper polarization of the cell. adenosine causes or induces atrioventricular block resulting in correcting rhythm abnormalities such as supra ventricular tachycardia.
what is the purpose of cyclic adenosine monophosphate?
adenosine works thro' adenosine receptors a1 causes depletion of camp causing hyper polarization of the cell. adenosine causes or induces atrioventricular block resulting in correcting rhythm abnormalities such as supra ventricular tachycardia.
