in mva 10dys ago. had bulging discs in neck. severe neck and low back pain. lortabs don't help. er won't help. what should i be taking 4 pain?
narcotics do not work very well for this type of pain and have a very high addiction rate. stick with motrin and tylenol (acetaminophen) together but an alternative therapies like stretching massage and heat. the more you move around the better you will get.
i am 32 weeks pregnant and am having horrible sciataca and back pain from a car accident a few years ago. i took a 30mg oxycontin that i still had from an old prescription. i'm wondering if this will effect my baby or any drug test that may be administere
pregnancy causes many changes in the body and can both be a source of new back pain and aggravate existing back pain. opiate pain medication will pass directly into your baby's blood and regular use in pregnancy can actually cause addiction and a withdrawal syndrome in the child so opiates are not a preferred pain med in pregnancy. your obstetrician or primary doc has other ways to help.
my husband had severe lower left back pain sweating and freezing followed and complained of his tits hurting. he has had cellulitis n past?
what you are describing seems to involve a lot of different things. there is no rule that says you can only have one disease at a time. low back and "tits" pain are unusual to be related. the past cellulitis is also probably unrelated unless he has it currently. a viral syndrome can cause a lot of things to have symptoms. is there fevers nausea muscle or joint aches? a doctor will untangle this.
my husband had severe lower left back pain sweating and freezing followed and complained of his tits hurting. he has had cellulitis n past?
the severe pain with sweating and freezing (fever chills and sweating) is suggestive of kidney infection. possibility of infectin with a stone is to be considered. he needs urinalysis urine culture blood culture and kidney ultrasounds. needs urgent medical care.
horrific car accident no back x-rays saw orthopedic told me not necessary did pt for 6 weeks still have severe back pain. is this normal? i'm 18 y/o
your doctor already saw you soft tissue injuries will not show on normal x-rays complete the pt go for follow up. if need your doctor will get additional tests like mri.
whiplash from mva 10dy ago. i have 2 bulging disc in neck. neck pain unbearable. new rt shoulder & low back pain. should i b in so much pain? long 4
you need to have supervision from a rehab doc and you will benefit from a combination of physical therapy massage and acupuncture. too soon to say if you have injured shoulder joint brachial plexus or sacroiliac joint but all could occur from a mva. find experienced specialty care this is not an area for a generalist.
hi i have been having lower back pain and pain around my belly button tiday noticed some pus in my belly button and its painful what could be the prob?
sounds like separate issues. go see your doctor for evaluation of both
can lower back pain be caused by tetanus shot or could it be tetanus itself?
just having lower back pain and no other symptoms is uncommon for the tetanus shot and the combined tetanus/whooping cough booster. if it is from the shot it'll go away on its own.
can lower back pain be caused by tetanus shot or could it be tetanus itself?
tetanus shot given as dt or tdap will not cause pain in lower back and just low back pain is unlikely symptom of tetanus which is serious disease and takes 2 weeks to 2 months after a contaminated wound in people who have not been immunized against tetanus take some pain med or consult your doctir for low back pain if it persists
can a mva make bulging discs in the neck herniate? how to know? neck&back pain after 10dy intolerable. new low back & rt shoulder pain. meds no help!
mri will visualize disks and demonstrate if herniation has occurred. need to explore neck and shoulder and perhaps mri of each will be necessitated.
why does my lower back hurt when i lay on my stomach when being obese?
to answer this question i would need more details. in general people who are obese are more likely to have back pain because of the strain that the abdominal fat puts on the back. but it is best to see your provider because there could be something else happening.
weight loss anxiety irregular periods heart palpitations stomach cramps back pain what could be the problem?
you need a full evaluation followed by blood work and imaging studies-you won't get a satisfactory answer in a 400 character limited internet forum with such issues. start with your family doctor. good luck.
weight loss anxiety irregular periods heart palpitations stomach cramps back pain what could be the problem?
problems is the first thing that comes to mind. get evaluated by your physician.
i have had terrible lower back pain for the past two weeks also terrible headaches and ringing in my ear also have been really worn out and have sweet smelling urine
looks like a kidney inflammation and /or infection.
i have had terrible lower back pain for the past two weeks also terrible headaches and ringing in my ear also have been really worn out and have sweet smelling urine
those are very concerning symptoms and you need to be seen immediately by a doctor. severe lower back pain headaches tinnitus (ringing in the ears) fatigue and sweet smelling urine are concerning findings. you will need a complete examination and studies to determine a diagnosis. please call your doctor and arrange to be seen immediately and if you can't then you will need to go to the er.
i need some answers about current symptoms i am having. i am a recovering alcoholic. i have only been sober for 11 days. i also had a gastric bypass in 2004. i was drinking a 5 liter box of wine a day and prior i was drinking vodka. within the last 4
the sudden weight gain swelling and low back pain seem to point to a kidney issue. it is possible that your kidney function has decreased which is causing your body to not filter fluid effectively and instead retain large amounts fluids (leading to swelling in the body). however the swelling can also be attributed to congestive heart failure where your heart is not functioning properly so blood and fluid gets backed up into the body system. seeing a doctor is crucial. if the pain becomes too severe to tolerate it is prudent to go to the emergency department.
i have very severe back pain and i went to see a pa and she said it was a lipoma tumor. the lump on my lower back is mushy hard and causes a lot of pain up my back and it is hard to use the restroom now. i went back to see the pa andshe said it wasnt a li
very rarely are lipomas painful you need to be properly evaluated
i have very severe back pain and i went to see a pa and she said it was a lipoma tumor. the lump on my lower back is mushy hard and causes a lot of pain up my back and it is hard to use the restroom now. i went back to see the pa andshe said it wasnt a li
lipomas in general do not cause pain unless compressed. you need to see a physician.
i have very severe back pain and i went to see a pa and she said it was a lipoma tumor. the lump on my lower back is mushy hard and causes a lot of pain up my back and it is hard to use the restroom now. i went back to see the pa andshe said it wasnt a li
typically lipomas don't cause severe pain and they certainly should not keep you from have bowel movements or being able to urinate. you should see an internist who can refer you to a proper physician.
i have very severe back pain and i went to see a pa and she said it was a lipoma tumor. the lump on my lower back is mushy hard and causes a lot of pain up my back and it is hard to use the restroom now. i went back to see the pa andshe said it wasnt a li
regardless of what she thinks it is a mass that is causing pain needs to be evaluated further either by imaging studies like an ultrasound or be biopsied or possibly removed. a general surgeon will be able to examine you and advise you on the next best course of action. for now you can try an nsaid like ibuprofen or advil (ibuprofen) for the pain. if this does not help your primary care provider may prescribe another medication until you are able to see a surgeon. best of luck to you.
i'm a diabetic type 2 and i have arthritis in my lower back what meds should i be taking for my lower back i also have cad?
what type of arthritis do you have in your lower back? there can be many reasons for people to have back pain. your evaluation will define the type you have to try to develop your best therapy. t2dm and cad will also influence what you can take. medication can be helpful but exercise and weight loss are important posture evaluation also helps.
i have lower back pain itching all over frequent fevers im loosing weight without dieting deformed hands lower spine intensive pain. trouble walk?
boy it sounds like you've have a lot of issues that have come up. i would see your physician this week. many things will need to be looked into including infection inflammatory conditions (i. e. autoimmune diseases) and malignancies. please get help and good luck.
i have lower back pain itching all over frequent fevers im loosing weight without dieting deformed hands lower spine intensive pain. trouble walk?
if you are having all of these symptoms at once i would visit your physician or the er as soon as possible.
i have lower back pain itching all over frequent fevers im loosing weight without dieting deformed hands lower spine intensive pain. trouble walk?
asap as you need a full workup to sort out what is going on. cannot be done over the internet.
if i lose weight will it relieve pressure of my disc in my back and will the pain stop from sciatic nerve although a piece of da disc is on my nerve?
weight loss is an effective way to lessen the mechanical stresses on the spine and quite often leads to improved back pain and improved leg pain from a disc herniation.
if i lose weight will i also lose my breasts?
and depending on your personal situation that might be a blessing especially if you have some back pain from the weight of heavy breasts. if you lose too much --which you can't help; so be it-breasts are mostly composed of fat. when you lose weight you lose all over. therefore you will lose fat in your breasts too.
i am 70lbs overweight and have a major back pain due to lifting my child. what exercise can i do?
pain in the knee it is not normal having the above the knee cap and the left to it point to the knee cap as the guilty party. go and have x-ray to the knee and the knee cap to se if every thing okay if so use some motrin with food. good luck thank you.
i am 70lbs overweight and have a major back pain due to lifting my child. what exercise can i do?
what kind back injury you have as child some of them leave no problems some leave a disabling problems. check with doctor how treat you or send what kind problem you had. thanks.
i am 70lbs overweight and have a major back pain due to lifting my child. what exercise can i do?
the first thing apply moist heat on the neck for about 15-20 minutes. this can be followed by very gently massaging the back of the neck by skin moistures once you feel you can move your neck somewhat easily and without pain you can try some slow neck and shoulder stretches and head tilts if these doesn't ease the stiffness even by a fraction it is better to pay a visit to an orthopedist.
i am 70lbs overweight and have a major back pain due to lifting my child. what exercise can i do?
you would need access to a pool but water exercise is an excellent way to burn calories and get in shape. you could swim walk-run in chest deep water join a water aerobics class. regular aerobic exercise not only helps with weight loss but also reduces back pain for many folks. if you have no pool access a recumbent exercise bicycle may be a good alternative.
i am 70lbs overweight and have a major back pain due to lifting my child. what exercise can i do?
compresses it feel better tolerated. good luck thanks.
i am 70lbs overweight and have a major back pain due to lifting my child. what exercise can i do?
most children with achondroplasia have delayed motor milestones problems with persistent or recurrent middle-ear dysfunction and bowing of the lower legs. less often infants and children may have serious health consequences related to hydrocephalus craniocervical junction compression upper-airway obstruction or thoracolumbar kyphosis. good luck thanks.
i am 70lbs overweight and have a major back pain due to lifting my child. what exercise can i do?
pain the best exercises are watewr excercises also there aremany excerciese you could without pressering your back. leg raises to strengthen stomach and hip musclespartial sit-up to strengthen stomach muscles. exercises to increase flexibility and stretch out the back back leg swing to strengthen hip and back muscles wall slides to strengthen your back hip and leg muscles leg raises. thanks.
i am 70lbs overweight and have a major back pain due to lifting my child. what exercise can i do?
definitely try to get into pool and a strong pilates program.
i hav a hiatal hernia & never hav heartburn but i always hav mild to severe upper central chest/ back pain that come & go often. can it be my hernia?
be sure you rule out cardiac etiology first. do not assume your chest pain is from the hernia.
i hav a hiatal hernia & never hav heartburn but i always hav mild to severe upper central chest/ back pain that come & go often. can it be my hernia?
yes. hiatal hernias (slipping of the upper portion of the stomach where the esophagus comes in to a position above the diaphragm) can cause either fairly severe acid symptoms treatable with zantac (ranitidine) or prilosec or pressure from the mass effect of the organ in the wrong position or from intermittent obstruciton of food. you don't always have both types of symptoms.
im very obese. i know this because i have severe low back pain when i walk. i can't even walk for 5 minutes without pain. what is the best way for me to lose weight. i cannot have weight loss surgery because i've had stomach surgery before. please help?
i recommend finding a weight loss center that consist of a team of professionals who evaluate you individually and not provide a "shot gun" approach. a physician should look at your drug list and make sure u are not on meds that is causing weight gain or preventing weight loss. a exercise person should eval you and design a program around your limitations dieticians to work with you individually.
im very obese. i know this because i have severe low back pain when i walk. i can't even walk for 5 minutes without pain. what is the best way for me to lose weight. i cannot have weight loss surgery because i've had stomach surgery before. please help?
previous stomach surgery does not rule out weight loss surgery. go to a local university medical center for an evaluation.
im very obese. i know this because i have severe low back pain when i walk. i can't even walk for 5 minutes without pain. what is the best way for me to lose weight. i cannot have weight loss surgery because i've had stomach surgery before. please help?
not every obese patient needs to undergo weight loss surgery to achieve successful long lasting weight loss. but the odds are stacked against you in today's world. we should not be able to walk into a convenience store and get any item we want at any time. and our portion size has tripled over the past 50 years. i would recommend an evaluation by a personal trainer and a dietician and/or md.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
very few 22 year old men have severe chronic back pain. the approach which seems likely to provide the most benefit would be to be evaluated and learn why you have such severe pain and what can be done about the cause. chronic narcotic use may not be the best solution.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
the back pain can be caused by muscle strain spinal stenosis ruptured disc nerve impingement. . for young patients i recommend from heat pads exercise massage physical therapy. long term narcotic use is never shown to be at benefit. it also can affect on your liver function. you should see a pain specialist for evaluation.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
opioids are not helpful long term for back pain. good strength and conditioning is. there is minimal evidence that long term opioids in back pain helps to get u more active.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
i agree with dr. perez but if you have to be on an opiate you can be prescribed most without acetaminophen.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
consult a pain management group. some of the best strategies involve combination of biobehavioral approaches (relaxation etc) drug therapy (anti-epileptics and anti-depressants) and physical medicine. you can find helpful information on www. theacpa. org/.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
ur in luck. long term opioids are rarely helpful in back pain. there area many non opioid therapies available. there is no single solution. by the way ur 23 do u really want low testosterone at ur age from opioids. is it worth it?
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
best to minimize intake of liver metabolized drugs eg acetaminophen. consider just plain oxycodone.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
an even better strategy - given the meds now available - would be to treat and quite probably cure the hepatitis c infection. . once it has been confirmed by the appropriate testing (i. e. an antibody test alone is insufficient). you need an hcv pcr and a genotype test to work out what to do next. then of course avoid the behavior that led to the infection. see a hepatologist (liver specialist).
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
you can get oxycodone without acetaminophen.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
generally all opiates go through the liver. the least liver toxic medications are fentanyl and hydromorphone. at your age i would consider trying to avoid any opiates especially with the hep c diagnosis.
i am on oxycodone 10/325 but recently diagnosed with hepatitis c. what would be a good long term treatment for my chronic back pain?
avoiding tylenol (acetaminophen) is definitely most important but you should also consider trying other non- opioid medications to help with chronic pain. you will develop a tolerance to the oxycodone and it wont work as well. there are also other modalities to help with the pain like physical therapy and tens therapy.
i think i would like a boob reduction but don't know if i should try to diet first?
breast tissue enlargement will not respond to dieting only fatty enlargement will respond to dieting. breast tissue enlargement will only respond to surgery. symptoms of breast enlargement include neck pain back pain and interiginous rashes.
i have lower back pain and bloating i've changed my diet do exercise and the bloating around my belly is still there what could it be?
it might be related to the analgesics you take otherwise it may be a gi problem.
i have had lower back pain on my left side l5 &6 for over a year. last week i woke with excruciating pain in my lower right back hip pelvic like someone was stabbing me with a knife. after a ct to determine no kidney stones my orthopedic thinks it is
how did you figure it was l5 &6. there are typically 5 lumbar vertebra but some patients can have 6. your surgeon will have to examine you & work things up with imaging studies given symptoms on going for over a year. a few of possible diagnosis could include sacroiliitis versus other spinal issues vascular problem urologic/gyn etiologies etc. a work-up & exam will help point to a diagnosis.
i have had lower back pain on my left side l5 &6 for over a year. last week i woke with excruciating pain in my lower right back hip pelvic like someone was stabbing me with a knife. after a ct to determine no kidney stones my orthopedic thinks it is
your explanation cut off before any question was asked. but it does sound as if you may have a problem with a disc and the pain is radiation from nerve roots exiting the spine and being compressed and irritated.
i have had lower back pain on my left side l5 &6 for over a year. last week i woke with excruciating pain in my lower right back hip pelvic like someone was stabbing me with a knife. after a ct to determine no kidney stones my orthopedic thinks it is
unless u have an anomaly there is no l6. probably l5s1 is what u are thinking. there are muscular problems bony problems (spondylolisthesis) djd or disc disease that can all cause local and even radiating pain. look up dermatomes to see if your pain follows a nerve root. get with your ortho doc for x-rays and likely mri.
is it serious or not really? back pain- mid lumbar left side. bowel movements maybe twice/ week. excessive weight gain. 10p time periord 1 1/2 months
it is worth getting checked out. thyroid issues can cause weight gain and constipation which can cause back pain. just having all those changes something isn't right and you shouldn't ignore it.
i am losing approximately ten lbs per month. since march ihave lost a total of 60 lbs. i found out i have fatty liver and i changed my diet completely and do some exercises. i do have right shoulder blade back pain but have had x-rays and mri. could the
is to much with out diet. have to be chek gallbladder liver pancreas blood sugar thyroid. others. i will like to recommended a complete medical examination and determine the cause. could be serious. please check with your pcp or a gastroenterology spec.
i am losing approximately ten lbs per month. since march ihave lost a total of 60 lbs. i found out i have fatty liver and i changed my diet completely and do some exercises. i do have right shoulder blade back pain but have had x-rays and mri. could the
gall bladder attacks usually refer pain to the right shoulder. this is especially true after severe dieting and weight loss. see a gastroenterologist.
i am losing approximately ten lbs per month. since march ihave lost a total of 60 lbs. i found out i have fatty liver and i changed my diet completely and do some exercises. i do have right shoulder blade back pain but have had x-rays and mri. could the
your problem is either a bursitis under the shoulder blade a pinched nerve in your neck or a pinched nerve in your arm. please see an upper extremity orthopedic surgeon.
im 27 weight is 169 im obese i'm now 6 weeks pregnact and will like to loose some fat in arms and face is it healthy to exercise?
for most it is ok to exercise while your pregnant in fact it is desirable as it can help prevent/east back pain improve sleep help your mood. you obviously don't want to go overboard. in the end you should review any exercise plan with your ob to make sure there isn't a more specific reason why you shouldn't undertake exercise. best of luck with your pregnancy.
i had a hiatial hernia removed but i am having shoulder and back pain. what could be causing it?
problem back pain is not sign of hiatal hernia or surgical repair having shoulder and back pain in the same time lead to think you something new going on please go and check it out.
i had a hiatial hernia removed but i am having shoulder and back pain. what could be causing it?
problems like these can only be correctly handled by your doctor in person. he/she needs to listen to you perform an examination and possibly run labs or other tests. that's the only way he/she can find out what's going on and what to do about it.
i have lower back pain in the morning and my feet hurt when i wake up and stand up for few seconds. my weight is 128kg and i set all day. i don't move.?
you sound like having flat feet and need supports in your shoes to balance them out.
i have upper back pain burning sensation in my chest that comes and goes. my teeth have felt very awkward along with weight loss. any suggestions?
you should call you doctor and be evaluated. there are many causes for these symptoms. it soulnds like this has been going on for awhile so get yourself checked out.
i have upper back pain burning sensation in my chest that comes and goes. my teeth have felt very awkward along with weight loss. any suggestions?
x-ray physical exam and basic blood work are needed.
increasing headaches ab pain lower back pain insomnia black-green throat discharge skin crawling rashes stool neg parasites severe weight loss?
mindy. you need to have a good workup because there are too many thins wrong for an internet answer. if this is chronic also rule out fungal sinusitis and check your immune system.
what should i do for cardio for weight loss during a back injury?
swimming would be an excellent aerobic exercise and would be very good for back pain as well. find a swimming stroke that you can do comfortably. also simply walking will help your back and aerobic fitness.
what are the most common complications of obesity?
degenerative joint disease (arthritis) back pain inability to perform physicially depression decreased libido diabetes obstructive sleep apnea acid reflux and an increased risk of certain cancers just to name a few. obesity is an extremely serious medical problem that should not be ignored!
why do they say i should lose weight to reduce my back pain?
weight can place excess stress on all joints ligaments and muscles of the back and trunck and lead to postrual abormalities abnormal walking and sitting patterns and back pain. it also causes generalized muscle weakness. one major treatment for back issues is core muscle strengthening as well as weight loss for these reasons.
i have had back surgery and still have chronic pain in lower back and left leg. i need to lose weight (alot) but walking and exercise hurts. what do?
how long ago was the surgery? if it was not recent have the back pain reevaluated. speak with the surgeon. repeat an mri to help determine the cause. consider physical therapy or targeted injections if they are deemed to be appropriate.
im 25 i've been experiencing lower back pain for sometime now usually after waking up in the morning? is this due to lack of exercise or sleeping pos?
lack of exercise and posture may be related to low back pain but you need a complete history physical exam and probably imaging of your spine to have a better understanding of its cause. if the pain is severe there are some diagnostic injections to determine its cause as well.
im 25 i've been experiencing lower back pain for sometime now usually after waking up in the morning? is this due to lack of exercise or sleeping pos?
this can be from position of sleep and/or lack of exercise. if you're a big man or heavy you might have a lot of pressure on your lower back. if your job involves a lot of lifting or sitting forward you can get lower back pain. also lack of exercise means you're out if shape and your body can be less able to carry your body weight and sleep position puts more weight on some parts of your body.
i'm 38 year old female. high bmi. i have severe breast pain mid cycle. lower back pain headaches. meds. glucophage (metformin).
with the limited information you provided it sounds like you have premenstrual syndrome. certain foods and lifestyle can make the symptoms worse but there are things that might help. avoid caffeine and chocolate to help breast pain. low carb diet and eating small frequent meals with adequate protein and fat to control blood sugar will help headaches. weight loss is important.
i have lower back pain that seems to come from the sciatic area. i also carry too much weight on my belly. is this the cause?
being overweight can certainly lead to back pain but there are many other reasons too. losing weight will help for sure!
i have lower back pain that seems to come from the sciatic area. i also carry too much weight on my belly. is this the cause?
you may have issues with the spine (disc degeneration etc). being overweight only worsens this.
i'm 25 been having constant lower back pain for long time. not over weight. do exercise from time to time. lumbar support to give support. what to do?
exercises to build solid symmetric core strength are readily available on the web. stretching particularly hamstrings can be very helpful. yoga can frankly accomplish all of these goals and there are many free yoga resources online.
i'm 25 been having constant lower back pain for long time. not over weight. do exercise from time to time. lumbar support to give support. what to do?
using lumbar support initially ok. after a while not helpful may even contribute to wreaking of muscles and increasing your problem. strengthening your stomach and back muscles the way to go. no flexion at the hip. bend your knees to pick something off the floor. stretch drink water and consider a chiropratic evaluation and treatment.
will a prolactin pituitary tumor cause weight gain back pain and depression?
look for other causes! see primary md.
will a prolactin pituitary tumor cause weight gain back pain and depression?
prolactinoma could inhibit other pituitary hormones like tsh causing hypothyroidism or weight gain. it could also be a tumor secreting not only prolactin but acth as well causing high cortisol and cushings disease. check these levels.
would a doctor recommend exercise since my back hurts so bad everytime i walk. everytime i walk my back is in extreme pain. this is because i'm obese. what treatment would i recieve?
i commend you on taking control of your health with walking. consider non-weight bearing exercises at this time such as stationary bike or swimming. if you are having significant back pain see a sport med doctor as your pain may be more back spasms lack of flexibility posture. have a specialists take a look at it. you may require some therapy to strengthen your core muscles as well.
would a doctor recommend exercise since my back hurts so bad everytime i walk. everytime i walk my back is in extreme pain. this is because i'm obese. what treatment would i recieve?
as in it depends on the cause of your back pain; sometime physical therapy is helpful sometimes other interventions are necessary. but if walking causes pain consider trying an alternative form of exercise particular those that are less weight bearing/tough on joints/spine. think about water based activities like swimming or water aerobics. best of luck.
i have a hiatal hernia that flared real bad burning pain between shoulders and feels like my esophagus is on fire vomiting yesterday is this normal?
you could have a perforation or an ulcer especially with severe pain in the back and the fact that you're on nsaids for back pain. see a gastroenterologist for work up and treatment. you may need upper endoscopy if this persists.
weight gain short light period headaches back pain watery discharge nipple soreness nipple discharge mood swings on bc missed several pills?
you may be pregnant. take a pregnancy test.
i have severe lower back pain. what should i do? i am overweight but joined gym.
get checked by your doctor and follow the doctors recommendations. weight loss will be advantageous when you are feeling better.
i have severe lower back pain. what should i do? i am overweight but joined gym.
the back pain can be caused by muscle strain spinal stenosis ruptured disc nerve impingement. . you might benefit from exercise stretching exercise weight management. if your pain persists you should seek help from a health care provider. you might benefit from a comprehensive evaluation and treatment.
what causes weight gain and lbp (lower back pain)?
weight gain is a function of calories in (food) and calories out (excercise and activity) one cause of low back pain is being overweight with associated posture changes-though there aare many others.
what could cause muscluar pain in right middle back? i lost weight and i was very obese and then it started aching. any idea?
people who lose a great deal of weight even by sensible dieting often suffer gallstones which in turn can cause right mid-back pain. other likely causes are simply physical deconditioning due prolonged lack of exercise while obese. poor body mechanics is another common causes. on occasion disorders of lung or pleura can cause such symptoms.
i have type 2 diabetes i get a lot of stomach pains back pains and if i'm doing something really easy i get tired in seconds. what is wrong with me?
you need to follow up with your doctor. these complaints are too vague and there are multiple diagnoses that need to be ruled out with a comprehensive medical exam likely lab work and maybe other studies. in short your simple question could have thousands of different answers. it would be best if your doctor handled this. make sure you have a record of bp pulse and glucose readings.
i have type 2 diabetes i get a lot of stomach pains back pains and if i'm doing something really easy i get tired in seconds. what is wrong with me?
tiredness could be a manifestation of uncontrolled diabetes. improving blood sugars with targeting pre meal blood sugars 80-140 will help improve the tiredness. stomach pain and back pain symptoms are not related to the diabetes.
i suffer daily back pain & tendonitis is it ok to use celebrex (celecoxib)? i had gastric bypass roue en y back in 2008
in general yes you can use celebrex (celecoxib) in spite if your gastric surgery need to be ce refill not to take it on empty stomach
i have a bmi of 36. i'm 24 years old and i already getting really bad back ache is this due to my weight or my pregnancy i'm 13 weeks today?
at 13 weeks the baby is only about an inch. it's not likely that it would be contributing to back pain so early
i'm 5'1" & weigh 250 lbs not over eating under. is weight loss surgery a good option? chronic lower back pain=hard to exercise weight hurts back
7 years old you should not be on healthtap. if you are older you must be overeating to weigh 250 pounds. if you do not have a medical condition such as hypothyroidism that can be treated -- you need intensive education in caloric restriction increased physical activity and weight reduction.
i had 2 surgeries 13 months ago for hiatal hernia repair. opened left back and front ribcage from navel. why severe back pains still daily?
did you have to have your chest open for hiatal hernia surgery and why twice did you have a comlication like injury to the esophagus if you did have to have your chest open i am afraid i do not have a good news for you as far as the pain concerned pain from thoracotomy which mean open chest is severe and take long time to recover and some time it becomes chronic pain sorry it will not go away soon
i'm 16 and i'm having pregnancy symptoms but i'm overweight and i don't know if i'm pregnant or just unhealthy. ?
not sure what all your symptoms are. .? nausea fatigue back pain? most often these are not caused by pregnancy. of course the most important change is missing your period & realizing you had unprotected sex during the time you may have ovulated. if you have missed your period check a home pregnancy test. practice reliable contraception & try to eat healthier and exercise. good wishes<positive_smiley>
i'm obese times 3 and i have very bad pain in my back and i can't breath properly?
back pain & breathing issues may be associated w obesity. get medically cleared. to lose weight insure that calories burned > calories consumed. drink at least 8 - 8 oz glasses of water per day. try for 8 hours of sleep/night. aim for at least 5 servings of vegetables & 4 servings of fruit per day. use whole grain when possible. avoid sodas alcohol & junk carbohydrates. exercise regularly.
i'm am 26 and for the past 5 years my hips have been going numb. i thought it was due to me being overweight however i lost a lot and it didn't help.
weight. good job. if you do not have lower back pain and djd of lumbar spine then i do not know the cause of hip pain. you need to get examined. proper posture weiht loss and physical therapy will help with hip pain and numbness
my 51 year old husband had a 40 lb weight loss over 4 months now has strong pulse above belly button and upper back pain. aaa?
worth checking out could be his normal descending aorta now visible due to weight loss it has always been there under the weight have family doc examine it only big ones need to be fixed as measured on ultrasound.
my 51 year old husband had a 40 lb weight loss over 4 months now has strong pulse above belly button and upper back pain. aaa?
get checked. may need ultrasound.
my 51 year old husband had a 40 lb weight loss over 4 months now has strong pulse above belly button and upper back pain. aaa?
you should see your doctor. some issues are best diagnosed in person.
my 51 year old husband had a 40 lb weight loss over 4 months now has strong pulse above belly button and upper back pain. aaa?
an unplanned weight loss should be evaluated by your internist. you want to be checked for chronic infection neoplasm and an aneurysm.
my friend is trying to lose weight but has severe lower back pain. what are his options?
losing weight may improve his back pain. eat healthful meals of lean protein good fats fruits & veggies whole grains; avoid junk food soft drinks high glycemic index carbs. control portion size by using smaller plate & not going back for 2nds. pool exercises are good for back problems due to low impact on joints/back. aim for 2 lb/wk weight loss.
my friend is trying to lose weight but has severe lower back pain. what are his options?
make sure you know what food you are allergic to and eliminate those. whenever you eat sugar food eat glutamine to compensate switch your metabolism to burn fat by adding carnitine supplement thyroid with gta forte it will increase your metabolism support adrenals and pancreas - it will not matter what you eat just eat to nourish your body.
what are the side effects of belviq (lorcaserin)?
headache dizziness fatigue nausea dry mouth constipation cough low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) in patients with diabetes back pain. personally i do not use it because it's too expensive and i get better results with the medications that i've been using for the last 11 years. i wish you the best.
i have pcos i have missed my periods for 7 days now i have back pain and stomach pain feel tired and feel overweight. i had pregnancy test its negative. is this symptoms of pregnancy? if i am pregnant when should i take the test
it can be hard to tell if a woman is pregnant because some of the symptoms seen in early pregnancy can also happen in non-pregnant women. a urine pregnancy test gives a reliable result if done correctly. one can test about 3 weeks after sex (3 weeks after when conception might have occurred) or 1 week after missing a period. an ob-gyn doctor can evaluate any persistent or worrisome symptoms.
my doc wont do diagnostic tests for my symptoms i have fungal problems digestive problems excessive sweating fatigue back pain nausea anxiety and panic attacks night sweats chest pain weight loss eye floaters severe pmt im 34 female what tests should i as
for your symptoms of floaters you should see your eye doctor right away to see if it's the sign of a serious problem. as for your other symptoms they should warrant some further testing. if you feel you're not getting the proper care from your primary physician you should consider changing doctors or go to your local emergency room. chest pain can be a symptom of a very serious problem.
my doc wont do diagnostic tests for my symptoms i have fungal problems digestive problems excessive sweating fatigue back pain nausea anxiety and panic attacks night sweats chest pain weight loss eye floaters severe pmt im 34 female what tests should i as
there are really a thousand different tests which can be performed on the human body. i wouldn't begin to know which ones but seeing a new dr sounds like the best hext move for you if you are disatisfied with your current dr. i would start with a board certified internist or internal medicine doctor. good luck.
what causes "pot" belly?
what is referred to as a "pot" belly is simply abdominal obesity typical in males. while women can have pot bellies they primarily distribute their weight in the hips butt and thighs. reducing your carbohydrate intake and increasing exercise will decrease your body fat and pot belly. also your blood pressure will improve and your back pain will decrease or disappear. all worth the effort!
mid upper back pain. present after being obese for several yrs and dieted and lost weight. could this still be cancer. mri clear. but what about lung?
there are many reasons for back pain : cardiac arthritis herniated disk strain pleuritic kidney stone among many others. see physician for evaluation.
mid upper back pain. present after being obese for several yrs and dieted and lost weight. could this still be cancer. mri clear. but what about lung?
can not be ruled out completely if the clinical situation warrants needs to be further imaged with a ct scan to investigate. consult ur doctor.
would an epidural in my lower back cause weight gain due to the steroid in the medication?
one dose of steroid won't affect your weight gain. more importantly the steroid may not be controlling your back pain and you need a follow-up visit with the doctor taking care of back pain. if you are gaining wait you need to go on a diet.
my husband is 69 overweight sedentary. he just said he is short of breath & a bit uncomfortable. should he go to the er?
based on your description of him he is at high risk of heart disease heart attack and stroke. if shortness of breath and/or chest/neck/upper back pain suddenly comes on or recurrently then it must be evaluated immediately. it may be the difference between life and death.
i have rbc in urine back pain and weight loss blood pressure goes to 130/70 and no fever but weakness white blood cell of blood is 8. 5 what happen?
about 1% of folks have lifelong blood in the urine which isn't problematic. if it's new we need to rule out a tumor or injury first. the blood pressure isn't worrying me. white count's fine. even in a young guy hematuria and back pain can warn of a kidney tumor. i trust your physician will do a proper workup.
i'm having g severe lower back pain & i urinate at least 20 or more times a day. i am losing weight & i'm constantly tired & the pain is dull &sharp p?
you need to be seen today the frequent urination is many times a sign of urinary tract infection. but the loss of weight makes your symptoms much more concerning. you need to be seen now.
my back hurts so much like someone is hitting me with a baseball bat can it be my weight? what can i do to make it stop? i'm 309 and 21years old 64in
given your height and weight your bmi indicates obesity. obesity has been linked to low back pain and many other chronic conditions (like arthritis of your back hips and knees) as well as hypertension heart disease type ii diabetes etc. so weight does matter! that said the place to start is your pcp for a detailed history and exam. other needed studies will be determined by your appt.
why do i get tired when i'm walking? i sweat a lot and my back hurts when i walk around.
18 yo has "fatigue sweats & back pain" with walking. commonly obesity global deconditioning & chronic low back disorder can evoke this symptom profile. chronic heart & lung disorders suspect but occur in much older persons. hormonal imbalances & diabetes would be more exotic & unexpected explanations. as you can see a general medical evaluation is required to solve this differential diagnosis.
pain in right middle back by spine 1 inch below shoulder blade. swallowing food or drink seems to irritate it. endoscopy only hiatal hernia. ideas?
does it feel like a pulled muscle? how long does it last? do certain foods make it worse. have you tried any meds? did you injure the muscle working out? would you say it is more related to food or activity? if food you may want to obtain us of gallbladder to rule out stones a common cause of rt back pain exacerbated by food. is there any abdominal pain? bloating? nausea?
stomach and back pain after eating too much. what can i do to alleviate the pain?
while this could be due to a number of causes the obvious solution is not to eat so much as to cause pain. if this happens regularly (or with modest amounts of food) see your doctor or a gi specialist for a specific diagnosis and treatment. meanwhile maybe try an antacid.
should i be seen? i have one swollen lymph node in neck lower back pain cloudy smelly urine and 20 pound weight loss with loss of appetite.
ofcourse you should be seen. yesterday. get to your doctor.
should i be seen? i have one swollen lymph node in neck lower back pain cloudy smelly urine and 20 pound weight loss with loss of appetite.
this may be something very serious. you need to be evaluated by your doctor.
i'm having chest pain when i take a deep breath quit smoking 7 years ago have a hiatial hernia also have periodic back pain clean ct scan 3 months ago?
it is very unlikely for this to be tumor since a ct 3 months ago was normal. more likely pleurisy or pain in the muscles or ribs of the chest
please tell me the difference between symptoms of hiatus hernia & gallstone pain?
hh usually does not lead to pain predominant symptom is reflux. biliary colic gallbladder pain usually happens after eating can be sharp in the right upper abdomen and can cause back pain. usually described as worse than child birth.
sore nipples white discharge back pain & food cravings. i had a miscarriage 3 months ago so i can't base this on a missed period. possibly pregnant?
it sounds quite possible - please take a pregnancy test to find out. take care.
sore nipples white discharge back pain & food cravings. i had a miscarriage 3 months ago so i can't base this on a missed period. possibly pregnant?
likely but pregnancy test would be advised to rule in/out.
severe back pain numbness and tingling in feet arms hands swelling in thighs feet hands and upper arms. rapid weight gain around belly?
it's important with all these symptoms mentioned that you seek evaluation with your primary care doctor to figure out what could be causing all these symptoms. there are various thing that could result in some of those symptoms. it may not be only one cause. it could have some vascular component a metabolic component a neurologic component nutrient deficiency component or none-of-the-above.
severe back pain numbness and tingling in feet arms hands swelling in thighs feet hands and upper arms. rapid weight gain around belly?
although i'm not an internist it sounds like you need to be seen by one immediately. your symptoms could be consistent with kidney dysfunction. make an appointment for tomorrow.
severe back pain when walking trying to stand and moving my upper&middle back doesn't radiate 2 chest no recent injury started yesterday cause?
it seems like a paraspinal muscle spasms. try muscle relaxants. it is a prescription drug. need physical examination for correct diagnosis. if it doesn't resolve by muscle relaxants then you need spinal imaging. consult your physician.
i took phentermine 37. 5 this morning about 7 am and today my doc prescribed me tramadol for back pain is it safe to have the tramadol now 8pm?
yes it is safe
lost 60 lbs over summer from diet and exercise. up back pain since may. hair loss sed rate elevated and ana+w/spec pattern. lupus panel neg. cbc ok?
you describe a body that is generally inflamed. diets that promote animal proteins (meat chicken fish eggs and dairy) are inflammatory. this may have been your situation. read dr. neal barnard's book foods that fight pain. he describes a plant-based anti-inflammatory diet that will improve healing and decrease inflammation. many of my patients have benefitted and no longer need medications.
leg muscle atrophy- back pain- fatigue - low platlet count= 10 lb weight loss in 11/2 weeks?
you have symptoms which could be serious and should see your physician. he/she will listen to you do a physical examinarion run some tests and let you know what's going on.
m mary 51have hiatal hernia. overweight. lately have pain in ribs left side also after eating anything have chest pain back pain for few mins then backi?
alwso my be sliding hiatal hernia getting stuck in the chest. see gastroenterologist for further diagmpsis and treatment
my husband is over weight and has 3 kidney stones that are going to be removed and bad back pain. could the stones be causing the pain?
the back pain with kidney stones is in the gland region which is mid back. lower back pain in usually musculoskeletal and maybe helped by diet and exercise. once the stones are removed it may be easier to sort it out. all the best.
my cbd is enlarged at 12mm with distal occlusion bile is leaking into my stomach vomiting bile extreme abdo and back pain ( burning) pain upper gi bleed no appetite and a 4stone weight loss. my doctors are struggling with a diagnosis and i feel like i am
there are multiple potential reasons for distal bile duct occlusion. the key is to figure out what tests are likely to give the answer. endoscopy ercp ct scan and mrcp are all likely tests that you may undergo. if your bile duct is completely occluded this is an emergency. you should speak with your doctors as to their next step. good luck.
please tell me what are common diseases caused by obesity?
obesity causes or contributes to diabetes type 2 hypertension coronary artery disease heart attacks strokes degenerative joint disease cancers infertility gallstones stomach ulcers and back pain.
should i have a breast reduction due to c5/c6 bulging disc pain and back pain even though my bmi is 35. 5?
of your breasts but breast reduction surgery will have little direct effect on your disc bulge at that level. it might help indirectly in that your bra strap might be impinging on nerves that exit the spinal canal at that level. ask a neurologist for a definitive opinion on the likelihood the operation would help your neck/back pain.
twice this week i've had stabbing hip joint pain which left me unable to walk for 20 minutes. hurts to rotate leg inward. i am completely fine afterwards. not overweight no injury or back pain. help?
it is hard to say. usually pain that suddenly comes and goes like that is known as colic and is usually not associated with the hip itself. you may want to be seen to rule out an abdominal or pelvic cause as in a kidney stone for example.
twice this week i've had stabbing hip joint pain which left me unable to walk for 20 minutes. hurts to rotate leg inward. i am completely fine afterwards. not overweight no injury or back pain. help?
pinched nerve. best to see a neurologist or orthopedist for an evaluation. hope this helps.
what is a good way to prevent blood clots? never had them besides being overweight i think i have no risks for it. i get anxious when i get sciatica.
to develop blood clots a patient either has to have had a severe traumatic injury or other risk factors like obesity smoking estrogen or blood protein deficiencies! daily exercise weight loss! quitting cigarettes and been active are all protective! any family or genetic deficiencies need to be factored in! sciatica causes mechanical back pain not associated w clots! best
i am experiencing back pain (severity: severe) (side: lower) arthritis sciatica obesity difficulty sleeping (quality: difficult to wake diff.
sorry to hear about all of your problems. my guess is many stem from your obesity. recommend you get my fitnesspal app. track your intake and energy expendure and get back with us so we can help. and ask a question next time.
i am experiencing back pain (severity: moderate)right side upper). when i drink water it hurts. had gastric sleeve dec 2016. just started tonight?
stomach and lower esophagus may radiate to your back! get this symptom checked out with a hands on "face to face" consultation! hope this helps! dr z
i am experiencing back pain (severity: moderate)right side upper). when i drink water it hurts. had gastric sleeve dec 2016. just started tonight?
have you had an us of your gallbladder? are there stones? is your pain related to eating or activity? is it worse before a bm or relieved after you have one? it is not too long after your sleeve procedure have you talked to your bariatric surgeon. endoscopy could ensure you don't have an ulcer or inflammation of your pouch. talk to your bariatric surgeon
i am experiencing back pain and knee weakness. the following also describe me: obesity knee pain painful swollen joints pain shooting down the.
obesity exerting pressure on your back and lower limbs joints with nerves affected too knee pain could be originating from your hips and the shooting pain can be due to pinched nerves or sciatica. bottom line you have to be seen lose weight and not hope to be treated online good luck
lower right abdominal+back pain a few days ago. it lasts a night and stopped after that. food cravings acne popping out from my face. am i pregnant?
your period - go ahead and take a pregnancy test now to know. take care.
lower back pain on my right and left side were the love handles are why?
most likely you have muscle strain possibly from overuse poor posture lack of physical activity for example. start there. hope that helps.
lower lumbar back pain for months the doc said its because i'm over weight but i can't loose bc i can't bend barely at all. ?
blaming weight is not the answer to explain back pain. it can contribute to the underlying cause. i would recommend physical therapy to help improve your pain and motion. on another note about 80% of someone's weight is diet and not the inability to exercise. it is more about what you eat and how often. most patient with weight issues do not eat frequently enough and when they make bad choices.
lg fever. mid left ab pain. constipation. burping. weight loss back pain. blood mri &ct normal. goes away and comes back. drink plenty of water&fiber?
fiber and water are good for most people's bowel health. it seems to me that you actually need a gi eval with colonoscopy. good luck!
my dr gave me phentermine 15 mg and i forgot to ask if i could take a norrco 10 for my back pain. yes or no?
in general there does not appear to be any type of interaction between those two drugs.
night cough no allergies no uri symptoms no allergies. nonsmoker. adult 63 module ratels obese. cause?
if your cough occurs while lying down it could be either cardiac or gastrointestinal in origin instead of just pulmonary. if it is associated with shortness of breath and chest or back pain you need to see your doctor right away. if it is associated ever with a sour taste in the mouth almost vomiting and heartburn it may be gastrointestinal reflux of stomach acid into the esophagus.
overweight with high blood pressure. could right side back pain that is recurrent (couple months) be a sign of impending heart attack? or just muscle?
exact location severity timing tenderness on palpation or motion and lots of other things. cannot determine for certain here so you should see a doctor to make sure that this is not angina or any other serious condition.
the past month i exercise and eat healthy and my stomach got bigger(not pregnant) what causes abdominal enlargement? also lower back pain and fatigue
if you are not gaining weight from eating too much food you may be overexerting and getting a six pack of abdominal muscles. be sure to check with a trainer that you are balancing exercises and stretch afterwards. good to get examined if no improvement. a sonogram could check for an ovarian cyst.
upper right back pain in one spot. present for months. obese but i have lost 65lbs dieting. back only starts hurting when i get to work and sit?
there are many causes for pain that is unilateral and in the posterior-upper back. subscapular bursitis is quite common; surascapular palsy is another and there are more. you need to see a doctor who specializes in pain diagnosis; physical medicine specialist or a rheumatology specialist or an orthopedic surgeon. i believe the root causes will be determined more quickly.
upper back pain present for almost a year now. pain started after dieting and losing weight. it is not present with rest. it hurts w/ activity /sitting?
congratulations on your weight loss. but do not blame a purposeful weight loss with back pain. in general weight loss is good for the spine. but in the effort to increase metabolism sometimes we over do it or by age 40 having back pain is common. for most people rest does relieve back pain. pain with sitting usually indicates a disk issue which is unfortunately very common.
symptoms: i don't have urge to urinate frequently but i have painful urination missed period lower back pain sore breast swollen urethra cloudy urine?
sound like a uti but if you have not had a period i would check a pregnancy test too.
what is breast reduction surgery like?
of smaller breasts that cause less neck and back pain for scars on the breasts. usually outpatient surgery with general anesthesia. most breast reduction patients say that the pain is like that from doing too many pushups: soreness in the chest muscles. it should easily be controlled with the medication given to you by your surgeon. most patients return to regular activities in 10-14 days.
how exactly does bariatric surgery affect health?
can rid you of obesity diabetes hypertension high cholesterol sleep apnea back pains hip and knee pains neck pains. you'll sleep better you'll have more energy and you'll live longer. you'll keep your heart healthy and you joints functioning. cures depression. i can go on.
how does obesity specifically affect spondylolysis or spondylolisthesis?
a person's spine takes on a lot of stress when he carries a heavy backpack or gains 50-100 pounds in weight. obesity can worsen spine problems such as spondylolysis or spondylolisthesis. being extremely heavy can make the bones in the spine move a bit farther out of their normal positions. back pains and other complications may occur.
can obesity make spondylolysis or spondylolisthesis worse?
a person's spine takes on a lot of stress when he carries a heavy backpack or gains 50-100 pounds in weight. obesity can worsen spine problems such as spondylolysis or spondylolisthesis. being extremely heavy can make the bones in the spine move a bit farther out of their normal positions. back pains and other complications may occur.
can a hiatal hernia cause shortness of breathe upper central chest/ back pain that come and go without heartburn?
depending on how large your hiatal hernia is. if significant stomach reside within the chest through a large hiatal hernia you may experience pressure and chest discomfort.
can a hiatal hernia cause shortness of breathe upper central chest/ back pain that come and go without heartburn?
there are many other things that could also cause similar symptoms - including heart or lung problems. these are serious symptoms you're describing and deserve a thorough history and exam by your regular doctor.
have gained weight during epidural injections and follow up pain methylprednisolone injections. the weight seems to be attached now. any suggestions?
methylprednisalone is a steroid and one of its side effects is to cause weight gain. hopefully your back pain is better and you can be more active. give it a month or so and i think you will find your weight coming off.
could fatty liver from being obese cause side and back to cramp and hurt?
fatty liver is a known and potentially reversible complication of obesity. there is no common direct relationship of fatty liver with side and back pain other than the added risk of lumbago and back pain due spinal pressure from supporting an obese body. all of these symptoms greatly improve with weight loss 10 pounds plus your liver will function better! get healthy!
could being overweight cause the pain from spondylolisthesis to be worse?
obesity plays a role in back pain in general and now you are adding an unstable level. it may also signify a lack of regular exercise as well which is a factor. secondary to the obesity may be diabetes which can affect your nerves directly and lead to a neuropathy which may compound any stenosis symptoms if present with the spondylolisthesis level.
can a hiatal hernia cause mid to upper back pain?
typically only if it is large. usually need an upper gi study or endoscopy to check it out.
can a hiatal hernia cause mid to upper back pain?
most people usually don't have symptoms from hiatal hernias. when symptoms are present they are usually those of heartburn or reflux.
can a hiatal hernia cause mid to upper back pain?
the discomfort you get from a hiatal hernia is usually pain in your upper abdomen or chest. if fact we sometimes think someone is having pain from their heart when in fact it is heartburn from a hiatal hernia.
what is the recovery timeline for breast reduction?
breast reduction is done to relieve the symptoms caused by heavy breasts such as neck and back pain. there is usually not a significant amount of discomfor from the surgery and recovery is failry quick. everyone heals at a diferent rate however so discuss with your plastic surgeon.
what are the pros and cons of a breast lift?
pro: -improved shape -fixes floppiness -can relieve neck & back pain con: -requires scar -can bottom out over time - does not increase size or upper breast fullness unless fat grafting or implant added.
can an extremely low fat diet cause major joint pain especially in the back and cold appendages?
low levels of fat-soluble vitamins in the body could be one rare problem on extremely low-fat diet. if you are thinking about calcium levels and back pain there is no evidence of adverse effect in the area of causing low calcium levels. in short low-fat diet should not be associated with low-back pain or joint pains. dietary fat intake should be limited to 30% of total energy intake.
why would you receive breast reduction surgery?
women with extremely large breasts may experience neck or back pain shoulder grooves from bra straps rashes under the breast skin and other issues. this may be why the satisfation rating for breast reduction surgery is among the highest of any plastic surgery. women expeience not only physical improvement from relief of chronic discomfort but feel better about their bodies too.
why would you receive breast reduction surgery?
most patients undergo breast reduction surgery for having very large breasts that cause severe neck shoulder and back pain.
who are good candidates for breast reduction surgery?
many patients with large breasts will develop symptoms over time. these include neck and shoulder pain back pain and skin infections underneath the breast from moisture accumulation. in addition many patients are self-conscious about the large size of their breasts had difficulty participating in certain sports activities or have difficulty finding clothing that fits properly. insurance companies vary on what they consider medically necessary breast reduction. most policies state that a minimum of 500 g (roughly 1 pound) should be removed from each breast in order to warrant the surgery. the surgery is a trade-off because there are long incisions in most cases which will lead to noticeable scarring although this fades over the years. in addition there may be temporary or permanent numbness in the nipple and the patient will not be able to breast-feed in most cases after the surgery. that being said every patient that i performed a breast reduction on has stated that it was definitely worth the surgery and they wish they had not waited as long.
who are good candidates for breast reduction surgery?
those with lower neck upper back pain bra strap dents fungal rash under the breasts kyphosis and tingling of the fourth and fifth fingers.
who are good candidates for breast reduction surgery?
vanessa many women with large breasts can be considered good candidates for breast reduction surgery. those who are symptomatic and have neck pain shoulder pain back pain shoulder grooves from bra straps rashes underneath their breasts or difficulty findings bras that fit are good candidates that will get a huge benefit from breast reduction. also non-smokers are much better candidates.
who are good candidates for breast reduction surgery?
you can have a breast reduction if you want to reduce the size of your breasts. however insurance will only pay when there is a history of back pain neck pain and the surgeon must remove in excess of 500 grams from each breast. you can have less than 500 grams removed but then it is considered a breast lift and not covered by insurance. ricardo rodriguez md baltimore md.
would a breast reduction help or should i forget about working any more i have scoloisis ibs and big boobs back pain all my life i can not sweep a floor without my back killing me the doctors told me when i was a child that i wouldnt be able to carey
breast reduction can help upper back and neck pain that is made worse by heavy breasts. it may not affect your sclerosis at all. but physical therapy and exercise can support a arching back and and help the back pain. good bone health is also i portent and a bone density reading may show signs of bone loss. age 40 is jot to early to see this.
would a breast reduction help or should i forget about working any more i have scoloisis ibs and big boobs back pain all my life i can not sweep a floor without my back killing me the doctors told me when i was a child that i wouldnt be able to carey
you should be evaluated by a plastic surgeon who is aware of your concerns before making any career endindig decisions.
would a breast reduction improve my posture? i've only heard positive things about breast reduction surgery but i'm nervous about any surgery. i'm trying to decide if it would be worth having the procedure for back pain and long-term improvements in my p
an ideal patient for breast reduction surgery is one who presents with relatively large breasts in proportion to the remainder of her torso. these patients often present with neck back shoulder discomfort bra strap grooving postural changes and occasionally with rashes/infections. this operation tends to be one of the most patient pleasing operations we perform.
would a breast reduction improve my posture? i've only heard positive things about breast reduction surgery but i'm nervous about any surgery. i'm trying to decide if it would be worth having the procedure for back pain and long-term improvements in my p
there are a number of reasons for posture problems. you should be examined by a plastic surgeon who is aware of your concers.
would a breast reduction improve my posture? i've only heard positive things about breast reduction surgery but i'm nervous about any surgery. i'm trying to decide if it would be worth having the procedure for back pain and long-term improvements in my p
breast reduction can be a terrific procedure. depending on how big your breasts are now you may have tremendous relief from back pain neck pain shoulder pain bra strap grooving breast pain and posture. it is better to do it sooner rather than later to avoid long term sequelae.
would a breast reduction improve my posture? i've only heard positive things about breast reduction surgery but i'm nervous about any surgery. i'm trying to decide if it would be worth having the procedure for back pain and long-term improvements in my p
under the right set of circumstances breat reduction surgery is a very good procedure. i have never heard a single woman say she is sorry she had it done.
who is the best doctor to see if you want breast reduction? what are the health risks of having breast reduction?
breast reduction surgery should only be performed by a board certified plastic surgeon. depending on the community where you live you may find that there are other types of physicians who will offer this procedure but only plastic surgeons are trained in the most safe effective and current ways to perform breast reduction surgery. there are different techniques available for breast reduction surgery and your plastic surgeon will be able to evaluate you and determine with you which technique is the safest technique for you that will achieve the very best cosmetic and functional result. in a properly performed breast reduction most patients will achieve relief of neck and back pain symptoms will maintain a majority of the normal sensation to the breasts and nipples will have an approximately 60% chance of successful future breastfeeding will be able to continue to have effective screening mammograms and will have breasts that are overall symmetric and cosmetically appealing. these excellent results come with experience and training. in choosing your surgeon ask any friends or family who have had breast reduction surgery how their experiences were with their surgeons ask your primary doctor to recommend a plastic surgeon and do your own research to find a doctor whose experience personality and communication style you are comfortable with. all the best to you dr. skourtis.
wondering if medicaid will cover a breast reduction due to chronic fungal infections under the breasts and no back pain i am desperate for a breast reduction while they are only 44 dd i am 26 yrs old and have had fungal / yeast infections under my breasts
yes breast reduction surgery is potentially covered through medicaid. unfortunately it may be difficult to find a well experienced board-certified plastic surgeon who still works with this organization given the very low reimbursement and the bureaucratic challenges best wishes.
wondering if medicaid will cover a breast reduction due to chronic fungal infections under the breasts and no back pain i am desperate for a breast reduction while they are only 44 dd i am 26 yrs old and have had fungal / yeast infections under my breasts
you may go to a teaching hospital clinic with residency programme in plastic surgery. most plastic surgeons i know in new jersey do not participate in medicaid programme and breast reduction without back pain is considered cosmetic and is not covered. but you can find a plastic surgeon in your state who accept medicaid and find out if medicaid will pay for it.
wondering if medicaid will cover a breast reduction due to chronic fungal infections under the breasts and no back pain i am desperate for a breast reduction while they are only 44 dd i am 26 yrs old and have had fungal / yeast infections under my breasts
medicaid coverage for breast reduction surgery will be decided by each individual state. coverage varies. you might ask your doctor for a referral to a local plastic surgeon for a consultation and i would bet their office could best answer that question for you. breast reduction surgery can be very rewarding for both patient and surgeon. best wishes.
wondering if medicaid will cover a breast reduction due to chronic fungal infections under the breasts and no back pain i am desperate for a breast reduction while they are only 44 dd i am 26 yrs old and have had fungal / yeast infections under my breasts
medicaid will cover reduction mammaplasty (breast reduction) based on medical need. factors which contribute to medical necessity include the weight of the reduction (bigger is better) breast pain neck/shoulder/back pain bra strap grooves in your skin and panniculitis (rash skin irritation odor difficulty with hygiene) under the breast. chronic fungal infections would definitely fall under the panniculitis category. as long as these infections are documented by your health care providers you can show that they have not been stopped by using powders or creams and are truly the result of skin moisture from the large breasts i would expect medicaid to cover your surgery.
would double d breast implants be to painful on a 5 foot 3 and 145 lb. woman?
pain is not the main concern when selecting a breast implant size. the pain resolves with time. placing too large an implant can cause stretch marks back pain and subsequent breast drooping. it is important to choose an implant that fits you breast width. implants with extra projection can be used if your chest is narrow.
would double d breast implants be to painful on a 5 foot 3 and 145 lb. woman?
we don't really use abcs (abacavir) for breast size. all bra companies are different. large implants on a small woman could cause neck and back pain but this isn't common. extremely large implants on a small short frame will lead to longterm issues including ptosis and cosmetic deformity that can only be corrected by revision surgeries. downsizing is very difficult.
what could be wrong with my health? i've been having nausea lower abdominal pain lower back pain breast pain and tenderness hip pain tired all the time indigestion and stomach problems( constipated for a few days then have diarrhea). my doctors rea
you are female and 23 years old. you are experiencing nausea lower abdominal and back pain as well as breat pain. first thing is to determine pregnancy by either blood or urine. if you are sexually active even in the past. your doctor probably did this test. a thorough history and physical exam may help limit the need for additional tests. inflammatory bowel disease celiac etc after.
what could be wrong with my health? i've been having nausea lower abdominal pain lower back pain breast pain and tenderness hip pain tired all the time indigestion and stomach problems( constipated for a few days then have diarrhea). my doctors rea
i agree with you that that is a confusing and complicated situation. i am glad that you are seeng a hematologist and receiving b12 injections. it sounds like you are under good care. i don't understand why you have had false positive pregnancy tests but if there is any possibility of pregnancy then a pregnancy test should be done. you could consider going to a free or low cost clinic such as planned parenthood and having a test performed there.
could a hiatal hernia cause back pain just to the right of the spine about 1 inch below the shoulder blade?
yes it could. i would have this evaluated as most hiatal hernias do not cause pain unless there is some other problem. the possible problems could range from an early ulcer forming to a portion of the stomach or other part of the intestine that is partially/intermittently stuck within the hernia and can't get out when it needs to. see a gastroenterologist or a surgeon.
could a hiatal hernia cause back pain just to the right of the spine about 1 inch below the shoulder blade?
while anything is possible it is not typical to have right sided back pain from a hiatal hernia. if you have a very large hernia it would be possible but men of your age rarely have that large of hernias.
will male breast reduction surgery improve my back pain? i know some women have back problems due to larger breasts. could a male breast reduction improve my back issues as well? .
male breast reduction surgery will probably not improve back pain. surgery done to correct gynecomastia generally improves contour proportions and potentially improves the patient's self-image.
will male breast reduction surgery improve my back pain? i know some women have back problems due to larger breasts. could a male breast reduction improve my back issues as well? .
breast reduction improved a woman's neck and upper back pain because of the size weight and mobility of the breasts. female breast reduction removes weight and lifts the breast to firm the remaining breast tissue. male breast reduction is not likely to have the same effect unless you are a d-cup or larger. if you have lower back pain relief is even less likely. since i have never examined you i cannot give you specific advice but a consultation with a board certified plastic surgeon should be able to answer your question.
will male breast reduction surgery improve my back pain? i know some women have back problems due to larger breasts. could a male breast reduction improve my back issues as well? .
unlikely unless your gynecomastia is very severe and requires removal of more than 300 grams or tissue or if you are compensating by rolling your shoulders forward to conceal the appearance.
can lung cancer cause back pain? my mri of upper back is ok. ct chest clear. am obese and heavy chested? pain almost one year now
can cause back pain when it metastasizes to the spine. that would certainly make and mri very abnormal. your complaint is not likely due to cancer.
can lung cancer cause back pain? my mri of upper back is ok. ct chest clear. am obese and heavy chested? pain almost one year now
lung cancer that causes back pain is almost always very advanced thus visible in cxrs or mri of thoracic spine. in a 39 year old there are far more common and likely explanations. more work up maybe needed based on your particular details.
what size breasts do yo uhave to have to qualify for a breast reduction?
breast reduction surgery may occasionally be covered by medical insurance if there is a medical necessity that can be proven and documented. this requires symptoms of neck/back pain severe rash and large enough breasts to likely be responsible for the symptoms. there is a scale (the schnur scale) used by some insurance companies to correlate the size with the body habitus.
what is a breast reduction procedure like?
most patients seeking breast reduction have severe symptoms of back pain shoulder pain skin rashes and breast pain. life improves dramatically after a breast reduction for these patients.
will the government pay for my boob reduction if back pain?
i have had medicare patients with breast reductions covered by their insurance. i have no experience with medicaid. coverage depends on the degree of symptoms caused by the heavy breasts and how the insurer is feeling on the day that the claim is submitted. if you feel that your back pain is caused by the weight of your breasts an attempt to obtain coverage is worth a try.
what illness could have the symptoms of stomach pain sore and enlarged breasts fatigue back pain?
the symptoms you list are vague and can be caused by multiple problems and possibly no real illness at all. you need to see your local health care provider and make a list of your symptoms to give to him. large tender breasts can be caused by fibrocystic disease which most women have. if the breasts are large then this can cause back and neck pain. weight loss will help and in extreme cases.
can doctors tell me what does obesity cause to the human bodies?
heart disease high cholesterol and triglycerides diabetes insulin resistance gallbladder disease stress and strain on joints and their mobility back pain increased risk of certain cancers liver disease- fatty liver sleep apnea increased risk of stroke high blood pressure kidney disease asthma.
when should a person consider a? boob reduction?
if you feel that they are too large for your frame or you are having symptoms of neck and back pain should-strap grooving and difficulty exercising - and you are ok with the resulting scars then a breast reduction might be reasonable for you. see a board-certified plastic surgeon in your area for a consult.
will the government pay for my boob reduction if they are huge?
insurance may pay. if large enough and with neck pain or back pain or infections.
what is my first step in getting breast reduction evaluation?
certified by the american board of plastic surgery. breast reduction is most often done for the symptoms caused by the weight of large breasts: neck and upper back pain grooving of the shoulders from bra straps and repeated skin irritation in the folds under the breasts. this will help to define the best approach in your particular case. good luck!
what are the pros and cons of a breast reduction?
the pros are that a breast reduction alleviates whatever concerns the patient has (back pain neck pain shoulder pain physical limitations self-image issues) while the biggest con is typically the scar though other cons would be possible risks and complications (as with any surgical procedure).
want a breast lift what did it cost you?
if you have significant symptoms including back pain neck pain persistent rash or infection under the breasts and the surgeon expects the removal of 500 gm of tissue per side then your insurance may cover a portion of the cost. however if your insurance denies you then you may have to pay out of pocket for the procedure. the cost varies somewhat but would be between $5000 and $10 000.
want a breast lift what did it cost you?
first invsome cases breast reduction is a covered procedure if it meets strict medical necessity guidelines eg back pain neck pain rashes under the breast and the expected surgical excision will be larger than 500 gm reduction per side however if your insurance company denies the preauthorization and you need to pay cash out of pocket i would expect to pay somewhere between 6000 and 10000.
what are the pros and cons of having a breast reduction?
the pros of the bilateral breast reduction is the loss of the breast weight pulling on your chest and the loss of neck and back pain associated with large breasts. it is a very satifying procedure for most patients. the cons are as follows: you could lose some sensation in your nipple/areolar complex there are scars involved there is always a possibility of scars or infection.
what are some things i should know about before getting a breast reduction?
a breast reduction typically lifts and reduces the size of the breasts. often it is done because of physical symptoms such as back pain due to the weight of the breasts. while thre will be scar from the procedure most patients are extremely satisifed and happy they had it done.
what does a breast reduction consist of & what are the costs? can anyone get one?
breast reduction surgery not only reduces the size of the breasts but also lifts them. this often helps with back pain.
heart disease doesn't run in my fam norm wt bmi of 21. bp 100/60 labs good many normal ekgs normal xrays. still get chest and back pain anxiety?
or could be from reflux or musculoskeletal source or respiratory symptoms (--why are you smoking up to 2 packs a day? ). if your dr. has ruled out heart or endocrine source for symptoms then ask about these other options. once serious and specific-treatment sources eliminated then can relax if / when it shows up.
heart disease doesn't run in my fam norm wt bmi of 21. bp 100/60 labs good many normal ekgs normal xrays. still get chest and back pain anxiety?
you should look into reflux as a cause for chest pain. you doctor can help w that. anxiety can also be a cause of chest pain but there is no specific test to show that.
how could i explain to my orthopedist that my back pain is not from being overweight? i have complained of back pain but no doctor listens. <negative_smiley>
many times we don't like to hear the truth but it's true nonetheless. regardless see if your doctor might get imaging done mri and x-ray to evaluate this for you.
how could i explain to my orthopedist that my back pain is not from being overweight? i have complained of back pain but no doctor listens. <negative_smiley>
u don't have to explain to your ors! you can prove him wrong @ your young age by losing 20-25 lbs. if u do this over the next couple of months and u continue to have lbp or it worsens or appears to be running down a leg; then see him and let him reevaluate you! good luck to you!
what is the definition or description of: breast reduction surgery?
reduction entails removing extra breast tissue to relieve neck and back pain. it is often covered by insurance and involves surgery. the incisions are designed to be less obvious and heal maximally. one loses sensation and often cannot breast feed after this operation.
what are the drawbacks of getting a boob job?
the body reacts to implants by makin a scar around them this scar can harden over time and needs to be removed at some stage. implants are not permanent and need to be changed. you can have chronic pain back pain and sometimes even a poor cosmetic result depending on your surgeon and also how your body reacts to the implant. your nipple sensation can be reduced occasionally and a scar.
can hiatal hernia cause problems with my lower extremities spine?
referred to the back will just cause back pain without radiation into the legs. there can be multiple reasons for that referred pain from the abdominal or pelvic region but pain in the back with radiation into the legs is most likely related to a primary spine issue like a disc problem. if symptoms warrant it see your doctor or a physiatrist neurologist neurosurgeon or an orthopedic surgeon.
what are benefits of breast reduction?
the benefits of breast reduction include an improvement in back pain shoulder grooving from bra straps and rashes from moisture between the hanging breast and upper abdomen. most women find exercise much more comfortable and enjoy not having to shop for customized bras.
what are benefits of breast reduction?
breast reduction surgery had a very high patient satisfaction rate symptoms of neck psi back pain shoulder strap grooving and rashes beneath the breasts are typically helped with this procedure.
what are the downsides of getting a boob job?
the body reacts to implants by makin a scar around them this scar can harden over time and needs to be removed at some stage. implants are not permanent and need to be changed. you can have chronic pain back pain and sometimes even a poor cosmetic result depending on your surgeon and also how your body reacts to the implant. your nipple sensation can be reduced occasionally and a scar.
what are the symptoms/list to have to be a ideal person for a breast reduction?
very large breasts affecting posture brassiere strap marks remain following day after sleeping without back pain from large breasts marked disproportion in breast size one from other psychological or paranoid feelings about breasts being too large.
will a breast reduction really help reduce back pain?
getting the weight off of your shoulder nd back after a breast reduction often helps with back discomfort. my reduction patients are some of my happiest.
will a breast reduction really help reduce back pain?
if your back pain is being caused by the large breasts then it will be helped. it has been my experience that neck and back pan in between the shoulder blades is helped the most after breast reduction. if you are over weight then loosing weight may help your back pain and reduce the size of the breast.
will a breast reduction really help reduce back pain?
upper back and neck pain is often dramatically improved after reduction of very large breasts. this does not apply (in my experience) to lower back pain. ).
will a breast reduction releave some of the back pain caused by fibromyalgia?
breast reduction can help to relieve the strain on the upper back neck and shoulders by reducing the weight pulling in these areas from heavy dense breasts. the pain from fibromyalgia may not respond entirely from this effort as the pattern of pain is often more diffuse and not always due to a defined cause.
will a breast reduction releave some of the back pain caused by fibromyalgia?
the back pain you are experiencing from fibromyalgia is not caused by the excessive weight of large breasts but your back pain could be secondary to both. if this is the case you could expect an improvement. your provider or surgeon could guide you to whether some of your symptoms correlate with large breasts and if the anticipated amount of breast tissue removed would help you.
will a breast reduction releave some of the back pain caused by fibromyalgia?
do have recent patient with very large breasts who underwent a very successful plastic surgical reduction with substantial alleviation of back and shoulder pain to point of stopping all narcotic meds. need a careful evaluation but who knows you may be another success.
will a breast reduction releave some of the back pain caused by fibromyalgia?
i have patients occasionally ask me to write a letter to justify the health benefit of breast reduction in relieving back pain. normally breast reduction surgery is cosmetic and therefore not covered by insurance. they hope that the letter will help them get the procedure covered. i am not aware of a single study proving that this surgery significantly results in back pain relief.
what should i expect after breast reduction surgery?
back pain neck pain shoulder grooves from bra strap pressure rashes under your breasts and even less arm and finger numbness from pressure on the nerves under your bra straps. plus you will have prettier and more perky breasts though with some scars that usually fade. 15% can lost nipple sensation or ability to breast feed. usually the good far outweighs the bad if done by an abps plas surg.
are there common back problems after bariatric surgery?
not that i am aware of; most patients experience some adjustment to there new way of eating; and some post-op scarring but i would expect as weight loss occurs that back pains resolve. best to as this question to those who have undergone the procedure; or to those who perform the procedure routinely. if i hear anything different i'll 're-tap'. cheers!
are there common back problems after bariatric surgery?
if anything most patients find relief of back pain after significant weight loss. many patients increase their physical activity and exercise helps as well.
are there common back problems after bariatric surgery?
most patients have much improved back symptoms. however a herniated disc will usually remain a problem. in many cases a surgically correctable cause for back pain becomes more reasonable after the weight loss.
am i pregnant no period hard sensitive nipples cold all the time heartburn minor weight loss puffy stomach and sleepiness
the early signs of pregancy vary amongst women but here are some classic signs: 1. late/abonormal menstration - may experience spotting as egg implants to uterus 2. nausea/vomiting - morning sickness 3. fatigue/drowsiness 4. back pain 5. heachaches - due to hormone changes 6. darkening of nipple/areola 7. frequent urination pregnancy hormone can be detected in the urine about 14 days after conception take a pregancy test if your period is late.
dr put me on 12 hr all liquid diet b/c of stomach virus but i want to take ibuprofen for back pain. will that upset my stomach more without food?
different people have different reactions but it will probably be fine.
decreased urination joint pain lower back pain left rib pain all over swelling nausea weight loss dizzy spells weakness extreme tiredness? !
this cannot be answered without a history physical exam and appropriate studies. see a doctor.
decreased urination joint pain lower back pain left rib pain all over swelling nausea weight loss dizzy spells weakness extreme tiredness? !
too young to have all these get checked out full evaluation needed.
how can someone overweight weighing in at 380 lbs 5"8 be considered for bariatric surgery. ?
someone 5'8 and 380 lb has a body mass index of 57. 8. most insurance companies will cover bariatric surgery for qualifying people with a bmi over 40 or 35 with other diseases such as diabetes. bariatric procedures have been shown to help lose significant weight but also improve blood sugar blood pressure cholesterol back pain and other problems. see your doctor to discuss risks benefits.
will breast reduction surgery help fibromyalgia?
fibromyalgia is a generalized disorder. breast reduction can have a major impact for back pain and posture. this is very specific however. so generalized pain and fatigue will likely not go away after reduction.
dad's had lwr. back pain. was sitting with pain when suddenly went unconscious snoring. woken up he couldn't see. vision returned in 15 minutes.
rightaway. he has signs of stroke. take care and god bless u!
dad's had lwr. back pain. was sitting with pain when suddenly went unconscious snoring. woken up he couldn't see. vision returned in 15 minutes.
be seen for this on an urgent basis. go to an er or see you primary care doctor.
hello. i had 2 surgeries in nov / dec 2013 for hiatal hernia repair. why does back pains continue still mostly on left side?
my first question is why two surgeries did you have a complication from the first one and was any of them done laproscopically or not and what kind of complication if any. my other comment you might be experiencing gallbladder problem if you still have it hiatal hernia surgery could cause or create a problem to the gb somtime
when when is upper back pain a symptom of lung or breast cancer? been present 2 yrs. up right. mri spine ok. mam ok. chest xray ok. chronic everyday
if mri ok then not cancer. mri is one of the best tests for cancer in the spine. it would be rare for breast cancer to show up in the spine without a breast mass. hope this helps.
when when is upper back pain a symptom of lung or breast cancer? been present 2 yrs. up right. mri spine ok. mam ok. chest xray ok. chronic everyday
related to cancer as it is 2 yr duration speak to your doctor to find the cause of pain as several other benign conniptions will cause.
wife had bilateral mastectomy with reconstruction two days ago. is having back pain. is this normal? insicions are clean. drains emptied on schedul
after laying flat on their back for several hours under anesthesia many people have back soreness set in after a day or two. ask your doc what she could take for it.
what to do if i have some questions about breast reduction surgery?
see a plastic surgeon. they can assess the options. some insurance actually covers it if it is determined to be medically necessary due to back pain etc.
am overweight but losing and exercising. just had thr. having achy low back pain both sides. an issue for my ortho?
however unless you need surgery likely ortho will not do much for it. i would suggest getting an mri of your spine to be sure. it will let you know if this muscle issue versus a spine nerve impingement also known as sciatica. recommend seeing a pain/spine specialist instead.
am overweight but losing and exercising. just had thr. having achy low back pain both sides. an issue for my ortho?
limiting your daily activities or rehabilitation. if it does not improve you can ask your orthopedist to check your lower back out and recommend an appropriate course of treatment from medication back support and/or pt initially.
am overweight but losing and exercising. just had thr. having achy low back pain both sides. an issue for my ortho?
the achy low back pain may simply be from the recent increase in exercise. discuss proper exercise techniques with your therapist. see your doctor if symptoms do not improve in a few weeks.
can minocycline damage kidneys? have on and off back pain. i drink plenty of fluids & eat healthy. few members of my family have hbp & kidney issues.
with most common problems being bacterial resistance selecting for antibiotic resistant bacteria. study: <link> & <link> real cranberries daily (trial & error best individual dosage) have a much better track record of helping prevent bladder infections long term than any of the rx antibiotics.
should i be worried@ 3 weeks my hcg level at 74 i'm having back pain and pain in that muscle that's between the neck and shoulder. no bleeding no cramps. not really having pregnancy symptoms like sore breast fatigue etc basically i don't feel pregnant
blood levels and clinical exam by a gyn specialist is advised to rule out ectopic pregnancy abnormal early stage pregnancy or other issues.
sharp upper left back pain and left rib/ breast pains?
this pain can be myofascial rib pain vascular lung or even due to your gi tract. you should have it looked at by your doctor.
sir i am having lipomastia breast. plz suggest me treatment of it both non operative & operative as i feel ashame of my large breasts.?
make sure you are wearing the correct bra size for optimal comfort. this will require going to a bra specialty store to get fitted properly (nordstom is great). if you want to decrease the size then seek out a plastic surgeon. this is covered by insurance if you are having back pain.
sir i am having lipomastia breast. plz suggest me treatment of it both non operative & operative as i feel ashame of my large breasts.?
your body is made by god and he doesn't make mistakes you can however get a reduction if they cause back pain.
blood work normal. ct pelvis normal. swollen spleen testicular pain hemorrhoids weakness fatigue eye pain unintentional weight loss back pain?
none of the things you mention should be related to eye pain in my experience. see an ophthalmologist to explore things that could be related to the eye pain part but you really need a reason for the swollen spleen testicular pain and weight loss more than just a ct scan and blood work. every city has what i call the "zebra" doctor. we have a saying that the thunder of hooves should be horses.
breathing problems 3 months after pneumonia. the symptoms are overinflated lungs excess clear mucus bloodshot eyes fatigue weight loss back pain.
all sounds like asthma symptoms you need an inhaler.
can a hiatal hernia cause back pain? been suffering this for 5 years and dont know what to do
speak with your doctor to investigate other causes of your symptom.
shortness of breath chest pains breast pain upper back pain all on left side. causes?
causes. get evaluated by your physician.
sore breasts head aches back pain shoulder pain abdominal pain tired a lot queezy am i pregnant?
if you are having pregnancy symptoms then a home urine pregnancy test would be positive. they are very accurate. if it's negative your symptoms are not due to a pregnancy.
will medicaid cover for a breast reduction? i have 44dd breasts and it gives me back pain all the time and makes it hard to exercise.
many insurance companies will cover the surgery with the symptoms you mentioned. your coverage depends upon your plan benefits even with medicaid. give your insurance company a call and get a recommendation for a plastic surgeon that accepts your plan. they can then determine if you are a candidate and help you to also determine if your insurance will cover the surgery.
could my back pain be pancreatic cancer? 52 yo female overweight; pain in both shoulder blades & sore to the touch on latismus dorsi muscle. some
to find out: go see a healthcare provider who will examine you properly and tell you whether you need further tests to rule out pancreatic cancer. pancreatic cancer generally hurts a lot and constantly but it should not cause pain that can be elicited by touch on a muscle. thanks for trusting in healthtap.
ct scan 2 years ago showed large hiatal hernia containing most of my stomach. have severe chest and back pain at times after eating. do i need surgery?
you might or might not need surgery. if your surgeon recommends it i would follow his/her advice. hope all goes well - please keep me posted.
ct scan 2 years ago showed large hiatal hernia containing most of my stomach. have severe chest and back pain at times after eating. do i need surgery?
no doubt about it.
diagnosed hiatal hernia. experience chest/back pain everyday medicine/lifestyle change not working. do i need surgery? i dont know what to do
you apparently are having symptomatic gastoesophageal reflux despite medical/lifestyle changes. the next step may indeed be surgical. i would have you return to your doctor and discuss with him/her your options. you likely need to be referred for a ph study and or a egd to document the severity for insurance reasons before surgical intervention.
does being overweight cause back problems?
it could certainly cause back pain. your primary doctor should be able to help you lose weight.
diagnosed hiatal hernia & gastritis. upper back pain every other day. anti acid not working for pain. what to do?
hiatal hernia is a very common issue and finding especially in over weight population. mostly it does not require any treatment unless it becomes symptomatic. also it has a different types. all depends how bad is symptoms and type of hernia. in those case surgical intervention and treatment is needed.
the last time we had unprotected sex was 8 weeks ago. now i've been having sore breast nausea & vomiting after meals cramping back pain. lms 11/12?
i would be suspicious of pregnancy. get a preganancy test.
trying to concieve cramping headache lower back pain white clear discharge and sometimes sore breast period 7 days late pregnant test came negative?
continue trying and talk to gynecologist if in results in 6-12 month. if your symptoms are new talk to you gyn.
trying to conceive for 2nd time period 5days late white clear discharge headache back pain cramping sore breast dizziness pregnant test negative?
repeat pregnancy test in 10 days and keep trying. see your gyn.
thank you for answer i am 63yr old having bad stomach and back pain also a breast cancer survivor of 7yrs sister has had kidney biopsy not cancerous?
-is no question here. it is a statement only. no response can be given.
upper back pain one year. ct of chest in nov 12 ok. mri spine ok. could this be missed breast cancer? i had mammogram sept 12 ok. not present at rest
pain in the back with movement is usually linked to posture of the spine or ribs. cancer at your age is usually found within the breast and the testing you have undergone already is reassuring. continue to be medically examined for your concern of cancer but seek a musculoskeletal physician to help with your chest wall pain.
upper back pain one year. ct of chest in nov 12 ok. mri spine ok. could this be missed breast cancer? i had mammogram sept 12 ok. not present at rest
the examinations you received would have found spread of breast tumor to the spine. put your mind at ease about that.
up back pain for 1yr on right side. i have had 3 throastic mris. i have had mammogram and chest ct 9 months ago. should i have mri of chest?
would probably be unlikely to add anything.
up back pain for 1yr on right side. i have had 3 throastic mris. i have had mammogram and chest ct 9 months ago. should i have mri of chest?
where is the pain exactly? assuming the t-spine mri's and ct were normal. not uncommonly problems in the mid to lower cervical spine can manifest as pain in the upper back in and around the shoulder blades. mri cervical spine can be considered if this is the case. a musculoskeletal ultrasound performed by an experienced doctor may provide the answer. chest mri unlikely to add benefit.
up back pain for 16 months i do have large thickening of breast had for long time and mam ok and us ok. temp daily 99. 3 or less. ana+1640. would i b sick?
as we mature one can have a + ana without lupus. it is called autoimmunity of aging. the back pain is not due to lupus. 99. 3 is not a fever. you need to see your physician to define your health status.
up back pain for 16 months i do have large thickening of breast had for long time and mam ok and us ok. temp daily 99. 3 or less. ana+1640. would i b sick?
you should see your physician to examine your breast carefully. if there is any lump it should be examined with an ultrasound(mammograms can miss 10% of breast cancers) so any palpable lump/thickening requires a biopsy to make sure there is no cancer in your breast. your ana level is quite high. it needs to be rechecked; if it is high on rechecking then consult a rheumatologist to advise further.
up back pain almost 2yrs. right breast thickening mam ok. us ok of breast. mri spine ok? deep tumor? or could be gallbladder?
generally these are due to simple diseases which present in a different way rather than in the classical fashion. i would not worry about the tumor as you seemed to be worried as the mri would have most likely picked it up. did you get the mri of the whole spine or which section of it? i recommend seeing your doc who has been doing all these tests as he/she would have all the answers for you.
could constipation cause pain in hip and side of waist i've started new low carb diet and been constipated and now in pain.
there are many causes of low back pain and hip pain. often they are related. a bad hip can cause buttock groin and/or thigh pain. sometimes a pinched nerve in the back can cause back buttock and thigh pain depending on which nerve is involved. if your pain does not improve or gets worse you should contact your physician to help identify the cause.
can i have breast/boob reduction surgery at 18?
done. while i have perfomed breast reductions on patients as young as 15-16 because of enormous breasts causing severe neck and back pain this is very rare. the scars from breast reduction (like all scars) are permanent. while one should be able to breast feed postop there is no guarantee. also it is possible that repeat reduction may need to be done later in life.
if i got a neg. hpt but have sore breasts with bumps on my areolas and white discharge mild headaches frequent gas and back pain can i be pregnant?
if you want to know if you are pregnant take a test. in today's world you do not need to wonder if you are pregnant or not based on symptoms. pregnancy tests are available at any pharmacy and in minutes you will have your answer. they can detect a pregnancy 7-10 days after conception. the best time to take one is when you miss your period.
im almost 2months delay but im irregular im expericing headache sore breast back pain slight cramps bloated tummy tiredness and always sleepy?
did you see your doc yet.
i'm diagnosed with fiberoadnema & i have stomach and back pain is this normal?
fibroadenoma is a benign tumour of the breast and stomach? abdominal pain and back pain are not related to it. periodic follow up ith your pcp aboput the breast swelling atleast once in 6 months to a year is needed.
if large breasts run in my family and mine are already very large can i get a breast reduction surgery i am 16?
breast reduction is done for physical reasons- back pain poor posture like that. it sometimes is performed for psychological reasons. each case is different. we usually wait until a woman is older before doing the procedure.
if large breasts run in my family and mine are already very large can i get a breast reduction surgery i am 16?
although surgeons prefer to wait until all growth is complete if you have very large breasts and the appropriate symptoms (back pain bra grooving etc) reduction may be an option. however breast reduction in teenagers is associated with a higher incidence of recurrent breast enlargement. that can require another surgery later. it will also probably decrease your ability to breast feed.
is breast reduction a good idea for someone with fibromyalgia?
if you are having symptoms related to large breasts such as neck or back pain shoulder grooving skin rashes in the folds.
i am 25 5'7" 160 lbs and have 40g sized breasts. will my back eventually suffer from it if i don't get a breast reduction?
having enlarged breasts does not necessarily relate to the development of back pain. there are some women who do experience issues particularly upper back pain due to the added anterior weight of excessive breast tissue. those patients are often referred for spine evaluation by their plastic surgeons to assess for structural spinal anomalies prior to reduction mammoplasty (breast reduction).
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
complaint even after very large devices were placed. that is not to say i recommend simply getting the largest ones possible. rather your current cup size and dimensions plus degree of sagging willingness to have/ need for lift etc should be taken into account. if pts think they want implants larger than i think is sensible they have to have extra counseling.
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
breast width is a key factor more than height and weight. back pain is individual and should be a conversation with your surgeon.
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
i disagree with dr. sisto because i have had patients who complained of back pain after implants. it depends on your back health. someone with a tendency to back pain may develop problems after even a relatively small implant. why don't you try wearing a bra stuffer (try rice in baggies) of the size you want 24/7 for several days and see how it feels? i recommend less than 400ccs(2 cups).
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
hello that is not an easy answer. most plastic surgeons take chest wall measurements to determine what size implants can fit. the issue of back pain can depend on your medical history including: weight job type history of back injury starting bra size etc. go see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgery to get measured and see what would work for you. dr. shah.
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
implant size depends on the amount of tissue you have that will cover the implant. proper planning and implant selection helps prevent developing long term complications.
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
a more appropriate question would be this: what size implants are able to be safely placed beneath your breasts? only a plastic surgeon who examines you measures you and discusses the options in detail with you can make the best determination as to the final size you're trying to achieve and the size implants that will fit you. however it is impossible to predict if you will have back pain.
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
i have had thousands of women get larger breasts without complaining of back aches and have done hundreds of reductions where the women say their back pain is relieved- kind of confusing but i would recommend that you stay with a reasonable size- bigger is not always better!
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
weight and your back are probably not the limiting factor - for most people the skin envelop limits what you can get in safely and comfortably. go to our web site www. ocps. com to see examples.
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
the best way to determine the largest breast implant for your breasts is to measure the width of your breast. increasing your breast size larger than a c/d cup size may result in back strain.
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
tought questions to answer. every woman has a different pain threshold and your posture and other underlying medical problems or genetic predispositions could weigh in on the pain symptoms (no pun intended). one can not gurantee cup sizes but you should see a board certified plastic surgeon who can recommend the size that fits your frame the best as opposed to largest size.
i am thinking of getting breast implants. iam 5 foot 3 and 145 lbs. what is the largest size i can have without sufferimg back pain.?
breast implants are available by volume in cubic centimeters. the average size varies around the country by is about 300 cc. 's which will increas you bra size from one to two cups. avoid too large an implant so that you do not have back pain and that size is best determined by a physical examination.
i had a breast reduction in 2002 due to major back problems after surgery everything was great but now all the pain is back. should i get surgery?
don't jump straight to surgery. please see your primary care physician to determine the cause of your back pain. back pain is caused by a number of different reasons and seeing as the original cause of your pain is no longer the current cause there may be a number of other options for treatment.
i had a breast reduction in 2002 due to major back problems after surgery everything was great but now all the pain is back. should i get surgery?
if the pain is back something else could be going on. physical therapy would be a good place to start to make sure your core trunk and low back muscles are all optimized. especially after having surgery. if this doesn't work you should have the pain worked up by someone experienced with back pain.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
combination surgical procedures are done regularly. however it is best to evaluate each patient on an individualized basis. during this consultation process after a complete history and physical the safety of combining these surgical procedures becomes of paramount importance. best to achieve long-term stable weight prior to proceeding with surgery; make sure you have realistic expectations.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
as long as your healthy this combination of procedures is frequently performed.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
by losing weight you'll lose some breast volume. if you have large breast despite a normal weight then yes breast reduction will help you. tummy tuck may have some effect on your back but you need to tone your rectus muscles to help your back.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
insurances may cover some breast reductions if specific size and symptoms are present (check with your provider); i have not heard of any insurance that would cover a tummy tuck for back pain.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
to give a very qualified answer: if your back pain is related to having large breasts and extra weight then breast reduction and abdominoplasty can help. if it is not related then it will not help. that said it sounds like you have been doing many of the "right" things to try to manage your weight. even with weight loss though you'll never be a "b" cup! many women with large breast have upper back and shoulder pain often associated with large bras that pull the shoulders forward under the weight of the breasts. find a reputable plastic surgeon to evaluate you and see if this type of surgery may help. then get a second (and maybe third! ) opinion. this is not something to undertake lightly. also back pain is frequently associated with smoking. if you are a smoker i would recommend quitting.
i go to the doctor next week but i'm just wondering can breast pain cause back pain or vise versa? im 21 yr old female. painful left breast back pain
if breasts are large they can cause a strain on the back as a result of stretching ligaments that suspend the breast tissue. breast pain may also be related to this. in general though breast pain is not associated with malignancy or tumor. other causes can be ruptured cysts mastitis etc.
i go to the doctor next week but i'm just wondering can breast pain cause back pain or vise versa? im 21 yr old female. painful left breast back pain
if you have a pinched nerve in your back you may have referred pain around to chest wall which can be misinterpreted as breast pain. acute onset of pain in back and breast or chest wall may preceed a shingles out break.
is a woman with ddd breasts a good candidate for breast reduction?
breast reduction surgery can be indicated for medical reasons - such as persistent back pain. cosmetic reasons can include large differences in breast size (modest differences in breast size are common with the left breast is usually slightly larger than the right). surgery should not be undertaken lightly given the risks.
is getting breast enhancement surgery going to be painful on my back?
it is not a complaint i normally hear but if one gets overly large implants one could get the same back pain a large breasted women gets.
is getting breast enhancement surgery going to be painful on my back?
although logic would tell you that if large breasts cause back pain to the point that patients seek a breast reduction it would seem obvious that making smaller breasts larger would create back pain. however in reality that rarely seems to be the case.
is breast cancer really linked to upper back pain? i read in an article that it can be one of the first signs. i'm a little worried.
breast cancer rarely results in any kind of pain unless it is very advanced.
is breast cancer really linked to upper back pain? i read in an article that it can be one of the first signs. i'm a little worried.
you can have uper back pain from so many things- especially from muskuloskeletal problems like arthritis muscle sprains etc. sometime when the breasts size are too large also can give you problem with upper back pain due to the anatomy. in breast cancer patient- when back pain is present- always need to make sure that there is no spreading to the bone. it is not a first sign of breast cancer.
is breast cancer really linked to upper back pain? i read in an article that it can be one of the first signs. i'm a little worried.
upper back pain is not a common symptom of breast breast cancer. if your back pain continues i suggest seeking medical attention to find the cause.
is breast cancer really linked to upper back pain? i read in an article that it can be one of the first signs. i'm a little worried.
breast cancer that has metastasized frequently spreads to bone and in particular the spine. this can easily be defined on mri or pet and is usually associated with those lesions that have been found with multiple regional nodes. as tumor expands periosteum pain begins to develop. pecussion over area causing pain relates to such mets this is treated with chemo and local rt.
i live in newcastle nsw australia. is breast reduction for large breasted women with back and neck problems ie. neck surgery etc covered by medicare?
large breasts do give back pains shoulder pains gait problem in walking to these poor woman when all of this is properly documented and submitted to insurance companies they approve for the procedure in usa. do not know in australia.
i have double d's and i was wanting to get a boob reduction does anyone know around how much that would be?
if you are having neck and back pain from your "large boobs" it can get covered by insurance. there is a calculation that is performed to see if you qualify for a surgery for breast reduction. it depends on the percentage of your body weight that is due to your boobs. almost any surgeon will be able to do this calculation for you to see if it can get covered by insurance.
i have regular attacks of severe right chest and upper back pain. worsen with deep breaths eased temporarily by anti acid. breast cancer history r.
this sounds like reflux. i would seek attention from a gastrointestinal doctor.
i have regular attacks of severe right chest and upper back pain. worsen with deep breaths eased temporarily by anti acid. breast cancer history r.
lots of causes of right sided chest pain and back pain. with antacid relief gastric reflux - where stomach acids move backwards up the esophagus - moves up the list. but this could be pneumonia pleurisy gall bladder liver kidney stone and others. you should get it checked out by your doctor.
is it okay to get second opinion from another doctor whether it is okay to get a breast reduction?
breast reduction is performed for both medical (back pain etc from gigantomastia) to aesthetic reasons. you should get as many evaluations as it takes to make you feel secure (or not) that you are doing the right surgery (either reduction mastopexy with or without augmentation) or liposcupting) with the right doc for the right reason at this time in your life.
is it safe for a 60 yr old to have a breast reduction?
as long as your general health is acceptable age is not an important factor in determining whether you are a candidate for breast reduction. having performed many breast reductions on patients 60 years old and above i know that these women have benefited tremendously from the operation with decreased neck shoulder and back pain. meet with a board certified plastic surgeon to learn more!
i been having upper back pain sore breast tiredness headaches lightheaded and some what of chest pain. i am worried can it be from my heart?
low chance based on your description but as a doctor my decision about whether or not to check your heart in the office would be based upon your risk factors for heart disease and your description of the pain itself. for example: is it brought on by eating? breathing in? exerting yourself? how long does it last for when you have it? is it always in the some place? what does it feel like?
i been having upper back pain sore breast tiredness headaches lightheaded and some what of chest pain. i am worried can it be from my heart?
it is unlikely from the heart. you probanely have some kind of viral illness causing all these aches and pains and breast soreness and lightheadedness but you should check it with your doctor.
i have been having stomach pain back pain nausea and some breast pain what should i do?
a pregnancy test.
i have been having stomach pain back pain nausea and some breast pain what should i do?
my suggestion is see your physician or visit a clinic where they can asses your symtopms and order appropriate lab tests to better evaluate you. could you be pregnant?
i have lower back pain vaginal burning after urinating sore breast?
this requires an examination and testing by a health professional. in meantime increase your water intake. drink a lot.
iwant to reduce my breast size. i am 19years. my breast is too heavy. pls suggest someway?
symptoms related to heavy breasts include neck pain back pain breast pain shoulder pain and rashes. while weight loss use of a supportive bra and exercise and massage are helpful surgical breast reduction is the best permanent way to reduce these symptoms. new techniques create minimal scars provide an excellent shape and heal quickly.
i've been cramping and lower back pain and sore breast and all that. does this indicate my period coming?
it is caused by the elevation in progesterone that comes after ovulation but also occurs in the first part of pregnancy or when using too much progesterone on hormone replacement.
i have varicocele and gynecomastia and suffer from leg and lower back pain after masturabating and also water like sperm. can it lead to infertility?
your symptoms sound like a hormone imbalance possibly related to medications you are already taking. consult with a physician for laboratory analysis and medication review. infertility is a question of failure to conceive involving both you and your partner and can rarely be predicted.
i have varicocele and gynecomastia and suffer from leg and lower back pain after masturabating and also water like sperm. can it lead to infertility?
a varicocoele can increase the temperature of the testicles and decrease sperm production.
i've missed my period for 2 months two negative pregnancy tests. white discharge back pain sore breasts. could i be pregnant? ! i'm scared.
you need to see gynecologist to get the answer. blood pregnancy test plus gyn exam will get you answers and solution.
i have sore breasts really bad lower back pain and right hip pain have missed 2 periods and done 2 tests both negative?
you need to go see a doctor to examine you and run some tests to help sort out what is wrong. for now take pain medication either tylenol (acetaminophen) or motrin but they work only for 6-8 hours so you will have to repeat it 2-3 times a day. it is not uncommon to miss periods if your general health is not good. so you need to see a doctor soon.
i had a breast reduction seven years ago and it still hurts to sleep on my back why is that?
was reduced signficantly this would make me think that the back pain was due to something else other than the breasts. i would recommend you see your family doctor and see if a referral to an orthopedist is in order.
how will i feel emotionally after a breast reduction?
jane most women feel an immense increase in their self-esteem. a huge weight has been lifted off their chest and neck pain and back pain can improve quickly. also many women can start exercises that they couldn't perform before surgery. this also lifts one's mood and helps with further weight loss.
how old do you have to be for breast surgery?
although we usually like to wait until the breasts have finished maturing before performing any surgery on them a small percentage of adolescent girls can have a significant increase in their breast size that can cause neck and back pain. these patients are candidates for a breast reduction.
i have a large thickening in rt breast so much that when i lean back you can see it. i have had up back pain 16mths. mam ok and us was ok. investigate?
yes. definitely investigate. rec mri breast and even consider biopsy if it is palpable.
i have a large thickening in rt breast so much that when i lean back you can see it. i have had up back pain 16mths. mam ok and us was ok. investigate?
i would recommend that further investigation be performed; possibly a biopsy of the thickened skin; also one could consider mri of the breast. also consider speaking with your physician about a referral to a surgical oncologist who specializes in breast disease. better to be safe.
is upper back pain considered one of the signs of breast cancer?
many people have back pain; so back pain by itself is not a sign of breast cancer. however if you have a history of breast cancer or if you find a lump in your breast or axilla (armpit) then you should check with your doctor since breast cancer frequently travels to bone. if the backpain persists do go see your doctor (not necessary for breast cancer but to evalaute also for other reasons).
i was wondering about breast reduction. i have degenerative disc in my neck shoulder area can that be a cause of large breast size h.
large breasts can cause upper back and neck pain. sometimes a deformed back can cause chest wall asymmetry but the more common scenario is breast asymmetry due to a volume or size difference between the two breasts. ask your pcp for a referral to a plastic surgeon in your area. my patients are always appreciative of the neck ; back pain relief as we as better shaped and sized breasts post surgery.
is it possible for breast cancer symptom to be upper back pain in right shoulder? present over 1 yr. mammogram ok. us ok. spine mri ok. pain is deep.
i have never heard of breast cancer presenting in this way.
is it possible for breast cancer symptom to be upper back pain in right shoulder? present over 1 yr. mammogram ok. us ok. spine mri ok. pain is deep.
while breast cancer can present as right shoulder pain the vast majority of patients with shoulder pain do not have breast cancer.
is it possible for breast cancer symptom to be upper back pain in right shoulder? present over 1 yr. mammogram ok. us ok. spine mri ok. pain is deep.
thought i'd never say this but maybe a chiropractor can help.
is it possible for breast cancer symptom to be upper back pain in right shoulder? present over 1 yr. mammogram ok. us ok. spine mri ok. pain is deep.
someone already has had breast cancer. shoulder pain may be due to rotator cuff problems or arthritic conditions.
i'm thinking about getting my boobs smaller to avoid back pain in the future. thoughts about breast reduction?
breast reduction surgery possibly might reduce some back pains. first see a board certified plastic surgeon who does breast reduction surgery. let him/her examine you and advise you. make sure to ask about all your concerns during the consultation.
can breast cancer cause upper back pain?
breast cancer can metastasize to vertebrae and if it happens to affect the veterbrae in the upper back it will result in pain.
can breast cancer cause upper back pain?
if a breast cancer spreads it can go to the bones liver lungs or brain. if cancer gets in the bones (like the spine in the back) it can cause pain. contact your navigator or oncologist so this can be evaluated.
can breast cancer cause upper back pain?
not unless you have metastatic cancer that has spread to bones in the spine etc.
can breast cancer cause upper back pain?
unfortunately it may be related to vertebral or rib metastases.
can breast cancer cause upper back pain?
shouldn't cause upper back pain unless it has spread to the bones in the back.
how can a woman with dd-ddd get a breast reduction?
by going to plastic surgeon large breasts do give back pains shoulder pains gait problem in walking to these poor woman when all of this is properly documented and submitted to insurance companies they approve for the procedure. if they dont approve then you have to pay for it.
can a breast lift help with back problems?
most breast reductions are done for back and neck pain caused by the weight of large breasts and these often reduce back pain. a breast lift is done to put sagged breasts back into a more normal position. these do not include removal of much (if any) breast tissue so would not be expected to be very effective in helping with back problems.
how do i find a doctor to get breast reduction for my back pain for free. i have medcaid needs that share of cost. size 38' ddd?
many hospital clinics and some plastic surgeons accept medicaid. if you meet medicaid's criteria they will authorize the surgery.
how do i find a doctor to get breast reduction for my back pain for free. i have medcaid needs that share of cost. size 38' ddd?
go to the medical school plastic surgery clinic.
how do i find a doctor to get breast reduction for my back pain for free. i have medcaid needs that share of cost. size 38' ddd?
medical society. they may be able to direct you to someone in your area. also consider a teaching hospital or university. good luck!
i have had up back pain deep in right shoulder up back for 2 yrs. mri ok. right breast feels heavy and sore under arm. have had mam ok. us ok also. ?
sounds like heavier breast problem. if all screening is negative. it could be mastalgia which is back pain related to heavy breasts. sometimes trying good support bra can help.
i have unexplained deep ache in up right back 2 yrs. mri spine ok. chest xray ok. mammogram ok. ultrasound rt breast ok. could this b missed tumor?
accurate but with a normal spine mri it would be exceedingly unlikely for your back pain to be due to a tumor. breast cancer would not present as back pain either.
i have unexplained deep ache in up right back 2 yrs. mri spine ok. chest xray ok. mammogram ok. ultrasound rt breast ok. could this b missed tumor?
right upper back pain is in the territory of the right kidney. you need to address the issue with abdominal and pelvic ultrasound since you could have a stone or obstruction of the right kidney secondary to bladder obstructionby stone or gynecological tumors causing secondary obstruction to the right kidney. the retroperitoneal region could harvest a tumor or fibrosis or referred pain from lungs.
is it possible to have a breast tumor causing upper back pain deep in right shoulder for over 2 years? mamagram ok. ultrasound right breast ok? spine
it is difficult to provide an answer only with the information provided. if you have chronic back pain my advise is to make an appointment with a physician. certain tumors can metastatize to the spine. if you have no history of cancer there are more common explanations for your pain. a history of tumor would require additional investigations (mri others depending on the clinical circumstance).
is it possible to have a breast tumor causing upper back pain deep in right shoulder for over 2 years? mamagram ok. ultrasound right breast ok? spine
if your mammogram and ultrasound show no tumor then this is unlikely. a shoulder xray or ct scan might help find cause but tumor very low probability. hope it gets better soon!
i have really sensitive breasts montgomery glands noticeable right lower back pain but i have ovarian cysts. could i be pregnant?
theses symptoms can go with many different conditions. if you are concerned about pregnancy then see your doctor.
i really don't like my size considering breast reduction and weight loss opinions please?
being overweight can certainly be "unhealthy" and as we get older it gets harder to lose. if your breasts are very big the condition many lead to eventual back pains so breast reduction surgery could be an option for you. diet and exercise are surely the first step. eating less calories (weight) than you can burn off will make you lose. best wishes to you.
can you please discuss the other methods to lose breast weight besides breast reduction?
in many women your age with large breasts there may be more breast tissue than fat. the breast tissue that produces breast milk is not affected by weight loss. very large breasts that cause back pain limit physical activities and make it hard to buy clothes that fit can be reliably treated by breast reduction surgery to result in a more proportional and pleasing appearance.
can you tell me how noticeable are scars from a breast reduction?
scars do occur in breast reduction as with any surgery. the question is how well do you tend to heal what type of scar patterns are you willing to tolerate on your breasts and whether or not you think that trading scars on the breast for improved shape and decreased back pain if you have it. the scars tend to fade nicely for most people.
does insurance usually cover breast reductions? my breasts are so large that they cause me severe back pain. i believe breast reduction surgery would help with this - but is it something insurance companies cover?
the factors that go into deciding whether your insurance company will pay for breast reduction include the language and exclusions in your plan how much breast tissue will be removed what symptoms you are having from your large breasts how much you weigh and what you have tried to alleviate the symptoms you are having.
does insurance usually cover breast reductions? my breasts are so large that they cause me severe back pain. i believe breast reduction surgery would help with this - but is it something insurance companies cover?
some insurance companies in their policy state that breast reduction is not a covered surgery. for those who cover > you need documentations letters and you must get pre approval.
does insurance usually cover breast reductions? my breasts are so large that they cause me severe back pain. i believe breast reduction surgery would help with this - but is it something insurance companies cover?
with ropper documentation you may be covered talk to your carrier.
does insurance usually cover breast reductions? my breasts are so large that they cause me severe back pain. i believe breast reduction surgery would help with this - but is it something insurance companies cover?
you need to check with your insurance regarding your benefits but generally most insurances will cover breast reduction surgery if it is medically indicated.
does insurance usually cover breast reductions? my breasts are so large that they cause me severe back pain. i believe breast reduction surgery would help with this - but is it something insurance companies cover?
hello insurance companies are generally reasonable about working with you to preauthorize breast reduction. first partner with your primary care doctor to document your chronic pain. next make sure you are at or close to your ideal body weight. document with your primary care doctor all the non-surgical things you have tried to lessen your pain like massage chiropractic acupuncture and physical therapy. then meet with a plastic surgeon to learn about the operation and to see if your plastic surgeon agrees that this operation will be beneficial for you. with his/her advocacy and your pre-work you may be able to obtain an approval from your insurance company. dan downey md facs downey plastic surgery seattle wa usa.
how would lung cancer or breast cancer cause upper back pain? i have had ct chest ok/ mri throactic no contrast ok. missed cancer?
those two exams should be very good at ruling out tumor in the spine. consider seeing a physical medicine specialist for evaluation and treatment.
how would lung cancer or breast cancer cause upper back pain? i have had ct chest ok/ mri throactic no contrast ok. missed cancer?
direct invasion metastatic spread are the most common. there are a lot of non cancer causes of chest pain.
hi can someone with multiple sclerosis (& also in a wheelchair) have a breast reduction or would this be foolish?
this type of procedure might assist a patient who suffers with neck shoulder or upper back pain and decisions regarding the surgery should be made based on the indications. important to note patients with chronic neurological disorders who need prolonged immobilization due to potential surgical complications may experience lengthy and incomplete return to baseline.
help please! is breast reduction surgery painful?
that begin said the discomfort after breast reduction surgery is usually well managed with ice elevation and oral pain medication. many of my patients who have chronic lower neck and upper back pain due to large breasts feel better immediately after surgery. if you experience breast pain with your menstrual cycle you are likely to experience more discomfort than someone who does not.
does breast reduction surgery hurt much?
most women seeking breast reduction surgery are in significant neck shoulder and upper back pain already. after surgery they usually experience an immediate sense of relief not a large amount of surgical pain.
how will it feel before and after a breast reduction?
honestly you know how it feels before you will be sore for several weeks afterward but that will fade. assuming no problems and generally there aren't whatever drove you to consider it should be better such as back pain ect.
i have extreme pelvic stomach and lower back pain with cyst on my ovaries and a cystic mass in my uterus. i have spotty bleeding bleeding with sex and nausea that has gotten worse over the last month. i was just treated for stage 2 breast cancer. ar
how were you treated for breast cancer? if you had a cyst and you have an increase in symptoms i would recommend a repeat ultrasound to evaluate the cyst (which can cause nausea). as far as the bleeding symptoms i would be concerned about an endometrial polyp especially is your treatment included tamoxifen. consult a physician.
am i having symptoms of a heart attack? right breast pain pain around shoulder blades and down the center of my back pain in my right jaw a little nauseous
a heart attack is when one of the heart arteries becomes plugged with plaque or fatty deposit and then a blood clot forms to completely plug up this vessel. at this point a portion of the heart muscle does not receive blood flow and permanent heart damage will occur if the artery is not opened within an hour or so. different patients will experience a heart attack differently. the "classic" presentation is a heavy weight like a ton of bricks sitting on the middle of the chest. this may be associated with a pain radiating to the left shoulder and arm as well as nausea and sweating. however there are many other types of symptoms some patients experience when having a heart attack. sometimes the symptoms are only in the neck or jaw sometimes the symptoms are only in the arm. sometimes there is no "pain" but only a sense of shortness of breath or a strong sense that 'something isn't right. ' some people will have only minimal symptoms and never really realize they had a heart attack. if you experience any of these symptoms e. g. any bad or uncomfortable feeling between your ears and you belly button that last 5-10 minutes or more i would encourage you to call immediately to your doctor for further advice. if these symptoms are worsening you cannot breathe you pass out etc. dial 911 immediately.
am i having symptoms of a heart attack? right breast pain pain around shoulder blades and down the center of my back pain in my right jaw a little nauseous
those symptoms could be due to a heart attack. women tend to have atypical symptoms. back pain shoulder pain jaw pain nausea and or vomiting. commonly shortness of breath. please seek further help er or your pcp.
am i pregnant? i've been having lower abdominal pain pelvic pain lower back pain frequently going to the bathroom indigestion tired all the time breast pain nausea.
it's certainly possible but these also could be symptoms of a pelvic infection. you should take a pregnancy test and see you doctor.
am i pregnant? i've been having lower abdominal pain pelvic pain lower back pain frequently going to the bathroom indigestion tired all the time breast pain nausea.
hello. i can't diagnose if you are pregnant. pregnancy symptoms usually begin on or shortly after the first missed period and can include: lack of period nausea frequent urination breast tenderness and swelling abdominal enlargement lethargy passing more gas (either end) feeling mood and mild cramping. the only way to know if you are pregnant at this point is to take a pregnancy test. test care.
could i get a mastectomy to reduce my back pain?
breast reduction can sometimes help relieve back pain associated with large breasts.
do you think i need a boob reduction if d?
these days it seems like a d cup is more and more a common size! if you feel that they are too large for your frame or you are having symptoms of neck and back pain should-strap grooving and difficulty exercising - and you are ok with the resulting scars then a breast reduction might be reasonable for you. see a board-certified plastic surgeon in your area for a consult.
do big breasts cause back pains and breast pains?
large breasts can indeed cause breast chest neck back shoulder pain. a good support bra is very key to helping reduce this pain but will not alleviate it completely.
do big breasts cause back pains and breast pains?
very large and pendulous breasts can cause the bra straps to cut into the shoulders and cause "back strain" from carrying the weight of the "front". they also cause a change in the curvature of the spine ofen prompting breast reduction surgery.
how likely am i to have a malignancy. up rt back pain deep in shoulder chest ct ok. throstic mri ok. mamagram ok. us right breast ok. temps off and on?
all your imaging studies are normal so likelihood of malignancy seems incredibly low. you might investigate this pain as musculoskeletal. very common to have pain on the medial or inside portion of the scapula where it attaches to the vertebral column. a chiropractor or massage therapist might be of help to help isolate this pain and address it musculoskeletally. just an idea.
how likely am i to have a malignancy. up rt back pain deep in shoulder chest ct ok. throstic mri ok. mamagram ok. us right breast ok. temps off and on?
once you have done mammograms and ultrasound of your breasts you have done a lot and made sure that you do not have breast cancer. now you need to quit worrying and think positive as cancer is still an uncommon disease in younger people(under 50 years of age! ).
i have severe pain in my back and i am starting to have spasms and often my back goes out i hunch foward also i think i need breast reduction surgery?
34 yo female w. seeming chronic low back pain & intermittent exacerbation as "back goes out"; via sacroiliac joint sij subluxation; vertebral spine does not sublux intermittently. medical literature regards that 30% of chronic low back pain is due to sij disorder i. e. non-inflammatory mechanically-caused painful ligaments & ill-rotation of this largest joint in the axial spine at 17 sq cm.
missed period for 1 week white/yellow discharge lower back pain brown spotting once sore breasts negative pregnancy test. could i be pregnant?
home pregnancy tests are not perfect but pretty good. . reccomend blood pregnancy test and patience. also should consider eval of discharge with your md.
missed period for 1 week white/yellow discharge lower back pain brown spotting once sore breasts negative pregnancy test. could i be pregnant?
could be- a blood pregnancy test would be in order.
are women happy with results of reduction mammaplasty?
these are among the happiest patients a plastic surgeon will have. breast reduction is usually done for problems such as neck and back pain shoulder grooving and rashes under the breasts. these patients are generally so happy to have the weight removed that they do not mind the scars that result from these operations.
a week before period fatigue nausea slight cramping low back pain increase urination some headache breast tenderness pms or pregnancy?
pregnancy is always a consideration. buy a home pregnancy test. they turn positive at about the same time you'd be due to start your next expected period. if it's negative repeat in 1 week and call your doctor.
can you tell me about breast lift for a large breast?
breast lift for both the small and larger breasts are essentially the same. if the larger breast is too large for the chest frame and is associated with rashes neck or upper back pain then it may need a reduction as well. reduction and lift are similar procedures except for more volume excised in the reduction. see your local plastic or cosmetic surgeon for consultation.
can you tell me about breast lift for a large breast?
if you are experiencing lower neck and upper back pain rashes under the breasts and brastrap grooves ; perhaps even tingling of the ring and pinky fingers you may best be served by reducing the volume/weight in addition to the lift. the procedures are very similar. lift has a dismaying tendency at times early to recurrent sagging(bottoming out) but certain techniques can be repeated.
does breast reduction reduce back spasms?
in women with large breasts there is increased stresses on the lumbar spine to stay upright and balanced. in some cases breast reduction has been effective at reducing the stresses and improving back pain.
might i i go from a b cup to an e cup in breast augmentation?
breast augmentation should be done to fit the patients body. very large implants can cause ptosis or back pain. in addition the skin and muscle muscle be able to accommodate the volume.
at what age can you get a breast reduction?
although we usually like to wait until the breasts have finished maturing before performing any surgery on them a small percentage of adolescent girls can have a significant increase in their breast size that can cause neck and back pain. these patients are candidates for a breast reduction.
at what age can you get a breast reduction?
certified by the american board of plastic surgery. breast reduction is most often done for the symptoms caused by the weight of large breasts: neck and upper back pain grooving of the shoulders from bra straps and repeated skin irritation in the folds under the breasts. i have done reductions on 15 year-olds with severe neck and back pain. this is rare but it does occur.
brown/pinkish spot before period and brown mucous. exact to be dec 11-14 stomach ache back pain sore breast but on and off. im 6 late days last period?
make an appointment with gynecologist.
can care less about having breasts. will a surgeon perform a mastectomy on me for the purposes of helping my back pain?
your complaint is actually not uncommon. get a referral to a plastic surgeon and they will explain the process to get this procedure approved.
can care less about having breasts. will a surgeon perform a mastectomy on me for the purposes of helping my back pain?
typically you would want to see a plastic surgeon for this problem. this is a common problem that often is improved with breast reduction (reduction mammoplasty) surgery that is typically covered by your insurance. this involves both decreasing the volume of the breasts and providing a more youthful shape and nipple position as well. see a board certified plastic surgeon- check www. abplsurg. org
how can i help ease back pain while having man boobs?
how about starting with losing weight? extra weight that we carry around could hurt our joints and back. to have a healthy back and joint we should keep our weight at an acceptable level and exercise.
how can i help ease back pain while having man boobs?
you should weight and google back exercises on line and do them religiously
how can i help ease back pain while having man boobs?
randy "man boobs" are almost never large enough to cause back pain (that's for 46 ddd women and larger). . however total body weight and lack of exercise can easily cause back pain. if you are overweight (look up bmi to calculate your score) you should probably see a clinic to get on a weight loss and exercise program. if the back pain persists some other things could be checked. good luck!
how can i help ease back pain while having man boobs?
the answer is two fold 1. see a plastic surgeon 2. consult with a physical therapist for your back pain.
hi in september i found a lump in my breast i have since went to the doctor had an mammogram and ultra sound and was told i had a fibroadenoma and fibrocystic breast and to get daily check ups every since months but i have been having back pain regularly
your back pain is not related to your breast issues which are "benign" upper back pain however can be associated with very large breasts (a reason for breast reduction surgery) hope this information helps! dr z
hi in september i found a lump in my breast i have since went to the doctor had an mammogram and ultra sound and was told i had a fibroadenoma and fibrocystic breast and to get daily check ups every since months but i have been having back pain regularly
mass is truly a fibroadenoma it is highly unlikely that it is related to your back pain. have your doctor investigate other causes of back pain.
iv been having low back pain for awhile now and it's around where my kidneys would be. i also have been experiencing signs of low t such as bilateral gynecomastia for over a year now. can low t and ckd or kidney problems be related? shudibeconcrnd
cannot really relate low t to ckd. however i would certainly get a checkup.
iv been having low back pain for awhile now and it's around where my kidneys would be. i also have been experiencing signs of low t such as bilateral gynecomastia for over a year now. can low t and ckd or kidney problems be related? shudibeconcrnd
high levels of testosterone can be converted by the body into estrogen which in turn leads to pubertal gynecomastia. you must have been asleep during that lecture in medical school. it was given during the endocrine rotation. if the gynecomastia bothers you enough the person you should see is a breast surgeon for a reduction mammoplasty. good luck!
iv been experiencing back pain decreased appetite fatigue shortness of breath gynecomastia and when i urinate i feel like i have to go again right after i'm done. iv had these symptoms for a 6-12 months. what could this be? and what do i do?
is one possibility. please see you doc. he/she may test your hormone levels. please don't let this go on any longer. peace and good health.
iv been experiencing back pain decreased appetite fatigue shortness of breath gynecomastia and when i urinate i feel like i have to go again right after i'm done. iv had these symptoms for a 6-12 months. what could this be? and what do i do?
you shut down your computer get offline call your local uc clinic or private physician and get examined: cannot be diagnosed online. your symptoms are serious and you deserve a comprehensive workup.
iv been having back pain gynecomastia decreased appetite fatigue and when i urinate i feel like i still need to go afterwards. the back pain seems worse when i drink soda or take my ibuprofen. what is this? have had symptoms for 6-13 months
please get a full evaluation by a physician. you need a complete history and physical examination along with some blood tests and possibly some other diagnostic examinations. start with a family physician or internist. if needed they may consider referring you to an endocrinologist if it seems appropriate.
iv been having back pain gynecomastia decreased appetite fatigue and when i urinate i feel like i still need to go afterwards. the back pain seems worse when i drink soda or take my ibuprofen. what is this? have had symptoms for 6-13 months
what are you doing? do you smoke thc? better get off this if you do. the back pain needs evaluation. better change your eating habits too. all that soda and tylenol (acetaminophen) is no good. you need to see your doctor for evaluation and proper treatment
my breasts look big compared to the rest of my torso. do you think breast reduction surgery would be a good idea?
size causes you to experience back pain or other discomfort - then an evaluation for possible breast reduction surgery may be appropriate.
period due before march 11 but nausea headaches some breast tenderness twinges of pain slight gas light headed very tired back pain mood swings?
see a dr. for a pregnancy test and physical exam.
period due before march 11 but nausea headaches some breast tenderness twinges of pain slight gas light headed very tired back pain mood swings?
first check a pregnancy test. . pms or currently known as premenstrual dysphoric disorder which becomes more common in your late 20s/early 30s. i assume you are 29. it pregnancy is negative and your symptoms get better after each of your period then you have yourself a diagnosis of pmdd. check with your doc. good luck.
breast reduction before or after having children is better?
are finished having children. i have had to re-do two breast reductions in patients who had children after their first reductions and whose breasts became very large again with pregnancy and nursing. on the other hand i have done reductions in 15 yr-old girls with enormous breasts and severe neck and back pain because of them.
brown discharge after menopause breast cancer taking aromasin (exemestane) and have lower back pain?
know because sometimes brown discharge can be older deoxygenated blood. although it could be benign- don't expect bleeding after menopause. take care.
for the past 3 weeks i ve been with breast pain and they are swollew and i also had lower back pain and today the day of my period i've brown discharge?
please do a home pregnancy test. your symptoms are consistent with early pregnancy.
my big boobs hurt my back after prolonged standing. will need breast reduction surgery in the future?
if a good support bra attention to good posture and avoiding other things that cause back pain don't help and your breasts are excessively large compared to the rest of your body a breast reduction may be a blessing. plastic surgeons offer free consultations to discuss whether you are a candidate for surgery what you could expect and help assess whether your insurance will cover it. luck!
my periods r over n its time to ovulate but i feel like craving increased breast size back pain white discharge m i pregnant plz help? i m confus
could also be related to pms. recommend pregnancy test if your period is late.
mam has back pain from osteoartritis. controlled by morphine patches solpodol and etoflam gel. should she take exercise and what kind.
one of the few interventions which helps to slow down osteoarthritis is exercise. yet many patients are afraid to exercise on account of arthritic pain. the best way to accomplish both is to time the exercise when pain medicine is on board and it is relatively painless to exercise. simple walking daily for 30 minutes can make a significant impact to keep you functional and feel stronger.
mam has a 10mg release morphine patch for a back pain. she is extremely tired all the time. should the dose be reduced. never drink alcohol.
at her age - yes definitely reduce the dose if she is too tired all the time. patches are usually slow release and probably this doe is too strong for her.
period mostly gone. today i being experiencing upper back pain & breast pain. my period started the 23rd. day before i got a neg test. what can it be?
first do pregnancy test. most common is hormonal imbalance. upper back pain can do to large breast.
please explain if it is possible to get your breasts removed without having breast cancer or being trans?
in the extremely rare situation of having very strong family history of breast cancer with dense breasts on imaging large pendulous breasts that cause chronic neck and back pain and or personal hygiene issues or for gender transformation it may indicated. normally this is undertaken after a serious thought and medical indication and discussion.
yesterday 4. 5 mile walk chest pain lightheaded heart racing whole body felt weak for hours after. now extreme back pain accompanying. what to do?
in a woman may be a medical emergency signaling heart problems. please go to your emergency room or doctor now. better to be safe than sorry. peace and good health.
yesterday i had severe chest pain for 30 mins neck pain broke out in a small amount of swet today still have neck pain and back pain with light heartb?
-get into see your pcp this could very well be a cardiac problem & a sign that you should not ignore.
yesterday i had severe chest pain for 30 mins neck pain broke out in a small amount of swet today still have neck pain and back pain with light heartb?
immediately. this could be signs of a heart problem.
breast are too big 38f. is there any natural way to reduce the size? thanks
the first question is what is the cause of large breasts. part of it may be hereditary but the other part may also be individual predisposition. things that may help to reduce the breast size include losing weight avoiding medications that increase breast size exercise with emphasis on the chest and core muscles and adequate sleep. in severe cases if the size of the breasts is associated with neck and back pain it may be medically indicated to have surgical breast reduction. i recommend being seen by a plastic surgeon.
can health insurance cover some of the costs for a boob job because my breasts are very uneven?
it is a medical problem large breast is the cause of severe disabling back pains if you prove this medical documentation most of the time reduction mammoplasty (breast reduction ) is covered. correcting uneven breast is cosmetic procedure which is not covered.
does insurance pay for breast reduction?
for beauty no for back pains yes. in some woman large breasts cause severe back pains and disability if medically documented ail approve such surgery by most of insurance companies approve. if it is for cosmetic purposes no. speak to your doctor
does insurance pay for breast reduction?
in most cases insurance will reimburse the majority of the cost of the procedure as long as a certain amount of breast tissue is removed. on average a removal of at least 500cc of breast tissue from each breast in order to be considered a covered procedure. reductions used to relieve neck and back pain associated with large breasts is considered reconstructive surgery.
i am experiencing inverted nipples breast tenderness to touch stretch marks and back pain (side: both).
nipples come in all shapes and sizes. a doctor can examine you to make sure yours are normal. breast tenderness can be caused by a variety of things such as hormonal changes weight changes diet changes medications and others. back pain has a very long list of possible causes. see a doctor for an evaluation. if you think you might be pregnant check then check a home pregnancy test.
i am experiencing nipple discharge breast tenderness to touch back pain (side: lower) and abdominal pain (side: right lower) (severity: moderat.
any nipple discharge should be evaluated by a practitioner skilled in female medical problems. whether this is related to your other problems (cut off in mid question) can be assessed by the practitioner you see. please schedule asap.
i went to the er for possible mastitis. when i told the doctor i was having discomfort when urinating and back pain they took a urine sample and said?
please resubmit.
i went to the er for possible mastitis. when i told the doctor i was having discomfort when urinating and back pain they took a urine sample and said?
your question cannot be answered as it is incomplete.
last couple years i have had upper back pain on rt. chest feels heavy under right breast as well. mam ok. spine mri us ok. gallbladder is 9%. cause?
i am assuming your gallbladder ejection fraction is 9%. if this is the case then your gallbladder is not functioning like it should. this may be the cause of your problems. you should see a general surgeon for a full evaluation to determine if you would benefit from gallbladder removal. good luck!
no appetite feel lazy sore breast back pain on and off. had 2 days brown/pinkish spotting then stopped. expected period bet dec 11-14. wats the prob?
likely it is associated with your menstrual cycle- premenstrual symptoms. take nsaids- like tylenol/ advil (ibuprofen) as needed if the pain is significant. cold compress to the breast may help.
negative preg. test irregular period last period dec. 14 tender sore breast back pain mild cramping milky white discharge could i still be pregnant?
get a home pregnancy test. it'll turn positive at about the time you'd start your next expected period. if it's negative repeat it in 1 wek and call your doctor.
not on my period but i have stomach pain breast pain back pain milc headaches and mild leg pain is this normal for an 18 year old?
pain is a symptom designed to let the person know something is wrong. you need to have a medical evaluation. contact your p. c. p.
normal period of 4 days bleeding 3 days after period with lower back pain cramps clear nipple discharge and hot flashes. have had mirena (levonorgestrel) 1 yr 7 mth?
are you sure your mirena (levonorgestrel) is still in place? still worth checking a urine pregnancy test! the iuds are highly effective forms of birth control but can fail. if your discharge is different or you may have been exposed to an std please get checked for that too.
normal period of 4 days bleeding 3 days after period with lower back pain cramps clear nipple discharge and hot flashes. have had mirena (levonorgestrel) 1 yr 7 mth?
if this one time ting wait for your next period if you are going to feel the same. if keep happening then your hormones are not balanced and you might need your gyn to regulate that.
on depo. last month. having back pain. stomach pain. puffy nipples/dark? pregnancy test was negative. should i ask my doctor about this?
while these could be side effects of this medications it is always appropriate to discuss with your doctor how it is affecting you particularly.
my nails turned violet. but i dont feel chest pain shoulder pain and back pain what does it mean?
this is called raynould phenomena. small vessel in the finger get constricted and cause the color changes and sometime pain and stiffness. it is usually get aggravated with cold weather and sometime stress. it is sympathetic system goes wild for no reason it can be fixed by blocking the nerve
have severe back pain in the mid interscapular region of my back radiating to my right arm. analgesics causes tachycardia. please suggest?
follow up with doctor/urgent care today. maybe gallbladder reflux esophageal spasm pancreas rarely constipation or vascular/ cardiac issues. may consider maalox as the magnesium may relax spasm and it is an antacid. but follow up with doctor today.
while lying/sleeping on left side i feel palpitations and wake up with left upper arm pain and numbness. i have upper back pain and neck.
the symptoms are likely not related to the palpitations. the pains are likely musculoskekeletal
i have chest and back pain after quiting smoking. ekg clear as was chest xray. is this normal it is quite intense and has lasted over a week.?
your chest and backache need to be investigated. quitting smoking in my humble opinion does not have side effects beyond temporary weight gain and some anxiety? !
i have chest and back pain after quiting smoking. ekg clear as was chest xray. is this normal it is quite intense and has lasted over a week.?
chest and back pain are common effects of smoking and they can occur in withdrawal. stay alert. don't believe that starting smoking again will end these symptoms. you may need several medical re-evaluations by a doctor during your withdrawal from smoking. it is so worth it. good luck.
i take pradaxa. will a steroid shot to relieve back pain interact? the pradaxa is for an irregular heart beat. the lower back pain was caused when i lifted something too heavy.
any blood thinner and what i assume is an epidural steroid injection you are referring to is a serious matter. pradaxa is a relatively new drug and not everybody knows about it like coumadin (warfarin) or heparin. the timing of stopping and restarting this medication with respect to a spinal injection is very important. bleeding into the spinal space could cause permanent injury if done wrong.
i take pradaxa. will a steroid shot to relieve back pain interact? the pradaxa is for an irregular heart beat. the lower back pain was caused when i lifted something too heavy.
no that's the nice thing about pradaxa it doesn't have a lot of drug interactions. however with any shot there is a danger of bleeding so be sure the doctor administering the shot knows you are taking it. be sure you try some easier things like heat massage back exercises first before you go looking for an injection.
i m 37 n hav bp for 5 yrs. i get upper bac pain with jaw pain. ekg normal. b12 deficiency found. mild spondylosis found. not convinced w cause?
the jaw pain is just an adjunct to the spodylosis. when you have back pain issues especially in the upper back referral jaw pain can be associated. so get the root cause and the jaw pain should subside.
i have been suffering for several years with low back pain i've had many tests done and was told all the tests were fine. i am having trouble with daily activities walking taking a shower and etc. i only get relief by sitting. i need to know what it mi
consider an evaluation by a spine specialist who can order more detailed tests and try to find a diagnosis for chronic low back pain.
i have been suffering for several years with low back pain i've had many tests done and was told all the tests were fine. i am having trouble with daily activities walking taking a shower and etc. i only get relief by sitting. i need to know what it mi
sometimes we suffer from lower back pain due to chronic forward/flexion posture. most everything we do throughout the day involves us slouching or bending forward (writing cooking driving texting etc). chronic flexion can push our spinal discs backward putting pressure on nerves. extension exercises can help resolve and reverse this problem. read: fix your own back by r. mckenzie. it may help.
i have a ver sore neck and back constantly and have been to physio for it which didn't end up helping long term. i am constantly worried and my palms are constantly sweating. like drip sweating. ii also have a very high heart beat pm at 114. i'm not sure
tachcardia could be related to hyperthyroidism and back pain could be msuculo-seletal pain.
i have addisons disease i sometimes tend to have mid back pain and pain in my chest below my ribs ekg stresses normal but it's makes me nervous!?
could be a problem with skin nerves muscle shoulder lung heart or stomach. see your doctor for a more thorough history physical exam and further evaluation.
i have addisons disease i sometimes tend to have mid back pain and pain in my chest below my ribs ekg stresses normal but it's makes me nervous!?
if ekg and stress are normal you are unlikely to have heart disease. it appears you may have a muscle sprain or strain. see your doc.
i have back pain but i want to do any test where doctor can tell me exact problem so tell mi which test i should do?
back pain can be due to many causes. determination of specific test depends on the history related to pain its nature and behavior response to motion or lack of it radiation to what other parts of your body what relieves or aggravates it etc. other non-pain history can be helpful such as cancer trauma etc. physical exam is needed. overall you need to be evaluated by a physician.
i have back pain but i want to do any test where doctor can tell me exact problem so tell mi which test i should do?
history of your pain and the physical findings and your age help determine which tests should be done.
i am 37wks pregnant and the past 2 days have been having period type cramps low dull back pain and off and on contractions with palpitations and sob.?
you need to call your ob not ask that? here if u were my pt i would want u to call me your ob needs to assess you or send you to teh labor room so u can be assessed the contractions and back pain is not unusual to get at 37 weeks but you should not be having palpitations and sob- that is why u need to call your ob asap.
i have a irregular heart beat back pain bloated stomach & have a hard time breathing. help?
seek immediate medical attention.
i have cankers sores in throat headaches slight fever and low back pain and feeling weak and rapid pulse for six days now should i see a doctor?
you seem to be describing a viral infection and the length of time you have noted is long enough for you to seek counsel from your md. good luck!
i have cankers sores in throat headaches slight fever and low back pain and feeling weak and rapid pulse for six days now should i see a doctor?
with all these symptoms lasting for 6 days you should see a doctor.
i've noticed doctors here are very gracious giving advice please if you know a excellent surgeon in mi that deals with elders lumbar problems?
you don't need a surgeon. you need first to see your pcp then he will refer yu for either a ct or mri. not all back pain is for surgery.
im 20 years old i have chest pain and back pain this pain never stooped i got ecg and doc said its good i have cancer? or what
there are other benign causes of chest pain. please see a doctor.
is it bad that today i had palpitation while eating sharp pain in my chest back pain and difficulty breathing and swallowing?
those symptoms can have several causes see your doctor to be evaluated.
i have had upper back pain under right shoulder present one year but not at rest. this week has shifted to left. i do have fast pulse 116. and cervical sstenosis. could this be my heart?
its important to establish a diagnosis. it could be from 1) referred sources including: neck abdomen and heart. 2) shoulder sources include: arthritis labral tears instability tendinitis rotator cuff tears bursitis painful bony spurs etc. therefore proper diagnosis is essential to stopping the pain. see an orthopedic surgeon.
i have had upper back pain under right shoulder present one year but not at rest. this week has shifted to left. i do have fast pulse 116. and cervical sstenosis. could this be my heart?
the pain is more likely to be related to your cervical spine than your heart.
i have had upper back pain under right shoulder present one year but not at rest. this week has shifted to left. i do have fast pulse 116. and cervical sstenosis. could this be my heart?
it is doubtful that this is heart related. however you women have strange heart symptoms and should be included in your workup as well as chest x-ray. my experience in this type of pain it is usually related to "tightness" around the suprascapular nerve and of the rhomboid muscles attachng to the shoulder blade. i usually will block the suprascapular nerve and trigger point inject the muscle.
what are the symptoms of a heart attack?
common symptoms of a heart attack are chest pain sweating shortness of breath fatigue at times jaw pain. usually the chest pain starts with exertion and progresses to pain at rest. some feel heart burn like symptoms and some never have an y symptoms at all. remember women tend to have atypical symptoms such as back pain shoulder pain and fatigue.
what is the sign of a heart attack for men?
chest pain shortness of breath upper abdominal pain and nausea upper back pain arm pain neck and jaw pain sweating profusely uncommon fatigue feeling of doom and sever anxiety are some of the symptoms.
when heart attack is suspected is it permissible to give blood thinners before ruling out aortic dissection?
heart attacks occur much more often than aortic dissections. i would not blame anybody for trying to protect or treat for a heart attack with anticoagulants at least aspirin. in order to rule out dissection you need an angiogram or ct scan which is time comsumming. if fibrinolytics are considered (tpa (alteplase) or similar) i would probably wait to see the ct scan first. dissect. gives asymm. bps back pain.
i had 2 abnormal ekg tests. left side chest neck shoulder pain comes and goes. lightly tingling left hand. heart beats hard often. what is this?
early twenties female w. chest pain ; same sided shoulder pain ; hand tingling might consider thoracic outlet syndrome. the addition of low back pain to this symptom constellation arouses concern for primary pelvic girdle disorder ; functional scoliosis. an osteopath is needed for diagnostic evaluations. any sufferer of these symptoms would be well served to consider a fibromyalgia cause.
i get shoulder pain left arm pain back pain and heartburn. i'm worried about a heart attack. it happens every day though. what could it be?
many things are possible but the heart attack will harm you the most. see a doc get thatruled out then they will look for stomach ulcer gerd esosphagitis herniated disc in neck etc.
i get shoulder pain left arm pain back pain and heartburn. i'm worried about a heart attack. it happens every day though. what could it be?
at your age. could be esophageal musculoskeletal neurologic. stop smoking drink less see md.
if i can feel my heart beat in my abdomen and i have middle back pain could this be an aortic aneurism?
at your age unless you have underlying disease (i. e. marfan's) it's unlikely. if you are relatively thin it would be expected to be able to feel your aorta pulse.
if i can feel my heart beat in my abdomen and i have middle back pain could this be an aortic aneurism?
abdominal aortic aneurysm would be very unusual in a 22 year-old. it is also not uncommon to palpate a normal abdominal aorta if the patient is thin.
i have sporadic irregular heart beat for the past week sometimes with chest pain and upper back pain it goes away and then comes back what is this?
i could be any number of arrhythmias from serious to completely benign. someone your age with chest pain and an irregular heart beat should be evaluated by a physician.
i have chest ache on left heart palpatations dry cough upper left back pain shortness of breath and feeling nausia any idea on the problem?
with those symptoms and the smoking history i'd be most suspicious of a pulmonary problem like pneumonia but there's a long list of possibilities and you really should have someone examine you and listen to your lungs. based on that they might consider further testing. feel better!
i think i had a heart attack this morning (chest pressure upper back pain dull pain in left arm nausea) but feel fine now. should i still see a dr?
yes you should still be seen and evaluated immediately
i think i had a heart attack this morning (chest pressure upper back pain dull pain in left arm nausea) but feel fine now. should i still see a dr?
what are you waiting for? call your doctor or go to the er. if everything is normal at least you will have peace of mind.
i think i had a heart attack this morning (chest pressure upper back pain dull pain in left arm nausea) but feel fine now. should i still see a dr?
being that your only 30 it's unlikely but not impossible. if you are a smoker overweight have high cholesterol or high blood pressure and if heart disease runs in the family (first degree relative with a heart attack 55 or younger) go see a dr and get and ecg. you might still be having a heart attack and take a 325mg aspirin or 4x 81 mg just for good measure won't harm you either way.
what causes upper left back pain with movement and breathing? not intense but very bothersome. chest x-ray & ekg are both negative.
in general if pain is present during movement or breathing heart causes are very unlikely. this pattern would suggest chest wall muscle or bony irritation or injury (even with negative xray). another possibility is lung irritation (pleurisy) which can have many causes (like viruses pnuemonia etc. ) very unlikely but another possibility is blood clot(s) to the lung on the affected side.
i have severe neck and back pain after smoking meth. i took 2mg of xanax (alprazolam) and 200mg of metoprolol and hr ago. no change felt?
please go see a doctor right away. sometimes this is a serious problem that needs medical attention right away! an please stop using meth!
why can i see my pulse visibly on my belly? is this normal. have severe lower back pain and severe uterus cramping. on depo-provera almost 3mnth. bleeding.
seeing your aorta pulsate is normal if you're thin. be sure to have your doctor examine you to be sure it's not something very rare in your age like an aneurysm. check with your gynecologist about your menstrual symptoms.
what does migraine fainting spells dizziness back pain loss of balance muscle weakness and arrhythmia mean?
that's a lot of things that a doctor would call "red flags. " that means that some of that suggests at least the possibility of serious problems. if you haven't had a comprehensive evaluation for your symptoms you need one. i'd start with an internal medicine doctor and let them refer you to specialists as needed.
i was in the er today for left arm and chest pain. the ekg was fine. they said it was shoulder impingement. would you feel pain in your armpit as?
can be caused by being sandwiched between two spinal bones pressed by a bulging disc. it can cause muscle spasm and back pain. this condition must be professionally managed. see interventional pain management specialist for definitive diagnosis and management.
what are common heart attack symptoms?
common symptoms of a heart attack are chest pain sweating shortness of breath fatigue at times jaw pain. usually the chest pain starts with exertion and progresses to pain at rest. some feel heart burn like symptoms and some never have an y symptoms at all. remember women tend to have atypical symptoms such as back pain shoulder pain and fatigue.
what are the side effects of olmesetran drug?
the most common listed side effects occurring in between 1 and 10% of patients include: dizziness headache increase in blood sugar increase in triglycerides diarrhea back pain bronchitis sore throat flu-like symptoms and occasionally blood in the urine. note: just because they occur does not mean that the drug definitively causes them. it's just that they have been observed.
what are the signs that i may be suffering from heart attack symptoms?
common symptoms of a heart attack are chest pain sweating shortness of breath fatigue at times jaw pain. usually the chest pain starts with exertion and progresses to pain at rest. some feel heart burn like symptoms and some never have an y symptoms at all. remember women tend to have atypical symptoms such as back pain shoulder pain and fatigue.
i was told that i have mod. blood in urine but no uti what can be an issue? i am having low back pain (pinching) & unusual heart palpitations.
microscopic hematuria is fairly common and often from a benign familial tendency. unfortunately blood in the urine is also often the only sign one gets from some conditions that need to be discovered like bladder or kidney cancer or kidney stones. see a urologist for workup. it likely will involve an office cystoscopic exam and upper urinary tract imaging.
i was told that i have mod. blood in urine but no uti what can be an issue? i am having low back pain (pinching) & unusual heart palpitations.
that it is blood in the urine and not a contaminant. (menstrual bleeding myoglobin-which will cause the urine to dip positive for blood but reveal no red blood cells under the microscope) if you have rbc's in the urine you may need to look further up-stream (bladder / kidney / kidney stone). start by getting a good exam and assessment.
i take 12. 5mg of atenolol for anxiety. if i take naproxen 375mg for back pain will it raise my heart rate and bp?
naproxen is an nsaid which exerts is benefits by reducing the amount of inflammatory mediators in your body. taking this medication over long periods of time can cause a gradual increase in blood pressure. it should not interfere with atenolol.
had extreme heart flutters nausea dizziness arm and back pain. persistant flutters about every 20 beats for over 3 hrs. 37 yr old female smoker who has had minor flutters since i was a child. usually take aspirin and feel a little better. have had ekg'
and if possible a cardiologist who specializes in heart rhythm disturbances. there are many ways to diagnose these disturbances to determine if they are likely to be serious and if so how to treat them properly. usually more than an ecg is needed and studies in an electrophysiology laboratory may be needed for a definitive answer to your problem. if you smoke stop. avoid excess caffeine etc.
had extreme heart flutters nausea dizziness arm and back pain. persistant flutters about every 20 beats for over 3 hrs. 37 yr old female smoker who has had minor flutters since i was a child. usually take aspirin and feel a little better. have had ekg'
please call 911 now. you could be having a dangerous arrythmia or a heart attack. here are possible symptoms of a mycocardial infarction (heart attack). chest pain tightness squeezing or fullness is the most common presentation. however the pain can also present in the upper back the upper middle abdomen jaw head teeth or in the arms (left more than right). one could have nausea vomiting or it could feel like indigestion or heartburn. feeling short of breath sweating and just feeling out of sorts can also occur. about a fourth of people have no significant symptoms during a heart attack. please take this seriously. call 911. take care.
is sharp occasional back pain a concern with a person with tachycardia and bradycardia? diagnosed with ist but now presenting with slow hr as well.
you have to take that painful experience into context - is there a reason to associate the back pain with your heart condition? were you exerting yourself physically at the time? if the answers are yes go see a cardiologist for a stress test
i am having pain in the upper and mi'd back pain on the right siide. in the rib area?
never ignore this typeof pain. please get examined and get a chest xray at a local er or uc clinic.
what to take with sevenre back and lower hips pain. person has pacemaker. inability to move and walk?
make it easy and just see your doctor for evaluation and appropriate exams. at 57 with heart disease (pacemaker) back pain needs to be evaluated by a physician. not all back pain is the back. see your doctor asap.
have upper back pain/burning on both r & l side below ribs. pain sometimes starts in chest and radiates to back. history of low k. can it be related?
with persistent symptoms such as these your best bet is to see your doctor so he/she can examine you.
im 9 weeks pregnant and i just had unbereable. stomach and back pain i also have lupus and a extremely high heart rate amd increased red blood cells?
patients who are pregnant can be at risk for clotting issues this is increased dramatically if you have lupus. you need prompt evaluation exam/labs pelvic us. full clotting work up including anti cardiolipid antibody and circulating lupus anticoagulant. you may need treatment with aspirin /prednisone /lovenox if you have one of these disorders
i am taking citalopram 10mg daily and propanolol 10mg as needed (for anxiety) is it safe to take co-codomol for back pain when i need to?
yes the acetominophen and codeine combination if taken responsibly is safe in that it doesn't negatively interact with either of those medicies at the doses you say.
i am taking citalopram 10mg daily and propanolol 10mg as needed (for anxiety) is it safe to take co-codomol for back pain when i need to?
decreased effectiveness of the codeine but there is no reason you can not take these medications together.
i am taking citalopram 10mg daily and propanolol 10mg as needed (for anxiety) is it safe to take co-codomol for back pain when i need to?
not aware of a medication called co-codomol. it is ok to take ibuprofen with both propranolol and citalopram though.
had multiple ekgs chest xrays and blood work chest still hurting back pains feel like something is major wrong could this be anxiety?
symptoms like that can be as simple as vitamin deficiency an extremely common problem in u. s. because of the low standards of diet particularly the sweet "junk".
had multiple ekgs chest xrays and blood work chest still hurting back pains feel like something is major wrong could this be anxiety?
perhaps but you need to dig deeper. this could be serious!
hi i feel most of time lazy tired high heart beat rate pain in my chest nd breasts back pain nd head ace over all something even my bones thank you?
one possible reason could be hyperthyroidism but there can be many others. it is important for you to see your physician.
heart palpitation while urinating and looking down. electrocardiogram blood tests nuclear stress test ekg all normal. 36yrs old male 156lbs.
have you ever had any trauma to your spinal cord or back? are you ever having back pain? one possibility could be autonomic dysreflexia. having said that this is a problem that is more common than one would thing. as an example i am copying a link from a forum below. <link>
headaches back pain neck pain tingling in right foot and pain in leg weak tired not eating or drinking. blood work ecg holter echo stress test-normal?
need to rule out cervical spondylosis.
headaches back pain neck pain tingling in right foot and pain in leg weak tired not eating or drinking. blood work ecg holter echo stress test-normal?
a severe case of infectious mono or epstein barr virus disease can give these symptoms. you should have your ebv titers checked and if igm is positive you have active mono. next in line would be possibility of multiple sclerosis. must see a neurologist to evaluate you and your mri to rule in or rule out ms. god willing it is not ms.
headache with pain in the back of the neck and back pain? is it stroke or heart attack? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg stress test chest xray is it alarming
with all of those negative tests in an otherwise healthy 32 year- old it is most likely a musculoskeletal cause. a physiatrist can perform a thorough history and physical to confirm diagnosis and give you treatment options.
headache with pain in the back of the neck and back pain? is it stroke or heart attack? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg stress test chest xray is it alarming
i wonder if you've been in an accident or anything that could cause a whiplash to the neck. that's a first thought. stress is a second. you'll want a good diagnostitian who will listen to you carefully.
i have an adrenal nodules 1. 3 cm in my left adrenal and have rapid pulse sporadically that happens everyday and just feel not well fatigue back pain?
you need a specific diagnosis of mechanism for your symptoms these nodules are often seen incidentally on imaging studies rarely they may secrete chemicals abnormally causing intermittent symptoms; go discuss promptly with a doctor and get some testing done.
my heart is pounding so hard it is making my upper back hurt. is this normal? my chest feels heavy and it makes me slightly short of breath. this has been going on for nearly 2 months off and on. is it possibly just stress related?
it sounds like you may have a dysrhythmia (abnormal heartbeat) that is occurring intermittently. there are several types of dysrhythmia that can cause the symptoms you describe but paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia or psvt (see link below) is a fairly common dysrhythmia that can cause your heart rate to increase far beyond normal. whenever your heart beats faster it requires more oxygen to compensate for the increased workload. if your coronary arteries cannot supply enough blood to meet this demand chest or back pain (angina) can result. if this situation persists you could have a heart attack. stress caffeine alcohol and certain medications can increase the irritability of your heart and make a dysrhythmia worse but in most cases the "trigger" for the abnormal rhythm is already present somewhere in the tissues of your heart. other conditions such as anemia could contribute to your symptoms as well. in healthy young adults psvt is typically well-tolerated but any time a dysrhythmia causes angina chest pressure shortness of breath or fainting urgent medical evaluation is warranted. all things considered i think your body is sending you a message. whatever is going on here your heart doesn't seem to be tolerating it. call your doctor as soon as possible for an evaluation. good luck! <link>
what can cause my moderate chest/back pain that has been coming and going for over 24hrs now? went to er-they took blood/ekg/xray with normal results.
you may benefit greatly to have a mcg test asap. this test has the highest accuracy in detecting myocardail ischemia lack of blood flow to the heart in women with coronary artery disease. belwo is the number to call for an appointment: 516-883-3383 ext. 8101 or 516-603-6368
what would be your symptoms if the dose of premarin (conjugated estrogens) is too high? experiencing dizziness heart palpitations restless sleep and tremors
the most common symptoms of excessive dose of premarin (conjugated estrogens) would be breast tenderness nausea abdomen pain headache flu like symptoms back pain. the symptoms you describe are very serious & you should seek medical attention immediately. premarin (conjugated estrogens) therapy can cause serious side effects with increased risk of stroke pulmonary embolus deep vein thrombosis. see medical doctor right away
would heart race then go back to normal with a heart attack? chest tightness back pain diarrhea. or panic attack?
you are very young and have no risk factors for a heart attack if your family history is clear. when you see your doctor he will want to know if you get shortness of breath or numbness and tinglin in your fingers with the chest pain. you need to be seen during an episode to do an ekg and get blood tests. if it is panic then you need to discuss strategies to cope with it.
i am 33yrold and have been having left side chest pain back pain nausea breathing spasms elevated d dimer with a clear ct scan er said pulled muscl?
you need to get a complete history and a good physical exam. i suspect you have at least two things going on. a competent physician needs to determine whether this is functional illness or a serious health problem perhaps pulmonary hypertension.
my head feels pressure and my ears do too slight pains in my arms and shoulders feeling of heart beating fast upper back pain. i just had baby?
congratulations on your newborn. you can have flu or other things. impossible to guess without physical exam. see the doctor.
i have swollen glands in both of my armpits right side has been swollen for about 2 months left side didn't start until yesterday any idea? lower back pain and don't chest pain as well
now lymph nodes can react to many illnesses. it would be important for you to see your doctor since the nodes have been inflamed for 2 months or so.
i have swollen glands in both of my armpits right side has been swollen for about 2 months left side didn't start until yesterday any idea? lower back pain and don't chest pain as well
swollen glands can mean multiple things from infection to malignancy its bothersome that its both sides now and you are having other symptoms. see you doctor tell them your complete history and make sure this gets worked up
middle of night had heart rate >150 sob sweating chest pain felt like heart was quivering. today lingering tiredness chest & back pain-help?
are concerning for an arrhythmia such as svt. . please see your physician for diagnosis & treatment.
where does heart attack back pain occur? or is it general
back pain with a heart attack generally isn't going to be seen in a 26y/o female who is unlikely to have a heart attack. generally if a heart attack is present other cardiac symptoms besides back pain are present and the position of the back pain is not specific
went to the er with chest and entire back pain. ekg fine. blood tests fine. said "i don't know what's wrong. " worried it's cancer or heart problems. ?
it is not likely that you have heart disease or cancer. however er is not the right place for continuing healthcare. please find a primary care provider and follow her/his advise about diet exercise and healthy habits. do not use tobacco or alcohol.
missed period. 6 days late lower back pain and lower abdominal pain. just feel very uncomfortable. not very big appetite. heart rate goes up after eat?
reasons for missed/late periods: low body weight obesity marked weight ^ or v over-exercise endurance athletics breast-feeding ^ stress illness eating disorders (bulimia or anorexia) anovulatory cycle (no egg released) travel hormone irregularities drug use meds (i. e. birth control) or medical problems (polycystic ovary syndrome or ashermans syndrome). #1 reason is pregnancy.
missed period. 6 days late lower back pain and lower abdominal pain. just feel very uncomfortable. not very big appetite. heart rate goes up after eat?
could be.
had back pain (between shoulder blades) off and on all day. took tylenol (acetaminophen). pressure and pain. sick to stomach. almost black out. abnormal ekg. no h/a.
what the question is as you have obviously been evaluated somewhere due to the fact that you had an ekg. if you are asking us to second guess what was told to you by another physician that is neither appropriate nor the function of healthtap.
had back pain (between shoulder blades) off and on all day. took tylenol (acetaminophen). pressure and pain. sick to stomach. almost black out. abnormal ekg. no h/a.
it is difficult to tell without an exam. it could be musculoskeletal but it could be something serious. how do you know you have an abnormal ekg? is this new? it could be a dissection of your aorta pulmonary embolism (blood clot in lungs). need further eval by a healthcare provider
i have chest pain and upper back pain who wake up me at night every night the pain is sharp and last a long time. can it be heart related?
it is very possible that that those complaints could be related to the heart as well as possibly the aorta which is the tube that comes from the heart and delivers blood to the remainder of your body this is probably something that you should get checked with your family doctor and move further if necessary
i have chest pain and upper back pain who wake up me every night the pain is constant and last a long time. i had many heart tests done and they are all good. can it be related to my heart?
-pancreas u can have these symptoms. also if on bc pills a pulmonary embolism is always possible. heart tests may not reveal it. b cn by a pulmonary specialist.
my mom has diabetes for 15yrs. recently its not controlled n now she has pain all over her back. she did an ecg n evrythin is normal?
it's unlikely that her back pain is due to diabetes or to heart disease (which she apparently doesn't have anyway). the most likely cause is strain of the muscles intervertebral disk disease or arthritis of the facet joints of her spine. in most cases in her age group (45? ) this will get better by itself with time rest heat massage and analgesics.
severe back pain and mild chest pain? can a heart attack have back pain greater than chest pain?
heart attack can mimic back pain jaw pain left arm pain. regardless you should follow with a cardiologist to rule our your heart.
severe back pain and mild chest pain? can a heart attack have back pain greater than chest pain?
get workup!
woke up with back pain left side. hurts to breathe. neck jaw tingling. 26 yo. been 10 hours. how to tell its my heart? heart attack?
best to go to the doc and get checked out. many possibilities and heart attack isn't high on the list for a 26y/o but not impossible. pleural and pericardial inflammation are real as well as other things.
i have been suffering from severe fatigue dizziness headaches body aches chest pain numb hands and fingers back pain room spinning?
you have multiple symptoms and would be impossible to pin your diagnosis without a good physical exam. seek medical attention and good luck
i'm having low back pain nausea light headed and i feel a quick pulsing heartbeat on the left side by my belly button my legs feel kinda sore-?
you will need an evaluation. the pulse could be from the aorta. you have too many symptoms and this is waht your physican will evaluate this
son has sharp sudden chest/back pain with slight wheezing (new) for a month he underweigh worries a lot and has anxiety ekg last month should i worry?
sudden chest pain is always a concern. take your son for evaluation. do not delay.
since nov. llq pain on palp. near hip bone intermit trace blood and protein in urine intermittent upper abdomen pain fatty liver low back pain. ct scheduled worried about pancreatic. cancer or other. ideas?
the top 2 items would be a kidney stone or a mass in the kidney that could account for your pain and trace blood.
since nov. llq pain on palp. near hip bone intermit trace blood and protein in urine intermittent upper abdomen pain fatty liver low back pain. ct scheduled worried about pancreatic. cancer or other. ideas?
urine findings and abdominal pains points more to renal problem. pls. relax and pray.
since nov. low back pain pain on palp. ll iliac abd. intermit. pain umbilicalarea trace blood & protein in urine. kubneg. likely cancer or no? idea
this list of problems can be from things like kidney stones to cancer. best to get looked at by an md for testing.
since nov. low back pain pain on palp. ll iliac abd. intermit. pain umbilicalarea trace blood & protein in urine. kubneg. likely cancer or no? idea
you seem to have some experience in medicine judging by your question. trace blood and protein in your urine is abnormal. go see your primary care doctor immediately. it is impossible to diagnose cancer over the internet.
suffering from svt and i think theres a lump on right testical but can't find it when see doc get pains in back+feel sick twitching+headache left eye.
if you could. if you feel that there is a lump talk to a urologist and have him do a physical exam on you to ensure that it is not test ocular cancer. . then sort out the causes if your back pain fast heart rate etc. but please relax first it might slow you heart down! best luck to you and happy easter weekend!
what are the extraintestinal symptoms of ibs-c? can patients experience fatigue poor sleep headaches back pain and heart palpitations?
technically speaking ibs-c (constipation predominant) shd only affect the bowels. ibs isn't a systemic disease like ibd (inflammatory bowel disease - crohn's or ulcerative colitis). that being said ibs can certainly cause anxiety / panic disorder (it has a way of affecting the mind sleep & there4 personality) which can then explain the symptoms u describe. ttyd & perhaps a counselor regarding
how do you know if you're having a heart attack?
although chest pain or pressure are the most common sx. other sx include pain fullness or squeezing sensation of the chest; jaw pain toothache headache; shortness of breath; nausea vomiting upper middle abdominal discomfort ; sweating; heartburn or indigestio; arm pain l>r. ; upper back pain gerneral malaise; lightheadedness; or no symptoms at all. seek prompt medical attention for mi
symptoms of mild dizzy abdomenal pain left side chest pain palpitation back pain and nape pain. wat can be causing this? pls help im worriedd
require further evaluation with your physician. don't delay.
symptoms of mild dizzy abdomenal pain left side chest pain palpitation back pain and nape pain. wat can be causing this? pls help im worriedd
since you are under treatment for hypertension per your medication list these symptoms are especially concerning. strokes and cardiovascular events can present with these symptoms. you may require a cardiac workup. please seek additional care. at your age i would also suggest providing family history and any problems with your kidneys or weight to your physician.
sob right chest pain occasional right back pain& watery saliva. had multiple tests done x-ray echo ecg all come back fine. what can this be? anxiety?
anxiety is certainly a possibility. there isn't enough information here to make any other diagnostic suggestions but there are other possibilities.
sob right chest pain occasional right back pain& watery saliva. had multiple tests done x-ray echo ecg all come back fine. what can this be? anxiety?
anxiety may be one reason but make sure you allergy medicine does not have stimulants in them which can cause these symptoms or exacerbate them. try some type of mindfulness meditation or exercises which will help with focus and reduce stress.
hi i have palpitations and back pain should i go to the hospital?
we need to know your age. please put it in your public profile. we cannot answer questions from minors. knowing your country or state helps too. age location and gender can affect our answer since some conditions are more likely in different places or in different age groups. be honest! you expect if of us & we expect it of you! list any meds you take & any chronic medical problems too.
i am having chest pain metallic taste in my mouth back pain and i spit green mucus in the morning?
metallic taste can be from infection (oral tooth gums sinus) gerd systemic disease etc. chest/back pain may be indicative of cardiac/lung problem which may be much more serious. please see both physician and dentist for evaluations. symptoms my be coincidental stemming from different causes. go now.
i am having chest pain metallic taste in my mouth back pain and i spit green mucus in the morning?
as a dentist metallic tastebonouth eother indicates a saliva issue or an abcess from a tooth. sometimes changes in mouthwash toothpaste may also leave this sensation but your other symptoms indicate that there may be a lung issue and further medixal investogation maybe required
i am having chest pain and back pain i have only smoked for a year so can that cause it?
agree with prior answer the question itself should suggest the answer!
i am having chest pain and back pain i have only smoked for a year so can that cause it?
smoking can cause all sorts of ailments in your body so quit smoking today! as for your chest and back pain this could be a serious issue. it could be related to your heart or your lungs and therefore you need to go see your doctor asap to get blood tests chest x ray and ecg done to see what the cause is.
severe heart pain for3days tachycardia short of breath lightheaded explosive watery diarrhea stabbing back pain after givirus. why? see dr or er?
from the description of your symptoms of lightheadness and tachycardia you are dehydrated. get to an er for iv fluids to replete your intravascular volume and find out why you have your diarrhea. please do not wait.
what can cause chronic rib chest and back pain if cardiovascular issues were ruled out (by echo ecg & event monitor)?
one possible answer is fibromyalgia. if the pain is diffuse and not just on the chest it is worth a thought.
what can cause chronic rib chest and back pain if cardiovascular issues were ruled out (by echo ecg & event monitor)?
lots of musculoskeletal and inflammatory conditions can cause those symptoms
i had a cold for 4 weeks. now get sharp chest pains when i cough or sneeze. i've always had back pain-is it referred pain? chest xray was clear.
you should see your primary doctor to confirm this. it may be a viral pericarditis aka inflammation of the fibrous sac around the heart causing sharp chest pain; pain may also be felt in the shoulders neck or back pain worse with lying down and breathing deep. diagnosis is ekg ultrasound of the heart to look for pericardium effusion. treatment typically with nsaids like ibuprofen or naproxen.
palpitation in stomach chest and neck constipated spotting discomfort in abdomen increased in pulse rate lower back pain always feel sick pt was nega.?
going on. too much to adequately sort out here. please see your physician for a thorough evaluation.
pain in left side of chest. bp and heart rate good. pain feels like it right under left breast. sharp pain then goes away. left back pain too?
if each pain is lasting literally 1 or 2 seconds it is not cardiac. if 30 sec. or longer or aggravated by exercise consider heart. compression of a thoracic nerve in your back is possible. if skin in painful area is hypersensitive consider early shingles.
shoulder and back pain left side for over a week. heart rate near 100 most of yesterday. palpitations no shortness of breath or arrhythmia. worried?
no way to tell if this is anything serious you need to see your doctor to determine if this is a heart problem or pulled/strained muscle. good luck!
shoulder and back pain left side for over a week. heart rate near 100 most of yesterday. palpitations no shortness of breath or arrhythmia. worried?
i suggest having a visit to evaluate your symptoms of shoulder and back pain. it is possible that the pain is muscular and is causing anxiety with a rapid heart rate. however if you have heart inflammation such as pericarditis lung inflammation or hyperthyroidism you could have these same symptoms. the only way to evaluate is to be seen.
if a teenage girl is experiencing chest pain and sharp back pain several times a day and she did not strain her muscles what could be the problem?
long the symptoms have been there and exactly where the pain is it could be one of several things. if you are coughing and/or have fever it could be an infection. i would recommend having your doctor examine you to determine the cause and treat you properly so that you can feel better soon.
i have been having upper right abdominal pain right and middle chest pain and some back pain for the past 4-5 days. i have a feeling of fullness as well. i have had diarrhea consistently for 3-4 weeks or so but less so since sunday. feeling unwel?
the right upper quadrant pain would suggest a gallbladder problem. that could be related to diarrhea too. the 3 weeks or so of diarrhea is too much. you should get checked.
i have been having upper right abdominal pain right and middle chest pain and some back pain for the past 4-5 days. i have a feeling of fullness as well. i have had diarrhea consistently for 3-4 weeks or so but less so since sunday. feeling unwel?
full history and physical needed. you need an ultrasound to evaluate for gallstones and blood work stool cultures. based on physical exam findings you may need chest x ray or ekg as well but the pain may be referred. diarrhea is greater than 3 loose bowel movements in one day. chronic diarrhea requires stool culture ova parasites check and gi consultation. good luck
pressure in my sternum and feel like i need to throw up. hiatel hernia and anxiety. possible flu. ekg and bloodwork normal.
this could easily be anxiety especially from your real condition of hiatal hernia. you've got some significant symptoms especially the back pain which can be many things like a tear in your esophageal-gastric lining or the beginnings of an ulcer or pancreatitis. it would be wise to see your doctor to talk of stress relief diet change and to rule out a serious issue like those mentioned.
would it be ideal to do a pericardial window when one has a mod-lg pericardial effusion along w/ left shoulder/blade arm neck chest & back pain.
if there is right ventricular compression by echo cardio gram then sooner the better. distention of pericardial sac can cause symptoms you described.
would it be ideal to do a pericardial window when one has a mod-lg pericardial effusion along w/ left shoulder/blade arm neck chest & back pain.
most importantly the cause of effusion needs determination; a window procedure offer symptom relief and opportunity to secure fluid and tissue for lab analysis as a diagnostic exercise as well as relief of symptoms
hello i got a cortisone shot yesterday for my lower back pain and a prescription for an oral steroid pac (6) days. my back pain has gotten worse?
asking why the cortisone injection made your back worse. most times the injection helps the first few hours with pain relief due to local anesthetic and then a period of feeling worse due to the original pain plus the mild trauma induced by the needle then feel better with cortisone the next 2 to 7 days. but do call your provider if you experience fever or excruciating pain after a few days.
have had chest (l; above breast); back pain indigest. weak morning pulse. xray clear but ecg showed slightly abnormal depression. how likely mi/pe?
i would suggest reviewing your ekg and labs such as a crp and cardiac enzymes with your physician. the test result may indicate strain on the cardiac tissue. is there any respiratory symptom such cough?
i am experiencing abdominal pain (side: left upper) (severity: moderate) chest pain on deep breaths and low back pain. my ribs hurt alot. what is it.
how long worsening? any trauma? any fever? these are the things we need to know before attempting a differential. it could be a lot of things from a broken rib to a injured spleen to diverticulitis. bottom line: you need to see a doctor.
heart rate normal but still feel intermittent pounding of heart. holter/event monitor normal. also get back pain. started after surgery. any ideas?
it is reassuring that the holter monitor is negative. some of the other symptoms may suggest an underlying connective tissue disease. it is critical to have a knowledge of family history and i recommend evaluation by a rheumatologist.
lying down get ll back pain & tachycardia + high bp. have lhs l5 spondylolysthesis & si joint arthritis. pt pain meds accu chiro only temp help.?
this may suggest that your spondylolisthesis is unstable and "slipping" when you lie down. often the measures that you describe provide only temporary relief. injections may help but can aldo be temporary. essentially the spondylolisthesis is a mechanical problem that may ultimately need to be fixed.
lying down get ll back pain & tachycardia + high bp. have lhs l5 spondylolysthesis & si joint arthritis. pt pain meds accu chiro only temp help.?
many times bp and heart rate can go up when you are in pain. mechanical lbp frequently increases in certain positions and with certain activity. most lbp like this especially without leg involvement come from the degenerative joints of the lumbar spine leading to the spondylolisthesis. injections of these inflamed joints may help a ton.
what is heart attack?
caused by clogged coronary vessel. symptoms of chest pain pressure. with radiation of pain down the left arm usually and or neck jaw and or back pain ( refereed pain) need to get to nearest hospital with international facility. for emergent angioplasty. take aspirin call 911 rescue they will get patient to the nearest hospital with appropriate facility
left inner bicep ache that is accompanied by back forearm ache and pinky numbness. echo stress test were good. possible causes?
i would encourage getting checked out but the constellation of back pain and pinky numbness raise the possibility of a pinched nerve. a full history and physical should help sort out if this is a possibility or not with your symptoms. good luck!
lower back pain stomach cramping nausea clear/white discharge sore breast but npt. af came 2/14 and 3/13. but i feel movements in uterus?
home pregnancy tests are pretty accurate so it's unlikely you're pregnant especially with on-time periods. the feelings you're having could intestinal movements and the pain could be fibroids or endometriosis. best to see a gyn doc to try to sort it out with you.
left arm pain chest tightness jaw pain back pain. dr did echo ekg chest ct and blood work in november and says it's not my heart. what is it?
it is likely an anxiety reaction. have a rheumatologist evaluate the problems to be certain.
left arm feels numbish and heavy. upper back pain. good ekg heart enzymes chest xray a month ago. went for run today and was fine. heart issue? 21yr
if you're left arm is feeling numb and heavy right now its prudent to be evaluated now. if it always feel heavy then waiting is okay. left arm heaviness jaw tightness chest pain is cardiac until proven otherwise. although both left arm heaviness and numbness upper back pain may be caused by sleeping in awkward position or even reflux but its better safe than sorry
left arm feels numbish and heavy. upper back pain. good ekg heart enzymes chest xray a month ago. went for run today and was fine. heart issue? 21yr
get evaluated to rule out a neurological basis for the symptoms
long stabbing right chest pain intermitten w/ back pain opposit. ekg echo est u-sound chest xray normal. costochondritist on?
sounds like costochondral pain is a possibility
my lower back was injured in a motorcycle accident. recently i have started having heart palpitations. is the lower back pain related to my heart pain?
pain can cause palpitations. if your are having heart pain then you need to be seen. if the palpitations continue then you also need an evaluation including an ekg
my lower back pained and my heartbeat so fast?
the elevated heart beat may be from pain especially if severe i. e. pain causes heart rate to increase. but it can also be related to the cause of pain if the pain is due to infection in intestine (crohns proctitis ileitis) or kidneys or ovaries uterus tubes. may als ojust be sciatica constipation would follow up with doctor today
previously seen at er. 40 times the normal count of liver enzymes back pain nausea vomiting. given two liters of fluids still trouble urinating tachycardia and fever. starts antibiotics two days later continued symptoms with the addition of diarr
you sound quite ill. i am absolutely certain that the er didn't release you without recommendation for followup? impossible for us to make a diagnosis without more info - no doubt you have testing scheduled or done? the key here is on-going care. please follow up as advised. this sounds serious and should not be taken lightly
sever back pain in the middle. pain radiets around my sides and my rib cage. chest tightness! i'm wheezing with my asthma! please help me asap. ?
if you are having severe asthma symptoms with wheezing chest tightness and shortness of breath refractory to rescue medications (albuterol) you need to be seen immediately for further treatment. call 911 or go to emergency room immediately.
severe bloating for several mnths that comes and goes fatigue lower extremity pain lower back pain r-sided chest pain that comes and goes & gassy. i do have barretts disease.
get checked for gallbladder disease asap. your symptoms are highly suggestive of gallstones or an inflamed gallbladder. go to er or private physician-now!
strong headache ribs pain back pain pinkish vomit temperature on cheeks 39. 5 c and rapid heart beat in 26 yo male please help?
how can you be on the internet when you [or someone] is so sick? you must go to the emergency department for immediate attention.
tubal 13 years ago tsh ekg cbc normal. last period 2/13. breast soreness. fatigue back pain had some abdominal cramping early march none since.
time to see your gynecologist again!
terrible headache sometimes lower back pain gum hurts sensitive teeth speeding&slowing heartbeat chest pain. no serious problem detected at the clinic?
your symptoms are very vague and do not point to a single illness. if you are going through some kind of stressful situation in your life or hove anxiety then that would cause all the symptoms. if not then you should go and see your regular physician for a complete checkup to rule out any proble. for the tooth and gum problem you should see a dentist.
what can cause me to have sharp chest pain associated with high left side back pain up into the back of my neck sometimes causing a headache?
with the limited information the foremost concern would be a heart condition such as angina. i would recommend that you get evaluated as soon as possible. it is possible you have cervical spine or a muscular cause for your symptoms but these conditions are not life-threatening. please get a cardiology evaluation first and make sure you don't have symptoms related to heart disease.
i have been having chest pains for about a week along with back pain. should i be concerned about having a heart attack?
please familiarize yourself with the symptoms listed in this mayo clinic article & compare with your own symptoms. ref: <link>
just got out of hospital for chest and back pain. troponin was 0. 12 upon admission. stress test was normal. why would troponins be present?
troponin is present in skeletal muscle as well cardiac. other than that it is a complex answer best described by your heart doctor.
my friend is experiencing chest pain or discomfort (quality: sharp or stabbing) (side: left) (severity: moderate) (time frame: sudden) and low back p?
the most likely cause of simultaneous low back pain and left sided chest pain in a young woman would be an infection of your kidney or a pneumonia with pleurisy. either of these should be checked out in person and treated. very rarely someone your age could have an issue with their heart that suddenly appears (at your age) or a problem with her pancreas. so - take her to her doc.
normal chest x-ray and vq scan. normal ekg. chest and back pain gurggling sound short of breath dizzy. also tachycardic and dry cough. please help.
you need further face2face evaluation by a physician. sounds like you are in the middle of a work-up. are you an inpatient or is this evaluation being done as an outpatient? sounds like you are looking for a second opinion? too much information is required to properly second guess your current work-up. online is not appropriate for this purpose.
normal chest x-ray and vq scan. normal ekg. chest and back pain gurggling sound short of breath dizzy. also tachycardic and dry cough. please help.
i assume you have been to the er and were discharged. a serious cause for your symptoms seems less likely as your initial tests were normal. among the less serious causes for such symptoms is the possibility of a chest cold and superimposed panic attack with hyperventilation. but if your symptoms persist you need to be re evaluated to determine the proper diagnosis. return to the er if needed.
normal chest x-ray and vq scan. normal ekg. chest and back pain gurggling sound short of breath dizzy. also tachycardic and dry cough. please help.
please see a board certified pulmonary medicine expert ( pulmonologist)-asap- unable to diagnose online; however very suggestive of bronchospasm with superimposed viral or bacterial infection.
no gallbladder for 2months and having chest pain stomach burnings and throat pain back pain sometimes i can't even eat cuz i feel bloated should i tak?
or consult your pcp for evaluation of either gerd or helicobacter pylori infection. you may need upper endoscopy to evaluate the upper gi tract to rule out esophagitis.
pain in middle of chest- pressure and tightness and also pain. fatigue headache back pain. been 2 or so days. 20 yr old f. ?
female at age 20 unlikely to have heart pain but not impossible. do all symptoms occur at the same time? does the chest pain occur with exercise or with taking a deep breath? does any particular body movement cause the chest or back pain? not sure all symptoms are related to the same thing unless they all occur at the same time and occur with a specific activity.
should i go to the er? i've had chest tightness almost every minute heart flutters upper back pain body aches and a slight fever. going on 5 days.
your symptoms warrant evaluation if going on for 5 days so you can still see your doctor first but if progressing fast er would be your first choice
sudden strong back pain;high wbc and ly crp 5. 24 mg/l ca d-dimer 1. 05 mg/l low myoglobin. normal xr coagulation ecg abd echo. emboli? rheumato?
more description of the back pain is needed in order to make a differential diagnosis. apparently there is no history of injury. the pain could be muscular skeletal or even disc related. do spinal motions aggravate the discomfort? any urinary symptoms? if not an evaluation by an orthopedic or spinal specialist is advisable. appropriate tests like mri may be ordered if symptoms persist.
upper back pain mostly left side no cough shortness of breath after activity and irregular heartbeat at times?
see your pcp.
upper left back pain went to er n had xray ctscan with contrast two ekgs and blood work but all normal pain persists should i be concerned?
the most common causes of left upper back pain are muscle and ligament strain shoulder injury and muscle spasms. the majority of left upper back pain cases are from overuse. due to the many factors that could contribute to back pain a trained physician is required to diagnose the exact cause. it sounds like you had a thorough work up but no cause was found. hard to say w/o more details.
upper left back pain went to er n had xray ctscan with contrast two ekgs and blood work but all normal pain persists should i be concerned?
you should establish a relationship with a primary care physician and let them do a full history and physical exam. if they are not able to define the cause of this discomfort they will help to guide you to an appropriate source for further evaluation.
upper left back pain went to er n had xray ctscan with contrast two ekgs and blood work but all normal pain persists should i be concerned?
what was your discharge diagnosis. did you receive any prescriptions. if all your work up was negative then you are probably having a trapezius or rhomboid strain. you should consult your physician. your symptoms are caused by a muscle spasm. your physician can prescribe you some nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication and muscle relaxants and or physical therapy which will help
upper back pain severe at times with spasms. occ. chest and stomach pain too. ekg. chest xray. heart enzymes. labs. negative. still worried. lung cancet?
there are many other much more likely causes.
upper back pain severe at times with spasms. occ. chest and stomach pain too. ekg. chest xray. heart enzymes. labs. negative. still worried. lung cancet?
the chest x-ray would show something in the case of cancer. in middle age back pain is usually related to the spine and muscles. discuss your concerns with your physician.
upper back pain severe at times with spasms. occ. chest and stomach pain too. ekg. chest xray. heart enzymes. labs. negative. still worried. lung cancet?
kidney pancreas lungs spinal nerves etc. . explore further. also the tests you went thought are not enough to rule out your potential heart problems. the best option is multifunction cardiogram. <link> wishing you the best luck!
what is the causes of chest and back chest pain?
twenty different diagnoses that can give you chest and back pain. to differentiate them you will need a thorough history examination and laboratory testing. see a health care professional for this.
what causes upper back pain and left chest pain around the same area. steady sharp pain from area left chest to to same distance straight to upper back? feels like a pinch when i'm moving
various issues can yield left chest pain radiating into the upper back. first you need an ekg to rule out a myocardial infarction as it can present in the manner you're describing but is usually but not always accompanied by chest heaviness shortness of breath sweats and left arm or neck pain. a chest xray will show wether is it pneumonia or maybe just a sprained pec muscle
shortness if breathe insomnia neck & lower back pain low blood pressure. doctors say they can't find what causing my decreased blood flow to my brain?
how was it established that you have low blood flow to the brain. if your blood pressure is low you will have decreased blood flow everywhere. i agree you need a full medical evaluation and if ok then you need an exercise program to improve your blood pressure your strength your back and neck pain and to improve your sleep. the simple answer is that you may be deconditioned.
shortness if breathe insomnia neck & lower back pain low blood pressure. doctors say they can't find what causing my decreased blood flow to my brain?
if you mean that your blood pressure is low there are many reasons this can happen. if you having body aches and shortness of breath if you are having numbness and tingling you may have an autonomic neuropathy. maybe you should see a neurologist.
please help me! chest and upper back pains for 3 days! 34 weeks pregnant. heart attack/problems?
multiple non cardiac potential causes but may be serious. dvt embolism pneumonia etc but there are tests to sort out.
pain in my left arm without any chest pain i have recently been put on gabapentin for my l5 back pain could the meds cause this pain in my l arm?
your symptoms are unlikely coming from the medications. i recommend you seeing your doctor to discuss your concern. there are many causes of arm pain including nerve impingement which is treated with gabapentin.
pain in my left arm without any chest pain i have recently been put on gabapentin for my l5 back pain could the meds cause this pain in my l arm?
unusual to come from that med. sounds like a pinched nerve in neck or arm.
symptoms:abdominal pain lower back pain heavy clotted bleeding after period ended light headed nausea difficulty breathing while standing. retain water?
definitely needs to be evaluated by your doctor. difficulty breathing does not really go with gynecological issues. i would start with your pcp for that then see obgyn for the rest .
will mri of my thoracic be able to tell if it is cause of rib back and chest pain? i have ddd scoliosis osteoarthritis in area
the mri may tell you the possible cause of the back pain but not the abdominal or urinary issues.
what is the best procedure to fix an aneurism and bulging disk on l3 and l4 section on the spine and followup recovery?
assuming you're talking about an abdominal aortic aneurysm this is unrelated to bulging discs although each can cause back pain. if aneurysm is under 5 cm it usually is not treated. if over 5 cm it is treated either by a stent or open operation to replace aorta with graft. bulging disc treatment depends on symptoms. evaluate by spinal surgeon.
what are the symptoms of a chest aneurysm?
often none but can cause chest pain back pain arm pain shortness of breath and even sudden death if ruptures.
what could cause back pain discomfort or burning in middle of the back with slight difficulties breathing. no cough or fever. heart checked ok.
arthritis scoliosis herniated disk shingles kidney stone are among other causes which resulted in your back pain. see physician for diagnoses and treatment.
what is fatty kidney ( after having svere back pain i had been diagnosed having fatty kidney). cause treatment prevention prognoses?
fatty kidney or fatty liver? fatty liver is very common and is due to being overweight or drinking too much alcohol can end up in liver failure. there is no medical term such as "fatty kidney". maybe your doctor tried to put some other issues in lay term. please talk to your doctor.
what should i do if i have back pain and breathing problems?
your symptoms are alarming. you need to see a physician as soon as possible.
what can cause chest and upper back pain i've had it for over a week now and it's a lot worse at night when i'm layer down worried of heart problems?
chest and upper back pain can occur with fracture of a thoracic vertebra and consequent pinching of a nerve supplying the upper back and anterior ribs of the chest. see your doctor have an x-ray of your thoracic spine and if this is negative let your doctor consider other causes. heart problems do not manifest as pain in your upper back or with lying down. your esophagus can do this.
what can cause chest and upper back pain i've had it for over a week now and it's a lot worse at night when i'm layer down worried of heart problems?
it may be anxiety as it is occuring with higher intensity at night when one has time to think (and worry). i see this a lot as a physical symptom of annxiety. if there are no medical findings associated with these symptoms stress and anxiety need to be explored.
what are the side effects of taking tricor (fenofibrate)?
the most common reactions are constipation headaches alt ast elevations abominal pain back pain muscle pain nusea. they are more serious complications such as hepatitis pancreatitis myositis myopathy cholelithiasis rhabdomyolysis and stevens-johnson sydrome.
why do i feel the need to take excessive deep breaths? it causes me to get light left side back pain n light chest pain & lightheadecan it be anxiety?
anxiety can involve mental emotional and physical symptoms. these commonly appear in respiratory system as well as cardiovascular gi and neurological systems too. for thoroughness it's a good idea to have a checkup with your primary care doctor. but your anxiety can be treated with a combination of psychotherapy and medications if those are needed. a psychiatrist & psychologist can help.
why do i feel the need to take excessive deep breaths? it causes me to get light left side back pain n light chest pain & lightheadecan it be anxiety?
you have multiple symptoms before labeling it as anxiety go to your doctor make sure you do not have anything else.
what are side effects of irbesartan for high blood pressure?
common adverse drug reactions (adrs) include: dizziness headache and/or hyperkalemia. infrequent adrs associated with therapy include: first dose orthostatic hypotension rash diarrhea dyspepsia abnormal liver function muscle cramp myalgia back pain insomnia decreased hemoglobin levels renal impairment pharyngitis and/or nasal congestion.
what are the symptoms of an aortic aneurysm?
most of them are asymptomatic. abdominal aortic aneurysm can cause mid abdominal and back pain sometimes. severe pain and fever if infected. unusually emboli or clots to legs and ischemia. thoracic aortic aneurysm may cause back pain or compression on structure like esophagous(difficulty swallowing) trachea or bronchus( difficulty breathing) or nerves like recurrent laryngeal nerve( horesness).
what symptoms should make me suspect i may have an aortic dissection?
pain that is abrupt in onset and severe in intensity is the most common symptom with aortic dissection (roughly 90% of cases). because of the size and location of the aorta pain may be experienced as either chest pain back pain or abdominal pain. additionally pain that feels like ripping or tearing in any of these areas should raise a concern for aortic dissection.
what are the symptoms of atherosclerosis?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes atherosclerosis is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what are symptoms of arteriosclerosis?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes atherosclerosis is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what is the principal symptom of coronary artery disease?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes coronary artery disease is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what are some signs of coronary heart disease?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes heart disease is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what are some of the symptoms to heart disease?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes heart disease is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
which symptoms occur with arteriosclerosis?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes atherosclerosis is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what are the effects of coronary artery disease?
chest pain arrythmia sudden death shortness of breath asymptomatic jaw pain shoulder pain back pain abdominal pain.
what is spine stenosis pain?
there are two types one causes back pain and the other leg pain. both seem to get worse with standing or walking. don't assume you have spinal stenosis as other conditions can mimic it. see you doctor and get a firm diagnosis.
what are common symptoms of coronary heart disease and how do you get it?
chest pain dyspnea (shortness of breath) shoulder and arm pain throat or neck pain back pain chest tightness and weakness or fatigue are common symptoms of coronary heart disease. coronary disease can be caused by genetic factors (ie familial) or acquired factors such as smoking or obesity-related diseases (diabetes cholesterol abnormalities sedentary lifestyle hypertension etc. ).
what serious back conditions do not show up on mri? my daughter 25 can no longer work mainly due to extreme back pain. she has episodes of nosebleeds extreme low blood pressure no menstrual cycle and extreme constipation. her insurance runs out in 2 w
let me say that i understand your frustration and concern. you want answers and you want your daughter's pain relieved. based on your post it sounds like your daughter has some major issues going on and her doctors are trying to help but are currently unsuccessful at finding a diagnosis. however tests are being done so be reassured by this. i know you mentioned her insurance runs out in two weeks. i suggest you speak with a social worker and see if there is state or county insurance available to her. once this is resolved i recommend getting your daughter in to see a pain specialist. there are many treatment options available to help alleviate her pain. as far as mri's go they can show: disc problems tumors arthritis infection nerve damage congenital spine problems now you also need to take into consideration the quality of the test and even the positon of the patient during the test which can affect the findings. also the doctor interpreting the mri may have missed something simply human error. you can always request a second reading by a different radiologist. give your daughter hope and encouragement always and continue to seek care and push for a diagnosis and appropriate treatment. good luck.
what serious back conditions do not show up on mri? my daughter 25 can no longer work mainly due to extreme back pain. she has episodes of nosebleeds extreme low blood pressure no menstrual cycle and extreme constipation. her insurance runs out in 2 w
mri accurately portrays injuries and structural abnormalities in your vertebrae disks spinal cord and nerve roots and it is a good way to detect injuries to the soft tissues surrounding your spinal column. in addition mri can usually detect inflammation or infection in any of these tissues. what mri cannot depict is the "gating" that often occurs in chronic pain syndromes. that is it does not show nervous impulses that arise as the result of painful conditions (and many of these impulses continue to travel through your nervous system even when injured or inflamed tissues have healed). if the mri does not show any serious abnormalities your daughter's symptoms could be due to changes in the way her nervous system relays messages and alterations in brain centers that are responsible for pain perception. if she hasn't already done so consultation with a pain management specialist could prove useful in this respect. i hope she finds relief soon.
what is a safe male enhancement pill? alot of the ones i tried gave me an increase in blood pressure or i felt nothing what's the safest that works
the medications at present for erectile dysfunction include viagra levitra (vardenafil) and cialis. they do work but as expected can also have side effects such as flushing stuffy nose back pain elevated bp. in general the side effects are mild and uncommon. you would have to discuss this with your physician and get a prescription from him for these. they do work well.
what can i do for sciatica pain? i have a lp shunt in my back. the pain is on the right side into my buttocks.
true sciatic pain goes all the way down the entire leg when a nerve root of the lumbar spine becomes inflammed. low back pain shooting into ones buttocks region is usually coming from the joints or ligaments of the lower spine. depending where the shunt is located it might have nothing to do with this pain at all. ask your doc about si joint facet or trigger point injections that could help.
what kind of stomach pain does a person get if he has an abdominal aortic aneurysm?
having an aneurysm will not necessarily give you any pain. symptoms may or may not occur even with large aneurysms. on many patients symptoms occur when expanding or when rupture occurs. unfortunately about 17 000 americans die from aneurysm rupture /yr. sudden flank pain usually on the left abdominal distention low back pain with or without passing out hypotension collapse. must diagnose early.
why is one of the blood transfusion reaction symptoms back and chest pain?
there can be a myriad of reactions to blood transfusions from a simple fever to a condition called acute lung injury which can be fatal. there can also be allergic reactions or if the blood is mismatched a devastating rejection reaction. chest and back pain may be symptoms of those more severe reactions like acute lung injury. if this happens during a blood transfusion let the docs know.
why is one of the blood transfusion reaction symptoms back and chest pain?
chest pain can ensue for 2 reasons - blood clots in the lungs or in the heart leading to low oxygen supply to the heart muscle (a heart attack) or injury to the lining of the lung (pleurisy). back pain in isolation is rare - generalized muscle aches due to small blood clots in the capillaries (the small arteries that caryy blood to the tissue) that lead to local muscle injury anywhere.
why is the middle part of my chest hurt then the pain go to my back?
chest pain radiating to the back or back pain radiating to the chest can be a symptom of a dissecting aortic aneurysm and should therefore be fully evaluated with chest and back xrays along with an ekg. visit your doctor asap
what are the obvious side effects ofatacand?
low blood pressure increased potassium levels in the blood an upper respiratory infection dizziness back pain. unexplained skin rash itching unexplained blisters or peeling of the skin wheezing difficulty breathing or swallowing dizziness light-headedness or fainting spells decreases in the amount of urine produced.
what are the symptoms of an abdominal aortic aneurysm?
most of aaa have no symptoms and discovered by routine physical exams screening ultrasound or incidental finding on ct scans. if symptomatic then usually pain in upper to mid abdomen sometimes radiating to the back or just back pain rupture with severe pain and shock sometimes present as clots traveling to the legs with acute pain or blue toes. rare type is infected or inflammatory /fever.
what are the symptoms of an abdominal aortic aneurysm?
an aneurysm may be painless but may become symptomatic with impending rupture and present with abdominal or back pain.
what symptoms should i look for if i have an abdominal aortic aneurysm?
typically asymptomatic but any mid abdominal pain / back pain feeling of pulsatile mass family history of aortic aneurysms all warrant to be checked by your physician who probably will order a duplex ultrasound.
why have i have back pain and sometimes my chest hurts?
many of the muscles in the intercostal spaces (between ribs) attach both to the rib cage/sternum (front) as well as the spine (back). inflammation/pain at either site (front or back) can therefore affect the opposing side.
why have i have back pain and sometimes my chest hurts?
i cannot really tell why you have these pains. you really should see a doctor and have a good examination and medical evaluation.
what causes exercise intolerance?
exercise intolerance is a symptom of many conditions. it is most often found in cardiopulmonary disorders and in chronic fatigue syndrome. . other causes include abnormal heart rate acute or chronic back pain overtraining anemia and anorexia nervosa. statin drug use has been implicated in causing exercise intolerance. source: wikipedia.
what is a symptom of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. how can i know if i have one?
most of patients with aortic aneurysms aa are asymptomatic and discovered with routine physical exam screening duplex ultrasounds and as incidental finding on ct scans. some patients may have abdominal/chest or back pain or rupture.
what are the symptoms of an aortic aneurysm in women?
most of the time aaa is asymptomatic (no symptoms) but can present with abdominal or back pain compression on organs or rupture and shock.
what are the symptoms of an aortic aneurysm in women?
in most cases there are'nt any symptoms. chest pain and/ or back pain is associated with a rapidly enlarging or tearing aneurysm.
what the cause of tightness in my chest and lower back pain?
and that usually means a strain of muscles and ribs in the chest and spine muscle in the back. the chest could be asthma or unlikely a heart issue. lung functions and a possible "regular" stress test can also help but seeing your dr will help sort this out. physical therapy and yoga will likely help both.
what the cause of tightness in my chest and lower back pain?
chest pain causes: heart attack musculoskeletal pan coronary artery disease aneurysm pulmonary embolism esophagitis acid reflux pneumonia gall baldder disease etc. get checked with your doctor if you have persistent pain.
why am i having stomach pain back pain and chest pain pleasse tell me i have had this for 2 days now?
it is time for you to see a doctor.
why am i having stomach pain back pain and chest pain pleasse tell me i have had this for 2 days now?
it's not possible to diagnose your multiple issues in this brief space without examination and tests. you should certainly see your doctor.
what is the cause for restless leg syndrome? experiencing it night and day! also having lower back pain.
no known cause for restless legs syndrome exists. researchers suspect the condition may be due to an imbalance of the brain chemical dopamine. this chemical sends messages to control muscle movement. rls runs in families in at least half the people with rls especaily early age. rls sometimes accompanies other conditions. pregnancy peripheral neuropathy. iron deficiency. kidney failure.
what is the cause for restless leg syndrome? experiencing it night and day! also having lower back pain.
my advise to u is to see u pcp for physical exam and work up.
what causes neck sholder and back pain on left side?
there are many things that can cause left neck shoulder and back pain including myofascial pain muscle strain whiplash poor posture muscle imbalances rotator cuff strain/tears arthritis of the neck disc rupture in the neck a pinched nerve or even lung or heart problems. see a physiatrist or pain specialist to find the cause and then you can customize an appropriate treatment.
what causes neck sholder and back pain on left side?
left side neck shoulder & back pain may be caused by cervical arthritis disc or radiculopathy coronary artery disease with angina bursitis or rupture of biceps tendon pe subclavian artery blockage injury of neck or left shoulder. diagnosed by ekg x-ray cervical spine & shoulder mriof nech & shoulder cbcwith sed rate & arthritis profile echocardiogram stress echo thallium stress test cardiac cath
what medication can i take for headaches if i am already on mobic meloxicam for back pain?
headache has several subtypes. the treatment depends on the cause of your headache. some medications can cause headache and you must stop them to relieve your headache. besides meloxicam some of other medications used for headache can be topamax (topiramate) tca anti-seizure medication triptans.
what medication can i take for headaches if i am already on mobic meloxicam for back pain?
ask your doctor if you're taking the maximum amount of meloxicam. you can also take acetaminophen.
what are the signs and symptoms of idiopathic intracranial hypertension?
moderate to severe headaches that may originate behind your eyes wake you from sleep worsen with eye movement ringing in the ears that pulses in time with your heartbeat nausea vomiting dizziness blurred o dimmed vision brief episodes of blindness lasting only a few seconds difficulty seeing to the side double vision seeing light flashes neck shoulder or back pain.
what causes lower back pain headaches nausea sharp pain in chest light headed pain in lower stomach runny nose and sore joints? 17 years old female
flu and other virus. if you have a new kissing friend- mono. uti / gi infection also. see your pmd.
what types of diseases are office workers are at risk of other than cardiovascular disease?
i think in an office environment the most common disease would be the common cold or flu. most likely viral illnesses will predominate. workplace injuries such as carpal tunnel and lower back pain are possible. however each work environment is different and will expose you to various issues.
what could chest and back pain along with shortness of breath indicate?
it can be a heart attack in line with many other causes. get evaluated immediately.
what could chest and back pain along with shortness of breath indicate?
shortness of breath (sob) could be from many things such as asthma and infections like bronchitis and pneumonia. infections could cause chest and back pain. sob can go along with coughing. coughing could lead to muscle strain which in turn can lead to chest and back pain.
what is the cause of left sided back pain initially it started out as numbness and tingling and has progressed to soreness and occasional chest pain
if the symptoms you describe are new and it is not a child you should rule our heart attack. may be emergency consider going to er. with very limited description impossible to give advice.
what could be the cause of chest pain and tightness rib cage pain bilateral made worse by bending trunk back pain between shoulder blades on right?
pain on both sides of chest made worse by bending and back pain seems to be musculo skeletal pain. you can try aleve (naproxen) or motrin and if not better have it checked by your family physician.
what are the symptoms of having a heart attack?
common symptoms of a heart attack are chest pain sweating shortness of breath fatigue at times jaw pain. usually the chest pain starts with exertion and progresses to pain at rest. some feel heart burn like symptoms and some never have an y symptoms at all. remember women tend to have atypical symptoms such as back pain shoulder pain and fatigue.
what to do for chest pain and back pain?
could be a problem with skin nerves muscle shoulder lung heart or stomach. see your doctor for a more thorough history physical exam and further evaluation.
what cause of lumber back pain and stiffness. my triglyceride are 317.
lumbar pain and stiffness is from muscle spasm in the back muscles. physical strain usually causes it.
what cause of lumber back pain and stiffness. my triglyceride are 317.
could be back sprain or kidney problem or other issue that needs diagnosis. see a physician.
what are early symptoms of heart attack?
nausea back pain pain down the left arm as well as chest pain all point to heart attack symptoms. in many patients especially diabetics and women heart attacks can have little to no symptoms. get checked now please in the er!
what should an abdominal aneurysm feel like?
most abdominal aneurysms including those of the aorta renal or splanchnic arteries produce no symptoms. if something bad is going on or about to happen they can produce abdominal or back pain depending on their location. rarely can they cause bloody vomiting diarrhea urine or even more rare than these sudden heart failure. rupture can be associated with fainting and low blood pressure.
what can cause upper back pain for 7 months mainly upon waking and bedtime i'm worried its an aneurysm i'm only 27 m quite active?
thoracic pain is a nonspecific complaint which could be caused by any number of things including pathology within the chest (i. e. heart or lungs) cervical or thoracic spine pathology (i. e. degenerative disc herniated disc) soft tissue problems (i. e. myofasciitis) etc. if you have had pain for 7 months i would certainly recommend evaluation with a physician.
what can cause upper back pain for 7 months mainly upon waking and bedtime i'm worried its an aneurysm i'm only 27 m quite active?
need mri to rule out a disc disorder.
what can cause upper back pain for 7 months mainly upon waking and bedtime i'm worried its an aneurysm i'm only 27 m quite active?
aneurysm is possible but very unlikely. most common causes are related to your neck. if mostly after sleeping you may want to check the firmness of your mattress. see your doctor for an xray and evaluation to be sure.
what are the signs when you get a heart attack in a woman in her 40's?
chest pain chest pressure arm pain shoulder epigastric or upper back pain. also shortness of breath or flu like symptoms. or just not feeling well.
why do i get headaches a lot and also the back and chest pain. headache is more than the back pain. why do i get the headaches almost everyday?
see a doctor to evaluate and diagnos a cause. aneck injury or weak ligaments in the neck could cause the problem. visit www. getprolo. com or www. aaomed. org to find a doctor to help you.
what to do about chest pain?
severe back pain that is associated with: weakness in the leg problems controlling your bowels or bladder numbness when wiping yourself with toilet paper should be seen immediately by a doctor: <link> webmd. com/back-pain/living-with-low-back-pain-11/when-to-call-doctor
would a cbc and other blood work cancer etc? i had cbc a thyroid panel and another i don't know name but all came back great hv shoulder and rib pain
my understanding of your question is that you have shoulder and back pain and you are worried about cancer. doctors did tests consisting of a cbc a thyroid panel and a test that you don't know what it was. if you are concerned about cancer you should directly ask the doctor if you might have cancer.
what can i do to prevent gi related chest and upper back pain when doing light aerobic exercise. all is well with the heart?
if it is reflux visit gi doctor and consider avoiding things causing increased reflux! "chocolate? " no way!
when is a dull ache inside left arm from armpit to elbow likely to be cardiac in nature? will there typically be associated symptoms?
it's not a typical presentation for a heart related issue. normally one would be complaining of a chest pain radiating to the left arm. of course as an exception heart issues can present in an atypical mode such as arm pain without chest pain or back pain without chest pain but again that's more of an exception than norm.
woke up at midnight and my collar bone was hurting badly felt broken almost. the pain also went to the shoulders a bit. i do have an every day lower back pain and my heart beats irregularly at times.
back and neck shoulder pain are often related especially if you have family history if back problems. should check in with your pcp if things do not get better.
woke up at midnight and my collar bone was hurting badly felt broken almost. the pain also went to the shoulders a bit. i do have an every day lower back pain and my heart beats irregularly at times.
sounds like a pinched nerve in your neck. also get your heart checked with and ekg.
what kind of medicine can you take for lower back pain if you are currently taking high blood pressure medicine?
you may take small amounts of acetaminophen and avoid alcohol. it would be better to consult the doctor who is treating you for hypertension.
what kind of medicine can you take for lower back pain while on high blood pressure medicine?
there are many different types of medicine for back pain and many for high blood pressure. it is best to check with your doctor. a pharmacist can also give you information about drug interactions.
would sudden chest and back pain with clammy feet and diarrhea be symtoms of aortic dissection? how quickly would it progress?
if you are worried about a possible aortic dissection get checked urgently. they can present differently. but any sudden chest and back pain should be evaluated.
what causes dizziness chest pains upper back pain lightheaded can't maintain balance for a long period of time muscle ache nauseated feeling?
this can be a number of things including dehydration. but the more worrisome conditions such as diabetes another endocrine disorder or a heart condition are also possible.
when is lower center back pain suspicious? something serious like aneurysm kidneys cancer tumor etc. as opposed to something more benign.
lower back pain is the most common symptom and usually it is due to musculoskeletal system. although other etiologies cannot be ruled out clinically. always look for horses first than zebras when you hear the hear the sound of hooves.
what could chronic non diagnosed chest pain and uppeback pain. chest pain is center of chest slightly to the left. with "flareups" about 2-3x/month.
the location and timing suggest costochondritis a rheumatologic pain syndrome most often affecting premenopausal women that is highly prevalent and not dangerous. non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (like ibuprofen or naproxen) can provide some relief but it may be incomplete in some people.
what are the main symptoms of pulmonary embolism?
also could cause chest pain or back pain cough coughing up blood feeling of needing to have a bm fast heart rate low blood pressure
what can be the cause of lower back pain that travels down to the buttock. noticed after using fosamax and lipitor (atorvastatin). asking for my grandmother.
is pain that radiates from your lower back toward the buttock and lower leg. the most common cause is a bulging disc of the spine that pressing the sciatic nerve. conservative treatment should ameliorate the condition and reduce pain. rec. see a pain management specialist.
what can be the cause of lower back pain that travels down to the buttock. noticed after using fosamax and lipitor (atorvastatin). asking for my grandmother.
it's arthritis lipitor (atorvastatin) would not give you limited sciatic pain- when there is a problem with lipitor (atorvastatin) it's generalized. - fora ax shouldn't cause sciatica! see her pcp with her!
worsening back pain spine tenderness and short of breath. see a bone specialist next week. do these symptoms sound like spine cancer?
shortness of breath i would not wait till next week to see a doctor. and no it does not sound like spine cancer. you should see someone immediately for treatment of your shortness of breath.
worsening back pain spine tenderness and short of breath. see a bone specialist next week. do these symptoms sound like spine cancer?
shortness of breath is a potentially serious symptom. have you had a chest x-ray? the shortness of breath needs to be evaluated since there are many reasons for shortness of breath to be present. back pain also has many potential causes including muscle strain/sprain. more info is needed before making a diagnosis especially of cancer. if the shortness of breath is worsening see a doctor asap!
when i woke up this morning i had sharp back pains i stretched and took advil (ibuprofen) i feel better. but now i'm having chest pain. what could it be?
there are many reasons for back pain from strain arthritis kidney stones to herniated disk see your physician for evaluation of your back pain.
when i woke up this morning i had sharp back pains i stretched and took advil (ibuprofen) i feel better. but now i'm having chest pain. what could it be?
drink some cold milk and see if the pain doesn't get better. it maybe your stomach is upset from the medicine. you should also see a doctor today.
went to the er for chest pain shortness of breath back pain & abdominal pressure. the tests came back ok for my heart but spots were found on liver
liver spots is a vague term. we need to know more details. number size description etc.
went to the er for chest pain shortness of breath back pain & abdominal pressure. the tests came back ok for my heart but spots were found on liver
your statement did not include any question.
what can cause lower back pain cramping in lower part of stomach headache's swollen feet (once) & hips pain. can it be my period?
yes if you are close to getting periods or on menstruation you can get pain in those areas. it should subside with your menstruation.
what causes 10 mos intermittent left shoulder blade pain? pain also in arm down to fingers. back pain sometimes eased by deep breath. fear cardiac.
there's nothing about your description that suggests heart disease. i would be concerned about cervical disk disease with neural impingement causing that distribution & duration of pain. an mri would rule it in or out.
what would cause one sharp deep pain in chest to the left of sternum? no other symptoms. chronic upper back pain.
to answer this question we like to know the duration of this pain the nature provoking factors and relieving factors. causes can be due to muscle strain heart disease lung disease infections tumors esophageal spasms blood clots etc. get checked out!
what would cause 1 sharp 5 second deep pain in chest to the left of sternum? no other symptoms. chronic upper back pain. fear cardiac. pcp says heart ok
often sharp brief pains in the chest are due to strained ligaments or joints in chest wall where rib joins to breast bone called costochondritis. when you bend turn deep breathe or cough this can cause brief stabbing pain. usually heat to area and advil or aleve (naproxen) can help. if pain continues to occur or gets worse or you get short of breath or other symptoms see doctor again. good luck!
what to do if i'm 20 year old girl and i feel my heart beating in night while lying down and. i have chest and back pains also due to heavy backpack.?
lighten your backpack. turn over in bed when you feel your heart beat. your profile says you're 32. what's up?
what do you advise if i my chest feels tight and back pain?
chest tightness with back pain is concern for a heart condition. if this is ruled out then have your pcp consider evaluate your thoracic spine for a disc herniation with an mri.
what should i do been having chest pain on left side back pain dizziness blurry vision heavy nose bleed headaches nausea?
if your regular doctor can't see you now you should head to the emergency room. i don't like what i am hearing.
why do i get rib pain with my ibs? it's either my right one or left & also back pain
abdominal pain can radiate up in to the chest -this is called referred pain -not your heart and not uncommon.
what causes an ache in the right breast near the sternum? pcp says heart ok. pain is intermittent and lasts seconds. some back and neck pain.
pain near sternum with neck and back pain can be due to: muscle spasm (from heavy lifting trauma anxiety); gi reflux or gas can cause pain under sternum and back pain; back pain and neck pain should be evaluated for other unusual causes such as an aneurysm which is more common in older people.
what do you advise for heart beats really fast back pain pain in the back of the neck and.?
the symptoms you're describing may be signs of an abnormal heart rhythm like supraventricular tachycardia (svt). you should see a heart rhythm specialist (cardiac electrophysiologist) for evaluation and possible testing and treatment. call 911 if short of breath chest pain dizziness or passing out is associated.
went to the docs as had bad back pain was diagnosed as having sprained my trapezius muscle. had chest pain for 8 hours feeling drowsy and light heade?
if the doctor gave you a muscke relaxant and a pain pillyou would be drowsy. also just the stress of straining that large muscle group would wipe you out. just continue to do what the doctor said and you will slowly get better
went to the docs as had bad back pain was diagnosed as having sprained my trapezius muscle. had chest pain for 8 hours feeling drowsy and light heade?
lightheadedness and somnolence associated with chest pain are more like not associated with muscle swelling in the cervico-thoracic region [trapezius]. at your age it would be appropriate to have a cardiovascular evaluation. thanks
why do i have terrible chest pain and upper back pain when i wake up in the morning?
there are multiple possibilities for what you describe. you need to see your doc to work through the possibilities
why does anxiety cause palpations chest pain dizziness weak legs back pain and twitching muscles?
nervous system. anxiety initiates and perpetuates a flight or fight response from your autonomic nervous system leading to all of the symptoms described. that is why for example yoga and meditation help. they counteract the autonomic response and relax you. so does slow deep breathing
what are signs and symptoms of heart disease?
common signs and symptoms of heart disease are chest pain especially with exertion shortness of breath easy fatigue weakness sometimes left arm jaw or back pain with exertion and sometimes palpitations. see your or cardiologist for a thorough history and physical exam and to determine whether further testing is indicated.
what are manifestations of ebola virus? can it cause changes in cardiac function?
per cdc incubation period is 2 to 21 days w average of 8 to 10 days. early sx's: high fever chills sore throat weakness fatigue malaise headache lack of appetite low back pain & muscular /joint aching. sx's may progress to nausea vomiting abdominal pain diarrhea (potentially bloody) marked weight loss chest pain coughing hemorrhagic rash over body bruising red + swollen eyes & >
why do i feel shortness of breath at night then i get really congested and my back starts to hurt?
if you only notice shortness of breath at night possible causes include allergic nasal congestion with postnasal drippings causing shortness of breath. lying very flat would aggravate this. if there is any wheezing and/or cough nocturnal asthma may be occurring due to allergies or changes in temperature and barometric pressure. the cause of the back pain is unclear. a pulmonologist may help.
weird symptoms past 2 days. can't sleep (4 hrs in 2 days) increased thirst chest pain and upper back pain headache cough?
hi. that could be any number of things. are you peeing more? any fever or sweats? any sputum production? shortness of breath? your doc can do a history physical exam and appropriate diagnostics and see if anything needs to be done. good luck and get well soon!
sintoms of aheart attack?
chest pain upper abdominal pain nausea sweating profusely cold and clammy upper back pain neck arm or jaw pain and a sense of doom (feeling like this is it for you). one may have one many or none of these symptoms. a third of the heart attacks may be silent.
should i go to er? i have had back pain chest pain and slight shortness of breath for well over a week now. in the past couple of days my upper left abdomen has swollen is extremely painful and very tender to the touch. my left side and my back also
hello. i can't diagnose your condition. however you describe severe pain in the left upper quadrant of your abdomen with swelling and tenderness to palpation. you also have nausea as well as shortness of breath with pain extending into the chest and back. i think that this constellation of symptoms would warrant an evaluation at an emergency room. take care. i hope you are feeling better soon.
what does descending tortuous aorta mean and can this be attributable to frequent upper gastric pain? many times severe enough to go to er.
your aorta is not straight like in most people. usually doesn't cause upper gastric pain but can cause back pain. your gastric pain is something else that needs evaluation.
what type of ulcer causes lower right back pain and hard to breathe when taking a deep breath?
i cannot think of any type of ulcer that would cause this type of pain. right lower back pain exacerbated with breathing can be an issue with the junction of the rib and the spine at that lower level. also in that region are the quadratus muscles lateral border of the paraspinals which could also be part of the problem. best to see your doctor for evaluation to try and sort this out. best of luck
what could cause really bad back pain after surgery for thoracic outlet syndrome?
-has nothing to do with your surgery. some people get a sore back from lying in bed 2 long. otherwise see your pcp & go from there.
what causes back pain and shortness of breathe after eating?
this could be many things however a common cause of pain in the back after eating particularly under the scapula is the galbladder. see your doc as a good history and exam will point them in the right direction.
whole left leg feels like pulled muscle and tight from thigh down to foot. i did nothing to injure it. no known risk factors. could it be dvt?
you have been bedridden. do you have hit pry of low back pain? this may be the proverbial pinch nerve in your lumbar spine.
could i be having a heart attack? this morning out of the blue my right arm was sore. as the day progressed the arm has gotten more and more painful - stabbing pain that radiates up towards my shoulder and neck. i have not done anything unusual in terms
symptoms of a heart attack are "classically" described as a pressure heaviness or tightness on or in the chest and may be accompanied by shortness of breath nausea sweating arm pain (usually left) neck pressure or discomfort or none of the above. women may be more likely to have unusual symptoms such as shortness of breath alone or unusual abdominal pains or breathing difficulties. your right arm symptoms can be from a pinched nerve in the neck or armpit and compromised nerve in the wrist area (known as "carpal tunnel syndrome") or compromised blood flow to the arm. it is not easy to connect your back pain with the arm pain; but occasionally neck (or "cervical spine") impingements on the spinal cord nerves can cause pains to upper back neck area or arms. a complete history and examination with your primary health provider is the best idea to get to the bottom of this problem.
should i contact the doctor if i am fainting and having slight back pain on coumadin (warfarin)?
you could have bleeding in the deep tissue in your back and fainting from blood loss.
sometimes it feels like i have chest pain on the left side and my left forearm is numb and tingly. i also have back pain under my left shoulder blade.?
suspect pinched nerve disc problem low cervical spine. need to see physician for evaluation.
sometimes it feels like i have chest pain on the left side and my left forearm is numb and tingly. i also have back pain under my left shoulder blade.?
your young age makes a cardiovascular cause for your symptoms less likely. start with an evaluation by an internist or family physician.
what causes front and rear chest pain while swallowing? it feels like the food stuck and then pass through. but i dont have any problem in breathing.
one possibility is possible food impaction secondary to esophageal spasm. this can happen when people swallow food too quickly;not chewing food well ; stricture or even a tumor(very rare) the esophagus gets tight constricts causing chest or back pain. it's not connected to lungs. stress can be underlying factor in some patients. if persists might need removal of food in er or need endoscopy
symptoms: raspy cough includes chest pain right side pain (above hip) tummy pain right side back pain (below shoulder blade) nausea heartburn?
a chronic cough from irritation of the airways can cause these symptoms. smoking is the most frequent cause of this.
symptoms: raspy cough includes chest pain right side pain (above hip) tummy pain right side back pain (below shoulder blade) nausea heartburn?
your symptoms are too many in chest and abdomen and you need to be checked to find out what is causing all your symptoms so check with your family doctor asap.
sharp pain in lower left side of abdominal for a week. lower back pains recently and shortness of breath. can anyone help?
see a doctor or go to the er and have the problems evaluated.
symptoms of anyurysm?
most are asymptomatic for most of the duration even after identified. once symptomatic thy should be fixed! back pain early satiety if quite large may press on stomach. pain with expansion- rupture.
