i had a heart attack 5 years ago and i am 39 years old. is it ok to take cialis? i take plavix (clopidogrel) but no nitrates.
treatments for erectile dysfunction (ed) including cialis should not be used in men for whom sexual activity is inadvisable as a result of their underlying cardiovascular status. patients who experience symptoms upon initiation of sexual activity should be advised to refrain from further sexual activity and seek immediate medical attention. in other words be sure that your heart can keep up with other organs. pde5 inhibitors including cialis are mild systemic vasodilators. this means that blood vessel "pipes" can become wide open and drop your blood pressure. patients with left ventricular outflow obstruction (e. g. aortic stenosis and idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis) can be sensitive to the action of vasodilators including pde5 inhibitors. consult a cardiologist to evaluate your heart with an echocardiogram if any other physician has concern that you could have one of these above mentioned conditions. cialis was not studied and is not recommended in patients who have recently suffered a heart attack (within 90 days) or stroke (within 6 months) or patients with uncontrolled hypertension hypotension uncontrolled arrhythmias heart failure (new york heart assocation [nyha] ≥class 2 in last 6 months) unstable angina or angina occurring during sexual activity. this means that a patient should be refrain from using cialis until after a safe period of time has lapsed after a heart attack. potential drug interactions: cialis can potentiate the hypotensive effects (lowering of blood pressure) of alpha-blockers antihypertensives or substantial amounts of alcohol (≥5 units). cialis is not recommended in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) symptoms because efficacy of the combination has not been adequately studied and due to the risk of blood pressure lowering. caution is advised when cialis is used as a treatment for ed in men taking alpha-blockers. cialis for once daily use provides continuous plasma tadalafil levels. therefore daily use of cialis must require daily attention to avoiding the above mentioned drugs that can interfere with blood pressure. pde5 inhibitors such as viagra cialis or levitra (vardenafil) are generally safe and effective if used wisely and with common sense.
i stopped toprol (metoprolol) xl 12. 5mg as bp has been low. i started experiencing nighttime difficulty urinating. male 60. any connection?
no apparent relationship. sounds like bph or benign prostatic hyperplasia and possible enlarged prostate. see your doctor.
how should dosing of prazosin be increased? currently on 2mg/3x/day. is it one additional pill per day (1/6 increase) or 3 additional (1/3 increase)?
for congestive heart failure initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 mg daily given in divided doses. for hypertension initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 mg daily given in divided doses. for benign prostatic hyperplasia initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 m
