what is ' binge eating disorder '?
binge eating disorder is characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly and often to the point of pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and intense feelings of shame and guilt. bingeing is a negative coping mechanism and may be a response to anxiety or other uncomfortable emotions or as an way to convert emotional pain to physical or express loneliness.
what is ' binge eating disorder '?
a binge -eating disorder involves rapidly eating large amounts of food to the point that you are physically uncomfortable. eating may occur when alone even if not hungry. one can feel guilty or ashamed after binge -eating ; try to make up for it by dieting/ starvation. this can cause a yo-yo diet and weight may also yo-yo. depressed ; anxious mood are often seen.
what is ' binge eating disorder '?
people who compulsively overeat though may use food as their only way of coping with negative emotions. as a result they often feel that their eating is out of control. they think about food all the time and feel guilty ashamed or depressed after eating. <link>
would a doctor classify it as binge eating if i eat a ton of food and can't stop?
that would be referred to as a binge eating episode. if you were to do that over a prolonged period of weeks and multiple times per week then that would be considered a binge eating disorder especially if weight gain were to accompany it. as in the case with any other psychiatric disorder physical causes should be ruled out.
what kind of doc do i see for binge eating?
a psychiatrist who specializes in eating disorders might be a reasonable professional to speak to you about binge eating disorders.
is there a good cure for binge eating disorder?
bed is an attempt to resolve a psychological conflict through physical action. people often think they are triggered by food but actually are triggered by internal conflicts that lead to the food. they binge to numb distract or comfort themselves. the "cure" is to identify what's eating "at" you instead of focusing on what you're eating and find new ways to respond to yourself.
is there a good cure for binge eating disorder?
even with professional help it is a slow process of recovery. a trained professional can help you explore the dynamics behind the behaviors instead of just treating the symptoms.
is there one best test to diagnose binge eating?
binge eating disorder is best diagnosed not by a physician in general practice but by a physician who treats it chronicallly and consistently with success. binge eatiing is not a psychological or mental disorder. it is the lack of normal physiologic desire for food. these patients are not "mental" nor "psycho". they are patients that have tried "too"hard. too few docs recognize this.
is there one best test to diagnose binge eating?
binge eating disorder starts with very resrictive eating pattern it is an overwhelmining problem with lack of control about feeling full. starvation mode-why a restrictive eating program will never work! patients who who feel they no longer can control their hunger but it is not their fault. they have "lost" their normal feelings of satiety. but they and their drs don't get it! docs need insight.
is obesity an eating disorder?
obesity is a physical condition that may result from many factors including poor eating habits heredity and culture. some people do not know what’s healthy and eat meals high in calories/fat. others are genetically prone to being at a heavier weight or don't get enough exercise. binge eating disorder is a complex psychological condition in which people use eating to resolve internal conflicts.
i would like to know about the strategies to overcome binge eating. please explain.
counseling and knowing how to normalize eating habits is essential in treating binge eating disorder i recommend meeting with a dietition and a counseler to get a better idea about this quickly. . learning coping mechanisims and working on portion control is the best start to help overcome binge eating problems.
is vomiting a mandatory symptom for diagnosis of binge eating disorders?
self induced vomiting is the most common method to compensate for binge eating episodes in the purging type of bulimia nervosa. others include misuse of laxatives. diuretics enemas. however there are other methods of compensating which include excessive exercise and fasting classified as the nonpurging type.
is vomiting a mandatory symptom for diagnosis of binge eating disorders?
no. this diagnosis does not include purging or fasting or excess exercising.
is having a guilty conscious about food a healthy way to lose weight?
a guilty conscience about food is not a healthy way to lose weight. healthy food nourishes your body and keeps it running well. emotional problems can sometimes confuse and complicate the process of eating though. for instance some with binge eating disorder suffer guilt about food. see your physician if you're concerned about your weight or your feelings about food.
i have no insurance how can i treat my binge eating disorder & depression at home?
check in your community for free mental health clinics where care can be provided for low or no cost. of course it is also healthful to rid your residence of unhealthy foods get daily exercise and when combined with therapy/medication can "boost" your recovery. there are also self-help groups such as overeaters anononymous that can be found in the phone book.
i have no insurance how can i treat my binge eating disorder & depression at home?
go to www. caloriecount. com - open a free account answer their simple questions to determine your caloric needs and join the blogs and community. also go to the library: there are many good self help books on weight loss. avoid fad diets. slow steady loss is the key. exercise daily even if just a little as it's good psychologically. good luck! you can do this!
i have no insurance how can i treat my binge eating disorder & depression at home?
you have a psichiatric problem and depression is making you binge eating disorder. there may a free clinic at the medical school or a large medical center or a federally funded free clinic call you local health department or state health department they may be able to help you good luck.
what is binge eating?
binge eating is characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly & to the point of experiencing physical pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and feelings of shame. when this occurs once a week for at least three months it's considered binge eating disorder. it is a way of turning psychological conflict into physical action. it is treatable with therapy.
what is compulsive overeating?
complusive eating disorder is a form of bulimia or maybe binge eating disorder. a discussion with a local specialist might be the best answer to help you sort this out.
why binge eating disorder is a bad one?
serious in binge eating just as they are in restriction of anorexia. though weight loss is not a problem and mortality rates not nearly as high medical problems can be very serious. throwing up and/or constant use of laxatives can lead to erosion of teeth enamel large bowel problems menstrual irregularities severe electrolyte loss and resulting cardiac problems pancreatic irritation and more.
why binge eating disorder is a bad one?
it's uncontrolled eating. usually part of a binge/ purge cycle. this is destructive to self esteem and self perception. you get angry at yourself for binging then react by eating more. bad cycle isn't it? see therapist for help.
why binge eating disorder is a bad one?
national eating disorders association binge eating can result in many of the same health risks associated with obesity. some of the potential health consequences of binge eating disorder include: – high blood pressure – high cholesterol levels – heart disease as a result of elevated triglyceride levels – type ii diabetes mellitus & – gallbladder disease.
why binge eating disorder is a bad one?
binge eating is harmful to both your physical and emotional health. bingeing can lead to weight gain and cause issues related to increased weight such as heart disease diabetes stroke and more. the level of shame and guilt associated with binge eating may lead to poor self-esteem depression anxiety and social isolation. there is treatment available and recovery is possible.
what are the social and cultural causes of binge eating disorder?
eating disorders are a form of self - hating. there are very rare if any genetic forms of this. we are born dependent and loving beings. at some critical junction in our development we are negatively adulterated in a manner that becomes imprinted in our brain matter. we come to hate that part of us. and that may last a lifetime.
what are the social and cultural causes of binge eating disorder?
binge eating is a means of coping with emotions and internal conflicts by using food to numb distract or express those feelings. our culture conveys the message that feelings are "weak" and that denying feelings is "strong" which creates a society in which many people do not know how to identify express and respond to their feelings which leads to bingeing (or other behaviors) to cope.
what are the social and cultural causes of binge eating disorder?
i don't believe that binge eating disorder is in any way a form of self-hatred. it is the desire to be better more perfect gone wrong. in our culture women in particular are rewarded for being the "norm" standard-whatever the culture. women are rewarded with social relationships financial security better jobs etc. a woman loses some weight feels successful and if she is predisposed. disorder.
is it possible to develop an eating disorder without mentally thinking i'm overweight?
a person might have an eating disorder not otherwise specified (binge eating disorder) and not be concerned about their body size.
what are the consequences of binge eating disorder?
first binge eating soon becomes a compulsion or a behavior that is very very difficult to control. the act usually creates a sense of guilt and regret which may or may not lead to purging which then lends to a number of different consequences including toothe enamel erosion or wear down electrolyte disturbances and potentially even death. if continues -extremely difficult overweight dilemma.
what are the consequences of binge eating disorder?
if you are also purging the consequences to your health are greatly increased. you should seek professional help from a psychologist or psychiatrist.
what are the consequences of binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder can impact your health negatively as bingeing often leads to weight gain and increased hypertension heart disease and more. psychologically there is often a lot of shame attached to bed. the behavior may undermines your self esteem and cause depression and anxiety. some people avoid social interaction with others so they can eat alone and become isolated.
what are the causes of binge eating disorder?
this is an eating disorder similar to anorexia nervosa which probably has some neurological correlates; but they have not been identified. psychologically it appears related to early childhood experience in terms of parents reactions to their child at mealtime.
what are the causes of binge eating disorder?
it could be related to obsessive/impulsive conditions. people can binge eat to take their mind off of other issues due to stress. it could be a poor coping skill to deal with stress. people with sadness and depression could binge eat to "feel better". a better idea of the individual situation can help understand why one is binge eating. there is possible link to serotonin dys-regulation.
what are the causes of binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder is a way of coping with difficult feelings by turning to food. the behavior with food expresses underlying issues conflicts or problems. bingeing feels like “the” problem but it is actually a “symptom” of deeper problems emotions or conflicts such as anxiety depression anger relationship difficulties job issues and more.
witch kind of doctor can help you with a eating disorder eating disorder is binge eating
a psychiatrist is the best person to talk to about any eating disorders. binge eating disorder is the most common of all eating disorders. it is usually associated with a negative self-image shame and disgust. the most successful treatments are those that help your overall well-being in order to reduce your binge eating. treatments involve psychotherapy medications and behavioral weight loss programs. call your primary care doctor for a referral to a psychiatrist they know and trust in your area. good luck!
i overcame bulimia for 15 yrs started binging no purge overcame for 8yr no help. now it is back binge eating disorder out of control how get help?
i would recent a counselor optimally one experienced with eating disorders. over eating anonymous is a group like aa. consider removing gluten. gluten sensitive sea to prompt carbohydrate craving sometimes. make a written contract with yourself-write down everything you eat calculate the number of calories appropriate to eat for you and keep track may also help.
i overcame bulimia for 15 yrs started binging no purge overcame for 8yr no help. now it is back binge eating disorder out of control how get help?
you can start by seeing an eating disorder specialist as an outpatient. many hospitals also have inpatient programs for the treatment of bulimia. i have had several patients go through this type of treatment successfully.
is it possible to become anorexic from having a binge eating disorder?
possible. name is bulimarexia.
what is the primary difference between bulimia nervosa from binge eating?
binge eating disorder is like bulimia nervosa without the "compensatory" behaviors. people with bulimia always engage in some time of behavior to counteract the purge (e. g. self induced vomiting laxative abuse excessive exercise).
is it possible that someone purposefully develop a binge eating disorder and get fat?
i doubt that people "just want to get fat". that sounds strange. what would the motivation be and the beliefs behind the motivation. yes someone could eat that way on purpose - but that would be stranger than a binge eating disorder. i find most people with a binge eating disorder have manyproblems that we work with in psychotherapy.
what is binge eating definition?
binge eating is characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly & to the point of experiencing physical pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and feelings of shame. when this occurs once a week for at least three months it's considered binge eating disorder. it is a way of turning psychological conflict into physical action. it is treatable with therapy.
is brain surgery a potential treatment for binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder is a psychiatric/behavioral disorder not a neurosurgical disorder. as a specialty we do not perform psychosurgery as a rule. there are some rare exceptions (ocd). eating disorders are best managed by counseling and behavior modification.
is overeating also considered an eating disorder?
the descriptions of the actual behavior need to meet the criteria but if it does the disorder is called binge eating disorder. see: <link> wikipedia. org/wiki/binge_eating_disorder i'm not sure if the newest dsm includes it.
is it possible to overcome my binge eating disorder?
even with professional help it is a slow process of recovery. a trained professional can help you explore the dynamics behind the behaviors instead of just treating the symptoms.
issue with binge eating can my primary care doctor try and help me first or psychiatrist has to be first? just easier to get into pcp first.
treatment will depend on the specific training of either your pcp or the psychiatrist. either md could have had additional training and experience in binge eating disorder. with eating disorder treatment usually it is beneficial to have a team helping you: pcp psychiatrist eating disorder therapist & rd (dietician). ideally each would have specific training & experience in eating disorders.
i'm suffering from depression and binge eating disorder how do i fix these myself?
for best results you combine your own sustained efforts with focused assistance from professionals. healing from binge eating also requires support from lay groups like oa. <link> this 12 step approach is really useful. depression requires help from your pcp -- and psychiatrists and psychologists who are skilled to help you with talk therapies & any needed medications.
i'm suffering from depression and binge eating disorder how do i fix these myself?
it is not the act of binge eating that you need to control. there is some underlying reason that you have to try and deal with. this can only be done with help from other people. talk to someone that you trust about your life and what you feeling and try and unwind the driving agents. doing this with a professional counselor will accelerate the process. you are damaging your body seek help.
i have had binge eating disorder for 2 months now and i want to cleanse. any safe detox/cleanse that a recommended?
binge eating and cleanse diets are two sides of the same coin: both are extremes. binge eating is recognized more and more as a legitimate eating disorder and there are many treatments and treaters out there to help you eat healthily and happily every day. start by seeing a nutritionist who mentions binge eating in his/her profile as something he/she treats.
i have had binge eating disorder for 2 months now and i want to cleanse. any safe detox/cleanse that a recommended?
it may seem like your appetite is controlling you and you want to take control by clensing. and you want to do it all alone like you don't want anyone to know. also binge eating starting at your age seems off. sounds like this has been a problem for some time and trying alone hasn't fixed it. makes sense to get help with it. i suggest psychotherapy since there are probably other things too.
i have binge eating disorder help? im so confused i have no idea what normal eating is anymore!?
the best way to start is based on behavior modification techniques. try keeping a journal or simply counting what you eat. there are apps you can use to track what you are eating which will also help. meet with a nutritionist to plan a healthy diet for you. find a therapist to talk to about what may be behind your eating habits. ( read making peace with food) hypnosis also can help. good luck.
is binge eating disorder related to trama? why would trama cause an eating disorder how is it related?
if self image or self esteem issues are involved.
is binge eating disorder related to trama? why would trama cause an eating disorder how is it related?
i hope i don't just confuse you with this. any psychologically based disorder (not purely physical) can be brought into expression by trauma. some do seem more likely than others but not enough to rule any out. trauma can make us hunger for control (protection). many dx's (definitely eating disorders) are understandable as efforts for control. i'll try to help if this was unclear. got it?
is it possible to have a mix of bulimia and binge eating disorder?
occurs with bulimia.
i need advice with binge eating disorder?
here are 10 short strategies. manage stress eat three meals a day avoid the temptation by cleaning out your cupboards and refrigerator exercise 30 min. fight boredom get enough sleep keep a food diary. you can contact our dietitian at www. weighstation. net for further advice on how to fight your binge eating. as a side note dill pickles have been shown to curb binges.
i binge on the weekend but other times eat like 1400-1800 cal a day! its like i can't help it! do i have a binge eating disorder?
with this info. recommend medical evaluation. a binge -eating disorder involves rapidly eating large amounts of food to the point that you are physically uncomfortable. eating may occur when alone even if not hungry. one can feel guilty or ashamed after binge -eating ; try to make up for it by dieting/ starvation. this can cause a yo-yo diet and weight may also yo-yo.
i think i have a binge eating disorder. how can i be sure and what are some ways i can do to help stop?
binging you need help. consider overeaters anonymous as a resource. and meet with a psychologist who specializes in eating disorders.
i have bulimia or binge eating disorder how to tell?
both bulimia and binge eating disorder are characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly and often to the point of pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and intense feelings of shame and guilt. bulimia involves purging (vomiting exercising laxatives or restricting) as a compensatory measure to get rid of the food from the binge.
i have bulimia or binge eating disorder how to tell?
a binge -eating disorder involves rapidly eating large amounts of food to the point that you are physically uncomfortable. eating may occur when alone even if not hungry. one can feel guilty or ashamed after binge -eating ; try to make up for it by dieting/ starvation. this can cause a yo-yo diet and weight may also yo-yo. depressed ; anxious mood are often seen.
i feel suicidal. how do i prevent triggers to cause me to have binge eating disorder?
let's address suicidality first. the national suicide prevention lifeline 1-800-273-talk (8255): you can also call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room if feelings of suicidality are hard to control. the evaluation will be done in the er and you options will be discussed. stay safe!
i have binge eating disorder? advice on what to do?
you need to find a local therapist with skills in treated binge eating disorder (bed). you can try looking on edreferral. com for a local provider. therapy is the key to figure out how to curb the behaviors.
wanted to know where can i learn if i have binge eating disorder and how can i stop binge eating?
most of us occasionally eat more than we need to -- like at thanksgiving having extra helpings of special foods. but if you feel compelled to frequently & rapidly eat large amounts of food -- especially when alone -- and feel ashamed for doing this you might have bed (binge eating d/o). national eating disorders assoc has helpful resources: <link>
wanted to know where can i learn if i have binge eating disorder and how can i stop binge eating?
yourself or ask somebody close to you.
what is a healthy diet for people who have binge eating disorder and has a back ground in anorexia?
make the qustion more elaborate and clear.
what can be done about binge eating disorder by yourself?
one thing many with eating disorders have in common is difficulty sharing their feelings. it's common 2keep feelings & some types of thoughts secret. so consider taking steps 2share: see "get help" page of national assn of anorexia nervosa & related disorders (anad) website: <link> take a big step & call their helpline at (630) 577-1330? or email them at anadhelp@anad. org?
what can be done about binge eating disorder by yourself?
theres the mistake - keeping it a secret. whatever has been done to date hasn't been successful or you wouldn't be asking this question. want to get well? accept help.
what can i do to get over binge eating disorder?
i would reccomend working with an experienced clinician. it will take effort. consider working with a group-look for overeaters anonomyous. consider food sensitivities. sometime gluten sensitivity can result in carbohydrate craving=consider trying gluten free.
what should i eat when recovering from binge eating disorder?
heavy on the vegetables esp leafy greens-lots of bulk and fruits as well as adequate pritein. avoid empty calories -and or excessive sugar/cho.
what are the side effects of binge eating disorder?
the biggest se is clearly wt gain. this can also move you toward blood sugar ann and diabetes. constiation and other gi abnormalities. this alsoappreciatehowptient net elated to food intolerances.
what are the side effects of binge eating disorder?
binge eating is harmful to both your physical and emotional health. bingeing can lead to weight gain and cause issues related to increased weight such as heart disease diabetes stroke and more. the level of shame and guilt associated with binge eating may lead to poor self-esteem depression anxiety and social isolation. there is treatment available and recovery is possible.
what's a good way to address binge eating disorder?
it is not the act of binge eating that you need to control. there is some underlying reason that you have to try and deal with. this can only be done with help from other people. talk to someone that you trust about your life and what you feeling and try and unwind the driving agents. doing this with a professional counselor will accelerate the process. you are damaging your body seek help.
what can be done about binge eating disorder?
the best way to deal with this is to see a professional. there are many treatment centers that are centers of excellence with a team approach that includes evaluation of self image and triggers. i suggest an evaluation by a professional who specializes in this field.
what can be done about binge eating disorder?
bed is way of resolving a internal conflict through physical action. people think they are triggered by food but actually are triggered by emotions that lead to bingeing. they binge to numb distract or comfort themselves. to stop seek treatment to identify what's eating "at" you instead of focusing on what you're eating and find new ways to respond to yourself. recovery is possible!
what to if i am getting over binge eating disorder will my body ever go back to normal?
it takes time. you'll often have to address your body image issues and views of progress have to be modified and reprocessed often. having a therapist at this time is often helpful. keep going and you will get your body back to where it is healthy.
what is the definition or description of: binge eating disorder?
binge eating is characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly and to the point of experiencing physical pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and feelings of shame. when this occurs once a week for at least three months it's considered binge eating disorder. it is a way of turning psychological conflict into physical action. it is treatable with therapy.
what is the definition or description of: binge eating disorder?
binge eating includes episodes where a person will recurrently eat in excess of what they should (uncontrollable excessive eating).
what is the definition or description of: binge eating disorder?
is from the greek words meaning ravenous hunger. it is an eating disorder characterized by binging & purging consuming large amount of food in short time then vomiting/taking laxative or diuretic/excessive exercising. more in females. majority are of normal weight. they have impulsive behaviors such as overspending & family history of eating disorders mood disorders & substance abuse. tx is ssri.
i think i might have a binge eating disorder. what can be done to stop this?
bed is way of resolving a internal conflict through physical action. people think they are triggered by food but actually are triggered by emotions that lead to bingeing. they binge to numb distract or comfort themselves. to stop you must seek treatment to identify what's eating "at" you instead of focusing on what you're eating and find new ways to respond to yourself. recovery is possible
i think i might have a binge eating disorder. what can be done to stop this?
successful recovery will depend on quality psychotherapy. try to find one who specialized in eating disorders. a general physical exam to check your nutritional status and baseline ekg would be of great value as well and s/he may be able to guide you to the appropriate therapist in your area.
i think i have binge eating disorder. what can i do to get help?
an eating disorders specialist (generally a licensed psychologist) can go through your eating habits with you and establish whether you have this condition. if so the same person can treat you for it.
what do you recommend if i have a binge eating disorder how do i stop this please help?
just as with other addictions there is no "cure " but there is recovery. acknowledging being out of control can be more effective than trying to control it more. overeaters anonymous is based on the principles of alcoholics anonymous. anyone with a desire to stop compulsive eating is welcome. check www. oa. org for meetings in your area and more information.
what to do if i have a binge eating disorder how do i stop this please help?
<link> is an inpatient treatment facility for eating disorders. if your situation is manageable as an outpatient you can see a licensed mental health professional who specializes in eating disorders. please contact your state psychological association or the american psychological association for help. peace and good health.
what to do if i have a binge eating disorder?
one thing many with eating disorders have in common is difficulty sharing their feelings. it's common 2keep feelings ; some types of thoughts secret. so consider taking steps 2share: see "get help" page of national assn of anorexia nervosa ; related disorders (anad) website: <link> take a big step ; call their helpline at (630) 577-1330? or email them at anadhelp@anad. org?
i believe i am struggling with binge eating disorder and i was wondering what i could do about it without medication.
counseling will help. .
i believe i am struggling with binge eating disorder and i was wondering what i could do about it without medication.
i would encourage you to seek a therapist who has experience with this type of eating disorder. seeing a nutritionist who can help you to manage healthy meal plans would also be a good idea.
i believe i am struggling with binge eating disorder and i was wondering what i could do about it without medication.
your doctor may need to refer you for psychiatric therapy if she also agrees with your diagnosis. you will need to see someone who specializes in that disorder along with possible medication. many anxiety disorders include fear of medication and the patient has difficulty consistently following the treatment plan. i hope you will be able to stay the course and get well soon.
i believe i am struggling with binge eating disorder and i was wondering what i could do about it without medication.
recognizing the problem & deciding to take action is a great start! "self-help cognitive behavioral therapy for binge eating disorder" (cbt-bed) is an excellent tool. info & guides are revealed by a google search for "defeating binge eating pdf". "recovery record" is a very useful app for iphone & android (methyltestosterone) devices: <link>. please discuss w pcp &/or therapist also.
what to do if i have wondered if i have binge eating disorder but have concluded that i'm mostly just bored could use to get over this thing?
many people with binge eating disorder eat because of feelings that are emotionally uncomfortable. boredom is often another word for a feeling that is unpleasant that you have not defined for yourself. getting over this requires learning what you are feeling and how to tolerate this without turning to food. counseling could help as well as support groups.
what do you suggest if i have binge eating disorder what can i do?
click link make appointment: <link> uab. edu/medicine/psychiatry/patients or <link>
issues with binge eating and worried i will gain the weight i've worked hard to lose. how to prevent binge eating?
binge eating disorder can be serious problem. treatment is usually a combination of therapy nutritional counseling and/or medication. ask your pcp for a referral to a mental health professional or program specializing in eating disorders. for more info see: <link>#f i hope this helps.
which is safer for binge eating. topomax or vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine)?
are actually pretty well tolerated. i'm not aware of any significant discontinuation data(which correlates to some extent to safety or at least the presence of adverse effects) for either in regards to binge eating disorder.
what is the main difference between a binge eating disorder and compulsive overeating?
they are essentially interchangeable terms. some overeaters may overeat daily or binge overeat and either term will work as an effective descriptor.
i think i have binge eating disorder. there are a lot of times that i go out for cravings eat food and then come back and wonder why i did it. suggest?
thank you for informing about obesity pantoprazole and chlordiazepoxide. it is not what you eat it is what is eating you! let the wise woman within you ask: being obese with cravings- due to unresolved feelings of sadness hurt guilt resentment frustration boredom or loneliness anxiety need for medications see psychiatrist for diagnosis therapy for cravings obesity anxiety; self-este
i think i have binge eating disorder. there are a lot of times that i go out for cravings eat food and then come back and wonder why i did it. suggest?
you have a eating disorder that will require very specific psychological counselling and treatment. you need to find an eating disorder clinic or therapist who specializes in the same.
what is the difference between a binge eating disorder (bed) and compulsive overeating?
while binge eating disorder and compulsive overeating both use food to deal with emotional issues they do so in different ways. the binge eater overeats periodically but at these times eats very large quantities of food. a person that eats compulsively may overeat regularly in an effort to manage and tolerate feelings. the quantity at any time is less but it is a more regular eating pattern.
is it still binge eating disorder if the "binges" are happening multiple days a week? or every meal is a copious amount of food & feeling too full
one should be eating only the amount needed each day that matches the number of calories she uses up each day (or eat less than that amount if wanting to lose weight). eating large amounts of food at one meal is binge eating if one already gets plenty of food or calories that day. eating large amounts at one time because that's the only meal she gets that day would be considered normal.
is it still binge eating disorder if the "binges" are happening multiple days a week? or every meal is a copious amount of food & feeling too full
can be very dangerous. please see a doctor who specializes in them to be evaluated and treated. congrats on asking this question. it is a good start but please follow up. peace and good health.
i think i have binge eating disorder i never really thought i had a eating disorder but now i'm concerned what are the symptoms?
can be very dangerous. binge and purge (make oneself vomit) can become a cycle which can damage the heart teeth and more. please see a mental health professional who specializes in eating disorders to be evaluated. excessive exercise can also be a symptom. congrats on asking this question and for addressing it early. peace and good health.
what damage has binge eating disorder done to my body or could possibly do? recovery methods? advise?
disorder needs to be treated by a mental health professional who specializes in eating disorders. an in-patient program would probably be best but you need an evaluation first. out-patient might be possible. body biochemistry will be impacted like a roller coaster as will be moods otherwise. lots of reason to hope. peace and good health.
i've been struggling very badly with binge eating and it's cause me to become depressed. my doctor says i have a binge eating disorder but she precribed me lexapro. do you think this is the right medicine for my problem?
either one can cause the other to worsen--depression-binging. it is easiest for you to try to treat the depression firs then see what is happening with the eating disorder
i've been struggling very badly with binge eating and it's cause me to become depressed. my doctor says i have a binge eating disorder but she precribed me lexapro. do you think this is the right medicine for my problem?
eating disorder is a complicated problem and one aspect of treatment includes management of depression with medication as well as counseling. first line medications are ssri meds which help to break the cycle of repetetive thoughts. lexapro has less side effects than some of the other ssri drugs so stick with it. medication takes time to work and may need dose adjustment.
please tell me how to recover from binge eating disorder?
even with professional help it is a slow process of recovery. a trained professional can help you explore the dynamics behind the behaviors instead of just treating the symptoms.
please help. how do people overcome binge eating disorder?
perseverance. over eater's anonymous is a great place to get support education ; to learn coping skills. it is free ; confidential. working with a psychiatrist <negative_smiley>or an addiction medicine specialist can also be very helpful. take care.
my 23 yr daughter has binge eating disorder. could her mirena (levonorgestrel) iud be contributing? she got worse after putting it in but could be coincidental.
to be treated by a specialist as you prob ably know. social stressors can make things worse but are not the root causer. thus changes like the one you mention make impact but this is not central to the issue. in patient treatment may be the best way to go. check w/your insurance. the renfrew center is but one place. peace and good health.
please help docs! is psychoanalytic therapy useful for binge eating disorder?
therapy is the key for treating binge eating disorder. many people with binge eating disorder have other struggles (? trauma depression etc) that need to be addressed in order to deal with the bed. please seek out a therapist with some experience in this field and work closely with your doctor to manage any physical complications!
please help docs! is psychoanalytic therapy useful for binge eating disorder?
for some suffering from overeating yes psychoanalysis is a powerfully effective tool in getting to the root of issues of control over one's body which is often one of the main contributory factors of overeating. food means different things to different people.
what are the symptoms of binge eating disorder?
if you feel as though your eating behavior is a concern to you please consult a mental health provider for evaluation and if needed treatment. here is further information on the subject: <link> good luck!
what causes binge eating disorder?
people who compulsively overeat though may use food as their only way of coping with negative emotions. as a result they often feel that their eating is out of control. they think about food all the time and feel guilty ashamed or depressed after eating. <link>
what causes binge eating disorder?
it is not what you eat it is what is eating you! let wise man within you ask: •food as pleasure •food to overcome feelings of deprivation of love abandonment rejection worry fear hurt resentment shame guilt anger and frustration •binge eating not wanting to deal with traumatic experiences. •binge eating for not wanting to deal with any problem of daily life. see psychiatrist.
what are the tests for binge eating disorder?
of your behavior patterns. are you eating compulsively? do you feel helpless against your hunger? do you eat when emotional? are you losing/gaining weight. are you secretive and not eating with others out of shame of how much you consume? if yes to most then you have binge eating disorder. go seek a specialist among psychologists.
what are the risk factors for binge eating disorder?
controlling parent who food shamed was controlling with their food/appearance nearly most diagnosis/and problems/stressors can predispose you to this issue. its a matter of preference for food and how tolerant you are with binging and throwing up.
what are the complications of binge eating disorder?
complications can include lowered self-esteem compromised quality of life loneliness/social isolation impaired social functioning depression anxiety and substance use disorders. medical complications include obesity heart disease type ii diabetes breathing problems during sleep acid reflux and joint problems. please consult a medical or mental health provider as treatments are available
what are the treatments for binge eating disorder?
there are several different treatments for binge eating disorder. a great place to start would be by speaking with a therapist who specializes in binge eating disorder so that you can start to process through the triggers that you are facing. from there it is helpful to surround yourself with a support team who also understand binge eating - physician and nutritionist.
need doctor's help! i may have a binge eating disorder?
evaluated. a binge -eating disorder involves rapidly eating large amounts of food to the point that you are physically uncomfortable. eating may occur when alone even if not hungry. one can feel guilty or ashamed after binge -eating ; try to make up for it by dieting/ starvation. this can cause a yo-yo diet and weight may also yo-yo. depressed ; anxious mood are often seen.
need doctor's help! i have binge eating disorder and i really need someone to talk to?
many with binge eating problems have obtained support through overeaters anonymous. you can find a local meeting through: <link> in addition you can work on your triggers with a psychologist or other counselor in your community. you can also learn other ways to deal with life beyond eating. if depression is worsening things beyond talking alone psychiatrist may also be helpful.
obese. why do food behaviors seem automatic out of control? what can i do to stop myself? cravings binge eating. willpower is not effective enough.
start by seeing your pcp to rule out medical causes for overeating increased appetite or food cravings. if you have binge eating disorder treatment usually consists of interpersonal therapy cognitive therapy and/or medication. nutritional counseling is often recommended. consider finding an eating disorder clinic which offers a team approach. see: <link> i hope this helps.
how do i know exactly what is binge eating disorder?
"binge eating is characterized by insatiable cravings that can occur any time of the day or night usually secretive and filled with shame. bingeing is often rooted in poor body image use of food to deal with stress low self-esteem and tied to dysfunctional thoughts. " source is the binge ed page of the national assn of anorexia nervosa & associated disorders (anad) website: <link>
how many calories is usually consumed to be called binging?
bingeing is not measured in terms of the calories that are consumed. binge eating is characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly and often to the point of physical pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and feelings of shame. when this occurs once a week for at least three months it's considered binge eating disorder. it is treatable with therapy.
how common is this the binge eating disorder in the u. s.?
do not confuse binge eating disorder with obesity the rates for which are very high. most people with obesity do not have binge eating disorder.
how common is this the binge eating disorder in the u. s.?
it is 9 times more common in women and the prevalence is approx. 1-3%. the mean age is 18 with a range of 12-35 years. also upto 50% of patients with anorexia nervosa develop binging/purging symptoms.
how can we detect binge eating disorder by its signs?
binge eating disorder is extremely common among people who are overweight. patients eat a large amount of food usually until it is gone with a feeling of loss of control. often there is underlying anxiety depression stress and shame and therapy (either analytical or cognitive behavioral) can be very helpful. it is important to see someone with expertise in this area.
how can we detect binge eating disorder by its signs?
people who compulsively overeat though may use food as their only way of coping with negative emotions. as a result they often feel that their eating is out of control. they think about food all the time and feel guilty ashamed or depressed after eating. <link>
how can we detect binge eating disorder by its signs?
binge eating in often precipitated by fasting or a restrictive eating "diet"----which why restrictive eating of foods we know we like doesn't work long term. some symptoms of binge eating--especially by female patients incl. secretive eating-alone they feel shamed by this problem lots of partially eaten chips dips cakes etc. in the trash can. also patients do not often eat "typical meals".
how can we detect binge eating disorder by its signs?
binge eating disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of consuming large amount of food with a feeling of loss of control. it is not follwed by inappropriate compensatory behavior such as self induced vomiting. if patient is wants treatment - the treatment i recommend is self-healing meditation. it might help him or her.
how do i overcome my binge eating disorder?
in order to overcome bing eating disorders you will need the help of experts eating disorders. this is not something you can do on your own.
how do i overcome my binge eating disorder?
hello. one organization that is very helpful is over eaters anonymous - it is free. working with a therapist may be beneficial. additionally use of auricular (ear ) acupuncture using an appetite supression can be very effective and is very safe.
how do i overcome my binge eating disorder?
see a mh professional for evaluation and treatment.
how do i overcome my binge eating disorder?
in our experience binge eating can be fueled by many things but two common ones would be: 1. restricting food intake when not bingeing especially fat 2. metabolic disorders such as leptin resistance and insulin resistance.
how common are diet-related health problems like binging?
the prevalence of binge eating disorder (bed) is estimated at 1-5% of the general population -- with women comprising 60% of these men 40%. (all types of eating disorders are more common in women though. ) bed is often associated with depression; people also feel a lot of shame about it which can delay getting help. bed may be more common than other eating disorders (anorexia bulimia etc).
how do you tell if your mom has a binge eating disorder?
the same way you would tell if anyone has binge eating disorder---do they binge? if so assume she is humiliated and ashamed of her behavior and act gently accordingly.
how do you tell if your mom has a binge eating disorder?
be supportive but suggest assertively that your mother seek professional help from an team of people who deal with this kind off issue often. she needs individual counseling dietary intervention a medical doctor to follow certain medical criteria and often a psychiatrist for psychiatric medication. you can contact contact a place and give your friend some literature.
how is a binge-eating disorder differ from bulimia nervosa?
binge eating disorder patients purge less often than bulimic patients however both need professional help just as much. also pateints can present with or without puprging at difeerent times. if you know someone with either condition please make sure they contact a specialist who works with a team of counselors dieticians primary care docotors and psychitrists for the best care.
could someone with binge eating disorder get better?
but have him evaluated first to see what need to be done.
could someone with binge eating disorder get better?
binge eating disorder is treatable through therapy (and sometimes in conjunction with a dietitian). in treatment people learn what is eating "at" them instead of focusing on what they're eating. bingeing is often a way of numbing distracting or expressing internal conflict. therapy helps you identify internal triggers and conflicts and find new ways to cope. there is hope!
could someone with binge eating disorder get better?
yes someone with binge eating disorder can get better but if it is a significant problem then being involved with a formal eating disorder program is essential.
can you be underweight or a healthy weight and still have binge eating disorder?
yes binge eating disorder sufferers are usually close to normal weight.
can you be underweight or a healthy weight and yet still have binge eating disorder?
weight isn't the only variable with eating disorders. see your doctor if you suspect your have a binge eating problem.
can you be underweight or a healthy weight and yet still have binge eating disorder?
some will binge and eat massive quantities bur then force themselves to vomit. this is definitely an eating disorder and warrants treatment even though weight appears ok.
can one with binge eating disorder get better?
i've treated patients who struggled decades and are no longer bingeing. whatever is going on with food is a symptom of the problem not "the" problem. it's vital to understand what's eating "at" you instead of focusing on food. psychotherapy can help you learn new ways of coping.
can one with binge eating disorder get better?
you need help and you need help from people who will not shame you regardless of your size.
can one with binge eating disorder get better?
sure they can with proper medical care life style changes and cognitive behavior therapy with therapist experienced with eating disorders.
can an overweight person have an eating disorder? aren't people with eating disorders really skinny?
eating disorders include anorexia nervosa bulimia nervosa and eating disorders not otherwise specified (ednos) under which binge eating disorder falls. binge eating disorder is the most common and is characterized by frequent periods of compulsive overeating without purging. those with binge eating disorder are not skinny and most patients with bulimia nervosa are either normal/overweight.
how high is the percentage of obese people have eating disorders?
many people with binge eating disorder are overweight or obese but i couldn't find any studies looking at the frequency of binge eating disorder in obese people. (not all obese people have this problem). another category might be people with night eating disorder -- these people range from normal weight to obese. no studies of this correlation either -- so both are interesting research topics.
how should someone develop a binge eating disorder or become a compulsive overeater?
eating disorder " binge purge type or anorexia should be differentiated from " poor eating habits " if you are concerned about an eating disorder kindly please seek a clinical evalualtion preferably by a " psychiatrist ". if a negative can be established and depression ruled out than behavioural considerations should be considered.
how are atheletes/models/etc and binge-eating disorders linked?
many models and performers suffer from eating disorders including bulimia anorexia nervosa and binge eating disorder much higher than the general population.
how do people recover from binge eating disorder. is therapy needed or can someone do it themselves?
work on self image/self esteem issues with a therapist experienced with cognitive behavior therapy for eating disorders. prognosis is favorable with commitment to years of therapy.
could you have a binge eating disorder without being underweight?
you may be udereating in beetwen.
how can binge eating disorder be treated?
there are many things to consider before coming up with a plan of treatment. in general eating disorders are most effectively treated by a group of specialists working together closely in the patient's best interest. typically treatment involves help from medical mental health and nutrition specialists. good places to begin seeking more info & help: <link> and <link>
how to tell if i have anorexia and binge eating disorder and bulemia?
some people have all three. if you are doing a bit of all three call a facility that treats eating disorders and get help asap. it can be treated but if it goes on for too long some damage can be irreversible. do not wait get help!
can you help me with my binge eating disorder it's ruining my life!?
pcp is first step to get medical evaluation and workup then referral to psychiatry for treatment. psychotherapy individual & group as well as evaluation by eating disorder specialist & dietitian.
can you please explain binge eating or binging?
binge eating is characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly & to the point of experiencing physical pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and feelings of shame. when this occurs once a week for at least three months it's considered binge eating disorder. it is a way of turning psychological conflict into physical action. it is treatable with therapy.
help! i have binge eating disorder! can you help me get through it?
talk to a psychiatrist/therapist who specializes in eating disorders. cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) is a well known form of therapy that works well for it.
how can one develop a binge eating disorder?
binge eating other binge behaviors are often emotional in nature. food in the binge eating disorder replaces emotional connections and real relationships. it 'makes you feel better' (not really) but serves as a substitute for healthy relationships and behaviors.
how can a person develop a binge eating disorder?
i usually think of it as mostly learned. many in our society treat eating as a naughty pleasure and associate it with rewards & punishments. the desire to get something (eating a lot) for nothing (purging to be rid of calories) can be seen as emblematic of today's culture. very young many of us get unfortunate lessons that make eating very different from simply obtaining nourishment. it's sad.
can you recommend what to do to get rid of binge eating disorder?
bed is usually triggered by emotional cues you may or may not be aware of. binging is a way to unconsciously boost brain dopamine and serotonin to regulate good feelings. treatment should consist of an eating disorder therapist likely a nutritionist and possibly a psychiatrist. some medications can be very effective at reducing episodes but an evaluation would be required.
can you recommend what to do to get rid of binge eating disorder?
bed is way of resolving a internal conflict through physical action. people think they are triggered by food but actually are triggered by emotions that lead to bingeing. they binge to numb distract or comfort themselves. to stop you must seek treatment to identify what's eating "at" you instead of focusing on what you're eating and find new ways to respond to yourself. recovery is possible
how to determine if i have binge eating disorder?
for starters if you're worried about having a binge eating disorder you may have one. indicators: if you eat a lot of food-more than someone else would-in a two hour period & you feel a loss of control (i. e. can't stop till the bag is empty) & finally this happens at least twice a week you probably have a binge eating disorder. not surprisingly most binge-eaters are overweight.
how to determine if i have binge eating disorder?
a binge -eating disorder involves rapidly eating large amounts of food to the point that you are physically uncomfortable. eating may occur when alone even if not hungry. one can feel guilty or ashamed after binge -eating ; try to make up for it by dieting/ starvation. this can cause a yo-yo diet and weight may also yo-yo. depressed ; anxious mood are often seen.
do women really want help with binge eating?
one might first ask the simpler question "do women want help reversing their obesity? " of course they do! however shame and other factors may interfere with their getting the help that they need. of course women want help with their binge eating disorder! they're not merely self-indulgent gluttonous pigs! they are deeply ashamed of and loathe themselves.
how to overcome binge eating disorder?
get a complete physical to make sure bed is not compromising your health. seek therapy with a qualified professional. bed is a way of coping with conflicts and emotions. when you identify what you are using food to deal with (ie anxiety fear relationships) then you can find new ways of coping. you also must learn to respond to yourself in words instead of behavior. there is hope.
how to overcome binge eating disorder?
look up amy pershing for resources in the web. get a counselor familiar with binge eating. need to work on finding non-food ways to take are of yourself and identify the things going on in your life you need to work on in other ways. work on nourishing yourself in a healthy way on all levels. look into finding am over eaters anonomous group.
how can i get treated for binge eating disorder?
first talk with your physician about your eating problem. get a full history and physical. there are also psychiatrists and psychologists who specifically treat eating disorders including binge eating. ask for referrals. in addition you can attend overeaters anonymous: <link> -- very helpful group for many. for more info on binge eating: <link>
how to know i am binge eating?
binge eating disorder (bed) is characterized by loss of control over eating behaviors. the binge eater consumes unnaturally large amounts of food in a short time period but unlike a bulimic does not regularly engage in any inappropriate weight-reducing behaviors such as excessive exercise induced vomiting or taking laxatives following the binge episodes. www. answers. com/topic/binge-eating-disorder.
how come people not take binge eating disorder seriously?
i say the other ed bc of the lack of awareness. bed has not had the same amount of media exposure as anorexia and bulmia. when our media talks about individuals who are likely to have bed they use the term obese. bed is a serious condition and is life threatening.
help please! i have binge eating disorder?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
how do people overcome binge eating disorder?
over eater's anonymous is a great place to get support education ; to learn coping skills. it is free ; confidential. working with a psychiatrist <negative_smiley>or an addiction medicine specialist can also be very helpful. take care.
could you tell me what to do about a binge eating disorder?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can recover from binge eating disorder?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can treat binge eating disorder?
encourage you to try a 12 step program called over eater's anonymous. it is free confidential informative supportive ; can be effective. you will learn about your dysfunctional relationship w food as well as finding out about healthier coping behaviors. would see your physician to determine if there are any underlying medical conditions. working w an addiction medicine specialist can help.
can i tell me how i can deal with binge eating disorder?
see a mental health professional who can guide you in the right direction as far as diagnosis and treatment. it is unhealty and detrimental to your body and health. there are also self help books on eating disorders on amazon. seek help.
how can i recover from binge eating disorder?
over eaters anonymous. it is free confidential and often a very effective 12 step program. take care.
could eating too much be an eating disorder too?
binge eating disorder and bulimia (associated with binges) are recognized eating disorders. you should definitely seek guidance from a trained therapist!
have been binging every morning and night. what damage can this do to me?
he consequences of binge eating disorder involve many physical social and emotional difficulties. some of these complications are: affectts if binging : cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes insomnia or sleep apnea hypertension gallbladder disease muscle and/or joint pain gastrointestinal difficulties depression and/or anxiety electtrolyte imbalances
how to stop binge eating (forever)?
there are effective eating disorder treatments these days! and binge eating disorder is an eating disorder just like anorexia or bulemia. common therapies include medication and psychotherapy (especially behavior therapy mindful eating). the therapy component will be very important but you can do it! you're worth it!
does someone commonly develop a binge eating disorder on purpose?
that suggests the choice is conscious logical and in some way reasonable. one could rationalize that a binge eating disorder was on purpose but i would expect to find many unconscious reasons. the eating attracts your attention but probably there are many unconscious problems associated with it. consider getting help with it.
are there different kinds of binge eating disorder?
binge eating do (compulsive overeating) is one type of eating disorders. other types are anorexia nervosa bulimia nervosa purging do rumination pica night eating syndrome.
are there different kinds of binge eating disorder?
there are 2 types of binge eating disorders. 1. purging type which involves vomiting laxatives diuretics enemas or other medications. 2. nonpurging type which involves excessive exercise or fasting.
are there different kinds of binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder is characterized by eating large quantities of food rapidly and often to the point of pain. there's a sense of a loss of control during the binge and intense feelings of shame and guilt. bingeing when compensatory measures to get rid of the food such as vomiting laxatives exercise is a feature of bulimia.
could you be thin/average weight and have binge eating disorder?
yes binge eating disorder focuses on eating behaviors not the weight of the person affected. in binge eating disorder one eats a very large amount of food with a sense of losing control and guilt or shame. bulimia nervosa involves binge eating and compensatory behaviors to get rid the excess calories.
anyone know what is a really effective way to fight binge eating disorder?
even with professional help it is a slow process of recovery. a trained professional can help you explore the dynamics behind the behaviors instead of just treating the symptoms.
advice for someone with a binge eating disorder?
work on self image/self esteem issues with a therapist experienced with cognitive behavior therapy for eating disorders. prognosis is favorable with commitment to years of therapy.
advice for someone with a binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder is treatable by a qualified professional who specializes in this issue. therapy helps you identify the internal triggers that lead to the behavior rather than focusing on the food itself. in treatment you learn to respond to your thoughts and emotions in different ways and often to change your relationship to both self and others. also see a medical doctor for a checkup.
binge-eating disorder help needed. where to go without making a fuss?
start by looking up counselors for eating disorders in the local directory. those who deal with these disorder will likely be able to help you or they will know the super specialists who deal especially with binge eating disorder. many hospitals have help lines where they can refer you to specialists but let you call in anonymously for that phone call to find out.
binge eating disorder: how do you deal with emotions and feelings? any tips?
according to the national comorbidity study over 63% of people with bed also have a mood disorder and over 23% have an anxiety disorder so you're not alone. treatment with therapy is cornerstone and an antidepressant/anti-anxiety may prove helpful. in fact bed may be thought of as a way to "self-medicate" feelings and emotions and treatment may reduce or eliminate bed.
binge eating disorder help without doctor? what should i do?
overeaters anonymous is a 12 step program for people with eating issues. no doctors are involved and there is no charge (just a donation if you can afford that). for more information see www. oa. org. they have face to face meetings in many towns and also have online meetings.
binge eating disorder help without doctor? what should i do?
an eating disorder is difficult to overcome on your own. you emphasize how there is no doctor but have you thought about checking if there are therapists that can work on a sliding scale or can work towards helping you in a way that is accessible? it is also important for you to know that purging can be dangerous so you should strongly consider getting as much help on your side as you can!
binge eating and obesity caused by anxiety?
binge eating disorder is a way of coping with difficult feelings by turning to food. the behavior with food expresses an underlying issue conflict or problem. bingeing feels like “the” problem but it is actually a “symptom” of a deeper problem or conflict such as anxiety. obesity is usually a result of eating too much but that may or may not be a result of binge eating.
has anyone had any luck with adderall in treating binge eating disorder? vyvanse recently approved but snri contraindicates. echo/muga prior to rx?
of amphetamine salts including dextroamphetamine and is short acting. vyvanse is pure dextroamphetamine bound to l-lysine to produce slow release. vyvanse has fda approval for binge eating disorder. adderall would be off label but should work based on dextroamphetamine response. seek evaluation from a qualified experienced prescriber to determine what is best for you. best regards for good health.
