i take 30 mg of actos (pioglitazone) for type 2 diabetes daily. it has been linked to increased risk of bladder cancer in person taking actos (pioglitazone). is actors safe?
there has been a slight excess of bladder cancers detected in patients who have taken actos (pioglitazone) compared to others who do not. this appears to be time and dose dependent. very few people who take actos (pioglitazone) will develop bladder cancer. however there are many alternatives so it makes sense to switch to another drug if that will be effective .
do artificial sweeteners cause bladder cancer?
no convincing human data to prove this.
are rapid weight loss and blood in my urine signs of bladder cancer?
rapid unintentional weight loss is a sign of a significant illness (cancer or thyroid diseases are possibilities). bloody urine is another sign of a significant problem (cancer or kidney diseases are possibilities). a person with both symptoms should be at the doctor's office getting a full evaluation.
are rapid weight loss and blood in my urine signs of bladder cancer?
gross painless hematuria is bladder czncer until proven otherwise.
are artificial sweeteners a risk to your health? are they linked to cancer?
artificial sweeteners are regulated by the fda in the us. the ones that are commercially used at this time have not been linked to an increase in human cancers. however there was link found with saccharin and bladder cancers in rats and aspartane and brain tumors in rats. however this was at doses that were very high compared to that consumed by humans. also the metabolism is different in rats.
what to do if i have had bladder cancer in may and breast cancer in june can i still get the policy?
i assume you are planning to get a medical or life insurance policy no? i doubt we can help you with that. you need to talk with the company that sells the product and see what is their take on this. good luck.
does smoking cause breast cancer?
no direct correlation with breast cancer and smoking. there is direct correlation with several other cancers and smoking. lung cancer head and neck cancer bladder cancer is to name just a few.
i had breast cancer double mascectomy and chemo in 2009. one year later i was diagnosed with bladder cancer. after many months of dusting and sweeping the cancer cells out of the bladder in 2013 it became a large tumor which had to be removed along with a
question?
what is the prognosis for heart attack patient with kidney/bladder cancer mass induced coma?
one needs full details to be sure but the pattern is gloomy.
what are snapping joints chest tightness frequent urination along with muscle and joint pain symptoms of?
collection of issues that are not uncommon. the urinary symptom seems out of place with the others. some kidney and bladder cancers can be related to uti.
will treatment with bcg for bladder cancer cause possible complications to a recent aortic tissue valve replacement?
this is a reasonable concern but this would be an unusual complication. a 2010 study in journal of urology found that this complication is no more likely in patients with valves and other prostheses than in the general population and that having a valve should not prevent you from receiving this treatment.
will treatment with bcg for bladder cancer cause possible complications to a recent aortic tissue valve replacement?
bcg is a vaccine that used to treat superficial bladder cancer. i don't think it would give you any significant complication with your recent aortic tissue valve replacement.
