is it possible for a no-carb diet cause brain death?
without carbs over time the body starts to manufacture ketones which is an alternate source of fuel to glucose. the brain and heart are the primary organs able to use ketones. the danger of such a diet is primarily because of possible ketoacidosis. a dangerous build-up of the acid can occur if one isn't well hydrated. ketogenic diets also leech calcium from bones to help buffer acids.
why do a brain dead person's blood pressure and heart rate rise when cutting them for organ procurement?
their brainstem (medulla and pons) which controls involuntary reflexes including bp is obviously intact. the cerebral cortex (where thinking and memory reside) is what counts when determining brain death.
what would cause a cardiac arrest after a sinus arrest?
sinus arrest results in asystole. the atrioventricular node may rescue with an idioventricular rhythm in the 30's. if this doesn't rescue within 10 seconds syncope usually happens. if it extends beyond 20 seconds this is cardiac arrest. if rescue pacing or cpr not started brain death occurs within 5 minutes. total asystole may be caused by acute severe hyperkalemia.
what will happen to your pupils during a stroke or brain aneurysm?
depends on part of brain nerves to eyes threatened. aneurysm may have unilateral signs dilation brain death dilated fixed wide pupils. depends.
what kind of donor would you need for a heart transplant?
the donor would need to meet brain death criteria and have a normal functioning heart. certain systemic diseases would need to be excluded such as severe hypertension and atherosclerosis.
what is the definition or description of: stroke?
irreversible area of brain death from lack of blood.
will compressing(blocking) both the left and right common carotid arteries for a sufficient period of time lead to complete brain death?
your brain is always active and requires a great deal of oxygen to function. complete occlusion of both carotid arteries would compromise blood flow to most of the brain and could cause a hypoxic brain injury or death.
why compressing both left and right common carotid arteries leads to brain death when vertebral arteries(and also circle of willis) still supply.
the vertebral arteries are not enough to sustain the entire blood brain perfusion. they contribute to the anterior circulation by means of the posterior communicating arteries. there are common anatomical variants and in some cases these arteries are not patent or existent. the situation you describe may and most likely cause a massive brain infarction with subsequent brain herniation/death.
why compressing both left and right common carotid arteries leads to brain death when vertebral arteries(and also circle of willis) still supply.
the main supply vessels & an acute obstruction of these does not lead to any time for possible but unlikely adaptations to flow through the vertebral vessels & the circle of willis that may occur over time if there was a slow process of occlusion involved but in general even that is unlikely to occur. when this collateral development of circulation can occur in other areas of the body but not all.
why when an organ donor becomes brain dead their heart is still viable?
the brain tissue can die while the heart and other organs remain viable. if for instance the brain is damaged by trauma brain death can occur while heart and kidneys and other organs remain viable and working.
