what are the consequences of developing breast abscess?
sepsis or systemic blood infection can occur readily in breast abscesses due to the proximity to major blood vessels and the thoracic duct in the chest. if treated there can also be cosmetic scarring and breast deformity. breast infections/abscesses are more common in breast feeding new mothers who delay treatment of "mastitis".
what are the consequences of developing breast abscess?
usually abscesses can be drained and treated with antibiotics. if successfully they may leave some minimal scarring but this will depend upon the size and location of the abscess.
what's the most natural treatment for breast abscess?
once the abscess is surgically drained resolution with antibiotics occurs more rapidly.
what's the most natural treatment for breast abscess?
placing a warm compress over any abscess will promote maturation and spontaneous abscess drainage. how to make a warm compress: place 1/4 cup of water and a damp wash cloth (flannel if you are a kiwi) into a zip-lock bag. microwave until hot. apply every two hours until bored.
what is a breast abscess?
a breast abscess is a localized collection of pus in the breast tissue. breast abscesses develop as a result of infection of the breast tissue which can occur due to several causes. treatment involves incision and drainage of the breast abscess.
what is a breast abscess?
a breast abscess is an infection of the breast. it can be an infection of the milk glands hair follicles sweat gland secondary to trauma to the breast. it can be treated with antibiotics alone if the abscess is small or surgical drainage antibiotics and local wound care of larger.
what is a breast abscess?
localized infection of breast most common with breast feeding.
what is a breast abscess?
common features of breast abscesses include swelling and redness of the breast associated with a new tender progressively-enlarging lump. while more common with lactation abscesses can develop at any time in a woman's life. traditional rx often involved surgery however current techniques favor (repeated) aspiration and antibiotics.
will breast abscess stop me from going on my vacation?
if you are having fever aches and chills you should not be travelling but should see your doctor. if you have already been drained with a needle or tiny incision and are feeling well [or nusing and getting better] discuss with your doc but likely you can still go.
will breast abscess stop me from going on my vacation?
it depend on the situation if the case diagnose and in the process of treatment and you are responding i think so. check with your doctor.
what symptoms typically go along with breast abscess?
a breast abscess will usually cause significant pain fever erythema swelling induration and a mass in the affected breast. treatment is surgical drainage and antibiotics.
what symptoms typically go along with breast abscess?
breast abscesses usually cause a red swollen tender lump. associated symptoms may include fever malaise and lethargy. while more common when breastfeeding they can occur at any age. the cornerstone of therapy includes antibiotics and drainage which may be done via needle aspiration or surgical "i and d" depending on the severity of the infection.
what symptoms typically go along with breast abscess?
a breast abscess is best treated with incision & drainage. antibiotics are usually given and packing of some kind with dressing changes are started. if not treated - fevers chills redness swelling & pain are the usual symptoms until drainage occurs; if no drainage you can get septic end up admitted to the hospital or worse-case scenario - in the icu. don't wait get checked.
which treatments for breast abscess are most cost-effective?
antibiotics with warm compresses are most cost effective but an abscess almost by definition is difficult for antibiotics to penetrate and kill the bacteria. therefore you're almost always going to have to have the abscess surgically treated. that may mean draining it with a needle but often requires surgically cutting out the abscess wall.
which treatments for breast abscess are most cost-effective?
it would be necessary to know the cause of the breast abscess and its sensitivity to antibiotics and the potential need for surgical drainage to answer this question fully.
what are the tests for breast abscess?
the best way to diagnose a breast abscess is by physical examination supplemented by ultrasound. if a fluid-filled lump is present in the right setting for an abscess (redness tenderness swelling etc) a needle can be inserted under local anesthesia with ultrasound guidance: drawing pus out is diagnostic (and combined with antibiotics may be all that's needed for rx).
what are the tests for breast abscess?
your doctor will determine whether you have abscess or not.
what are the symptoms of breast abscess?
an abscess typically has pain and redness of the skin. in some there may be a buldge fevers and chills. it is important to seek care from a breast specialist. incision and drainage is usually the treatment along with antibiotics. if you think you have a problem seek care from your physician immediately.
what are the symptoms of breast abscess?
breast abscesses usually cause a red swollen tender lump. associated symptoms may include fever malaise and lethargy. while more common when breastfeeding they can occur at any age. the cornerstone of therapy includes antibiotics and drainage which may be done via needle aspiration or surgical "i and d" depending on the severity of the infection.
what breast abscess is drained?
undrained pus will allow the abcess to get bigger more painful and take longer to heal. see your surgeon.
what could be the cause of inverted nipples?
inverted nipples occur due to variety of causes. these can be broadly classified as congenital (present since birth) or acquired (that develops later during the lifetime). acquired conditions are: breast abscess breast cancer recurrent infections or prior breast surgery. most are without complication and even with invert. nipples there are techniques to help breastfeed.
what should i do if i just found that i have a breast abscess?
unless related to preganncy (and in that case see your ob) most breast abscesses need drainage - sometimes with a needle but often surgical.
what is the treatment for a breast abscess?
treat the infection with antibiotics and perform surgical incision procedure to drain out the infection if it is large enough.
what should be done for a breast abscess 1 year post nursing?
breast abscesses can be painful and recurrent. they can be related to breast feeding but could be from a new problem eg mammary duct fistula. please get a referral to a breast surgeon to have the problem evaluated and treated.
what should be done for a breast abscess 1 year post nursing?
treatment of a breast abscess would be antibiotics and surgical drainage if there is a fluid collection causing the infection.
what is the best way to get rid of a breast abscess?
breast abscesses usually cause a red swollen tender lump. associated symptoms may include fever malaise and lethargy. while more common when breastfeeding they can occur at any age. the cornerstone of therapy includes antibiotics and drainage which may be done via needle aspiration or surgical "i and d" depending on the severity of the infection.
what causes breast abscesses?
breast abscesses usually arise from normal skin bacteria traveling thru the nipple ducts & multiplying under the skin. this is most common in women who are breast feeding due to nipple trauma. when it occurs unrelated to lactation we need to include breast cancer as a possible cause & do the appropriate tests.
what causes breast abscesses?
more common in cigarette smokers otherwise unknown. some women get multiple infections requiring surgical excision of some of the affected breast tissue.
what can i expect when getting blood draining from breast abscess?
small drainage is normal but depends on how long ago the surgery was. call ur surgeon/doctor to discuss further.
sir/mam my mother is having breast abscess. we first operated it but now the abscess is growing again on breast and hand?
make sure that the diagnosis is correct. secondly if abscess is large enough- incision and drainage may be required to remove the puss. culture and sensitivity should be done to help antibiotic selection. she should receive a good regimen of antibiotic for a good period of time. later when the culture is back- antibiotic type can be adjusted accordingly. a good wound care is needed.
sir/mam my mother is having breast abscess. we first operated it but now the abscess is growing again on breast and hand?
in non lactating female most of the breast abcess are in skin and subcutaneous tissue should heal with drainage wound care along with antibiotics in a non healing abscess or infection may have be having underlying malignancy please take your mom to her doctor for examination and tests.
what does it mean if proteus maribila was found in my breast abscess culture?
most women who get breast abscess are lactating some may have diabetes. this bacteria is one of more common that shows up in the breast abscess. all it means that the abscess must be drained and your body should take care of the rest. some doctors still may give antibiotics but drainage is best treatment.
will doctors perform a breast reduction with an abscess underneath the breast?
pre operative breast infection precludes reduction surgery. the only surgery that is advisable would be a breast abscess surgical evacuation after appropriate antibiotic coverage. the precaution is due to a spreading blood borne infection. (septicemia). which can be fatal.
right breast pain worse over the last few days no breastfeeding have had breast infection before can i get another one? im 32 have had hysterectomy could it be cancer?
best option to start with ob or primary doc. yes you can get breast abscesses not related to breast feeding. cysts are also very common. many women can have perfectly normal mammogram/ultrasound and have pain. should have those 2 tests to make sure all is well. cancer though unlikely is a possibility and is usually detectable with those screening tests.
rapid weight loss breast abscess lump in right breast dry mouth extremely tired have sin 1 pap result and migraines cause?
for evaluation tests imaging and treatment options. proper diagnosis is the key to successful treatment.
should i still empty my breasts if i have mastitis?
pumping will actually help relieve some of your mastitis symptoms. be sure to pump and dump on the breast that the mastitis is in. this also goes without saying but if you haven't already see your doctor and get on proper antibiotic treatment and follow up closely so developing a breast abscess will be less likely. hope this helps!
had underwire mastitis and breast infection went to local surgeon cleaned wound after popped but there is still bleeding and mucus coming from wound?
your surgeon is your best place to start. sounds like you are still inside the 90 days after surgery so call and make an appointment. in the meantime okay to shower wash the area with mild soap rinse well pat dry then hairdryer the wound. what you describe is within the normal expectations for your mastitis/breast abscess. good luck.
how do i know it is a breast abscess or mastitis?
common features of breast abscesses & mastitis include swelling and redness of the breast; however an abscess is often associated with a new tender progressively-enlarging lump. the distinction may be subtle requiring surgical evaluation +/- ultrasound.
how long does breast lumpiness associated with breast abscess last?
once the abscess is treated (drainage and antibiotics) there can be residual lumpiness that is inflammed tissue. this can take at least 4-6 weeks to resolve and feel like "normal" lumpy breast tissue.
can you get breast abscess from having sucking on your breast?
mastitis/breast abscess is a not uncommon during lactation/breastfeeding but uncommon otherwise. milk stasis (incomplete emptying) provides a good substrate/food for bacteria. common bacteria are from the skin (staph & strep). paradoxically breastfeeding is the best preventative for mastitis/abscess. infants empty the breast better than any pump. a lactation consultant can aid this as well.
can you get breast abscess from having sucking on your breast?
it is possible. the milk ducts are an open system and bacteria form the skin or mouth can enter the ductal system and cause infection. mostly seen with nipple piercings or ductal ectasia and stasis meaning there is fluid in the milk ducts and the ducts are a little swollen [which is normal]. if nursing continue or pump to get milk out and keep dusts empty.
can you get breast abscess from having sucking on your breast?
breast abscesses often arise from normal skin bacteria entering through breaks in the skin at the nipple-areolar complex. therefore any significant trauma can lead to an infection but the degree of trauma would have to be severe enough to break the skin surface.
can i pick a breast abscess myself?
see your physician as soon as possible first you need diagnosis is it a simple abscess or tumor you don't want to introduce lethal infections.
can i pick a breast abscess myself?
i would never recommend this. an easily treatable problem can be turned into a comes problem.
can mastitis go untreated?
mastitis as most women know it (decreased milk output swollen/tender breast fever and aches) probably cannot go untreated or else a breast abscess may form. very early "mastitis" that has slight symptoms such as mild firmness in an area of the breast and a mild decrease in milk output may resolve with breastfeeding pumping and massage to get the milk out of the affected area.
is it normal to have surgical drainage of the breast abscess done for both breasts if you've already had antibiotic therapy?
drainage of an abscess either by aspirating the pus with a needle and syringe or draining the abscess with an incision is often required to resolve the infection. antibiotics alone may not be sufficient particularly if the breast remains red and tender and you have systemic signs of infection like fever or an elevated white blood count.
is it normal to have surgical drainage of the breast abscess done for both breasts if you've already had antibiotic therapy?
breast abscesses are frustrating and can be reoccurring. stop smoking. after 11 years of practice and many breast abscess patients only one has been a non-smoker.
i have my daughter of 1 month and i have left breast anechoic lesion with internal debris (abscess) at 2 o'clock position1 cm away from nipple. ?
it sounds like you have a breast abscess related to breast feeding. the milk ducts can get clogged which causes an infection. it can be treated with antibiotics and continuing to pump the milk. a drainage of the abscess may be needed with a needle or small incision. a breast or general surgeon can help.
if i have a painful breast lump should i go to urgent care or my pcp?
an urgent care center is better-designed to treat emergncies; most pcps have more experience dealing with breast disease. however if you think you have a breast abscess (redness swelling fever severe pain) and your pcp is unavailable it is reasonable to seek out immediate attention at an urgent care center.
i got surgically treated 4 br abscess. i am non lactating. what are my chances of having breast cancer in future.?
simple breast abscess does not usually associated with breast cancer. however some breast cancer can get infected and cause abscess. any concern should address with ur surgeon.
i got surgically treated 4 br abscess. i am non lactating. what are my chances of having breast cancer in future.?
breast abscess has no significant impact on your risk of breast cancer. for all practical intents and purposes your risk of breast cancer is the same as it was before the diagnosis of your breast abscess. only if the breast abscess became chronic would it significantly impact your risk of breast cancer by a small amount.
if had a breast abscess and it's clearing up why do i have a constant sharp pain?
sometimes after an infection or maybe you had an incision and drainage of the abscess there can be pain while healing. once healing begins nerve fibers in the area can sometimes be hypersensitive for a short time. you should also see your doctor to be sure that the infection is not recurring causing you more pain.
is it possible to have a breast abscess when not breastfeeding?
breast abscesses can occur unrelated to pregnancy typically via normal skin bacteria entering a break in the skin or nipple. rx centers on antibiotics and draining any pus ideally via (repeated) aspirations rather than surgical drainage. surgical evaluation is mandatory--cancers can masquerade as abscesses.
is it possible to have a breast abscess when not breastfeeding?
yes.
is it common for teenage girls to develop a breast abscess?
breast abscesses can occur at any age typically via normal skin bacteria entering a break in the skin or nipple. rx centers on antibiotics and draining any pus ideally via (repeated) aspirations rather than surgical drainage. surgical evaluation is mandatory--it is best to treat this as early as possible.
is it possible for a breast abscess to lead to breast cancer?
pure abscess is infection not cancer. however a cancerous lump can have "dead" cells within it because it is fast growing overgrowing so necrotic or dead tissue in it can have what looks like "pus".
is it possible for a breast abscess to lead to breast cancer?
in general a breast abscess does not lead to breast cancer but some breast cancers can present as a breast abscess. when being treated for a breast abscess a mass in the breast should be ruled out.
i had a mastitis after i gave birth to my son and til now i can still feel the mass in my left breast. can it be develop into cancer? im worried.
mastitis and breast abscess can develop in the young mother after childbirth because the milk is not emptied out in the breast. so it is important to pump the breast if the child does not suckle properly or you are unable to feed the infant in a timely fashion. a tender lump usually means it is an abscess and you need to see a surgeon. no lump in the breast should be neglected. see your doctor.
if a man sucked his girlfriends breasts could she get a breast abscess? .
so long he did not bite hard and caused injury/laceration which got infected and caused abscess.
if a man sucked his girlfriends breasts could she get a breast abscess? .
women can get breast abscess during breast feeding. as oral flora and skin breakdown occur that abscess occurs. it is important to keep skin healthy and prevent breakdown.
if you have a fever then take antibiotics and the fever goes away but you still have a big painful lump could this be inflammatory breast cancer? my
it is too early to say. from your info it appears that you are/were being treated for a breast abscess. the antibiotics resolved the fever but the abscess mass may persist and need surgical drainage even if it is abscess.
has anyone ever treated a breast abscess?
the treatment involves drainage of the abscess (with a needle or a surgical incision) and antibiotics.
has anyone ever treated a breast abscess?
more common in lactating women but principle of treatment is like any other abcess. you have to drain the pus by making a small incision into the abcess cavity and let it heal from the inside out. problem with a lactating breast is a risk of a milk fistula-where milk would leak from the incision rather than be expressed from the nipple.
how long does chills associated with breast abscess last?
if your abscess is treated appropriately with drainage and antibiotics the fever and chills should resolve within 48-72 hours. if the fever/chills persists then contact your surgeon the abscess may not have been completely drained (can happen with a complex abscess) or you may need a different antibiotic. this may mean the infection has spread beyond the breast.
how long does fever associated with breast abscess last?
if your abscess is treated appropriately with drainage and antibiotics the fever should resolve within 48-72 hours. if the fever persists then contact your surgeon the abscess may not have been completely drained (can happen with a complex abscess) or you may need a different antibiotic.
how long does malaise associated with mastitis last?
malaise with a breast abscess is not a common symptom. this usually means a more serious infection that may be beyond the breast. treatment for a breast abscess include drainage/aspiration and antibiotics. i highly recommend you contact your doctor for a complete evaluation.
how long does it take for a breast abscess wound to heal?
most wound will close in 7 to 10 days.
how long does it take for a breast abscess wound to heal?
if abscess is drained will heal in short time if you have no other problems.
can you get breast abscess from having your partner suck?
you may cause trauma to the breast tissue which may cause it to get inflame and may develop associate infection which may turn into abscess. notice there are many may in this scenario.
can i pop a breast abscess?
best treatment is adequate surgical drainage. if the opening is too small the abscess can come back. best to see your surgeon.
can i pop a breast abscess?
a breast abscess can be drained and/or treated with antibiotics. if it is traumatically "popped" the infection could spread locally within the breast and could create scarring within the breast. occasionally scarring can be difficult to interpret on mammography.
how long does breast firmness associated with breast abscess last?
several weeks. depends on the size of the infection healing of an open wound etc. if there is increasing pain or swelling at the site see your doctor to be sure it is healing properly.
how long does breast erythema associated with breast abscess last?
if your abscess is treated appropriately with drainage and antibiotics the fever should resolve within 48-72 hours. the erythema should also improve in that time. it can take up to 1 week for the redness to completely resolve. if the fever or redness persists then contact your surgeon the abscess may not have been completely drained.
how long does breast tenderness associated with breast abscess last?
a breast abscess may require surgical drainage as well as antibiotics (antibiotics alone don't always work especially for abscess and even less for large abscess). even after drained and effectively treated there will still be swelling and inflammation from the infection dependent on the severity and length of time it went untreated. could be weeks to a few months worse with menstrual cycles.
how long does breast aches associated with breast abscess last?
depends on factors of size of abscess means of treatment such as an open wound how long it takes to heal if the infection tries to recur any medical factors such as diabetes etc. it may take several days to a few weeks. if it is not improving as you feel it should be contact your doctor for an examination.
how long does malaise associated with breast abscess last?
malaise with a breast abscess is not a common symptom. this usually means a more serious infection that may be beyond the breast. treatment for a breast abscess included drainage/aspiration and antibiotics. i highly recommend you contact your doctor for a complete evaluation.
can men get breast abscesses?
not as common an occurrence as in women but men can get abscesses in their breast.
describe the features of a breast abscess.?
common features of breast abscesses include swelling and redness of the breast associated with a new tender progressively-enlarging lump. while more common with lactation abscesses can develop at any time in a woman's life. traditional rx often involved surgery however current techniques favor (repeated) aspiration and antibiotics.
describe the features of a breast abscess.?
a breast abscess will typically present as a firm possibly fluctuant mass in the affected breast. the breast will be red hot likely swollen and very tender. most women will run a fever and there may be bloody nipple discharge.
how do you know the difference between a breast abscess and inflammatory breast cancer?
breast abscess is an infection that is presented with a thin walled area with pus accumulation- caused by bacteria. while on the other hand inflammatory breast cancer is a type of agressive breast cancer that involves the skin and soft tissue underneath- with clinical presentation that mimics inflammation process- swelling redness and pain
how do you know the difference between a breast abscess and inflammatory breast cancer?
confused so you must see a doctor to determine when a biopsy needs to be done. . cancer is not mistaken there.
how many days does it take to get blood culture results of a breast abscess?
ideally the result of a culture would come back in a couple days. in reality the full culture and antibiotic sensitivity may take 5-7 days to come back. blood cultures results may take longer than direct abscess fluid culture from the breast itself too.
might have a breast abscess -- what does one look like?
common features of breast abscesses include swelling and redness of the breast associated with a new tender progressively-enlarging lump. while more common with lactation abscesses can develop at any time in a woman's life. traditional rx often involved surgery however current techniques favor (repeated) aspiration and antibiotics.
might have a breast abscess -- what does one look like?
painful swlloen hard red breast lump. could have a fever. pain is usually prominent.
armpit pain and breast lump = ca?
could be breast abscess. see your doc asap.
does smoking affect a breast abscess woundw?
smoking interferes with wound healing. the healing is delayed suboptimal and may never finish due to a multitude of direct and indirect adverse effects of tobacco use.
does smoking affect a breast abscess woundw?
smoking is bad for all healing including the type you mentioned. it probably won't be helped by stopping now but stopping asst any time is a good idea.
does smoking affect a breast abscess wound?
smoking has a negative effect on all wound healing! it will make healing harder!
does smoking affect a breast abscess wound?
smoking is bad for all healing including the type you mentioned. it probably won't be helped by stopping now but stopping asst any time is a good idea.
does smoking affect breast abscess wound?
smoking cigarettes is never recommended but especially when one is trying to heal a wound or acute infection. by constricting blood vessels slower healing occurs due to lack of germ-fighting blood cells getting to the wound and many other effects. it is a well-known surgical fact that wound healing and recovery is impaired by regular cigarette use.
does smoking affect breast abscess wound?
smoking lowers tissue oxygen levels which will interfere with your body's ability to heal the abscess wound. there is a particularly virulent form of breast infections called periductal mastitis where small abscesses form around the areola; this disease is very rare in nonsmokers and very difficult to cure in smokers. quitting today will help your wound heal immediately.
does smoking affect breast abscess wound?
smoking is bad for all healing including the type you mentioned. it probably won't be helped by stopping now but stopping asst any time is a good idea.
i have a breast abscess it was large and painful but has gotten smaller. should i still see a doctor? can i die from it if it goes untreated?
not likely to cause death although infection can get in the blood stream if left untreated so would seek medical treatment for medicine and excision as needed. i hope you feel better soon.
i have a breast abscess it was large and painful but has gotten smaller. should i still see a doctor? can i die from it if it goes untreated?
breast abscess needs medical and many times surgical treatment. breast infection like any other infection can have serious consequences if it was not properly treated. please see a health care provider experienced in treating breast conditions.
i'm a nursing mom who had mastitis twice. i have a painful bump above my nipple not mastitis. feels hard and flat like a m & m mini.
some warm soaks may drain out spontaneously if it is not helping you call your ob have best experience to treat this kind of problems some times ( rarely ) infected milk cysts need drainage to prevent forming breast abscess.
my loved one had a breast abscess surgery done on both breasts on 19-jan-2013. the granular tissue has overgrown and needs to be scrapped (doc says). is there no other option thn operate? i am tensed.
sometimes it's a good idea to get a second opinion before any surgery.
my loved one had a breast abscess surgery done on both breasts on 19-jan-2013. the granular tissue has overgrown and needs to be scrapped (doc says). is there no other option thn operate? i am tensed.
granulation tissue can be painful if left untreated. removal is a simple procedure.
does inflammatory breast cancer look like a 4 mm pinkish bump on breast skin that has been there for 3 months unchanged? i'm also nursing.
doubt it is inflammatory carcinoma but any lump in the breast deserves an investigation. it is more common to develop breast abscess in lactating mothers though that should have been evident much earlier than 3 months. a pink bump on the skin that has unchanged for so long can only be diagnosed by a clinician by a direct examination. see your doctor.
how to know that a breast abscess is recurring?
you are 20 years old the only reason for you to have a breast abscess if you are lactating now i assume you had abscess before you are concern about recurrences if you start having any pain or redness in your breast or part of it feel feverish or if you are having fever or chills you might be having a recurrent abscess if that is the case you need to go to the er or to your docotr
how to know that a breast abscess is recurring?
a breast or any abscess is a 'lump'. . self exam is the key. abscesses are areas of infection that the body attempt to contain in one area. abscesses are a lump mass or some sort of space occupying mass that you can feel. there may be pain redness or a general feeling of illness or fever with some abscesses. but. it's a matter of size and degree.
how to know that a breast abscess is recurring?
an abscess typically has pain and redness of the skin. in some there may be a buldge fevers and chills. it is important to seek care from a breast specialist. aspiration or incision and drainage is usually the treatment along with antibiotics. if you think you have a problem seek care from your physician immediately.
is subaerola abscess something dangerous or causes breast cancer? my abscess is not going since a month.
breast abscess is not going to cause breast cancer but has to make sure breast cancer is not presenting like an abscess. abscess need to be treated with drainage and proper wound care.
are these symptoms exclusive to breast cancer- darkening pain and skin peeling of the area where the lump is? if not what could it be?
this could be a breast abscess. overlying skin changes may become evident as the abscess matures. an examination and ultrasound with your doctor can solidify the diagnosis and rule out an atypical breast cancer.
are these symptoms exclusive to breast cancer- darkening pain and skin peeling of the area where the lump is? if not what could it be?
but get cancer ruled out and get examined. if not you could have a breast abscess which you would know because you would be sick or a local dermatitis oner a benign cyst. it is cancer until proven otherwise though not to scare you but you need an exam.
blood from breast abscess?
if you have bloody nipple discharge that needs medical evaluation and most commonly is related to a growth on the lining of a milk duct. if there is bloody drainage from the incision made on the skin to drain the pus that is perfectly normal until it heals.
blood from breast abscess?
i am not sure exactly what you are asking. a breast abscess can bleed.
breast abscess lactation question. any experts here?
but i need to know the specific question. if you are asking if you can breast-feed with a breast abscess the answer is yes. breast abscesses are best managed with antibiotics and repeated aspiration as needed until they resolve. hope this helps.
bump on breast red hard like a grapefruite. what could it be? breast cancer? it also hurts
breast abscesses cysts and occasionally breast cancer can all present with the same symptoms. recommend senior physician for further valuation.
possible breast abscess. how to tell?
a breast abscess will manifest itself as a hot red tender lump in the breast +/- fever; eventually the entire breast can become swollen &red. treatment is centered on antibiotics and abscess drainage either thru (repeated) needle aspiration or even surgical drainage if aspiration is unsuccessful. please see your gyne or primary care dr. today.
breast abscess what can i expect to see if i have one?
fever mass and redness of overlying skin. if you have a developing infection you need to take antibiotics. if you have established abscess you will probably need aspiration or even surgical drainage. consult a surgeon.
doctor discovered large lump in breast scared its breast cancer i also have pain and yellow discharge the lump is large on top of right breast in the corner?
the differential diagnosis includes infection or breast abscess which might explain the pain and yellow discharge. it is best to follow up with someone who is experienced in evaluating breast lesions. take care ethan bindelglas.
is it possible for a breast abscess to go away naturally after infection while breastfeeding? i am not ill and no symptoms only a painless lump.
painless lump isn't an infection usually as a breast abscess would be very painful. perhaps just inflammatory reaction
my wife 27 non-lactating has been facing recurring breast abscess (pus oozes from the skin) on her left breast since last year. suggest treatment.
you usually start with antibiotics. ask your doctor to do gram stain culture and antibiotic sensitivity before she starts antibiotics. however if this had been recurrent it might had formed a fistula than it needs to be drained surgically
my wife 27 non-lactating has been facing recurring breast abscess (pus oozes from the skin) on her left breast since last year. suggest treatment.
an abscess is a localized pocket of pus that has no blood supply so getting antibiotics into it is virtually impossible. these need a combination of surgical drainage debridement of devitalized tissue culture of the materials drained and then selection of an antibiotic based upon the culture and sensitivity results. see a combination of a breast surgeon and an infectious diseases expert.
breast abscess ruptured after fna. shld i b doing some sort of wound care at home? --or rcving wound care clinically? only washing and dressing now.
it would be unusual to do a fna biopsy for a breast abscess as that procedure is generally reserved for biopsy of a concerning solid breast lesion. contact your doctor or surgeon for instructions. antibiotics with open incision and drainage is a common treatment for an abscess.
breast abscess ruptured after fna. shld i b doing some sort of wound care at home? --or rcving wound care clinically? only washing and dressing now.
if there's a cavity present it would be best to pack it once or twice daily with gauze. this will allow it to feeling from the bottom and not have the skin close over and open space. you can remove the packing and let water run through it. i would recommend being followed by a medical professional.
breast abscess ruptured after fna. shld i b doing some sort of wound care at home? --or rcving wound care clinically? only washing and dressing now.
the physician who performed the biopsy.
being treated for breast abscess. the incision is almost healed but when i pumped 2hrs ago i had big clot&lots of blood. is this ok or is it serious?
be careful of pumping your breast over and area that has been lanced by a scalpel / abscess pocket. i would hold off on pumping on that breast if you are drawing blood and blood clots and follow up early next week with your primary care physician to further evaluate. hard to tell you what to do without seeing it in person. be well.
can breast abscess removed without any surgery?
sometimes aspiration of the abscess and antibiotics can " cure" an abscess without surgery. the aspiration would also allow an accurate culture be done to guide antibiotic choice as well.
fibroadenoma or breast cancer - symptoms weight loss itchy breast abscess breast pain fatigue?
most breast cancers present as a painless lump within the breast. your description of itchy painful breast would be an unusual presentation. some advanced cases can present with skin involvement that can look like orange peel with redness. see you doctor for an exam probably time for a mammogram as well. best of luck.
hello. within the past two days i have noticed sudden growth in my right breast while the left one has remained the same in size. is this something?
the most common cause of sudden breast growth in a 21 year female is pregnancy. do a home urine pregnancy test. if negative see a doctor and consider a mammogram and ultrasound. another possibility is a breast abscess which may require antibiotics and possible drainage. see a doctor today.
if you have a breast abscess (not breastfeeding) and it bursts on its own do you still need to see a doctor? also there is no fever accompanying it
need to take antibiotics
i am experiencing breast pain and hardness even after 1month of i&d for breast abscess. pus didn't stop. daily dressing done?
you should go back to your doctor for followup. you may need additional antibiotics or surgery.
large painful lump near nipple. waiting for mammogram. night sweats fever for 10 days. what are the chances this is breast cancer. can't sleep?
if you are breastfeeding it maybe a breast abscess. symptoms include painful local swelling + breast lump redness & tenderness of the breast. in non-lactating women subareolar breast abscess may develop representing an infected lump just under the areola. inflammatory breast cancer is much less likely but you should definitely get an ultrasound and possibly a mammogram (if not breastfeeding).
niece has breast cyst which were biopsied and said they were breast abscesses. why would a 15-year-old get these? no piercings/not sex active.
breast infected cyst or abscess can occur in the absence of any known cause
on depo-provera. taking cephalexin (500mg 4x/d) & doxycycline hyclate (100mg 2x/d) for a breast abscess. could this cause prolonged/abnormal period?
depoprovera in of itself can cause irregular and prolonged bleeding but usually the antibiotics.
