i'm on levaquin (levofloxacin) and got a shot of rocephin for bronchitis/cellulitis because i am immunosuppressed. my bm this am for first time was sulfuric. why?
good morning! wow you got 2 broad-spectrum antibiotics. i am sure this will kill the bacteria that is causing your infection. unless it is viral. these 2 antibiotics also kill the good bacteria in your gut that aid digestion. this certainly would change the form and aroma of your bm. in fact you may end up with antibiotic associated diarrhea. eat some yogurt to help reconstitute your gut
i've had recurring sinus infections bronchitis pneumonia and cellulitis for 7 years. i mold tested my job & was positive. could this be the cause?
check your immune status with your pcp also.
i've had recurring sinus infections bronchitis pneumonia and cellulitis for 7 years. i mold tested my job & was positive. could this be the cause?
that mold could potentially be a cause of allergies sinus troubles and bronchitis although i'm not sure we could easily attribute the pneumonia and cellulitis to that mold. further testing of yourself and of the workplace may be in order.
what medical problems result from wildfires?
depending on the composition of the air and individual response allergic bronchitis wheezing eye irritation runny nose and even pneumonitis can occur. duration and concentration of exposure does matter as also the kind of woods elements being burnt.
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
truthfully sounds like you have a multitude of symptoms affecting many different organ systems. may need a series of blood tests good physical exam etc to pin down cause. certainly may have root in autoimmune disorder of some kind versus various infections such as tick bites for example which can have widespread issues or something as simple as allergy. best to see your doc.
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
a complete screening physical by your doctor is a good place to start. labwork can rule out most organic medical conditions. if all else is negative a mental health assessment could be helpful in identifying depression or other common ailments.
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
need a functional medical practitioner who can test you. get micronutrient analysis via spectra cell lab or comprehensive triad profile by metametrix or gene snp testing you can order via <link> once you get tested we will have better understanding of what you need. start with 7 day liver cleanse followed by 3 week b vitamin and digestive enzymes will help you - on above website.
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
first step is a good physical exam. you seem to have a combination of physical and psychological symptoms that requires a good work up.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
a new change on the cxr may be or may not be a "scar". expert consultation is indicated.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
you want to discuss this with your doctor.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
it most likely will not cause a problem but it depends on the extent and location of the scarring. long term scars of the lung may be associated with an increased risk of developing into carcinoma particulary with a history of smoking but this is relatively low incidence.
i am 36/f i have type 2 diabetes on the pills i'm a smoker bout half pack a day i know i have this cough that i've been having for 4 or 5 mo is it se?
you have type 2 diabetes and on meds are you on ace inhibiters which are used for high blood pressure in diabetics for renal protection and can cause cough. smokind iyself can cause chronic cough and chronic bronchitis but you should see your doctor as its been for 5 months and you want to know the cause and get treated. you should seriously stop smoking.
what's the difference between sleep apnea and nocturnal hypoxemia?
nocturnal hypoxia is a drop in oxygen in the blood when sleeping. it's associated with sleep apnea but also with hypoxic chronic bronchitis pulmonary hypertension and emphysema. sleep apnea can be due to airway obstruction or of central origin. it causes reduced oxygen often dangerously and arousal from sleep leading to daytime fatigue.
what were the common sides effects seen in the qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) study? were there any uncommon but serious side effects?
phentermine+topiramate: numbness dry mouth constipation colds/bronchitis acidosis headaches insomnia dizziness nausea backpain blurred vision fatigue high potassium depression anxiety hair loss reflux and man many more. . and rare but serious ones: allergic reaction high blood pressure heart valve disorders tremors psychosis pancreatitis liver failures. consult doc. good luck.
i was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes 2 years ago now. im fighting a lot of issues with it. but now i cough up phlegm after eating anything! help?
coughing up phlegm could be due to sinusitis or bronchitis or both. a full history and physical ex by a doc can help get to the bottom of this. good luck!
my mom wakes me up choking and snoring in the middle of the night?
your mom should have a sleep study as soon as possible. sounds like she has sleep apnea but other issues may also be at hand such as acid reflux bronchitis and heart disease. she should see her doctor soon.
my doctors will not recommend acid reflux surgery or bariatric surgery even though they have said the acid reflux is causing 8 bouts of bronchitis why?
not sure why. however if you qualify for weight loss surgery by your bmi and you have significant reflux the best operation for you would be a gastric bypass which will make you lose weight and correct your reflux.
my doctors will not recommend acid reflux surgery or bariatric surgery even though they have said the acid reflux is causing 8 bouts of bronchitis why?
you sound like a good candidate for wls if your overweight enough to qualify - should make the reflux go away.
my doctors will not recommend acid reflux surgery or bariatric surgery even though they have said the acid reflux is causing 8 bouts of bronchitis why?
i cannot speak for your doctors but many of my patients that have had a procedure wonder why they had to suffer for so many years before it was fixed? the best endoscopic procedure (my opinion) is stretta and the most common operation is a nissen fundoplication. gastric bypass may also be an option depending on bmi. see an experienced general/laparoscopic surgeon for a consult. hope this helps!
mucinex (guaifenesin) not helping chest congestion sounds like i'm snoring when i breath clears with deep coughs then comes back after few min.
you need to get a chest xray and an office vist to differentiate between pneumonia and bronchitis. your doctor also may want to put you on antibiotics for a short course.
is tympanic membrane perforation a contraindication for cpap & apap use for sleep apnea what is the treatment for ear discharge from this condition?
cpap overview cpap (continuous positive airway pressure) is a tool which can be used to assist the oxygenation of several respiratory pathologies. cpap is not a r eplacement for any medicati on or procedure but a t ool which can provide a high level of ventilatory support without the need for rsi or intubation. patients whose condition is resistant to parenteral medications but whose respiratory effort does not yet require intubation should be considered prime candidates for cpap. indications? respiratory distress secondary to suspected congesti ve heart failure acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (asthma bronchitis emphysema). contraindications? unconsciousness? suspected pneumothorax? inadequate respiratory drive? shock/hypotension (bp <90)? chest wall trauma? persistent nausea/vomiting? has active upper gi bleeding or history of recent gastric surge
have mucus that comes up into throat i assume from my lungs as my sinus' are clear. it has been going on for 5 years now with no diagnosis. feel bad and sometimes a little short of breath more a heaviness feeling. have had pft and test for asthma foo
did you had allergy test done. do you have allergy symptoms. chest radiograph needs to be performed as well. are you a smoker? . chronic allergies chronic bronchitis other chronic lung conditions/ infections can cough chronic cough with chest congestion. you are having short ness of breath as well - need to get further work up done or be referred to a pulmonologist.
having a history of alcohol abuse and fatty liver disease can moxifloxacin be still used for chronic bronchitis?
it does not require dose adjustment and should be safe.
having a history of alcohol abuse and fatty liver disease can moxifloxacin be still used for chronic bronchitis?
there are no dosing adjustment needed for liver disease just need to monitor for side effects closer.
can bronchitis cause high white blood cell count in 2 yr old? he is also anemic n have sleep apnea. thx.
bronchitis can cause elevation oh white blood cells. regarding her sleep apnea have a consult with ent( ear nose throat ) specialist and have them remove adenoid and tonsil.
can bronchitis cause high white blood cell count in 2 yr old? he is also anemic n have sleep apnea. thx.
bronchitis - is inflammatory disease of the bronchi. elevated wbc count is usually a lab. finding goes along with it. anemia may be a result of disease as well if not an underlying condition. sleep apnea is most probably a result of obstruction of the airways. in premature or kids with neurological problems it may be from the immaturity of the brain resp. center & not the reason for n elevated wbc.
could someone take imovane with sleep apnea?
imovane is a central nervous system depressant prescribed as a sleep aid medication (. because imovane can worsen symptoms of respiratory disorders people with sleep apnea emphysema asthma or bronchitis may not be able to safely take imovane. never take any sleep aid without the supervision of a physician.
can someone tell me if smoking is bad for someone with insulin resistance?
insulin resistance is highly related to the development of diabetes and diabetes is itself a risk factor for development of coronary heart disease and myocardial infarction (heart attack) the number one cause of death in the us. smoking is the second most common risk factor for heart attack. combining them makes heart disease highly likely. plus various cancers bronchitis and emphysema.
does whey have carbs?
lactose is that carb. but worse is that it is a milk protein related to prostate and breast cancer & and is hard on the kidneys and highly allergenic predisposing to atstma the flu bronchitis and hayfever as well as heavy menstrual periods. www. thepmc. org.
can acute bronchitis/asthma trigger shortness of breathe when lying down? i have attacks after i get up from this. is it sleep apnea?
it could be the bronchitis or asthma that is triggering shortness of breath when lying down. with either condition you can have excess mucous which can build up when lying down and make breathing difficult. sleep apnea does not cause shortness of breath usually. see a doctor for treatment to relieve the shortness of breath.
had bronchitis finished antibiotics cough syrup etc. now tummy upset. cramps. loose stool. eat healthy. no known allergy. how to make tummy happy?
for a pathogenic bacteria that colonizes the gastric tissue. if present this would explain your gastric symptoms and hyperacidity. loose stools could be from antibiotics. your doctor can do a simple 5 minute breath test for h pylori. avoid dairy and salad to help diarrhea. some kaopectate (kaolin and pectin) might alleviate diarrhea. hope this helps.
a year ago my bmi was 18. 7 and now its 17. 5 and i lost half a stone after having a lot of illnesses this yr-kidney stones pots svt gastroenteritis bronchitis etc. how can i gain weight healthily?
make sure that you don't have an overactive thyroid or diabetes. if not increase daily calorie intake with three healthy meals and add in a supplement like ensure once or twice daily to take in more calories.
a year ago my bmi was 18. 7 and now its 17. 5 and i lost half a stone after having a lot of illnesses this yr-kidney stones pots svt gastroenteritis bronchitis etc. how can i gain weight healthily?
simple extra calories with your choice of calorie dense food. can use ensure/boost as supplement three times a day.
a year ago my bmi was 18. 7 and now its 17. 5 and i lost half a stone after having a lot of illnesses this yr-kidney stones pots svt gastroenteritis bronchitis etc. how can i gain weight healthily?
make sure that after all this illness that you can eat the things that you need to to gain weight in a healthy fashion. take into consideration the weight of your family as their bmi may be on the slight side. protein poultry fish nuts and vegetable are all things you can eat to gain weight. see a dietician for best recommendatinos.
upper rgt chest swellng & dull ache-sinusitis-reoccurring heartburn-was just sick w lupus fl bronchitis & flu-xray/us & mammo clear-wbc18 er senthome?
a wbc of 18 is high. this could mean bacterial or viral infection or inflammation or maybe you are taking prednisone for your lupus. prednisone or other steroids cause a high wbc. it sounds like you should check in with your rheumatologist as soon as possible. the swelling you describe needs to be examined by a doctor who knows you and your chronic health history. i hope you feel better soon!
i have been coughing a lot and now my rib hurts under my shoulder blade and wraps around under my left breast. hurts to move cough and sneeze.
you pulled some muscles try tylenol (acetaminophen) and get the cough and sinuses addressed. you may have bronchitis but this is not unusual.
bronchitis lupus and dull achy pain above right breast. slight swelling to collarbone. xray mammo and us all neg. 35 yr female?
the area above your breast and below your collarbone has muscles blood vessels lymph nodes and breast tissue. your lupus puts you at risk for blood clots so that's one thought. you have bronchitis and if you're coughing you could have muscle pain/spasm of your pectoral muscles. inflammation of lymph nodes in that area is also a possibility. make sure the ultrasound checked for a blood clot.
lupus dx. wbc from 11 to 18. trace blood and protein in urine-- feel weak swollen chest nodes- chest xray/mammo/us all clear. bronchitis & sinusitis?
with the high white count we would think of the steroid therapy or an infection. people with lupus usually have a low white count. with your smoking you have a greater risk of infection and cardiovascular comorbidities that we see with lupus. you may need to have those lymph nodes looked at an even see an infectious disease specialist. speak with your physician about that.
what is the definition or description of: chest pain on deep breaths?
it's the classic description of pleuritic pain. . pain resulting from inflammation or irritation of the pleura (the lining surrounding the lung); the inflammation is called pleurisy. but not all pain with inspiration is pleuritic. pneumonia bronchitis asthma tracheitis cancer. all can cause painful respiration. it's like saying "not all hoofbeats are from horses. some are from zebras. "
is it dangerous for a 20 year old to have tachycardia and chronic bronchitis?
tachycardia is a sign that something else is wrong ;what is causing the rapid heart rate? bronchitis that is chronic is certainly dangerous over a long period of time it can lead to permanent lung damage. if this is due to smoking please stop as soon as possible.
i've been having heart palpitations for 2 weeks during night and sometimes in day. also short of breath when running. causes? stress? how to stop it?
get checked for thyroid/ heart condition viral illness autoimmune condition asthma bronchitis emphysema stress anxiety etc. treatment is geared toward the cause of the problem. take care!
i jog a 3-4 min. jog every day and 3/4 mi. once a week. its hard to breath and hurts my throat and lung/heart area. had bronchitis b4. idk athsma?
see an allergist or pulmonoligist for evaluation and testing. you could possibly have asthma which is poorly controlled and triggered by exercise.
i jog a 3-4 min. jog every day and 3/4 mi. once a week. its hard to breath and hurts my throat and lung/heart area. had bronchitis b4. idk athsma?
this is a matter that needs further evaluation especially if this is a recent change for you. the work up should consider heart related issues ruling out angina and chf. from the lung point of view a breathing test is needed checking for asthma and copd. blood tests to check for anemia thyroid problems. etc.
i have been diagnosed with cardiomyopathy bbb copd chronic bronchitis and glaucoma all symptoms effect my life should i seek disability?
if you cannot work due these conditions then you should apply for disability. otherwise you should work.
i have been diagnosed with cardiomyopathy bbb copd chronic bronchitis and glaucoma all symptoms effect my life should i seek disability?
the severity of your various conditions will determine whether you qualify for disability. often the combination of heart and lung disease makes your performance worse than either alone. good luck!
i have a left side upper chest pain and i noticed coughing up a little bright red blood at morning only. i got x-ray and ecg done. nothing detected.
hemoptysis ( coughing up blood) is a serious issue and should not be taken lightly no matter how little it is. i common causes include blood thinners ( if you are taking them) bronchitis ( acute and chronic) bronchiectasis lung cancer tuberculosis. you should have a discussion with your pcp depending on other symptoms like weight loss lack of appetite and energy may warrant a ct scan of chest.
is it normal to have a heart rate in the 120's when you're sick with bronchitis? mine has been in the 120s for about 15 hours now.
a heart rate that high suggests a serious infection. any chills or accompanying shaking means spread of bacteria into the blood. past history of chest pain makes me very concerned and you should see a doctor as soon as possible.
is it normal to have a heart rate in the 120's when you're sick with bronchitis? mine has been in the 120s for about 15 hours now.
it's unlikely but possible. bronchitis itself should not do it. bit if you have fever dehydration or using certain inhalers as allbuterol may cause to increase your heart rate. it's important to find out asap what is causing your heart rate go up to 120 and return it to normal. it's dangerous to keep your heart rate at that high pace.
icd 9 code for lower respiratory tract illness?
there are multiple different lower respiratory tract illnesses. bronchitis pneumonia copd asthma etc. etc. etc. you can probably pick your illness and simply google the icd-9 code. best wishes.
ive already been 2 the hospital for chest pain twice. both times normal ekg chest xray. what could be causing my chest pain. it comes and goes. im 17?
there are many reasons for this and the best thing is to get a full workup by your doctor. causes when ekg and cxr normal: drug use anxiety recent lung infection like pneumonia or bronchitis smoking (anything) reflux disease coronary vasospasm subtle cardiac rhythm abnormality not caught on ekg and others.
what are the side effects of olmesetran drug?
the most common listed side effects occurring in between 1 and 10% of patients include: dizziness headache increase in blood sugar increase in triglycerides diarrhea back pain bronchitis sore throat flu-like symptoms and occasionally blood in the urine. note: just because they occur does not mean that the drug definitively causes them. it's just that they have been observed.
why am i freezing when air is set at 76-77 some shortness of breath. had ekg and chest xray. all good
go see your dr for a spirometry. you may have signs of asthma/ reactive airway or obstructive lung disease/ bronchitis or emphysema. if you smoke quit. best of luck!
i was given albuterol for bronchitis and it made me very shaky and heart beat very fast. will i be ok taking it again?
might need xopenex (levalbuterol) instead (different form of albuterol) with less tendency to cause shakiness and fast heart beat.
why dose my heart hurt sometimes? i've been to a hospital because of my heart rate was to high and had to stay for 4 days then they said i was fine?
heart pain is probably your symptom. a common cause of cp in young males is chest wall pain/costochondritis acid reflux asthma pneumonia bronchitis. if the hospital said you were fine probably you don't have a heart disease. stay with your primary care doctor to find out the cause of your cp.
i was told need to take z-pac antibiotics for persistent cough. is there any other way as i don't like taking antibiotics for reasons of superbugs?
you do not take antibiotic for cough. unless the cough is productive with brown to green sputum and associated with fever or the lung sounds that you have a bacterial bronchitis or pneumonia. otherwise take a cough medicine to stop the cough. see a doctor fpr evaluation and treatment
why when i get a pvc i feel a quick instant loss in breath and sometimes cough? this is so scary and starts my worry and anxiety
actually the underlying lung issue (copd asthma bronchitis or emphysema) can be one of the causes of premature ventricular contraction which is the result of the left ventricle of the heart contracting too early before receiving the expected signal from the sino-atrial node. hypoxia or a lack of oxygen in the blood can lead to this issue.
what causes the heart rate to escalate when coughing? i have asthma pneumonia and bronchitis. am being treated with inhalers and antibiotics
coughing can cause this. this could be related to the valsalva maneuver which is brought on by coughing. there are different phases of the valsalva and in brief this affects the heart rate. also if you have breathing problems are medication for this is confect heart rate cost to go up.
have bronchitis. up much of night coughing. should i be flying 4 hrs to florida tomorrow for week vacation. also have supra ventricular tachycardia?
i would see an md before flying. cardic arrhythmia can be problematic. sometime it can precipitate atrial fibrillation and may need anticoagulantion to prevent systemic embolism!
heart rate is at 80-100 i had bronchitis and croup but took medication for bronchitis and ran out 3 days ago but still have croup. is this really bad?
talk to your physician who treated you to determine if you are progressing as expected.
my 11yr old daughter is having chest pain when she inhales. what is it her heart rate is 60bpm?
most chest pains in children are respiratory in nature such as a tight cough. bronchitis asthma etc. best to have your child seen to rule out other causes and more serious medical issues.
what is my constant deep cough? cough since 0<negative_smiley>13. especially when exercising - shortness of breath too/recently cough when eating/heart palpitations
sounds like you should see a physician for a proper diagnosis. could be a viral infection pneumonia bronchitis asthma sinusitis or heart problem. hard to tell without an examination.
i am on antibiotics prescribed for bronchitis. i have a resting heartbeat of 114 bpm. is it safe to be working in a place with diesel fumes and such?
if you have bronchitis i would advise you stay from anything that might cause further irritation such as diesel fumes. plus i would advise you get that resting heartbeat of 114 checked out. go back to your doctor who prescribed the antibiotics and tell him/her about your high resting heart beat.
i've been having chest pain. it's heaviness feeling (not sharp) and i'm always tired (extreme fatigue) threw out the day. when i wake up in the morning i'm in slight pain only in my chest no where else on my body what could it be?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it may be of a serious nature and you should discuss it with your doctor.
i have a bad cough and chest pain. i don't have a fever. can you have pneumonia without a fever? or do you always have a fever?
it's possible to have pneumonia without fever but unlikely. probably just bronchitis. however other things could cause this including potentially serious ones like a blood clot in the lung. best to see a doctor. if you're also short of breath or get winded with activity or mild exercise or if you cough up any blood get seen immediately.
i have acute bronchitis. i was prescribed the 5 day z-pac. may i take the 3 day dosing instead?
you can take the 3 day dosage but you need to take the correct dose of the medicine. if you have the five day dose it is wise to take it as prescribed. however to take 500 mg for 3 days is also effective but probably would be wise also to check it out with the prescriber of your medicine. drink lots of fluids and steam yourself is also good. i hope you find this helpful.
myy temperature is between 35 and 36c. heart beating fast dry caugh mucus trouble breathing/swallow nausea and my right side of the throat. help?
temp is on the lower side. you might be having just simple bronchitis and sore throat to worrisome pneumonia. please get evaluated by your primary doctor or urgent care.
slept on recliner for wk. amoxicil for bronchitis/no cough. pain on top left hypochon region(where chest meets. feels like i'm pressing on bone. concern?
or pleurisy. looks benign to me if it worsens go see your dr!
i have a chest pain near the center for the past 4 days and worsens when lying down or try to get up cough or inhale deeply. also coughing at night?
these symptoms are most compatible with pleurisy and associated pneumonia although bronchitis pericarditis or pinching of intercostal nerve or muscle in the rib cage are possibilities. in any event you should be examined by a physician even if you have no fever sweats or chills. a chest xray complete blood count and possibly an ekg will most likely be part of the evaluation.
i've had a bad cough for two years and was told it's acute bronchitis 6 times. now i have chest pain/shortness of breath/wheezing. what do i do?
an inbox consultation is available and the imaging may be reviewed at that time. the imaging can be uploaded for review. have you had a cf sweat test? do you have a history of sinusitis or other infections? there are several possible causes and i would suggest an appointment.
went to walking today bronchitis order antibotics/tesla perles cough is worse now vomit and i fainted. not sure what to do can't stand cough anymore?
i would advise a chest radiograph you may have pneumonia. a change in your antibiotic may be indicated. azithromycin covers atypical organisms such as mycoplasma.
which works best for bronchitis a z pac or bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) or are the equivalent?
most healthy individuals do not need antibiotics for bronchitis. in those with chronic bronchitis and an acute flare antibiotics may be indicated depending on severity. again this is very personalized depending on a person's medical conditions. for example both meds are both considered effective in moderate cases of acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis. consider a consult!
i have "sick sinus syndrome" and a couple of days ago i developed acute bronchitis. wondering if i should travel/fly in < 2 days?
you'll be able to travel with acute bronchitis. transmission rates are highest the day before and the first day that people are sick with acute infection so even though you will still be coughing you can assure people that the doctor said you weren't contagious.
i have pots on beta blocker for rapid hr. frequently also get bronchitis. is albuterol a safe breathing treatment for me with my tachycardia & meds?
hello and welcome to healthtap <positive_smiley> usually the tachycardia related to pots is postural if you lay down it should be relatively safe which is obviously not possible all the time. the second option would. levoalbuterol which causes very less tachycardia if any. thank you
shortness of breath heartburn cough that won't go away chest x-ray and ekg are normal? what could it be?
is a viral disease characterized by prolonged excessive dry coughing. he most common symptom of acute bronchitis is a cough that is dry. acute bronchitis is a one-time condition that lasts for several weeks. drink plenty of fluids and otc medication. rec. see your pcp if symptoms persist another week.
have a cough for 6+ weeks with chest pressure and pain fatigue. had a ct it came back normal. lungs sounded clear one week ago. what's going on?
chronic cough has multiple causes defined as a cough lasting more than 8 weeks. post nasal drip gi-reflux disease asthma medications bronchitis including lung or thyroid cancer. details of the history such as clearing throat symptoms after food symptoms with exertion are all useful to sort out the cause and requires a detailed history and physical by a lung specialist or internist.
had chest pressure and hoarse voice for 4 days. thought maybe bronchitis after zpack still no relief. should i go get checked? possibly tonsillitis?
and had a viral infection which is why you have no response to the z-pak. probably influenza. unlikely to be tonsillitis from your description but it would't hurt to get checked out since you are uncomfortable. your health care provider will be able to give you tips for dealing with viral infections so maybe you can avoid indiscriminate use of antibiotics in the future.
is it common for it to hurt to breathe or chest hurt when you are sick? bronchitis etc
ehen someone has bronchitis it can hurt to breathe deeply or when you cough. this is typically called pleurisy where the lining of the lung is inflamed. it is very sharp pain and very localized normalized.
i'm sick i either have bronchitis or pneumonia. is a resting heart rate of 94 normal?
normally hearts beat between 60-100 times a minute when at rest. if some one has a fever or is sick it may be on the higher end of this.
i'm sick i either have bronchitis or pneumonia. is a resting heart rate of 94 normal?
over 100 is considered abnormal but everyone is different. if you take ibuprofen it might settle down a bit. and drink fluids; it's easy to get dehydrated when sick.
i'm sick i either have bronchitis or pneumonia. is a resting heart rate of 100- 111 normal?
a fast heart rate of 100-110 is normal in the face of fever illness dehydration etc. . make sure to stay hydrated. see your doctor about treatment for bronchitis vs pneumonia.
i'm sick i either have bronchitis or pneumonia. is a resting heart rate of 100- 111 normal?
if you have fever and are short of breath it would be prudent to go to an emergency room if you cannot see your doctor immediately.
i've got blocked sinus and a hoarse throat. i've started to get chest pain on the right hand side. what would be the best course of action?
there are various maladies that can cause this. it could be that a bronchitis or pneumonia is starting. also could be a pericarditis or myocarditis from an ongoing respiratory infection. could be from the rib wall from coughing. should go in for an objective evaluation by a physician. sounds like you are feeling miserable. i hope you feel better soon.
i'm experiencing upper chest pain with swelling in both legs at times and also sometimes swelling in my hands.
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. if you are having symptoms currently go to the emergency department now!
i have a tightness in chest under ribs in middle. no pain just discomfort. feel like i need to take a deep breath sometimes. ?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as aortic problems respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis lung collapse infections) esophageal spasms and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. depending on the duration it would be worth seeing a doctor.
took pseudoephedrine for stuffy head - taking buspar (buspirone) metoprolol hztz and metformin - feeling warm and mild chest pressure - pharmacist said should be no problem but getting concerned about how i am feeling now.
the chest pressure is the most worrisome symptom. i agree with the pharmacist regarding no major drug interactions as far as i am aware. chest pressure can be cardiac in origin or be a result of a lung issue (bronchitis pneumonia asthma). if you are still feeling chest pressure regardless if it is only mild you need to seek medical care especially with your history of hypertension and diabetes. all the best.
what can it indicate coughing up yellow stringy phlegm my chest is tight feels as tho i've been punched in chest & back.
this sounds like bronchitis. if you have been coughing a lot then the pain in chest and back is due to this. the yellow just sign of infection. if it becomes chronic you may need treatment but most bronchitis will resolve without antibiotics within a few weeks.
i am experiencing chest tightness (quality: dull or achy). the following also describes me: chest pain or discomfort. what should i do?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. if you are having symptoms currently go to the emergency department now!
should i be concerned if i just took my atenolol(for inappropriate sinus tachycardia) for the night and have chest pain(mid to left side of chest)?
most likely ur symptoms are unrelated to atenolol especially if you have been taking atenolol for ist for a long time. the pain in your chest may be related to sleeping on the ribs (rib sprain) or may be bronchitis or point to some other pathology. but chances are heavily in your favor that atenolol is not causing the problem. in the prescribed doses it is a safe medicine.
tightness in chest difficulty breathing but heart rate's normal what could it be?
could be cardiac origin- blockage in arteries or valve problem; could be lung origin- asthma emphysema pneumonia bronchitis; could be unrelated to heart or lungs- anxiety anemia etc. need a good evaluation to figure out what testing to best evaluate this.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort-severe-sensation of pressure or heaviness- shallow breathing. occurs during and after shower?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it is very unlikely that at 28 it is serious but should see a doctor to get more information.
i have a high hr due to pots and i also get bronchitis a lot. is there an inhaler that helps wheezing but does not raise hr too much? what's safest?
of the acute use inhalers will have a tachycardia effect on your heart. the key will be to be well controlled so you don't need to use acute inhalers. consider seeing a pulmonologist for optimal asthma treatment.
i started having center chest pain that went down to my belly button and pelvis. the pain was stabbing and unbearable. what can cause this?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it is very unlikely that at 18 it is serious but should see a doctor to get more information.
hi i went to urgent care last weekend and got diagnosed with bronchitis. i got an inhaler steroid and z pac. im feeling worse now. is this normal?
after a week you certainly should be better and not worse. get seen again. if you are having shortness of breath fever leg swelling or chest pain go to an er.
it's been 7 wks 2 rounds of steroids & i'm still coughing up clear phlegm each day from acute bronchitis. don't use inhaler due to high hr. advice?
i would advise a pulmonary appointment. you should be assessed for a chest radiograph and pulmonary testing.
i'm on z-pac (for bronchitis) and 10mg celexa. i just had a spell where i almost fainted. should i go to er?
it is recommended to avoid this combination due to risk of interference with conduction system of heart. call your doctor and get seen asap.
i've been having chest pain for like 3 days now. it's the sort of pain i've felt before from drinking too much pepsi. is it something i have to worry?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it sounds like reflux or gastritis but if concerned discuss with your doctor.
is it possible to die from cardiac heart attack after full recovery from anorexia? i had anorexia for 6 years and now get sudden jabbing chest pains?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) lung diseases and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. sounds like you should see your doctor and sort this out.
my aunt passed away last month from sudden cardiac arrest. she had gotten a flu shot 1 week prior followed by bronchitis. could they have contributed?
most likely the cardiac arrest was not in any way related to the flu shot. cardiac arrest happens randomly - there's no way to predict when or where with precision (which is why it is feared by all). while we can treat underlying medical conditions sometimes the heart probs are undetected & sometimes treatment is inadequate. in any case i am sorry for your loss but don't blame the flu shot.
my aunt passed away last month from sudden cardiac arrest. she had gotten a flu shot 1 week prior followed by bronchitis. could they have contributed?
unless your aunt suffered from an anaphylactic shock due to the flu shot (which should have happened within a few hours of the injection) it is highly impossible that the flu shot contributed in any way to the sudden cardiac arrest.
my aunt passed away last month from sudden cardiac arrest. she had gotten a flu shot 1 week prior followed by bronchitis. could they have contributed?
multiple studies have shown the flu shot is safe and it has never been connected to causing heart attacks. it is a coincidence.
spitting up blood my chest hurts and i have a rash in my chest not the first time that has happen but i'm spitting more then before?
there are several possible conditions which may be related to your symptoms. among these include infections such as tb viral or bacterial bronchitis cardiac conditions allergic reactions. i would advise being seen right away by your pcp. a chest radiograph will be performed at that time. if you are having problems breathing please see the ed.
woke up today w bad cough no sputum (non-productive) that causes chest pain. minor trouble breathing runny nose temp 99. 2 f. cold or bronchitis?
a cold is an upper respiratory infection. acute bronchitis is also an upper respiratory infection. i would say you have both: acute bronchitis caused by a cold. the risk is that you may have a lower respiratory infection (i. e. pneumonia) - the fever is the worrisome sign. you need to be seen by your doctor asap. sometimes antibiotics really are needed!
have mild chest pain throughout the day also feel tired most of the time. get a very sharp pain every now and then in my left wrist. these happen mos?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it may be of a serious nature and you should discuss it with your doctor.
i have center bottom chest pain when i move it hurts. when i apply pressure it doesn't hurt. what should i do?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory (asthma copd bronchitis infections lung collapse) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it is very unlikely that at 23 it is serious but should see a doctor to get more information
i am experiencing tightness in chest (time frame: gradual onset) (severity: mild) the following also describes me:. it feels as if there is air trapped in the center of my chest and it tingles every so often as if there's air bubbles?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as aortic problems respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis lung collapse infections) esophageal spasms and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. depending on the duration it would be worth seeing a doctor.
i've been experiencing chest pain for a while now and i'm a 25 year old female. usually it's sudden or achy pains. sometimes it's accompanied by acid?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms gastritis or reflux respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. at you age it is unlikely to be of a serious nature but if concerned discuss with your doctor.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (side: both) (quality: stinging or burning sensation) (severity: moderate).
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. if you are having symptoms currently go to the emergency department now!
if i was having possible signs of lung cancer pain in chest cough a ct scan would probably detect the tumor?
yes it would probably detect a cancer buti would see a physician as you may have something less serious such as bronchitis and a chest x-ray may be all that is required
my husband cleaned with a very strong cleaner in a small space. i inhaled it being in same room. went to sleep woke up 2 hrs later my chest hurts bad?
if it's hurting bad then you need a chest x-ray to r/o acute lung injury but acute bronchitis is more likely- you never know what was in that vaccum bag. . in some cases it could be so severe that a burst of steroids might be needed. frequently though it may resolve on its own but i would recommend further investigation.
my chest feels tight no pain and i think i have avid reflux. it got better last night but it's still happening today. is that a problem?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as aortic problems respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis lung collapse infections) esophageal spasms and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. depending on the duration it would be worth seeing a doctor.
out in cold most of night and day and been sneezing and coughing with a little chest pain sore throat headache nausea. cold or bronchitis?
sounds like you're describing an upper respiratory infection which are mainly caused by viruses which don't respond to antibiotics whether you call it a cold or bronchitis. technically speaking chronic bronchitis (<link> is diagnosed after productive cough for 3mo in each of last 2yrs. see family doc if persists
on march 16 2016. i was giving proventil (albuterol) inhaler for bronchitis but since day one i've noticed that i have tremors fast heart beat and nausea.
of the proventil (albuterol) inhaler. please consult your prescribing physician for alternative therapy.
recent chest pain dull not constant when inhale. worse w/exertion. had echo in dec normal. slight short breath stuffy head. am concerned.
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it may be of a serious nature and you should discuss it with your doctor.
what are the chances of having collapsed lungs? should i go for xray? i have bronchitis taking rulide150mg + symbicort turbuhaler. my coughing is very bad worse at night. my chest hurts both sides when breathing even more when laying down breathing
it sounds like a severe case of asthmatic bronchitis- may lead to pneumonia or pleuritis; you will need an x-ray and pulmonary testing.
symptoms of bronchitis? i have slight cough some wheezing shortness of breath for a week clean chest xray clean ct chest swollen eyes stuffy nos
maybe it is allergies. in ohio right now the weeds are a blooming so it might be an asthma/allergy exacerbation. i would hope your doctor has considered treating you.
symptoms of bronchitis? i have slight cough some wheezing shortness of breath for a week clean chest xray clean ct chest swollen eyes stuffy nos
this combination of symptoms with absence of findings on chest xray or chest ct sounds consistent with an upper respiratory infection- bronchitis with probable sinusitis.
shortness of breath cough 4 weeks nasal drip side back long pain just started cough yellowish mucus lean on stuff to catch breath?
see your doctor or go to an er - you could have bronchitis but you could have pneumonia. don't delay!
sir i am suffering from diabities-2 and high bp taking medicine for both. i am suffocating particularly in aircraft. what could be the reason? please
shortness of breath can be due to life-threatening conditions so it should always be evaluated by a doctor asap. you could have a blood clot in your lungs causing your symptoms. other possible etiologies include bronchospasm from any cause bronchitis either acute or chronic heart disease like a heart attack or arrhythmia etc. you need to be seen by a doctor to know for sure what the problem is.
should i seek medical attention wheezing chest pain that goes around to my back cough chills body aches fever
consider seeing your primary care physician and getting a chest x ray. currently patients are having viral upper respiratory tract infection. your wheezing in itself suggest an underlying airway disease which could be from acute bronchitis or underlying asthma or copd exacerbation can also be possible.
went outside in cold weather next day my back became sore and every time i breath my left chest hurts what's wrong?
this may be a form of "pleurisy" or early bronchitis - either diagnosis is associated with inflammation of the airways and can be exacerbated by cold air exposure. people who smoke are most susceptible to these types of symptoms. limit exposure to extreme temperatures and avoid smoking. if symptoms persist or worsen(especially fever or productive cough) i would pursue a formal evaluation with m. d.
what can cause extreme difficulty breathing?
heart (congestive heart failure blockage of arteries) kidneys (fluid overload) lungs (copd/ emphysema bronchitis) hypertension anemia anxiety and panic attacks alcohol to excess and drugs of any kind. smoking! and also complete lack of physical fitness (being out of shape) and several more!
what to do if i have cough with phlegm mild chest pain but no fever what do i have?
those symptoms are nonspecific which means it could be anything from a 'cold' bronchitis gastroesophageal reflux heart disease allergic rhinitis etc. . see your doctor. if the pain just happens after coughing it would suggest cough is the cause if it is not related you should see your doctor more promptly.
what is wrong when there is pain when i wake up in the middle of my 2 lungs thanks?
pain in the chest can have many causes depending on other associated symptoms. any type of acute bronchitis( such as following a head cold) is the commonest cause. but if it is recent onset you should seek medical examination from your md. chest pain can also be caused by heart conditions so do not ignore if it is persistent or if it is getting worse over the next 1-2 weeks.
what exactly causes the normal tight and aching chest/throat/face when crying? because i get similar pain at other times sometimes exacerbated by deep breaths. clear chest ct neg cardiac work-up.
we have sensory nerves in our airways trachea etc that let us know when things are not right such as bronchitis with its irritation and coughing. crying and deep breaths may trigger the same receptors with similar tightness/aching. when bothered try to stop the hard breathing by relaxing and breathing slowly in through the nose hold it briefly and then gently exhale with a slow sigh. no smoke!
what cardiac conditions will look similar to bronchitis on a chest xray? had cp but no cough or known illness. is it heart related problem?
a chest xray that is similar to bronchitis maybe congestive heart failure. hard to tell without more information if this is a cardiac condition. seems like you will need a complete work up including ekg echo and maybe stress test to iidentify heart disease.
why do i still have trouble breathing from bronchitis that i got rid of?
you may still be having some residual bronchospasm due to the infection and this can cause shortness of breath. see your doctor since this is easily treated with bronchodilator and steroid inhalers. if you smoke you need to quit asap.
what could be causing my breathing problems?
the problem can be related to your airway or your heart. airway causes include lung conditions such as asthma or bronchitis. it can also be related to the airway higher up such as at the voice box base of tongue or nose. causes can also be related to your heart. if your heart is not effective in pumping out adequate blood your body may not be getting adequate oxygen.
what could cause right side chest pain when coughing? had this for about 2 weeks. started to feel slightly dizzy and nauseous today.
pneumonia bronchitis are possible. if you smoke stop. need to be evaluated and treated by physician.
wheezing when i cough and chest pain. what could this be?
wheezing cough and chest pain may suggest bronchial asthma chronic or acute bronchitis etc. need to see doc for office spirometry and chest radiograph or see a lung specialist to make sure that you do not have bronchial asthma. angina is less likely with cough and wheezing unless associated with congestive heart failure.
what medical terms are related to emphysema?
copd and chronic bronchitis.
what could cause chills without fever body aches and shortness of breath?
it could be flu pneumonia bronchitis cold weather etc.
what other than asthma can cause trouble breathing?
including: pneumonia chronic lung disease bronchitis copd bronchiolitis cheat trauma epiglottis lung cancer pulmonary edema pleurisy pulmonary embolism throat trauma heart attack neuromuscular disorders anaphylaxis high altitude obesity organ failure sepsis shock severe ascites cardiac arrthymias pericarditis cardiomyopathy congestive heart failure etc.
whats the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema outcome?
both chronic bronchitis and emphysema are chronic progressive diseases that respond favorably to smoking cessation. however how an individual sufferer will do is best predicted by knowing family and smoking history severity of the lung disease how the disease has affected th heart the patients overall conditioning etc.
whats the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema outcome?
both chronic bronchitis and emphysema are forms of copd chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. copd is not curable and it is slowly progressive. smoking cessation decreases airway inflammation and slows disease progression. there are treatments to control symptoms. if the oxygen level is low supplemental oxygen will decrease mortality.
whats the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema outcome?
the outcome for both types of copd is pretty much the same since both are slowly progressive and incurable diseases. the goal of treatment is to lessen symptoms as well as airway inflammation as much as possible.
what to do about chest tightness and labored breathing?
if you have chest tightness and labored breathing you have have underlying asthma/ bronchitis though heart disease also have to be ruled out. see your doc.
why am i having chest pains? i'm a 27 year old female with no prior history of heart problems. but for the last three weeks i've had chest pains everyday sometimes the pain is sharp and sometimes it's more of a dull ache. sometimes the pain goes into my
chest pains can be related to your heart your digestion or your lungs. chest pain should be taken very seriously and it is crucial you see your health care provider. in your case where pain is radiating to your back and feels strange when you breathe could be related to fluid building up in your lungs. have you experienced bronchitis or other allergens that affect your respiratory status? another reason you may have a constant pain in you chest could be a stomach ulcer. note whether or not you have been coughing up blood or feeling a burning/warm sensation in your chest. is this pain relieved by antacid? lastly this pain could be cardiac related. cardiac related chest pain can radiate to your neck arms and back. the pain in your chest is a sign that your body is stressed or that there is tissue injury. see your health care provider as soon as possible to get this resolved.
why do i always have trouble breathing when the wind is blowing in my face?
this is a type of asthma where your lungs get "twitchy" or airways go into spasm when exposed to cold air. some people will cough instead of wheezing. many get the same symptoms of wheezing whenever they get a cold or say that "when i get a cold it always goes into bronchitis. " you should get a breathing test to make sure that your lung function is normal otherwise. albuterol will stop the cough.
what is the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
both are forms of copd so both are chronic incurable diseases typically caused by smoking. emphysema patients have shortness of breath as the primary symptom whereas chronic bronchitis patients have a chronic cough productive of sputum. both are slowly progressive but treatment will decrease symptoms.
what is the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
emphysema and chronic bronchitis are two conditions termed copd or chronic obstuctive pulmonary(lung)disease. emphysema is long term progressive disease which causes shortness of breath. the tissue necessary to suppot sructure of the lung is destroyed chronic bronchis is chronic inflammation of bronchi which causes cough and sputum production at least for three months in two successive years.
what is the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
in chronic bronchitis cough is very prevalent and typically productive of sputum. the classic definition is daily productive cough for 3 months out of a year. emphysema can be associated with cough but shortness of breath is more common. there are also a significant number of patients who overlap between both illnesses.
why does bronchitis make my blood pressure swing so much?
increases in blood pressure during infection are usually secondary to coughing (which can raise intravascular pressure) or from medications (mainly decongestants). these are the two reasons your blood pressure may be elevated during an active episode of bronchitis.
why does bronchitis make my blood pressure swing so much?
with bronchitis sometimes breathing is harder so one has to generate more negative pressures in the chest to take breaths in and more positive chest pressures to breathe out. a more negative chest pressure will make blood pool in the chest longer making your blood pressure lower temporarily and the more positive chest pressure will push blood out of the chest making your blood pressure higher.
which diseases are related to chest pain?
although the most commonly associated conditions involving chest pain include cardiac issues like heart attacks stenotic vessels pericarditis etc. pain can also be caused by other conditions. pneumonia copd and bronchitis can all cause chest pain as do sarcoidosis pulmonary embolism pneumothorax and a myriad of others.
what are the medications for chest pain?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. the specific treatment for any of these disorders is varied. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having.
what is the etiology of chest pain?
common cardiac causes include ischemia (blockage of a coronary artery causing starvation of a piece of the heart) vasospasm of the coronary arteries (quivering) pericarditis (inflammation of the outer sac of the heart) heart failure (decreased pump efficiency). pulmonary causes include pneumonia or bronchitis embolism (clot usu. blood) asthma or copd fluid build-up and others.
what is the pathophysiology of chest pain?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having.
why are my chest pains happening? i went to my grandmothers funeral than at the viewing i started to get a sinus infection. but within the couple days it got bad then all i got now is a little cough middle of my back hurts and a really warm burning feeli
you may be dealing with bronchitis pneumonia sinusitis and/or gastritis or peptic ulcer (the last two can cause the burning feeling in your chest. the bottom line here is to have a medical evaluation by your primary care provider for a complete history exam testing and hopefully treatment. best of luck.
what is copd?
copd = chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. this has many causes but primarily is associated with long term smoking. two types are chronic bronchitis and emphysema. there are rarer causes of copd. it is treated by stopping the cause (smoking) and medications to open up the airways (inhalers and such). see your pcp pulmonologist or other provider of care for this illness if concerned.
what is copd?
copd is term that includes a collection of lung disease that can affect the airways and/or air sacs of the lung. common examples include bronchitis and ephysema but many patients can have combinations of both or even a disease that more closely resembles asthma. the most common contributing factor to copd is smoking.
what is copd?
copd is chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. this term encompasses both emphysema and chronic bronchitis. this disease is usually due to smoking but can occur due to other things as well like black lung disease and alpha one antitrypsin deficiency.
what is the best thing to clear out your lungs if you have shortness of breath/?
on why you have shortness of breath. pneumonia? antibiotic. bronchitis? steroid. asthma? steroid and albuterol inhaler. copd? antibiotic and steroid. foriegn body? removal. chf? fluid pill.
why would someone with severe copd/emphysema have 100% o2 sats and still severe sob at time even at rest. he's 71 has had increasingly difficulty breathing. been in hosp for 4 days and had every test. only thing came back positive was d-dimer. was sen
copd or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is subdivided into chronic bronchitis and emphysema. most patients with emphysema do have ch bronchitis to some extent as well. first he needs a full pulmonary function tests to asses severity of his disease and to determine prognosis/life expectancy. 100 saturation on room air or supplemental o2 is only one measure of lung function. dyspnea or shortness of breath is a symptom. it could be caused by underlying lung disease/ heart disease/vascular disorders like blood clots or anemia ( lack of enough hemoglobin) and last but not the least is deconditioning. you need to discuss with his pcp and if appropriate will need to see pulmonologist. there are certainly more treatment options at this time and age to help patients with emphysema. pulmonary rehab should also be considered if all treatment options have been optimized and cardiac causes have been ruled out as cause of dyspnea.
what are the most common symptoms of emphysema?
there is spectrum of lung disease from "pure" emphysema to chronic bronchitis. the symptom common to all is shortness of breath. emphysema may have a dry cough unlike the juicy cough of bronchitis. some have chest tightness. coughing up blood is possible but rare.
why are emphysema patients more prone to infections such as bronchitis?
emphysema can impair the lung's normal defense mechanisms of clearing bacteria and allow an infection to get established. chronic bronchitis is actually more prone to develop infections than pure emphysema. both are under the broader category of copd. active cigarette smoking also increases the risk.
why are emphysema patients more prone to infections such as bronchitis?
emphysema patients has chronic obstructive lung disease so any infection can set in easily. it is manifested by shortness of breath and coughing episodes. meds are necessary.
why are emphysema patients more prone to infections such as bronchitis?
but we know how to fix it.
whats going on? in hospital for pneumonia and was diagnosed with chf also have copd?
the symptoms of the three could be the same shortness of breath productive cough with some more specific like fever and purulent sputum in pneumonia and bronchitis abnormal cxr in pneumonia and chf; and one can exacerbate the other. it is a little complex and the patient may think that we are lost but we can identify the problem or problems and help.
why have i been spitting up blood coughing getting chest pains?
coughing up blood called hemoptysis is a serious symptom which always requires evaluation. the most likely cause is bronchitis but malignancy needs to be ruled out especially if you are a smoker. your chest pain is likely musculoskeletal especially if it is only present w/ coughing or deep breathing. this type of pain will resolve slowly once the cough resolves.
what problem could cause lower chest pain on the right side?
some of them could be a lung infection (pneumonia) bronchitis pulmonary embolus chest trauma muscle spasm shingles pleurodynia (viral infection of the pleura) rib fracture muscle tear gallstones hepatitis heart failure asthma attack emphysema thoracic spine disease with nerve root compression.
why are emphysema patients more prone to pulmonary infectionsand bronchitis?
this question is not fully answered. it seems in patients with emphysema the lungs ability to defend against infection is decreased but the specific areas of impairment are not fully known. they probably include changes in the cells which fight infection or identify infection changes in the lung produced by chronic inflammation impaired ability of the lung to clear mucous are a few.
why are emphysema patients more prone to pulmonary infectionsand bronchitis?
the dilated bronchi accumulate secretions that in a healthy person are moved up and out of the lungs. these secretions tend to get infected.
why are emphysema patients more prone to pulmonary infectionsand bronchitis?
emphysema patients have chronic airway obstruction which makes it difficult for them to exhale properly which can leave secretions behind in the lung which can then become infected. also there is chronic airway inflammation which also increases infection risk. lastly they tend to be more synptomatic with even minor infections making it appear that they have more infections than normal patients.
why are emphysema patients more prone to pulmonary infectionsand bronchitis?
emphysema doesn't usually occur as an isolated condition - it's part of a spectrum of chronic lung diseases all characterized by damaged breathing passages. thus resistance to infection is impaired and excess mucus is often produced resulting in cough phlegm and susceptibility to invasion by bacteria.
what's the timeline for the development of a common cold?
colds which are caused by viruses range in severity from mild to severe depending on the virus and your degree of immunity. typically it incubates 1-3 days after exposure followed by sore throat nasal congestion and rhinorrhea (running) sneezing and often ends with some degree of bronchitis. (cough). it may be as brief as 3-4 days but can stretch to 10-14. you've been there!
what are the causes for chest pressure or pain?
angina (heart) pulmonary embolus (lungs) airway congestion (bronchitis asthma) infection (bronchitis/pneumonia) heartburn (esophagus) musculoskeletal (e. g. costochondritis muscle spasms) radiculopathy (nerves pinched as they exit spine). many. see md if persists or worsens.
whats the difference between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema?
copd represents both emphysema and chronic bronchitis since it can be difficult to separate how much is present in any individual and the symptoms are similar. the big difference is chronic bronchitis produces a cough with sputum production and emphysema causes breathlessness without sputum. the damage in emphysema occurs in the air exchange units; the damage in bronchitis occurs in the airways.
whats the difference between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema?
empysema is a form of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd. there are also other diseases that are a type of copd like chronic bronchitis.
what are the symptoms of lung cancer compared to emphysema?
emphysema typically causes breathlessness with exertion. cancer is silent at first but later can cause persistent cough or even coughing up blood. chest pain that is persistent may occur. emphysema generally doesn't cause much coughing unlike chronic bronchitis which often occurs in combination (copd).
what are the symptoms of lung cancer compared to emphysema?
secret of lung cancer is that it causes very few symptoms in the early stages. copd emphysema and chronic bronchitis have cough shortness of breath worse with exercise and stair climbing and can cause blue lips and finger nails purse lip breathing. lunf cancer can cause "clubbed finger nails" once underway lung cancer can cause trouble everywhere.
what does it mean when your chest hurts really bad when you cough?
if coughing hurts chest it could be due to bronchitis pleurisy or something musculoskeletal. first see your doctor try figuring out why you ate coughing as much.
why am i having constant coughing attacks with phlegm and chest pain?
if you are a smoker it can be bronchitis or smokers cough. you need to see your doc for a definitive diagnosis and treatment.
what are some possible causes of fever with lingering chest pain and no cough?
possible causes-- flu pneumonia bronchitis etc.
when i cough there is a tingling feeling in the middle of my chest. what could it be?
this is possibly due to a musculoskeletal problem. possibilities include muscle strain cartilage inflammation etc. the possible diagnoses of the cough include bronchitis bronchospasm gerd sinus disorders etc. see your doctor for a more specific diagnosis.
will i get sicker from taking antibiotics for a common cold with bronchitis?
it's possible if you develop side effects from the antibioitic. more importantly they're probably doing you no good and repeated use can lead to drug resistance.
what can be the explanation if i've got chest tightness (1 week now) and shortness of breath?
if you have chest tightness and sob you probably have asthma. but you need a thorough check up before any conclusions. other reasons may be heart problems acid reflux bronchitis etc.
what is the difference between emphysema and lung cancer?
is destructive lung disease divided into chronic bronchitis and emphysems. it is measured by pft's: tests that determmine volumes and speed of moving air. lung cancer is increased in people with copd cells have gone awry travel to other parts of the body causing death by local progression or distant metastasis. similar cause: tobacco. mode of death quite different.
waking up with congestion with chest tightness. what should i do?
chest x-ray aspiration / hiatal hernia bronchitis pneumonia heart/ angina/ heart failure/pulmonary edema.
what can i do to relieve chest pressure and a hard time breathing?
if you these symptoms you should be ruled out of heart and lung problems such as coronary artery disease heart failure asthma bronchitis copd etc. so get checked.
what is constricting chest pain?
constricting chest pain is a term health providers use to describe the location or type of the pain. chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few.
what is the use of propranolol (inderal)?
inderal (propranolol) is a so called beta blocher that has many uses it is used for hypertension tremor migraine headaches mild anxiety excessive sweating and to reduce the chances of a heart attack. and tachycardia it is contraindicated in respiratory conditions such as asthma and bronchitis.
what does it hurt to breath and you are pregnant?
one possibly serious cause of this symptom would be a blood clot in the lung (pulmonary embolus) which can occur if your legs are swelling or you have varicose veins due to the pregnancy. other possibilities can be as simple as bruised ribs bronchitis or pleurisy. your doctor can help discover the cause.
what can cause chest wall pain?
often times it is viral in nature but you need an ekg to rule out any cardiac problems or lung issues. some people get asthmatic and later have chest wall pain. chronic coughing from bronchitis smoking and other lung irritations can cause this as well.
what is the physiologic difference between asthma copd emphysema and bronchitis? how to identify each as an emt? how are they treated?
as an emt in these cases you primary concern is to make sure the patient can breathe. in asthma codp emphysema and "chronic bronchitis" a resuce inhaler like albuterol or ipratropium(copd) owuld be your first response. steroid inhalers are not for rescue situations.
what is the physiologic difference between asthma copd emphysema and bronchitis? how to identify each as an emt? how are they treated?
asthma is a reversible airway disease due to allergens either extrinsic or intrinsic. copd is classified into chronic bronchitis and emphysema depending on the pathology. these are termed irreversible airway diseases. bronchitis is damage to the lining of bronchioles resulting in excessive secretions whereas emphysema is loss of elasticity of alveoli resulting in bad air exchange. careful history.
what is the physiologic difference between asthma copd emphysema and bronchitis? how to identify each as an emt? how are they treated?
asthma is seen more in younger people may have an allergic component and they tend to wheeze and be hypoxic. copd and emphysema are interchangeable. more in older smokers may be hypercapneic and you should be careful about giving them too much oxygen. in an emergency follow your abcs (abacavir). there is much more let me know if you need more info.
what could be wrong with me if i'm having chest pain?
here's the list (no specific order) depending on age and medical history: 1. heart attack 2. pericarditis 3. heart failure 4. pneumonia 5. bronchitis 6. asthma 7. pneumonitis (irritation from chemicals or drugs) 8. costochondritis (bruising) 9. pulmonary embolus 10. back injury/sprain 11. gerd 12. ulcer and many more. it needs to be evaluated by a doctor in the office or hospital.
will copd necessarily progress to emphysema?
copd (chronic obstructive lung disease) is a group of diseases that includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis. the disease names do not indicate severity.
will copd necessarily progress to emphysema?
copd is a combination term we use to describe emphysema and chronic bronchitis. some patients have strictly emphysema and some have strictly chronic bronchitis. however most patients have a combo of the two.
will copd necessarily progress to emphysema?
copd is a big box. it includes many diseases such as asthma bronchitis asthmatic bronchitis and emphysema. check with your lung doc.
whats symptoms causes persistent couphing at nights persistent sweating and at rare times increased heart beat for no reason?
several reason. most common one is due to asthma allergy bronchitis and postnasal drips. heart failure (which i do not expect in 20 year old person) also is on the list. please talk to your pcp.
what is emphysema?
emphysema and chronic bronchitis are but parts of copd (obstructive pulmonary disease). in emphysema the continual inflammation causes damage to the lungs that cannot be repaired or will go away. if you smoke- quit if you don't- don;t start.
what could chest and back pain along with shortness of breath indicate?
shortness of breath (sob) could be from many things such as asthma and infections like bronchitis and pneumonia. infections could cause chest and back pain. sob can go along with coughing. coughing could lead to muscle strain which in turn can lead to chest and back pain.
what is the definition or description of: mild shortness of breath?
shortness of breath (sob) could be mild moderate or severe. sob could be due to many things including anemia asthma congestive heart failure and infections like pneumonia and bronchitis. tests that may need to be considered include a chest x ray and ekg. the first step is to take a good history.
what are the symptoms of having a pulmonary embolism?
pulmonary embolism (or pe)symptoms can be vague subtle or extreme depending on the location and size of the clot. pain and shortness of breath can occur with other lung problems (pneumonia bronchitis lung collapse etc. ) pe can be life threatening but is much less common than the other illnesses mentioned. pe is diagnosed with ct scan and may also be diagnosed with ventilation/perfusion scan.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
you have upper respiratory infection and may have bronchitis or pneumonia you should consult your family doctor meanwhile you can take over the counter mucinex dm and tylenol (acetaminophen) or motrin for pain.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
could be something simple like a viral bronchitis. it may be pertussis. if it persists beyond 5-7 days you should be seen if you develop worse symptoms or new symptoms you should be seen.
what to do about chronic cough with mucus and some shortness of breath for a month or so?
you have cough with mocous and shortness of breath you should consult your doctor as you may have bronchitis or pnumonia and may need antibiotics you have been sick for a month or so so it is about time you seek help.
what to do about chronic cough with mucus and some shortness of breath for a month or so?
chronic persistent bronchitis need for sputum analysis imaging establish abx sensitivity.
what kinds of diseases can cause shortness of breath besides heart related and blood clot issues?
shortness of breath (sob) can be a symptom of many conditions other than heart and blood clot issues. pulmonary conditions are a major example . asthma reactive airway disease copd bronchitis pneumonia etc anxiety can even cause sob. if you're sob see a dr. for an eval and work up. (if you smoke stop). good luck.
why does my husband get shortness of breath?
not sure without knowing him and evaluating him. things that can cause sob . . smoking asthma copd overweight chf alergies congestion infections (like bronchitis pneumonia) to name a few.
why does my husband get shortness of breath?
shortness of breath is not specific to any one cause. he could be out of shape or he could be anemic or have heart or lung disease or. if he has asthma and bronchitis already that's a reason. discuss with his doctor.
which of these are restrictive: obstructive pulmonary diseases are asthma chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
airway "obstruction" refers to limitation of air flow through the airways. "restriction" refers to processes that keep the lungs from opening fully when you inhale. restriction can result from fibrosis or thickening of the lung as with diseases like idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. it can even be from something as simple as obesity or muscle weakness that keeps you from breathing deeply.
which of these are restrictive: obstructive pulmonary diseases are asthma chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
restriction is defined as low lung volumes. less air "capacity" of the lung. less air moves into the lung. a "thick" chest wall ( obesity) poorly functioning respiratory muscles are some reasons. pulmonary fibrosis is another distinct category. "fibrosis" disorders are varied and are described as interstitial lung disease
which of these are restrictive: obstructive pulmonary diseases are asthma chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
all the pulmonary fibrosis diseases are restrictive as are the infiltrative diseases.
why do i have coughing fits that result in shortness of breath resulting in throwing up?
could be allergies or asthma if you have it. bronchitis usually persistent cough. reflux can even cause a chronic caugh. get checked for possible whooping cough. see your dr if it persts.
what can be initial signs of emphysema?
the elasticity of the lung is impaired in emphysema reducing the patient's ability to exhale resulting in wheezing and shortness of breath. early symptoms may also include daily cough particularly in the morning. recurrent episodes of bronchitis can occur as the disease progresses. severe emphysema can also cause low oxygen levels heart failure and death.
what is causing me to get chest pains around my heart area?
chest pain can have many causes. . coronary artery disease chest wall pain acid reflux asthma pneumonia bronchitis etc. i don't have any info about you. seek a good primary care doctor for a good history and physical and start searching for a cause asap.
what does trouble breathing mean if no doctor can figure it out the source of breathing problems and the breathing test caomes out fine and they still?
reassurance that everything is normal. i presume you were checked for reactive (asthma)/ obstructive (bronchitis emphysema) airway disease acid reflux post nasal drip coronary artery disease etc. take care!
why since i've had bronchitis my heart has been beating really fast?
there isn't enough information here to speculate on why your heart is beating fast. there are many potential possibilities and without more information speculation would not be productive.
what are the possible causes of shortness of breath?
you're taking albuterol so asthma & copd/emphysema come to mind. pleural effusion & pulmonary embolism too. bronchitis & pneumonia. heart attack & heart failure. abnormal heart rhythm. pneumothorax. if that's not enough check out <link> check w/your doc for thorough evaluation.
what are the symptoms of emphezema?
shortness of breath especially with activity is the hallmark of emphysema. fatigue usually accompanies it. since emphysema is closely related to bronchitis and asthma many people share the symptoms of cough and wheezing as well.
what doc should i see for chronic cough and shortness of breath?
chronic cough can be from sinusitis allergies asthma but also from reflux. chronic bronchitis & other possible. get check first.
what are the main causes of shortness of breath? i don't feel any other symptoms except that it feels hard and slightly heavier to breath. any idea?
there are so many causes! pulmonary disease including asthma bronchitis emphysema pneumonia and pulm. embolism. heart disease: especially heart failure and angina; systemic causes such as anemia thyroid excess and acidosis (like from diabetes. other causes include hyperventilation panic attack foreign body airway obstruction. this is the short list!
what is midsternal chest pain?
mid-sternal chest pain is a term health providers use to describe the location of the pain. chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having.
what kinda lung dieses cause shortness of breath besides lung cancer. no other sytoms but shortness of and some chest pain can this be inflammtion?
many lung conditions can cause shortness of breath for example asthma reactive airway disease bronchitis various respiratory infections pneumonia etc. at your age inflammation and a possible viral or bacterial infection would be statistically most likely nut get an evaluation to be safe and properly diagnosed. best wishes.
what would cause me to cough up small hard yellowish chunks? have had some shortness of breath thag comes and goes as well.
when mucous stagnates and dries up it is called inspissated and when coughed up they can look like chunks or tubes. i people with asthma or bronchitis they can actually plug up the airways and make breathing harder and can cause lung collapse called atelectasis. hydrate yourself well to avoid it. i hope this helps.
what does a high wbc count n esr along with weeklong fever chills weakness coughing n wheezing n mild shortness of breath indicative of?
the elevated wbc and sed rate in combination with your symptoms indicates you have an infection. the coughing wheezing and shortness of breath indicates the infection is likely respiratory like acute bronchitis or pneumonia. the other symptoms like weakness fever and chills are more general signs of infection. you need treatment so see a doctor asap!
what do i do if i have severe chest pains?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it is very unlikely that at 28 it is serious but should see a doctor to get more information.
why do you feel breathless after eating when you have gerd? and why does it usually attacking at night?
exposure of vocal cords to stomach acid ; pepsin results in inflammation of the vocal cords (due to acid regurgitation). acute laryngitis may result but watch out for chronic hoarseness throat clearing airway spasms bronchitis an asthma-type presentation and even a higher risk of throat cancer. laying down at night often promotes reflux. check prior healthtap answers 4relief but see doctor.
what do you suggest if i have cough with phlegm mild chest pain but no fever what do i have?
more info needed to answer. 'could be mild viral bronchitis with pleuritis. however many other causes are possible is there shortness of breath. how long symptoms present. history of smoke or dust exposure? the list is not short. a visit to your doctor is appropriate if symtopms do not resolve ina very few days.
will i always have a cough with emphyzema?
no emphysema may be characterized by shortness of breath and or cough. typically coexists with chronic bronchitis
wbc 8. 1 esr 33 no fever white sputum. loss of voice breathless for 30-40 sec during cough for 3 weeks. took antibiotic for 4 days no relief. help?
sounds like asthmatic bronchitis following a viral infection. may need inhalers. meanwhile try guaifenisin to loosen mucus
wbc 8. 1 esr 33 no fever white sputum. loss of voice breathless for 30-40 sec during cough for 3 weeks. took antibiotic for 4 days no relief. help?
could be a chronic bronchitis and may need another round of antibiotics. have you had a cxray?
what could be the cause of my shortness of breath had for 2 months started from a sore throat chest x-ray clear had prednisone a inhaler didn't help?
cough from persistent bronchospasm. this is inflammtory response of our body to mostly viral bronchitis. commonly seen after flu syndrome. bronchodilator may help. ginger tea and turmeric will help
what cause chest pain have sinusitis 2 mths took augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate) 6days otrivin 5days. still taking veramyst 2sprays once a day for 1mth? thks
i would check it out today. may be asthma bronchitis or even a walking pneumonia. check it out today. you will probably need a chest x ray
weeks ago told i had asthmatic bronchitis took medrol (methylprednisolone) chest xrays were normal. i'm still have chest tightness. could it still be inflammation. ?
it can take a long time to get better. if you're not getting better check back for anther look but if it's just slow hang in there!
what can cause bad chest pains. it hurts when i swallow or breathe. ?
pain with swallowing can occur when one has inflammation of the throat from an infection or from reflux of acid from the stomach. pain from taking a breath can signal an upper respiratory infection such as bronchitis tracheitis pneumonia or from pleurisy (inflammation of the lining surrounding the lungs). it's important to see ones doctor for any of these problems.
what kind of antibiotics are given for emphysema?
emphysema is not an infection per se however patients that have emphysema or copd are more susceptible to infections such as pneumonia or chronic bronchitis. the antibiotic choice can vary dependent on other medications a patient is taking age and other medical problems. typically broad spectrum antibiotics are used to cover chronic and deep infections.
what kind of antibiotics are given for emphysema?
there is not an "antibiotic treatment" for emphysema. antibiotics are often given for the bronchitis associated with emphysema. these are the "broad spectrum" types eg: doxycycline hope this helps dr z
what causes my chest pain?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having.
what are common sources of breathing problems?
breathing involves the air and enough oxygen in it as well as lack of contaminants in the air. the mechanics of breathing the chest wall and diaphragm have to be functioning normally the anatomy of the lungs has to be normal. asthma has obstruction of the breathing tubes as does bronchitis. abnormalities of the lung tissue and alveoli are also common causes of breathing difficulty.
what does copd/emphysema with lateral perihilar atelectasis or scarring mean?
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease encompasses emphysema and chronic bronchitis. basically this means that smoking or another inhalant has made distortions in the architecture of your lungs that make it harder for them to work. atelectasis and scarring physical changes that occur secondary to copd.
sever dry cough with chest pain i suffer from sever cough and sneezing with chest pain it started with nasal drops 5 days ago.
you might have a bronchitis or pneumonia and need to be checked.
sever dry cough with chest pain i suffer from sever cough and sneezing with chest pain it started with nasal drops 5 days ago.
your symptoms are concerning for bronchitis or pneumonia. if you are experiencing chest pain with cough you should be medically evaluated. if you get fever or shortness of breath then you must be seen as an emergency.
went to doctor with a little cough and chest discomfort. he said oxygen levels were good and diagnosed acute bronchitis. im scared that i cant breath?
whenever you have a respiratory infection such as pneumonia or bronchitis and you can brief you may need to go to emergency room. you could get a respiratory treatment there such as a nebulizer with medications. and if you're doing okay at home i would recommend a coolmist humidifier. you can add vicks vapor to the humidifier or eucalyptus oil.
small swelling on lymph node and phlegm?
assuming the lymph node is in the neck or head area with phlegm is sounds like you have some sort of upper respiratory tract infection. if the phlegm isn't discolored - probably not bronchitis. i would monitor the situation - a high fever or worsening cough or badly discolored mucus may be a sign of a worsening infection.
severe dyspnea due to cough and small amount of blood in mucus. tb?
hemoptysis coughing blood always needs to be evaluated by a doctor. the usual etiology is bronchitis ( including from tb if other symptoms present) but malignancy can cause this as well so it needs a doctor evaluation asap. if you are short of breath you should go to nearest er as this can be life-threatening. good luck!
sweats fatigue chest pain.?
more info? chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. if you are currently having the symptoms you are describing you should see a doctor pronto
shortness of breath after having cold?
after a cold can have some residual bronchitis but generally wouldn't be noticeable. if really short of breath would recommend seeing your doctor for evaluation to be sure something additonal isn't going on.
wheezing for two days on deep inhale and exhale small pain on the left side of my chest near the center on my chest. short of breath?
shortness of breath is a serious symptom so you need to be evaluated by a doctor asap. your symptoms may be due to bronchospasm acute bronchitis pneumonia etc. but to diagnose your symptoms you need to be seen by a doctor asap. if your shortness of breath is worsening go to an er to be evaluated and treated. this could be due to a serious problem so get seen asap! good luck!
what is the medical definition of emphysema and copd?
copd refers to the decreased airflow seen in the disease. emphysema is the pathologic process in the lung seen with copd. however the terms are used interchangably when discussing tobacco related lung disease. patients fear the term emphysema and prefer copd or chronic bronchitis
salty clear phlegm/ mucus with little bubbles. similar mucus sometimes from nose. thick mucus cough sometimes in the morning. no chest pain no fev.?
you are describing chronic bronchitis. if you smoke this is a strong indication you should quit. in a nonsmoker this could represent asthma or other respiratory conditions. you should see your healthcare provider and get pulmonary function tests.
