i have a clicking in my ear when chewing.
having popping/clicking tmj noises not necessarily a problem. many people experience these noises. without pain or limitation of function the noise itself is not an issue. if you have locking or limited movement "ear" pain headaches morning jaw stiffness/soreness difficulty chewing bruxism previous jaw injuries or other jaw conditions the problem is more serious. then see a tmj specialist.
i think i have bruxism + insomnia + sleep apnea. help?
see a dentist trained in dental sleep medicine. bruxism (tooth grinding) & insomnia are signs of sleep apnea. a trained dentist can see that you have the correct diagnosis by a sleep specialist and if appropriate can make an oral appliance. in 2006 the american academy of sleep medicine published treatment parameters for mild-moderate sleep apnea & if cpap not used an oral appliance can be used.
i think i have bruxism + insomnia + sleep apnea. help?
as i have answered many times high calorie malnutrition is the major clue. all these symptoms are due to compromised biochemistrfy in brainstem and limbic system. i would bewilling to bet that you have a severe degree of vitamin b1 deficiency induced through a "junky" diet. get rid of sugar in all its forms and read my blog "oxygen the spark of life" that you can google. see a nutritionist.
i think i have bruxism + insomnia + sleep apnea. help?
i recommend seeing a physician trained in sleep medicine. these problems can all be addressed and treated.
i have just been diagnosed with sleep apnea but recently i woke up to the pain of me biting my tongue. its never happened before. what should i do?
it is not uncommon with osa that an individual may have nasal airway insufficiency and thus breathe primary through their mouth. this dysfunctional breathing pattern may lead to an enlarged tongue and at night during sleep nocturnal bruxism continues except rather grinding and clenching on the teeth the enlarged tongue takes the brunt of the damage.
i have headaches in the morning toothaches neck pain and occasional numbness in right arm. i also have a history of sleep apnea bruxism and disk bulges under tx. which doctor should i see?
however it must be a dentist with advanced training in tmj treatment. the symptoms you list all point to this area of dentistry. it can be complicated as it involves a "bite imbalance" that a dentist with advanced training can diagnose and inform you of your options. a physician can help diagnose other issues involving the arm numbness.
i have headaches in the morning toothaches neck pain and occasional numbness in right arm. i also have a history of sleep apnea bruxism and disk bulges under tx. which doctor should i see?
with your medical problems-see your md. this may be a major problem. the toothache and bruxism is secondary to the medical problems. once those are checked then check with dentist for checkup. be sure they know your history meds inr. headaches may be from bruxing/tmj but may be systemic. check with primary care for referrals. after that you may need a dentist who takes care of medically complex.
i have headaches in the morning toothaches neck pain and occasional numbness in right arm. i also have a history of sleep apnea bruxism and disk bulges under tx. which doctor should i see?
some of your symptoms possibly point to a pinched nerve some point to a tmj/tmd issue sleep apnea etc. i would see an internal medicine dr. as a start and then hopefully they can point you in the right direction.
i have headaches in the morning toothaches neck pain and occasional numbness in right arm. i also have a history of sleep apnea bruxism and disk bulges under tx. which doctor should i see?
your sleep apnea and morning headaches toothaches and neck pain can be related. see a dentist trained in neuromuscular treatment to have an evaluation
what other things can a sleep apnea test tell you about your health?
a sleep test will tell you about your breathing patterns stages of sleep heart rhythms oxygenation of your blood during sleep (related to the risk of heart disease and stroke) and excess muscle activity that all occur during sleep. if you snore have been told that you stop breathing/gasp for air at night and have high blood pressure gerd or bruxism a sleep test is a fantastic diagnostic.
what besides sleep apnea causes severe sleepiness?
sleepiness is effected by quality and quantity of sleep. some things that effect quality are sleep apnea restless leg syndrome bruxism lack of rem sleep circadian rhythm disturbances just to name a few. narcolepsy can also cause sleep attacks during the day. other medical conditions such as heart disease copd anemia and hypothyroidism can also cause sleepiness. consult your doctor.
what are the causes and remedies of snoring and grinding of teeth while sleeping?
snoring and bruxism are classic signs of sleep apnea. the causes are multi factorial. sinuses nasal turbinates tonsils and adenoids and airway obstruction all come into play along with upper and lower jaw positioning. seek out a dentist who is specifically intrested and trained in this area. sleep apnea can have profound medical ramifications.
how do i know if i have sleep apnea? i sleep really smoothly at night now (as far as i know! ) no snoring. my only complaint is being easily startled.
the only way to know for sure is with a sleep study. besides the conditions you list other signs of sleep apnea are: morning headaches poor memory irritability & personality changes gerd bruxism and night sweats to name but a few. being overweight is a big risk factor and snoring is a frequent sign.
does tmj have anything to do with sleep apnea or could tmj cause any problems happen cuz of this?
obstructive sleep apnea can have bruxism (tooth grinding) associated with it. this is thought to be a mechanism related to opening the pharynx to allow for brething. have you had a sleep study to determine sleep apnea? mouthguards can be made as a starting point to diagnose tm problems.
does tmj have anything to do with sleep apnea or could tmj cause any problems happen cuz of this?
nighttime grinding or bruxism is consider a central nervous system sleep disorder. new studies are showing strong correlation of bruxism to obstructive sleep apnea. <link>
best dental appliance for sleep apnea and grinding?
research has shown that a device that positions the lower jaw forward while sleeping as is used for snoring and sleep apnea also reduces sleep bruxism episodes. this is the only type of oral device that will actually reduce the number of bruxism events. other dvices for bruxsim will protect the teeth and in some instances decrease the intensity of the muscle contractions seen in bruxism.
does clenching and grinding teeth at night suggest sleep apnea even if there are no other known symptoms? is sleep analysis necessary?
teeth grinding called bruxism is a common sleep disorder that is not related to sleep apnea. there seems to be a link to stress during the day. absent other symptoms a sleep recording is not necessary. instead talk to your dentist. they are in the best position to determine whether damage is being done to your teeth. if so they can provide a tooth guard to wear at night.
what to do about headache & heart racing when i wake up?
a headache that is mostly in the morning may be caused by sleep apnea bruxism anxiety or depression. in the early morning hours (between 3 and 8 a. m. ) our body has its lowest levels of endorphins so most primary headaches may present. see your pcp for consultation tests and possible referral to a headache specialist.
my mom(50) she took 2 dose of primolut n is stressed alot. she was having severe head spinning swollen neck got high bp 150/90 and ecg is not normal.?
primulotin? never heard of it; do you mean premarin (conjugated estrogens)? her situation is multifactoral and complex. the anxiety and headaches can be related if she clinches her teeth at night ( bruxism); if she snores badly could have sleep apnea. swollen neck is it big or acutely enlarged? if big and she snores loudly consider a sleep study. some can do home sleep studies but may need to be evaluated.
short spurts of jaw pain on either side. had mild ache in arms earlier. heart issue? 21 active. good ekg 2 months ago. doc listened to my heart today
concerned about your heart schedule physical w your pcp. concerned about jaw pain have dentist evaluate you for bruxism clenching & tmj.
would flexeril (cyclobenzaprine hcl) be ok to take teeth clenching trouble breathing trouble asleep?
is not a good idea. flexeril (cyclobenzaprine hcl) is a good muscle relaxant but is not indicated to treat / prevent bruxism or clenching. please see your dentist to have an oral appliance made to help the problem. there are many different types of devices these days. hope this helps and thanks for your question.
what would you make of lifelong fairly severe pain in lower teeth/gums neck and chest when running or to a lesser extent on other exertion with no discovered abnormalities after cardiac work-ups?
have you had a dental check-up? chronic bruxism. . grinding or clenching the teeth could cause the chronic pain you are having. although usually stress related many people clench their teeth during activities. see your dentist for an examination. try using a nightguard/splint when you run and during other activities and at night to relieve the tension inyour tmj and on your teeth.
