infected insect bite on knee? can a doctor prescribe something over the phone?
that insect bite on the knee may actually ber a community acquired staph infection whcih may complicate into an infected bursitis. since clinical efficacy is measured by a decrease in swelling erythema pain any ethical doctor would be appalled if the knee were not examined prior to prescribing an antibiotic.
i have popeye elbow from getting cellulitis. no injury. 3 weeks only slightly better. will it eventually go away? motion range is normal
i think what you are describing is olecranon bursitis it can go away by itself over time but not always they have a bit of a tendency to get infected if it worsens seek evaluation.
infected elbow bursitis/cellulitus 4 weeks ago. 2 weeks of iv & antibio killed infection. elbow still purple/red & slightly swollen. how long to heal?
although antibiotics may have "killed" infection often time resistant organisms may develope and worsening redness and swelling may be an indication. if no infection is present then rice therapy with ace compression ice and elevation (decreased activity with sling may improve). otc anti-inflammatory agents may reduce erythema (redness) and swelling. worsening pain swelling may be warning sign.
left shoulder pain for 4mos after car accident. ortho says it's rotatorcuf tendinitis&bursitis but chiro. says it might be something more. wht cud it be?
i'm confused. you say ortho told you what it was? but you're asking what it could be? why don't you believe him/her? is it not responding to the recommended treatment? if not maybe see another ortho for a second opinion. ( chiros aren't real doctors) if they both agree you are probably in good hands.
left shoulder pain for 4mos after car accident. ortho says it's rotatorcuf tendinitis&bursitis but chiro. says it might be something more. wht cud it be?
"something more " seems to imply nerve pain which is always a concern after trauma especially involving the neck. nerve-related pain typically would not be confined to the shoulder though; it would shoot down the arm and possibly be associated with weakness. if the pain is in the shoulder only ortho docs are the definitive experts here. cuff pain can persist for months especially without pt.
my right elbow is swollen red and itches. at first there were some small openings on the skin and i squeezed it and blood and pus ooze out . it is ca?
cancer doesn't behave at all like this. you have some sort of infection like an infected sebaceous cyst or cellulitis. if the elbow joint is swollen perhaps a more serious infection e. g. septic arthritis or bursitis. these problems can be even more serious than cancer so don't mess around with this. see a doctor soon. (if you have fever or the area is painful do it immediately. )
after a fall. skin around elbow has liquid. was just told by doctor to put ice. is this ok?
this depends on exactly what the diagnosis is which requires looking at the elbow. if it's just diffuse swelling then i would agree that time and ice should be adequate treatment. if there's a large blister or an olecranon bursitis type scenario then further evaluation by an orthopedist is warranted.
i am losing approximately ten lbs per month. since march ihave lost a total of 60 lbs. i found out i have fatty liver and i changed my diet completely and do some exercises. i do have right shoulder blade back pain but have had x-rays and mri. could the
your problem is either a bursitis under the shoulder blade a pinched nerve in your neck or a pinched nerve in your arm. please see an upper extremity orthopedic surgeon.
i fell down on my side my weight is 125 kg now i cant move my right arm and my chest hurt my i arm is blue and orange drs say no breaks what to do pls
vascular injury(axillary artery-obstruction thrombus hematoma dvt) bursitis of shoulder burgers disease pulmonary embolism hematoma of chest wall pleuritis
my hips r very sore can't stand for long. not over weight. it's been on and off f 3 years. ?
rule out djd hips and trochanteric bursitis. stop the stair master. and fast walking program if you happen to do these they cause bursitis.
my mother has diabetes type 2 for 5 years. she is 61 years old. her measured avarage diabetes values are 160. why does she have foot pain by night?
cause of pain may include tight shoes sprain bursitis fracture contusion neuritis but of course there are a multitude of other possibilities. thing that may help minimize your pain include: wearing shoes with a wider toe box padding or stapping oral nsaids. get the feet inspected by a professional to determine the cause of the problem as treatment varies depending on the diagnosis.
outer thighs feel lumpy(bean bag) and are very painful to touch with warmth near "saddle bag" area. no recent trauma. ideas?
this sounds like trochanteric bursitis which is inflammation in the region of the trochanteric bursa. the is prominence of the greater trochanter of the femur (leg bone). irritation happens here due to repetitive movements and relatively poor circulation in the area. start with stretching and possibly physical therapy. you could consider a topical anti-inflammatory over the area.
on and off daily knee pain. cbc was normal. no swelling no heat no lump just pain. advil does not help. i'm not overweight. bone cancer?
knee pain is a very common problem it may happen related to overuse injuries very often seen in athletes. or it may be arthritic or inflammatory from other autoimmune problems. knee pain can actually be referred hip pain it may be bursitis or torn or sprained ligaments or meniscal injuries. the role of your doctor is to find out which of these it is; very rarely it will be cancer; very rare.
upper right back pain in one spot. present for months. obese but i have lost 65lbs dieting. back only starts hurting when i get to work and sit?
there are many causes for pain that is unilateral and in the posterior-upper back. subscapular bursitis is quite common; surascapular palsy is another and there are more. you need to see a doctor who specializes in pain diagnosis; physical medicine specialist or a rheumatology specialist or an orthopedic surgeon. i believe the root causes will be determined more quickly.
hip pain on right side can't bear wieght hurts to go up stairs history:overweight do leg exercises 3x a week fall on buttbone?
this needs to be evaluated. it could be hip back bursitis or tendinitis. see an orthopedist.
have severe trochanteric hip bursitis very painfulwill having a baby next year make it worse? also 70lbs over weight will losing weight ease the pain?
this would help you can also see a physical therapist now and they will give you exercises to do at home. an orthopaedic surgeon can recommend good therapist. good luck thank you.
have severe trochanteric hip bursitis very painfulwill having a baby next year make it worse? also 70lbs over weight will losing weight ease the pain?
only help your musculoskeletal pain.
can corticosteroid injections for bursitis cause weight gain and/or increase in appetite?
one time and repeated injections months apart don't usually cause weight gain. chronic treatment with corticosteroids does cause weight gain. one time dose may increase appetite temporarily but not a sustained effect.
sir/mam i have the problem of shoulder pain. if i remain for five minutes in same position i got pain automatically ib my shoulder please rply fast thnx?
there are numerous possible causes of shoulder pain including tendonitis stiffness deconditioning bursitis rotator cuff tear cervical radiculopathy etc. if your symptoms are persistent and/or severe you should see a physician for evaluation.
i'm taking tamoxifen and am an avid runner. (currently training for a half marathon). just recently i have been having pain in my right hip area. what is the diff. between bone and muscle pain?
muscle pain is far more common. it tends to cause pain during or after activity & is more likely to be affected by position. bone pain feels deeper more severe & may be constant. tamoxifen can cause bone joint or muscle pain. it is usually generalized or symmetric rather than just one joint. runners can get bursitis or iliotibial band symptoms. call your doctor if your symptoms worsen.
does cancer how up on exrays does cancer show up on exrays exrays taken ofhips they said it was burstisus i am a cancer survivor since 2007 clear test results clear lympnodes clear bone scan clear margins in stsge 1 breast cancer
if the xray examination of the hip shows bone destruction or increased bone formation. on xray there has to be at least 40% destruction of bone for it to be visible. a normal bone scan is much more sensitive for detecting involvement of bone by tumor. if your bone scan is normal the presence of tumor is unlikely. it is likely that your pain is from benign process such as bursitis or arthritis.
i hve chest pains which last seconds is it cardiac related heart problem or coronary artery blockage.? my ecg blood work normal cholesterol levels
likely benign costochondritis = arthritis/bursitis of the ribs.
i have had upper back pain under right shoulder present one year but not at rest. this week has shifted to left. i do have fast pulse 116. and cervical sstenosis. could this be my heart?
its important to establish a diagnosis. it could be from 1) referred sources including: neck abdomen and heart. 2) shoulder sources include: arthritis labral tears instability tendinitis rotator cuff tears bursitis painful bony spurs etc. therefore proper diagnosis is essential to stopping the pain. see an orthopedic surgeon.
i had normal ekg bloods and holt monitor. i'm always very anxious and stressed. i keep getting lots of left shoulder pain. pain?
it sounds like your cardiac workup is normal. if so then a left shoulder workup should be next i. e. x-rays examination. at your age a few of the more common causes of shoulder pain would include sprain/strain instability and inflammation (i. e. bursitis/tendonitis).
i run 3 miles x2/week & x3 week hiit dvds. is it ok to speed walk and do dvds in place of running if i have trochanter bursitis or it band pain?
decrease mileage and make sure you stretch and warm up. use ice on painful area. get a physical exam to diagnose exact cause of your pain. it band syndrome is very common in runners you can learn stretches to avoid this pain. rest and work on flexibility and strength + see your sports medicine doc to treat bursitis given your bleeding risk. exercise every day. see link: <link>
i have atrial fib. and knee pain due to osteoarthritis. now have swollen elbows with pain?
there are multiple potential cause of painful swollen elbows in a patient with no injury; not likely related directly to your atrial fibrillation or bad knees. most common causes are usually arthritic or inflammatory such as gout or an ilex rankin bursitis for example. don't hesitate to be seen for an accurate diagnosis and discussion of treatment options.
started as pain on top of shoulder now swelling and pain radiating to side of neck. have implanted aicd also have copd. related?
if the swelling is just above the clavicle it could be a lymph node. i would have it examined by a doctor as it could also be a whole host of other things including muscle sprain/strain joint swelling bursitis etc.
tightness in upper chest left side towards armpit. ekg normal xray shows bursitis mri shows cyst inside bone ortho. says no problem. what now?
although your ekg was normal you may still have heart problems. you should consult a cardiologist. i doubt this is your problem though. a better physical exam and history may lead to other causes such as myofascial pain or trigger points. trigger points are extremely common and my be the cause.
tightness in upper chest left side towards armpit. ekg normal xray shows bursitis mri shows cyst inside bone ortho. says no problem. what now?
a cardiologist would be the most appropriate specialist to rule out conditions affecting the heart which can cause chest and left armpit pain.
tightness in upper chest left side towards armpit. ekg normal xray shows bursitis mri shows cyst inside bone ortho. says no problem. what now?
you have many findings but no one has made sense of your symps. orthopedics seem to think that the bursitis (presumably in left shoulder) isn't the cause of chest tightness. an internist is your best bet to help figure out the cause. lung tests or other procedures may be in order depending on your history & family's. or use healthtap prime to discuss your symptoms if you can't wait or find one. gl
left shoulder ache. twinges of pain into left arm. left fingers cramp. happens on right side too. good ekg xray and heart enzymes. heart issue? 21yr
left shoulder & arm pain may be related to coronary artery disease mvl gerd reflux esophagitis costochondritis medications like aspirin bupropion advair disks. further tests like ekg cadiac isoenzymes x-ray chest echocardiogram pft ct angiogram ct chest with pe protocol upper endoscopy bursitis x-ray shoulder joints stress echocardiogram consider thallium stress test. consider treatment with subling
left arm pain in 36 m for several months who had good echo stress in jan good lipids non smoker no his normal bp. cardiac?
commend yourself for not smoking having normal b. p. good lipids and good stress echo all indicating good cardio-vascular health. see physician for possible diagnoses of: tennis elbow injury to arm tendinitis bursitis rotator cuff injury herniated disk ;have necessary tests and consultation with specialist physicians; and needed treatment.
pain on the wings just under arpit close to back comes and goes not sure radiating opain what's are the possibilities been to the doctor and lungs and herart are fine no chest pains
i would evaluate the thoracic and low cervical spine for arthritic and disk disease. shoulder arthritis bursitis rotator cuff and biceps tendonitis are also likely possibilities.
sometimes i have a sharp pain on my left shoulder but my blood pressure is fine what can it be?
may be musculo-skeletal in origin rather than cardiac or bp -related. do u lift or throw with left arm? is pain in muscles or in shoulder joint? how long does pain last? can try ice if swollen or heat & nsaid (advil/motrin/aleve) for pain & inflammation. may want to have pcp/orthopedist/sports medicine examine shoulder for possible rotator cuff problem bursitis impingement syndrome etc.
what can you do for chest tightness after working out?
probably benign but you deserve a workup for asthma costochondritis (an arthritis bursitis of the ribs) acid reflux or less likely a heart issue. hrs md facc www. thepmc. org
will flying on a plane make trochanteric hip bursitis worse? also have a healed sacroilliac fracture recently healed and risk of dvt when i fly
bursitis can be affected by atmospheric pressure and plane rides do change the cabin pressure.
will flying on a plane hurt sacroilliac fracture and tro hip bursitis? also suffer with dvt will flying make it worse and what can i do to help easeit
for sacroiliac fracture depends on the completeness of healing. for bursitis the travel probably exacerbates rather than causes it. therefore preventative treatment of the bursitis would likely solve that problem. with respect to dvt support hose and getting up and walking up and down the aisles every 30 minutes would help. medication should also be explored to reduce the risk.
what causes pain under left armpit and upper ribs just below. the pain comes and goes. also radiates to my hand. i don't think its cardiac as i've had many tests on my heart.
the most common cause of acute pain in the nontraumatized shoulder is calcific tendonitis or bursitis readily identified by plain film radiography rogers et al 1988. this pain may radiate to the hand. pin point chest pain is indicative of chosto chondritis. both condtions can exist and confuse treatment and diagnosis.
woke up with chest left side and sholder pain near tip of lower scapula pain so bad i whose crying i don't know what to do. they say is not heart related?
it probably isn't your heart. heart pain is never severe except during the rare instance of an actual heart attack. it may radiate to the left scapula but that's not typical. you need other evaluation. rotator cuff? pinched nerve in the neck? whiplash? bursitis? tendonits? other possibilities too.
what causes neck sholder and back pain on left side?
left side neck shoulder & back pain may be caused by cervical arthritis disc or radiculopathy coronary artery disease with angina bursitis or rupture of biceps tendon pe subclavian artery blockage injury of neck or left shoulder. diagnosed by ekg x-ray cervical spine & shoulder mriof nech & shoulder cbcwith sed rate & arthritis profile echocardiogram stress echo thallium stress test cardiac cath
what else could be the reason when left arm hurts other than a heart attack?
thoracic outlet arthritis bursitis lung cancer lesions pneumothorax and more.
will flying on a plane hurt sacroilliac fracture and tro hip bursitis? also suffer dvt will this effect flying with fracture what can i do to ease it?
first get clearance from your doctor. ask airline for help getting on plane with wheelchair. fly first class for more leg room. take appropriate cushions/pillows for comfort. take your anticoagulation treatment for the dvt and wear at least 20-30 mm hg thigh length compression hose. take your analgesic med prior flying.
will flying on a plane hurt sacroilliac fracture and tro hip bursitis? also suffer dvt will this effect flying with fracture what can i do to ease it?
prolonged sitting and cramped seating can definitely aggravate a hip bursitis and sacral problems. more importantly it also increases risk for developing dvt. it very important to keep hydrated. it is also helpful for all the above issues to change positions and even try to stand if conditions allow. flexing your calf muscles frequently also helps to move pooled venous blood in your legs.
will flying on a plane make sacroilliac fracture worse and tro hip bursitis? also suffer from dvt will this make it worse if i fly?
prolonged period of flight can increase your risk of dvt recurrence. there are no medical reasons which would preclude you from flying. you should take the following precautions while flying which include: 1) be sure you're well hydrated with liquid intake 2) avoid crossing your legs while sitting 3) wear compression stocking 20-30mm hg pressure gradient and 4) avoid alcohol while flying.
will flying on a plane make sacroilliac fracture worse and tro hip bursitis? also suffer from dvt will this make it worse if i fly?
to fly you will need to contact your physician to see if there are any restrictions. to us here your conditions are way too complex to give you a valid 'yes' or 'no'.
will flyin on a plane hurt my sacroilliac fracture tro hip bursitis and i also suffer dvt?
is a huge concern when flying because of prolonged sitting and lack of leg muscle action. discus with your doctor what you should do about these concerns.
will flyin on a plane hurt my sacroilliac fracture tro hip bursitis and i also suffer dvt?
to do anyi damage but likely to be uncomfortable. dvt has issues of stasis and scrunched up! take your meds get up and move about do heel toe flexing wear stockings etc.
will flyin on a plane hurt my sacroilliac fracture tro hip bursitis and i also suffer dvt?
from your injury it's good to avoid staying in any position for a prolonged amount of time. doing activities that allows you to take stretch breaks are the best. also staying in one position for a long period of time without ability to move or stretch can increase risk of recurrent dvt especially following an injury or after a prior dvt. make sure you are following your doctors recommendations.
what could cause pain in ribs under right shoulder?
many stuff could cause pain in that area the common in my practice is bursitis in that area.
