what is organic sleep apnea?
for sleep apnea. there are several types: obstructive where the air is blocked from getting to your lungs by collapse of your upper airways during sleep and central sleep apnea where your brain does not send the signals to your lungs to breathe and the third type which is a mixture of the two. i cannot think of a sleep apnea that would not be organic because there is no psychogenic sleep apnea.
i have just been diagnosed with severe central sleep apnea - idiopathic. is this likely to lead to sudden death or will treatment options markedly i'?
sudden death usually will happen with infants. sleep apnea can be treated with increased o2 by using a cpap or an oral appliance. you will be fine.
i have just been diagnosed with severe central sleep apnea - idiopathic. is this likely to lead to sudden death or will treatment options markedly i'?
you are on the road to improving your health and minimizing risks for life shortening factors. carefully consider the treatment recommendations for your particular condition and definitely implement them completely. in no time you will feel the difference in improved energy and strength and be well on your way to the vibrant life you have been waiting for!
is sleep apnea inherited?
less likely in obstructive sleep apnea. main cause for obstructive is obesity some other risk factors include age>50 male sex comorbidities with diabetes and hypertension body mass index (more likely in overweight) larger than 17 inch neck (men) and 16 inch (females) and enlarged tonsils. many doctor have to screen for sleep apnea. but just as s central sleep apnea is more genetic related.
is snoring always related to sleep apnea?
obstructive sleep apnea means that you stop breathing due to the airway being blocked. it is the blockage and turbulent airflow that leads to significant snoring. some patients have central sleep apnea which is not due to obstruction and these patients may not snore.
i have "central sleep apnea. " what is cure?
central sleep apnea is most commonly a reflection of heart failure and will improve if heart condition is treated and improved. there are other predominantly neurological causes that are much harder to treat but they are uncommon. specialized breathing machine can mitigate central sleep apnea.
i have "central sleep apnea. " what is cure?
pure central sleep apnea is uncommon so first i would evaluate with a sleep test. central apnea means brain does not send signal to diaphragm to breath/obstructive means airway blocks breathing in deep sleep. ventilators are now available for home use which can supply pressurized air to the nasal airway via a fitted nasal mask to supply breaths during periods of when patient stops breathing.
i have "central sleep apnea. " what is cure?
cardiology work up and mri of brain are 2 steps to find the reason for central sleep apnea.
what does central sleep apnea syndrome mean?
it means that your brain is not sending the "you have to breath signal" to your chest and lungs. your airways remain open in this case. you will need a special ventilator that breath for you when you don't get the order.
what does central sleep apnea syndrome mean?
central sleep apnea is a disorder of the brain as contrasted with obstructive sleep apnea which is due to a complete or partial obstruction of the airway leading to the lungs. they have different forms of treatment that require a sleep study to diagnose.
what does central sleep apnea syndrome mean?
central sleep apnea is where the brain tells the body not to breathe. it can be seen in normal sleep with transitions from one stage of sleep to the next. it is very common in stroke patients and can be seen in other medical problems like heart failure. treatment is cpap.
what are the different kinds of sleep apnea in children?
is obstructive apnea due to huge tonsil and adenoid. in some cases there is possibility of central sleep apnea.
what are the different kinds of sleep apnea in children?
the types of sleep apnea in children are the same as those in adults. obstructive apnea occurs when the airway closes off usually form large tonsils and adenoids or other airway abnormalities. central sleep apnea occurs when the brain does not tell your respiratory muscles to breathe. central apnea occurs with neurological disorders and can also be a side effect of medicine.
i have ph due to severe central and obstructive sleep apnea. i use an asv machine and oxygen 4l. what other treatment(s) are available?
your question seem to suggest at least two things that need to be addressed. central sleep apnea is usually caused by heart problems. check with a cardiologist about this matter. the fact that you need additional oxygen suggests that obesity might be a significant modifiable factor.
i have ph due to severe central and obstructive sleep apnea. i use an asv machine and oxygen 4l. what other treatment(s) are available?
although there are other options available you are limited with the diagnosis of central sleep apnea. this typically does not respond to other modalities such as cpap or bipap. surgery is an option with respect to the obstructive component though many variables can affect the success rate which is typically quite low. if you look at all comers for obstructive sleep apnea success rates are typically in the 50% range though this is defined by a reduction in the apnea by 50%. this may still and often does leave you with residual apnea if you are starting in the severe range. i would recommend that you see an ent if you are considering surgery but realize this will not treat the central component of your apnea.
i use a cpap for sleep apnea. i have been diagnosed with mg and notice that it is more difficult to breathe with the cpap. is a bipap better for mg?
from what i know of sleep apnea having it myself bipap machines are generally used more for patients with central sleep apnea which is a neurotransmitter problem in the brain rather than obstructive airway alone. since mg is a neurtransmitter condition as well and difficulty in breathing is a side effect my opinion would be you would be better served with a bipap.
is my cpap causing me to have central sleep apnea? i was diagnosed with osa but i slow down breathing on my cpap its scary!
unlikely for cpap to cause it. provigil and nuvigil help with fatigue and brain fog. also get labs checked especially tfts. adderal/ritalin/starttera may also be of use. start a gluten free diet focus on weight loss. wholeapproach. com gut loss. com. if cpap/bipap is poorly tolerated seek ent consult for upp vs hyoid suspension. especially given your age seek a good ent consult.
is my cpap causing me to have central sleep apnea? i was diagnosed with osa but i slow down breathing on my cpap its scary!
when you have osa your heart rate and rate of breathing can increase. when using your cpap you are getting a better blood level of oxygen which means your breathing can slow down. with central sleep apnea you would stop breathing just as with osa. there are usually other health problems occurring when you have central sleep apnea. don't worry about central sleep apnea if you don't stop breathing.
is my cpap causing me to have central sleep apnea? i was diagnosed with osa but i slow down breathing on my cpap its scary!
if your breathing is just slowing that is not necessarily a bad thing. central apneas are when you don't breath and you don't try to breath. did you have a cpap titration trial in the a sleep center or a home sleep test? either way there would have been a recording of your sleep with your cpap.
what are some reasons a 2. 5 year old could have non obstructive sleep apnea?
the most common cause of osa in children are chronically enlarged tonsils and adenoids. a competent ent specialist can evaluate if this is the cause in a particular situation. they can distiquish if the condition is contributing to osa or may be csa (central sleep apnea).
what are some reasons a 2. 5 year old could have non obstructive sleep apnea?
in addition to obstructive sleep apnea there is central sleep apnea meaning something in the brain is mediating the apnea. this can usually be determined after having a sleep study done.
why do neurologists handle obstructive sleep apnea?
there are 3 types of sleep apnea: obstructive sleep apnea central sleep apnea and mixed sleep apnea. central sleep apnea is a failure of the brain to signal thru the nerves to breath. there are other sleep disorders that are also nervous system disorders. these all fall under the training of a neurologist.
what is the cause of sleep apnea?
being over weight is probably the biggest risk factor. a loss of muscle tone in neck muscles as we get older. heredity undoubtedly plays a role. having a large tongue. other contributing factors are an underdeveloped lower jaw a narrow upper jaw and a high palate. these all tend to block the airway and lead to obstructive sleep apnea. in central sleep apnea the brain doesn't say to breath.
if i have central sleep apnea will a mad help?
mads are designed to treat obstructive sleep apnea. they are not considered appropriate for central apneas.
if i have central sleep apnea will a mad help?
mad is for obstructive sleep apnea (osa). osa is an issue of can't breath (against a closed airway due to obstruction). central sleep apnea (csa) is an issue of won't breath (the trigger to breathe isn't happening). a mad will not treat csa.
what's the difference between sleep apnea and nocturnal hypoxemia?
sleep apnea is caused by a malfunction in the brain (central sleep apnea) or by blockage of the airway (by the tongue tonsils soft palate or throat tissue) while sleeping (obstructive sleep apnea). either of these problems can cause nocturnal hypoxemia (inadequate oxygen in the blood).
what is the difference between central sleep apnea and regular apnea?
central apnea is caused by the brain's inability to respond to elevated co2 (carbon dioxide) levels in the blood. obstructive sleep apnea is caused by the collapse of the airway when the muscles of the throat tongue and possibly the palate when they are flaccid/paralyzed during the deeper stages of sleep. osa responds well to cpap and dental devices. central may not.
what is the difference between central sleep apnea and regular apnea?
central is controlled by the brain when blood carbon dioxide level gets high brain gets a signal and you breathe in oxygen obstructive apnea happens when there is an obstruction in the airway passage whether in the nasal passage or by tongue in the oral passage.
what are the best hospitals for the treatment of central hypoventilation central sleep apnea pathologic hypersomnia seizures?
consider some of the best facilities for respiratory problems. national jewish hospital is ranked #1 by usnwr but you could receive amazing care at johns hopkins hospital mass general mayo clinic ucla or a number of other academic centers.
what are the best hospitals for the treatment of central hypoventilation central sleep apnea pathologic hypersomnia seizures?
national jewish hospital in denver is a great source for referrals to hospitals in your area.
which is worse: obstructive sleep apnea or central sleep apnea?
both are serious conditions manageable with treatment and serious if neglected. the severity varies in every particular case the classification is not intended to determine which one is milder they just have different ways to treat them. in general treatment compliance is an important factor that affects treatment outcomes of both.
which is worse: obstructive sleep apnea or central sleep apnea?
central sleep apnea is worse and harder to treat.
which is worse: obstructive sleep apnea or central sleep apnea?
i guess it depends on your opinion. they both have consequences downstream if they remain untreated. if you are concerned you may have sleep apnea i would recommend evaluation.
which is worse: obstructive sleep apnea or central sleep apnea?
depends on the case. many believe central is worse because the treatment options are limited.
what causes sleep apnea if one os not overweight and has no history. tmj clenching stiff neck muscles psychiatric medication?
obstructive sleep apnea is commonly associated with obesity. however central sleep apnea can be seen in a person with completely normal weight. most of the times the cause of central sleep apnea is obscured and could not be found. this can be seen in patients using certain pain medications and others suffering from brainstem function problems (ie. chiari malformation-congenital).
what causes sleep apnea if one os not overweight and has no history. tmj clenching stiff neck muscles psychiatric medication?
obstructive vs central sleep apnea. different disease different causes. see sleep specialist for sleep studies.
if pulse ox is low at night- how to tell if it's sleep apena or copd? is there a sure fire way to tell the cause? sleep study showed very few.
there are many different problems that can cause a low pulse ox during sleep. a sleep test can diagnose obstructive sleep apnea as well as central sleep apnea. if neither of those are present as the cause of the low pulse ox a pulmonary function test can determine if the airways are obstructed or restricted. an eval by a lung doc can help make the diagnosis and treat the cause.
i was diagnosed with a mild obs sleep apnea. but my resmed s9 auto has recently been detecting central sleep apnea frequently instead. is it accurate?
if your machine is registering more frequently that expected i suggest you repeat a sleep study. these machines are a bit more sensitive than a formal testing apparatus but this is a sign you should look into. get a formal sleep study done to make sure
i have recently been diagnosed with sleep apnea i am 100 lbs overweight if i lose weight will i be able to get rid of it?
if you loose weight you more than likely will be able to resolve your obstructive sleep apnea. in rare cases the structure of your adenoid tonsils and post pharynx might be too big and can also be the cause of your osa. i do recommend weight loss as a first step and repeating your sleep study. if it is central sleep apnea that is a different etiology.
sleep apnea? i have been waking up about an hour after i fall asleep gasping for breath and feel dizzy and dissoriented then after about 5 minutes i can sleep the rest of the night sleep it scares me alot. also after these events happen i have pain in m
please discus this with your physician. an overnight witnessed sleep study is essential to determine if you have obstructive or central sleep apnea to determine the proper treatment.
sleep apnea how do u get this what causes it?
obstructive sleep apnea is a condition where the back of the throat closes and prevents breathing. contributing factors include the structure of the throat which is influenced by how we develop and being over weight. central sleep apnea is a condition where the brain does not send a signal to the lungs to breath. they are treated differently. see your physician asap if you have this problem.
severe sleep apnea from brain forgetting to send signal to breath and enlarged tonsil and adenoid/over weight/ 1 year old any suggestions or options?
get a good ent to look at it tonsils and adenoids removal might be an option and controlled diet what you are describing is central sleep apnea they will be able to guide you better.
i have sleep apnea. is it ok to drink a glass of wine at dinner?
alcohol is not a solution to any problem. you did not say what kind of sleep apnea you have. if it is central sleep apnea it is all the more important for you to abstain from alcohol. it would be prudent to check with your doctor who knows more about your health.
what is the tie in between ptsd and sleep apnea?
obstructive sleep apnea is more of a physical problem. there is an obstruction in the airway during sleep (excess weight collapsed tongue enlarged tonsils small pharynx etc. central sleep apnea is where the brain does not control breathing properly during sleep. neither is related to ptsd. ptsd and sleep apnea can co-exist but one does not cause the other or increase risk of the other.
i have all of the symptoms of sleep apnea but i don't make noises everynight. can that happen with apnea?
"noises" are associated with obstructive sleep apnea. central sleep apnea is silent! hope this helps! dr z
just diagnosed with central sleep apnea. on cpap for now but what other tests or drs should i see to find out the cause. heart has been ruled out.
central sleep apnea by definition emanates from the brain therefore a neurologist or neuro sleep specialist may be the optimal specialist to speak with in order to try and discern a specific cause although often times exhaustive searching finds little to nothing in terms of origin. if you'd like to set up a private consultation please write me at: www. healthtap. com/dr-drsaghafi
my sleep dr said that if i lose some weight it might help with my central sleep apnea. is that true?
if someone has sleep apnea central obstructive or mixed the best solution is weight loss if weight loss is needed.
prior ent exam saw no obstruction relating to sleep apnea. today diagnosed with/apnea & low oxygen level. does this mean i have central sleep apnea?
a sleep physician will order a sleep study that will clarify your condition. cpap is the usual initial treatment but your sleep physician will be the one to decide what course of treatment to follow. low o2 is a serious condition which requires immediate treatment so don't delay.
holiday at high altitude (7 000 to 8 000 ft). what effect will this have on my sleep apnea?
it is difficult to predict what will happen to your sleep apnea at high altitudes. people without sleep apnea can develop cheyne stokes respirations (a form of central sleep apnea) at high altitudes. the lower oxygen levels at high altitude alter respiratory drive with wake and sleep. this heightened drive could theoretically improve your obstructive events but i recommend wearing your cpap.
how do you treat central sleep apnea?
first the cause of the central sleep apnea should be treated. very sophisticated machines called asv (adaptive servoventilation) can treat the central sleep apnea.
how do you treat central sleep apnea?
in order to treat central sleep apnea you have to determine the underlying cause and try to correct it. narcotics and other sedating meds can cause central apnea and it will go away with discontinuation of the medicine. heart failure causes a form of central sleep apnea and can resolve with treatment of the heart failure. some causes of central apnea are not treatable.
how do you treat central sleep apnea?
central sleep apnea can be caused by heart failure or sedating properties of medications. that needs to be evaluated and addressed first. other have no know cause so they are treated with a special pap machine called an asv or adapto servo ventilator.
how do you treat central sleep apnea?
i have found that cental apnea is related to thiamine homeostasis meaning that something is wrong with vcitamin b1 metabolism. i have treated a number of patients with largfe doses of thiamine and magnesium. see a nutritionist who is acquainted with vitamin supplements.
can 14 mos old develop sleep apnea?
unlikely but it can happen. at this age i'd be more concerned about a neurologic deficit causing central sleep apnea. if there is any concern an overnight sleep study should be obtained.
can spinal cord injury (due to aggressive osteoarth) cause sleep apnea and drops in oxygenation? still waiting to see if mom's cpap helps w/ o2 stats
spinal cord injury unless occurring at a very high level in the neck is not going to cause sleep apnea. it might cause hypo ventilation or not breathing deep enough. most commonly in these situations pain killers will cause central sleep apnea by suppressing the breathing center and also cause shallow breathing with low oxygen levels.
can sleep apnea be affected by altitude?
many people get a form of 'central sleep apnea' if they sleep at a high enough altitude. we breathe hard when we are at extreme heights and blow off a lot of carbon dioxide. lack of carbon dioxide in the blood fools the brain and decreases our drive to breathe well & deeply while sleeping. this is different than more common obstructive sleep apnea which can be impacted as well
can sleep apnea be related to an autonomic dysfunction?
there are several types of sleep apnea and central sleep apnea is related to the central nervous system.
can neurotransmitter imbalances be a primary cause of sleep apnea such that double bi-maxillary advancement will not cure? if so what tests should you have and what type of doctor should i see?
central sleep apnea and other sleep-related breathing disorders should be investigated for. consultation with a sub-specialty trained specialist in sleep medicine (e. g. neurologist pulmonologist etc. ) is recommended. good luck. (was an oral device such as a mouth guard tried before the double bi-maxillary advancement? ).
can't keep eyelids open at various times during the day. central sleep apnea treated with vpap. don't feel tired. 6. 25 mg ambien (zolpidem) cr. apnea related?
may want to repeat the sleep apnea test and see if there is over treatment or under treatment may want to do mwt or mslt to rule out other sleep disorders also rule out medical conditions psychiatric conditions sleep hygiene etc.
can't keep eyelids open at various times during the day. central sleep apnea treated with vpap. don't feel tired. 6. 25 mg ambien (zolpidem) cr. apnea related?
it is possible that your vpap needs to be re-titrated. if you have lost or gained 30 pounds or more then your pressure may need to be changed. if that is not the case then you may benefit from a wakefulness promoting medication. both provigil and nuvigil are available for the purpose of helping apnea patients stay awake. talk to your sleep doctor about this. also consult your weight loss surgeon.
could sleep apnea cause autonomic neuropathy? doctor is telling me it can? any idea?
autonomic abnormalities have been linked to sleep apnea especially central sleep apnea. you can read more here: <link> <link>
help please! could central sleep apnea be inherited?
but before final verdict. need to know more.
can you tell me about central sleep apnea disorder in children?
nearly 100% of children with sleep apnea have 1) huge tonsils and adenoids or 2) poorly developed sinuses with mouth breathing or 3) children that snore. have sleep apnea identified and treated!
at what time of the night am i most likely to have sleep apnea episodes?
obstructive apneas can happen any time you are sleeping however in general obstructive apneas tend to be worse during rem sleep. rem sleep is more prominent during the latter half of the night. this is different from central sleep apnea where central apneas tend to be improved during rem sleep.
are there diferent kinds of sleep apnea doctor told me i have two kinds what does this mean?
its possible he was referring to a mixed form that includes components of both peripheral obstructive and central sleep apnea. this information would be noted on your polysomnogram ( sleep study).
can paranoia cause sleep apnea.
paranoia is unlikely to cause obstructive sleep apbea but somethings can cause paranoia and central sleep apnea but this is extremely rare
can a history with frequent xtc abuse cause central sleep apnea. even when awake it suddenly dawn on me that my body was not breathing and then i do?
yes. this agent can cause serious nervous system problems including sleep disorders.
does central sleep apnea cause urinary frequency or memory problems? combined with my condition and meds what diagnosis fits? iam a dental student
this can happen with sleep apnea central or obstructive and an also be caused just because you are a sleep deprived dental student. see a sleep specialist and do a sleep study and get a diagnosis. most dental schools have faculty that are experienced in sleep and can help you. good luck.
does central sleep apnea cause urinary frequency or memory problems? combined with my condition and meds what diagnosis fits? iam a dental student
this is something that needs very detailed h ; p. you want to check you iphone sleep program and visit your sleep doc afterwards.
can sleep apnea cause low oxygen level?
both obstructive and central sleep apnea can lead to a decreased gas exchange in the lung through either decreased airflow or disturbed ventilation during the sleep and subsequently result in low oxygen level in blood.
how does a cpap help central sleep apnea?
regardless central or obstructive sleep apnea cpap machine provides a positive flow of air into the nasal passages to keep the airway open.
how does a cpap help central sleep apnea?
high quality evidence shows that positive airway pressure (i. e. cpap) reduces the freq of respiratory events during sleep decreases daytime sleepiness improve systemic blood pressure and blood glucose control. also shown to improved subjective and objective sleepiness quality of life cognitive function and depression. possibly decreases nocturnal arrhythmia however limited data.
can you die from central sleep apnea? i was just diagnosed and cant tolerate cpap. i want to find out the reason for csa. ep said not heart. now what?
i would suggest an evaluation with a neurologist who also specializes in sleep disorders. you may need imaging to rule out any lesions. there are certain masks which are form fitting which are more comfortable to wear.
dad has severe sleep apnea. refuses to wear cpap. snores loudly and profusely. any other treatments or suggestion?
the sleep oral appliance therapy is an effective non-invasive treatment option for mild or moderate obstructive sleep. for severe or central sleep apnea cpap or bi-pap is recommended. surgery for osa is usually not done unless other conservative treatments have failed.
i have idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and a biventricular icd. the problem i am having is there are days i can't seem to stay awake. normal?
you need to be evaluated to check for elevated co2 levels also need to rule out central sleep apnea.
what is the connection between sepsis gout hypertension and heart failure (chf)?
there is no clear link in the various processes listed above but morbid obesity put you at risk for all of these. . if i saw a thin patient with all of those i'd say that central sleep apnea could account for three (sepsis heart failure and hypertension) but not gout. with weight loss heart failure hypertension and gout can be easier controlled or eliminated.
