sir/mam how can remove chicken pox scars and marks in my face? what can i do for remove this types of scars? pls help me.
unfortunately there is not much that you can do to remove these marks from your face once you have had chickenpox. i would see a cosmetologist who may be able to assist you.
my girlfriend is 21 years old and she is having breast pain?
a doctor can evaluate a 21 year-old woman with breast pain to see if it is related to trauma cysts hormonal changes (menstrual cycle birth control pills pregnancy) shingles (chickenpox virus) cancer etc. . breast cancer is uncommon in young women but it happens to a some unlucky women every year.
is it possible that valtrex (valacyclovir) can treat my cardiomyopathy / afib which i got from chickenpox 31yrs ago. if the virus is still in my system?
sorry.
hi doc l had chicken pox wen l was 13 years n de left mi wiz da spots n l want to use clean n clear for spot remover wil it work for mi?
marks on face etc from viral infections rashes like chickenpox fade gradually you could use over the counter creams too they might help.
when is it safe to give my child aspirin?
a rare condition leading to liver failure and death emerged in the 60's peaked in the 70's and has declined after we linked it to aspirin use during chickenpox/flu. since that time we have developed and tested better products and aspirin is rarely used and then only for specific conditions in kids. i would just never use it in kids though it might be safe after the end of puberty.
why can’t i give my baby aspirin?
in the 60's & 70's a dredfull problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. it hasn't been recomended for kids
why should i not give aspirin to a child with chickenpox?
back in the late 60's & early 70's a devistating illness called reye's syndrome started appearing. kids with chickenpox or flu would appear to get better before lapsing into coma & dying of liver failure. after a link with salycilates(aspirin) was made we stopped giving it to kids under 16. reye's has almost disappeared. it didn't happen to all kids but we never knew how to predict who would.
why should i not give aspirin to a child with chickenpox?
is the concern for kids & aspirin.
why can't i give aspirin to my child with chickenpox?
is the concern for kids & aspirin.
why can't i give aspirin to my child with chickenpox?
in the 60's & 70's a dredfull problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. it hasn't been recomended for kids <16 in 20+yrs. not all kids that were given aspirin got it but we couldn't predict who would.
what t benefits of baby aspirin n at what age dhould adults take them?
it's actually a misnomers bc aspirin should not be given to babies. since the 1980's it's known that a serious condition called reyes' syndrome can occur if toddlers are exposed to aspirin. the cdc had since warned pediatricians to avoid aspirin & aspirin-containing products in flu and chickenpox and later in other viral febrile illness. the term now denotes the 81 mg rather than the 325 mg.
what's the association between aspirin & reye syndrome?
in the 60's & 70's a dreadful problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids <16 unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. there has been a dramatic decline in cases since. those of us who treated cases know it well.
what are the best medicines to prevent recurrence of viral myocarditis?
it is sad to say but we do not have any medicaction to prevent viral myocarditis. we actually have very few medication to treat viral infections--only available for hiv herpes/chickenpox hepb/c and influenza. fortunately these disease don't cause much problems with myocarditis except hiv. hiv can be treated. get vaccines for influenza/chicken pox/hepb. best is to keep healthy! . good luck.
will taking aspirin lead to reye syndrome?
we first saw reye syndrome in the late 60's and 70's but the frequency declined after it was linked to aspirin. it was uncommon & most often seen after flu or chickenpox. we began encouraging parents to avoid aspirin under the age of 16 and the condition is now quite rare. we still use aspirin in kids in limited conditions where it is a preferred drug. i would't worry about an adult taking it.
will famvr help fight the common cold or flu?
famciclovir is used to treat herpes zoster (shingles; a rash that can occur in people who have had chickenpox in the past). it is also used to treat repeat outbreaks of herpes virus cold sores or fever blisters & genital herpes. it doesn't cure herpes infections and may not stop the spread of herpes virus to other people.
