how can weight loss be slowed in those with huntington's disease?
if lots of chorea they may be burning too many calories in which case treating chorea (tetrabenazine anti-psychotics) may help. if depression with poor appetite treat depression. calorie supplementation with ensure or other supplements may help. consider swallowing evaluation as well especially if they have more advanced disease to ensure no difficulty there limiting food intake.
is there any effect in the brain when someone is taking up benzathine pennicillin due to rheumatic fever?
i do know of significant neural side-effects of your depo-pen. rf can cause neurological disease especially chorea but many other issues can occur. finally sx can be due to many other problems.
which treatment works the best and fastest for rheumatic fever?
rheumatic fever is an autoimmune process (antibodies attack our own tissues) that follows infection with streptococci. symptoms include heart murmur and possibly heart failure arthritis nodules under the skin chorea (abnormal involuntary movements) and rash. treatment consists of penicillin aspirin and prednisone. preventive penicillin is given for 10 years to prevent recurrence.
what causes chorea of rheumatic fever?
rheumatic fever is a form of auto-immune reaction of the body to substances contained in the strep which are similar to those in some of our tissues and the body reacts against those areas confusing them with the strep. the central nervous system is not exempt from this and chorea is one manifestation of this type of involvement.
how do i know if my strep throat has given me rheumatic fever?
there are so called criteria to make diagnosis of such. at least you must have several of the things here such as: fever multiple joint pain rash (erythema marginatum) sydenham's chorea (st. vitus' dance) heart inflammation ekg changes high white blood cell count etc. if u have concerns/symptoms consult doc. good luck.
what is the treatment for rheumatic fever? how long does treatment last?
first treat the offending organism responsible group a streptococcus infection then. nsaids bed rest and if cardiac involvement treatments by a cardiologist to manage active carditis and a if chorea sedation and antiseizure drugs.
my 4 year old's strep was not treated for almost 2 weeks what is her risk of rheumatic fever?
rheumatic fever is a sequelae or side effect of strep infections that occurs within 3 weeks of a group a strep infection( confirmed) and 2 major criteria or 1 major/ 1 minor criteria(jones). major : carditis polyarthrits chorea e marginatum rash nodules under skin. minor : arthralgia fever increased esr/crp arrhymia. risk - minimal very rare side effect of strep
