if a person is in chronic renal failure awaiting transplant would that not be the cause for amyloidosis? neg in marrow awaiting fat byopsy.
one of the amyloidosis family of diseases is caused by amyloid pleated from the light chains of hla molecules. it tends to involve the joints and wrists with carpal tunnel syndrome.
what diet is recommended with chronic renal failure?
typical dietary advice would include low sodium low phosphate and high protein if on dialysis. pre dialysis advice may ask for low protein to extend pre dialysis renal function. every patient has differing needs. the diet should be discussed with your doctor.
according to the obesity paradox why is it healthy for people to be overweight?
patients with chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure copd chronic renal failure it appears that being overweight and mildly obese associated with improved longevity compared with normal weight patients. this phenomenon has been termed the “obesity paradox”. for everyone else obesity is still considered to be a major risk factor for cardiovascular and peripheral vascular disease.
what exactly is the safest class of antihypertensive in near end stage chronic renal failure?
safe choices. discuss with your physician.
what are the tests that indicate calciphylaxis?
the cause of calciphylaxis remains unknown. it is the result of a multiple factors. these include chronic renal failure obesity diabetes mellitus hypercalcemia hyperphosphatemia an elevated calcium-phosphate chemical ratio and hyperparathyroidism. it almost exclusively occurs in stage v renal failure patients yet it is a very rare condition.
what do peritonitis pleurisy and pericarditis have in common?
these all involve inflammation of the lining of the organ (pericarditis = inflammation of the lining of the heart pleurisy = lining of the lung and peritonitis = lining of the abdomen). collectively they are called "serositis". serositis can be associated with connective tissue diseases such as lupus juvenile arthritis (stills disease) and chronic renal failure.
what is the significance of an hs-crp of 15+?
c-reactive protein is a nonspecific marker of inflammation. it can be elevated in any condition that has an inflammatory component like infections or arthritis. it can also be elevated in obesity chronic renal failure cigarette smoking and many other apparently noninflammatory states. so an elevated crp doesn't really mean much without other clinical information.
what's the safest class of antihypertensive in chronic renal failure?
calcium channel-blockers beta blockers and diuretics are used most in renal failure to treat hypertension. in such patients bp is typically quite volume dependent.
why is hypertension a factor in causing chronic renal failure?
hypertension is one of the leading causes of kidney failure. hypertension causes scarring in the kidney which leads to decreased function.
why is hypertension a factor in causing chronic renal failure?
renal failure is one of several complications of longstanding hypertension which has not been adequately treated. it does this by damaging the kidneys so that they don't function properly. once renal failure has occurred it may not be reversible but strict control of blood pressure can slow the progression.
what are the statistics of death rate of elderly people on lasix (furosemide)?
do you mean: how many people died due to the use of furosemide (lasix)? (due to toxic dose? side effects? ) how many people taking lasix (furosemide) died for any cause? lasix (furosemide) (diuretic) is usually given to patients for several reasons some of them are very severe such as congestive heart failure and chronic renal failure.
what does htn and chronic renal failure mean?
htn (hypertension or high blood pressure) is one of the two leading causes of chronic renal (kidney) failure. diabetes is the other leading cause. many people have both htn and diabetes! when kidneys shut down many body systems suffer: heart bone health red blood cell production etc. when kidneys stop functioning kidney transplants or dialysis help; there's no substitute for healthy kidneys!
what does htn and chronic renal failure mean?
htn is a common abbreviation for hypertension (high blood pressure). long-standing untreated hypertension frequently results in damage to the kidneys with the end result that the kidneys begin to fail.
what to do if i have problems with water retention?
if you have water retention (wr) the treatment will be based upon its cause. common causes of wr are congestive heart failure chronic renal failure and varicose veins among others. see a physician for a physical examination to find out the cause of your wr. once a diagnosis is made a treatment plan can be formulated for you to treat the problem. good luck.
