i have chronic pancreatitis and fatty liver disease and now i have a swollen hard stomach - could they be connected?
u will need to talk w ur gi doc. if u have portal vein hypertension it can cause fluid build up. also pancreatitis can cause ileus ( slowing of bowel) and this can also b related to pain meds. call ur doc as u will need further tests.
i have chronic pancreatitis and fatty liver disease and now i have a swollen hard stomach - could they be connected?
need to see your doc/gastroenterologist. symptoms could be related to liver pancreas or other causes.
i have pre-diabetes (a1c 5. <positive_smiley> and possibly chronic pancreatitis (seen in eus). how can i gain weight? low fat low carb high protein? kidneys are fine
high protein low carb low fat diet is good for most people. see a dietician of you want more specific advice. however another question is why you are having a problem with underweight. if chronic pancreatic disease is impairing fat absorption that can cause weight loss. stool studies can help determine this.
i have pre-diabetes (a1c 5. <positive_smiley> and possibly chronic pancreatitis (seen in eus). how can i gain weight? low fat low carb high protein? kidneys are fine
and why do you want to gain? with your conditions suggest weight strength training under supervision of a trainer so you don't lose but gain muscle!
i am 19 yrs i have chronic pancreatitis(idiopathic) i want to increase my weight any advice for exercise. i am having fat free food no animal proteins?
most ppl w/ cip become thin. to increase weight you need 2 increase caloric (food) intake. i normally recommend exercise & increasing protein intake. however ur diet & pancreas preclude this. there must be some (vegetable? ) proteins that you can consume. i would have you coordinate with a nutritionist who is experienced with your condition. tell them ur problem & ask them how to gain wt safely.
how long can you live with chronic pancreatitis if you eat a low fat diet don't take any alcohol and exercise? can you stop the disease in its tracks from progressing further?
hope you do not have triglyceride or gall stone problem. any anatomical anomaly in the biliary tract may cause the problem also. discuss with pmd.
fatty liver i have a fat liver and chronic pancreatitis im so tired of being seen as alcoholic i don't drink what can be done about this stigma?
keep your medical file handy and updated and make sure you stick with one pancreas expert.
fatty liver i have a fat liver and chronic pancreatitis im so tired of being seen as alcoholic i don't drink what can be done about this stigma?
unfortgunately especially in the medical profession liver disease and pancreatitis are "married" to alcohol use.
i had acute pancreatitis in 2011 the pain never got better. now i've got high blood sugar chest pain rest hr 120-140 low albumin and so fatigued.
you may have chronic pancreatitis with pancreatic insufficiency and poor absorption. consultation with a gastroenterologist can investigate this further.
left side chest pain over 10 years daily n/a. chronic?
have you ever had chest surgery and the pain is following the procedure? or had chest trauma like a mva? or had shingles or herpes zoster? some causes • eophageal spasm • reflux • cervical spondylosis • prolapsed mitral cusp • da costa's syndrome • pulmonary hypertension • peptic ulcer • gallbladder disease • chronic pancreatitis • ankylosing spondylitis • tietze's disease • lesions of sternum • mediastinal tumor • spinal disease • spinal infection • spinal tumor • spinal spondylosis • chronic trauma • bronchial carcinoma • rib metastases • aortic aneurysm
what is the connection between chronic pancreatitis and high cholesterol?
extremely high triglycerides can be a cause of pancreatitis.
