hi why does my tongue hurt? it feels like a muscle pain and struggle to eat and is painful to swallow. when i move my tongue i get a sharp pin in my ear?
i older people this can be a symptoms of a vascular problem. if that is the case that is called tongue claudication and can suggest vasculitis. it could be a tumor inside your tongue. it can be another tongue problem. you need to get an evaluation to clarify these symptoms.
extreme lower leg pain almost like my bones are hurting after running barely 30 min? not sure what's wrong im a little overweight
consider exertional compartment syndrome of superficial peroneal nerves vascular claudication neurogenic claudication periostitis and strain.
what to do if i was fit despite having a heart attack recently but now i have a stiff leg and find walking difficult why?
if the heart attack is due to clogged arteries peripheral arteries can have the same problem. have your legs examined as you could be having what they call claudication.
lower central chest pain+intermittent claudications+dysnea+lt and rt shoulder pain and lt arm pain. wut inv do i need to do?
not particularly worrisome for cardiac issues especially as a young woman. that having been said however women's symptoms are often atypical. you need to see a health care provider for an examination ekg and potentially a stress test to rule out cardiac cause of your discomforts.
lower central chest pain+dysnea+lt shoulder and arm pain + intermittent claudication. 48 yo man and heavy smoker. investigations to do?
get to the emergency room for an evaluation. symptoms could be cardiac related.
what is peripheral vascular occlusive disease with claudication? is it serious?
peripheral vascular occlusive disease w/ claudication means there are partial blockages of arteries in the legs. when person walks the leg muscles become short of oxygen due to low blood flow resulting in pain. the pain is relieved by stopping & resting. it restricts many activities. stopping smoking getting regular exercise controlling diabetes etc. & using anticlotting agents like aspirin help.
what is claudication?
it's a symptom in of the giant cell arteritis. it's. a gradual feeling of discomfort weakness and tension after use may occur in the muscles of mastication (jaw claudication) and occasionally in tongue muscles. some patients complain of masticatory muscle pain after prolonged chewing or eating meat and the dentist may be the first to evaluate a patient with giant cell arteritis.
what are the symptoms of microvascular ischemia?
the main symptom of microvascular ischemia depends on the location to which you're referring. in the heart may cause exertional chest pains. in the brain could contribute to small strokes and vascular dementia. in the legs claudication.
what is the most efficient noninvasive treatment for popliteal artery occlusion with claudication distance 150 m?
walk to tolerance rest walk again and gradually build your collaterals. control other risks? lose weight.
what is the most efficient noninvasive treatment for popliteal artery occlusion with claudication distance 150 m?
exercise program of walking to build up muscle function. vasodilators and anti- platelet drugs may also help.
what is the next step for an elderly patient with headache jaw claudication scalp tenderness?
this patient may have temporal arthritis an inflammatory condition which affects blood vessels and joints but can also affect vision. with appropriate treatment it can be controlled.
what is the next step for an elderly patient with headache jaw claudication scalp tenderness?
they need a thorough history and physical.
what short and long term affects are associated with cardiovascular disease?
heart: angina heart attack congestive heart failure arrythmias carotid: tia stroke dementia legs: limited walking=claudication rest pain gangrene amputations veins: clots and pulmonary embolism and varicose veins disability and death prevention is worthwhile for dollars and life style .
what is a claudication symptom?
claudication from the latin "claudus " or "to limp " refers to a symptom of peripheral arterial disease (pad) which generally is described as a cramp or a tightness most commonly of the calf muscles with walking the same distance everytime. see a vascular surgeon who can further test for pad and discuss with you treatment options.
what is a claudication symptom?
claudication is pain caused by too little blood flow during exercise. sometimes called intermittent claudication this condition generally affects the blood vessels in the legs but claudication can affect the arms too. most often claudication is a symptom of peripheral artery disease a potentially serious but treatable circulation problem.
what are symptoms of poor blood circulation?
you may not feel any symptoms from peripheral artery disease at first. the most common early symptom is intermittent claudication (ic). ic is discomfort/pain in your legs that happens when you walk and goes away when you rest. you may not always feel pain; you may feel a tightness heaviness cramping or weakness in your leg with activity. ic often occurs more quickly if you walk uphill or faster.
what are symptoms of poor blood circulation?
if poor circulation is in the legs or arms cramoping can occur with use. this is called claudication. it gets better with rest.
what causes pvd?
pvd is gradual obliteration of lumen of peripheral (usually lower extremities) arteries by atherosclerotic process. this causes what is called ischemia resulting in claudication. pain/ cramping of the legs. when you have pvd! you should also be tested for coronary artery disease.
what are the tests for leg claudication?
some common tests used to diagnose claudication include: checking the pulses in your feet ankle-brachial index to compare the blood pressure in your ankles to the blood pressure in your arms doppler ultrasound which monitors blood flow in the area affected magnetic resonance imaging (mri) or computed tomography (ct) angiography to show damage to blood vessels.
what are the tests for claudication?
some common tests used to diagnose claudication include: checking the pulses in your feet ankle-brachial index to compare the blood pressure in your ankles to the blood pressure in your arms doppler ultrasound which monitors blood flow in the area affected magnetic resonance imaging (mri) or computed tomography (ct) angiography to show damage to blood vessels.
what are the tests for claudication?
checking the pressures in your ankles along with the doppler and pressure signals in your arteries at the ankle is a good test to confirm claudication. it is inexpensive. in addition to diagnosing claudication ankle pressures are used to calculate an abi (ankle brachial index) an imporant number. low abi means you are at higher your risk of heart attack or stroke and need medical management!
what are the symptoms of intermittent claudication?
when a muscle group does not receive enough blood flow and oxygen due to a blockage in the circulation that muscle group will release lactic acid which is the cause of the pain. rest will stop the pain and resuming physical activity will recreate the pain in a very consistent fashion.
what are the symptoms of intermittent claudication?
claudication derived from a latin word that means "to limp " is characterized by pain in the leg muscles. it is caused by blockages in leg arteries depriving the blood supply needed for activities like walking. resting or stopping relieves the pain because less oxygen is needed at rest. "intermittent" refers to the timing of pain: "it hurts upon walking but gone upon stopping like clockwork. ".
what is the treatment for arteriosclerosis of extremities?
quitting smoking couple with antiplatelet therapy and vasodilator therapy. aggressive walking program will improve collateral circulation and reduce claudication pain.
went to lunch with my family. noticed things that were worrisome. what are the symptoms of claudication and who can get it?
when the muscles exercise and there is not enough blood flow the muscles will secrete lactic acid. this causes pain. the pain usually goes away at rest. this is known as claudication. walking is most often effected by this. people that have risk factors for pvd are likely to have claudication.
went to lunch with my family. noticed things that were worrisome. what are the symptoms of claudication and who can get it?
claudication is the technical term for narrowing of the blood supply to muscles. it is due to lipid deposits in the arteries. people who have it exercise the muscle so supplied briefly and then experience extreme pain (like a charly horse) and have to stop and recover. it is most common in the legs. you should go to your family doctor to evaluate this.
what does ischemia cause in the body?
ischemia means low blood flow to an organ or leg for example. low blood flow results in low oxygen to that organ or structure resulting in damage. ischemia to a leg can cause pain with activity (claudication) & muscle damage. ischemia to the heart could result in a heart attack. ischemia to the brain could be a stroke. etc.
what are some symptoms of femoral artery stenosis?
which means cram like pains in the calves with walking which gets better with rest and returns with walking. the distance of walking that brings out the pain is called the claudication distance. the shorter the distance the worse is the stenosis. also in severe cases the leg loses hair and becomes painful at rest with elevation better with dangling.
what are some symptoms of femoral artery stenosis?
first symptoms may be the pain on calf muscle when walk which is called claudication. the next sign is pain even at rest as rest pain. the third level is ulcerattion which is not healing and the fourth level as gangrene which may need amputation if not able to improve by bypass or balloon angioplasty.
what is the usual prognosis for a severe coarctation of the aorta?
untreated coarctation can lead to debilitating claudication heart failure renal failure and death. however coarctation should be a completely curable condition with excellent long term outcomes.
which symptoms occur with arteriosclerosis?
hardening of the arteries. when in the heart it can cause chest pain heat attack congestive heart failure arrhythmias and death. when in the brain it can cause stroke passing out multi infarct dementia. when i the kidnesy arteries it can cuase difficult hypertension and kidney failure. when in the legs it can cause weakness claudication ulcers and delayed wound healing and or gangrene.
which conditions render a person ineligible for enhanced external counter pulsation?
patients with chf venous insufficiency dvt pulmonary embolism arrhythmias such as af claudication/pad significant valve disease are not usually candidates.
what is the significance of vascular ischemia?
claudication - meaning leg arm or organ pain during walking stress or other condition that increase oxygen demand. that is there is a mismatch between oxygen supply and oxygen demand. (ischemia means low blood flow vascular means vessel. ).
what is the significance of vascular ischemia?
on what is ischemic. if it is bowel it could be pain or perforation. in a leg it could be wounds claudication or nothing. in the head it could be strokes or tias.
what is the impact on the body of arteriosclerosis?
it depends upon the location of the atherosclerosis. in the brain arteries it causes neurologic deficits and stroke. in the heart it causes chest pain and heart attacks. in the kidneys it causes hypertension and renal failure. in the legs it causes claudication (leg pain when walking).
what can arteriosclerosis cause?
arteriosclerosis/atherosclerosis can result in a plethora of problems such as erectile dysfunction claudication dementia heart attacks strokes and premature death.
what sort of disease is claudication?
claudication refers to pain on activity usually pain in the leg on walking. it is due to narrowing of arteries usually due to atherosclerosis. it may also be referred to as peripheral vascular disease and has a high degree of association with heart attacks and strokes.
what sort of disease is claudication?
claudication derived from a latin word that means "to limp " is characterized by pain in the leg muscles. it is caused by blockages in leg arteries depriving the blood supply needed for activities like walking. resting or stopping relieves the pain because less oxygen is needed at rest. "intermittent" refers to the timing of pain: "it hurts upon walking but gone upon stopping like clockwork. ".
what are the symptoms of peripheral artery disease?
or claudication. legs hurt or cramp due to poor flow when walking. rest improves the symptoms. loss of hair on the lower legs. ulcers or sores of feet or toes. skin infections of lower legs. easy to be checked with abi test. this compares blood pressures of arms to legs and can predict severity of pad.
what are the tests for intermittent claudication?
claudication has very low risk of amputation less than 0. 5% so sometimes physical exam is enough. but if it became severe and require intervention then non-invasive vascular tests including duplex ultrasound ankle brachial index and pulse volume recording are the best to start with.
what are the tests for intermittent claudication?
the easiest test is an ankle brachial index which is a comparison between the arm pressure and the calf or ankle pressure. values in the range of 0. 9-1. 0 are usually normal. patients that claudicate usually have values less than that. please see a vascular specialist.
what is the treatment for leg claudication?
the initial treatment for leg claudication is to stop walking on the painful leg. increased fluid intake an asprin nsaid or other blood thinning medication may be appropriate. al leg ultrasound may be prudent and sometime atherosclerotic or thombisis medication may be necessary. this pain should be evaluated by your healthcare provider.
what is the treatment for leg claudication?
depend on the cause of the claudication like vascular or neurogenic. for vascular you need to be on medications like aspirin u need to quit smoking u need to control the predisposing factors like hypertention and diabetes u need to be on anti-cholestrol medicine especially statins like lipitor (atorvastatin) u must do walking excercise( not walking is bad) and probably try medicine like pletal. see doctor.
what are the symptoms of leg claudication?
the major symptom of leg clarification is calf pain while walking that relieves itself after stopping walking or exercising.
what are the symptoms of leg claudication?
claudication derived from a latin word that means "to limp " is characterized by pain in the leg muscles. it is caused by blockages in leg arteries depriving the blood supply needed for activities like walking. resting or stopping relieves the pain because less oxygen is needed at rest. "intermittent" refers to the timing of pain: "it hurts upon walking but gone upon stopping like clockwork. ".
what are the symptoms of leg claudication?
pain with walking a certain distance that causes you to rest pain is usually in the calf and is result of inadequate blood flow needed to perform activity
what are the symptoms of peripheral arterial disease?
some of the common symptoms are: pain when walking (claudication) rest pain cold feet numbness and tingling in the legs and feet skin discoloration in the feet and toes. slowly healing sores on the feet
what are the symptoms of peripheral arterial disease?
working muscles need more blood flow. resting muscles can get by with less. if there's a blood-flow blockage due to plaque buildup the muscles won't get enough blood during exercise to meet the needs. the "crampy" pain (called "intermittent claudication") when caused by pad is the muscles' way of warning the body that it isn't receiving enough blood during exercise to meet the increased demand.
what are 3 common midlife circulatory disorders?
hypertension claudication and varicose veins are common circulatory disorders of midlife.
what is intermittent claudication?
it is leg pain that occurs with walking and relieved by rest. it is intermittent in that rest alleviates the discomfort. if is due to poor circulation to the leg muscles. this distinguishes intermittent claudication from neurogenic claudication (from narrowing around the nerves in the low back that is stenosis).
what is intermittent claudication?
claudication derived from a latin word that means "to limp " is characterized by pain in the leg muscles. it is caused by blockages in leg arteries depriving the blood supply needed for activities like walking. resting or stopping relieves the pain because less oxygen is needed at rest. "intermittent" refers to the timing of pain: "it hurts upon walking but gone upon stopping like clockwork. ".
what is intermittent claudication and what can reverse it?
it is leg pain that occurs with walking and relieved by rest. it is intermittent in that rest alleviates the discomfort. if is due to poor circulation to the leg muscles. this distinguishes intermittent claudication from neurogenic claudication (from narrowing around the nerves in the low back that is stenosis).
what is intermittent claudication and what can reverse it?
ic is pain in a muscle group brought on by a fixed amount of exercise promptly relieved by rest. blood flow is adequate to meet resting not exercise needs. stop smoking start a walking exercise program control atherosclerotic risk factors like bp diabetes lipids. one can try pletal or trental (pentoxifylline) to improve walking distance. this should be done before intervention such as surgery/angioplasty.
what is intermittent claudication and what can reverse it?
claudication is characterized by pain in the leg muscles. it is caused by blockages in leg arteries depriving the blood supply needed for activities like walking. resting or stopping relieves the pain because less oxygen is needed at rest.
what is defined as peripheral vascular disease?
peripheral vascular disease may be manifest in the lymphatic system (ie: edema) in the venous system ( ie: venous stasis ) in the arterial sytem ( ie: claudication).
would lack of use of leg muscles give symptoms of claudication? can the 2 be confused?
claudication is characterized by pain in the leg muscles upon walking certain distances. it is caused by blockages in leg arteries depriving the blood supply needed for activities like walking. resting or stopping relieves the pain because less oxygen is needed at rest.
will a superficial femoral artery stenosis usually cause pain?
the pain is called claudication. it happends when walking causes the lower extremity to require more oxygen rich blood than can be suplied due to the blockage. usually resolves with rest.
what to do about a butt muscle exercise plan?
poor circulation (claudication) is one cause but so is hip arthritis and spinal stenosis.
what does it mean to suffer from claudication?
claudication is leg (usually calf) pain brought on with exertion due to reduced arterial blood flow.
what does it mean to suffer from claudication?
this term means discomfort most likely in the calf area secondary to peripheral arterial disease with inadequate blood flow entering the muscle to allow activity. the most common scenario is discomfort in the calf which kicks in after walking a certain distance forcing you to stop walking to rest.
what are the symptoms of poor circulation?
many times there are no symptoms at first. as this progresseses one may notice numbness and tingling in an extremity and might need to dangle it over a chair or the side of a bed if it is a leg. if one walks things like claudication or pain in the calves might occur which is relieved by rest. ultimately it gets to where pain occurs at rest and later the limb can become ischemic etc.
what are the symptoms of bad circulation in the leg?
bad circulation can cause intermittent claudication and or ischemic ulcers. need to consult a vascular specialist.
what's the risk of claudication in a diabetic patient?
diabetes is one of the risk factors for pad best to walk to build up your blood vessel capacity tight diabetes control also is important good foot care as well.
what are symptoms of peripheral vascular disease?
arterial- limitation of walking called claudication- all the way to complete obstruction and gangrene. aneurysms embolism venous: swelling discomfort. carotid : tia or stroke.
what are some signs of claudication?
claudication is leg pain with walking and is a symptom (what you experience). a sign is something a doctor or assistant can find on examining you. if claudication come from spinal stenosis there may be few signs but maybe loss of muscle bulk or strength altered sensation & reflexes back stiffness or deformity. vascular claudication (poor circulation) can have poor pulses hair loss atrophy.
what are some signs of claudication?
"claudication" is defined as leg muscle cramping while exercising. it is due to a shortage of blood flow and subsequently a shortage of oxygen to the muscle. classic signs are leg cramps with walking relieved by rest and reproducible at a regular distance. leg cramps while at rest are usually not related to artery problems.
what are some common cardiovascular diseases?
heart disease myocardial infarction valvular regurgitation valvular stenosis pericarditis perpheral arterial or venous or lymphatic disease and obstruction pvd with claudication and so many others.
what is peripheral vascular disease?
atherosclerosis legs feet causing reduced blood flow risk factors include cholesterol tobacco use diabetes mellitus. symptoms are usually claudication ( cramping) with activity frequently relieved with rest if left untreated can progress to limb loss. poor healing and poor response to infection.
what is the meaning of pseudo claudication?
painful leg cramps that are not caused by peripheral artery disease (true claudication) but rather by spinal neurologic or orthopedic disorders such as spinal stenosis diabetic neuropathy or arthritis.
what are the symptoms of claudication?
exercise and walking induced calf and thigh pain relieved by rest is claudication.
what are the symptoms of claudication?
brought on by walking and relieved shortly by rest.
what are common symptoms of peripheral vascular disease?
claudication is the symptom with pain in calf or thigh with walking and improvement with rest.
what is the treatment for abdominal bruit? is it surgery?
history review with respect to history of hypertension smoking diabetes hyperlipidemia weight loss post prandial abdominal pain abdominal angina and claudication. physical exam focusing on potential abdominal aortic aneurysm and renal bruits. abdominal ultrasound and duplex ultrasound may be performed to clarify size of abdominal aorta and exclude evidence of sma and renal arterial disease.
what to do for jaw claudication?
this needs to be checked out to make sure that it is not due to a heart problem / myocardial ischemia. there are multiple causes but the main and most potentially dangerous one is that of heart strain / impending heart attack. see you doctor and get checked out.
what to do for jaw claudication?
jaw claudication can sometimes be from a disease called giant cell arteritis which is mostly seen in elderly. you should be seen by a doctor.
what to do for jaw claudication?
jaw claudication is pain in the jaw or ear while chewing. this is caused by insufficiency of the arteries supplying the jaw muscles associated with giant cell arteritis. see md asap to rule out serious peripheral vascular disease.
what does intermittent claudication mean?
intermittent claudication is a term used in peripheral vascular disease to describe reproducible lower extremity muscular pain induced by exercise usually after a specific distance of walking and relieved by rest. studies have shown that most people with this do not tell their doctors as they assume it is a normal consequence of aging. it is not however.
what is peripheral vascular occlusive disease with claudication? is it serious?
claudication by definition is pain on exertion and relief of pain at rest. typically it is pain legs on walking and goes away by stopping. claudication is considered one of the early symptoms of vascular disease it can become serious if it keeps getting worse.
what is peripheral vascular occlusive disease with claudication? is it serious?
pvd - is where the peripheral blood vessels typically the arteries are diseased and start narrowing- this result in decreased blood flow to the leg. claudication refers to pain that results from walking and is due in part to build up of lactic acid (as not enough blood with oxygen can reach the tissues) that causes cramping and pain in the extremity rest improves this. yes get this checked.
what is peripheral vascular occlusive disease with claudication? is it serious?
that's arterial disease severe enough to cause symptoms in a particular area. for instance pvd in the legs can cause painful walking pain at rest or even ulcers if severe. it can also cause med enteric ischemia or even dizziness.
should i be concern with leg pain with heart disease and hypertension?
it depends on the leg pain pattern. if you are getting leg pain with walking (claudication) it could indicate a blockage in an artery in the leg. however there are many causes of leg pain and it's best to get it checked out.
