i’ve heard that adding vitamins a and d to diet during pregnancy may help control skin itchiness and rashes. is this true? how much should i take?
the body does need vitamin a and d in pregnancy. however vitamin a in high doses can cause cleft lip and palate in the baby. your prenatal vitamin pill should have enough vitamin a. many people are low in vitamin d. your doctor can check your vit d level to see if you should take extra. the amount needed depends on the vitamin d level in your blood.
i have iih. mainly the pulsatile tinnitus fatigue and floaters is what cause me the most problem. should i take topiramate or lose weight alone?
can lead to weight loss and can directly lower csf pressure (it is a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor) it is not advised to take this medication however if you could become pregnant (you indicate you are a 24 year old lady) as it may cause neural tube type birth defects (spina bifida or cleft lip)
should overweight kids have surgery to help losing weight?
there are times surgery is indicated for many medical conditions. . appendicitis trauma cleft lips broken bones tumors etc. i am a believer that we should not mess with what god gave us unless medically indicated like above. and surgery to help one lose weight fits firmly in that category. i d o not think you could find a surgeon to do the bariatric procedure on a child. there are other ways.
on prenatal vitamins. is it safe to take xenical or qsymia (phentermine and topiramate). my bmi is 30 and mybe 1 reason why i can't get pregnant. height 5'7 weight 192. need help?
if you are pregnant or not on full birth control it can cause cleft lip and palate.
how are cosmetic and reconstructive surgery different?
in general cosmetic procedures are to enhance beauty and are not medically necessary so the patient is responsible for the payment. cosmetic procedures are done by plastic surgeons who have web sites and offices that help potential patients decide about the procedure and cost. reconstructive procedures are medically necessary and covered by insurance flaps wounds cleft lip/palate repairs etc.
before cleft lip and palate reconstructive surgery was invented what was done for people with this birth defect?
some dentists could make appliances to plug the whole in the palate. there were crude attempts to close the lips.
before cleft lip and palate reconstructive surgery was invented what was done for people with this birth defect?
types of cintures or binders and braces were tried. in many third world countries children and adults are living with the defect.
before cleft lip and palate reconstructive surgery was invented what was done for people with this birth defect?
they generally had o suffer with nothing or a partial or full denture. clefts can disfigure if severe enough and can interfere with the ability to eat and swallow.
will taking sodium valproate and topamax (topiramate) affect my chances of getting pregnant?
topamax (topiramate) will not decrease your chance of getting pregnant but recent studies show an increase risk of certain birth defects like cleft lip and cleft palate. you should talk to your doctor to see if there are other medications with a safer profile during pregnancy for you to take.
which antihypertensive drugs that can cause cleft lip/palate if taken during pregnancy?
not sure there's a drug that links specifically to cleft lip but it is clear that you should avoid ace inhibitors and arbs during pregnancy due to heart and kidney abnormalities that can occur.
