if i get stuck due to flooding is it better to cut my pills in half or take them as usual and run the risk of running out completely?
if the medication is for a life-threatening condition (very high blood pressure glaucoma insulin-dependent diabetes atrial fibrillation epilepsy etc) you may not have the option to reduce the dose without getting into trouble. if it is for something which is mostly a quality of life issue you may space the pill out or cut it into halves regardless of the formulations given no other options.
hello i have gynecomastia but recently i've developed scabs on both my areolas and it kind of has me freaked out. should i be worried?
especially if it is on both nipples. but all the same prob worth seeing someone who can examine you.
hello i have gynecomastia but recently i've developed scabs on both my areolas and it kind of has me freaked out. should i be worried?
scabs usually do not come from nowhere. are you a jogger and your nipples are rubbed against your shirt? any fluids draining from them? how massive are the gynecomastia? is there a reason you prefer not to get rid of them. are you obese? have you consider liposuction as an option vs surgical removal? talk to a plastic surgeon or at least a general surgeon familar with gynecomastia.
i took 12 350mg somas alomg with more and ended up wetting the bed i also took 12 norco 16mg xanax (alprazolam) 60mg oxycodone. i am a addict and have had a coma and blacked out before am i lucky?
you would be very fortunate not to let that happen again. only way to recover is to sign yourself in a rehab program asap. you will need detox & close monitoring. it is your life.
i took 12 350mg somas alomg with more and ended up wetting the bed i also took 12 norco 16mg xanax (alprazolam) 60mg oxycodone. i am a addict and have had a coma and blacked out before am i lucky?
seriously if you are being honest here i would recommend that you get help now. you are most definitely an addict and you will either end up dead brain dead or arrested. the amount of medications that you are taking exceed all guidelines.
i took 12 350mg somas alomg with more and ended up wetting the bed i also took 12 norco 16mg xanax (alprazolam) 60mg oxycodone. i am a addict and have had a coma and blacked out before am i lucky?
the amount of medication you are taking is extremely dangerous. see your doctor right away and get help.
i took 12 350mg somas alomg with more and ended up wetting the bed i also took 12 norco 16mg xanax (alprazolam) 60mg oxycodone. i am a addict and have had a coma and blacked out before am i lucky?
you will be lucky if you get help and stay away from drugs otherwise it is only a delay in the too familiar fatal overdose outcome. good. luck in getting help asap.
is there a benefit in taking glucomannan for weight loss?
do not waste your money.
is phentermine a kind of narcotic?
it is not a narcotic by one definiiton that is a drug that in moderate doses dulls the senses relieves pain and induces profound sleep but in excessive doses causes stupor coma or can cause convulsions. but a second definition is a drug that is subject to restriction like a narcotic. it is a controlled substance and that means it is restricted in some ways.
if i lose weight will my gynecomastia go away by itself?
gynecomastia is hormonally-active breast tissue in a man. since breast tissue consists of mostly fat losing weight will cause a reduction in the size of any breast tissue either in a man or a woman; however the enlarged breast tissue will still remain.
if i lose weight will my gynecomastia go away by itself?
gynecomastia is occasionally confused with pseudo- gynecomastia which is primarily fatty deposits that could go away with losing weight. even real gynecomastia can be decreased with losing weight.
if i lose weight will my gynecomastia go away by itself?
most men still have breast tissue in spite of weight loss. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
is it okay to experience loss of vision while taking adipex?
adipex or phentermine has a number of very serious side effects and loss of vision could mean that you have previously undiagnosed glaucoma or some other condition made worse by the medication. stop the medication and see your ophthalmologist right away.
is it okay to experience loss of vision while taking adipex?
adipex is a stimulant weight-loss medication. any patient experiencing vision loss from this medication should immediately seek a check by your doctor. this is also important in patients who may have glaucoma. call today and be checked out.
i heard snoring can trigger harmful health and personality changes. is this true?
sleep apnea is assciated with floppy eyelid syndrom glaucoma. untreated sleep apnea can lead to congestive heart failure.
i am 28 years old male. my weight is 115kg. my brest size is fairly large than a normal male brest. how i can reduce my brest size?
gynecomastia (benign enlargement of breast tissue in a male) is commonly related to an subtle hormonal inbalance. it is very common in pubertal males and very old. it can also be a medication side effect or related to underlying liver disease. most often a cause can't be identified. surgical excision is usually considered cosmetic & best performed by plastics w/liposuction to avoid deformity.
is it common for overweight male teens with "man boobs"to have many lumps in their breasts. everyone says theyare fatty deposits. is it true? how to tell?
based on your description i think you will benefit from an in-person examination by your physician. physical examination will go a long way in differentiating masses that are concerning (versus gynecomastia) and potentially require additional workup such as x-ray evaluation. best wishes.
in what ways is too much body fat harmful for women?
obesity is a cornerstone disease for over 20 other diseases: type 2 diabetes stroke cardiovascular disease kidney disease alzheimer's parkinson's breast ca colon ca recurrent prostate ca osteoarthritis retinal vasular disease glaucoma pvd chf sleep apnea and early death to name a few.
i have a body with 27% of fat and im 18 years old 91 kilograms what's are the effects positive and negative of dianabol in my body?
a healthy person does not need extra anabolic steroids in his body as the drugs would have unnatural effects. such effects include increased protein synthesis and increased muscle strength in the short run plus gynecomastia (man boobs) high blood pressure acne male pattern baldness liver damage etc.
if i lose weight what will my gynecomastia look like? droopy?
this depends on the severity of your conditions and the degree of skin laxity and the magnitude of weight loss.
if i lose weight what will my gynecomastia look like? droopy?
there are many variables involved. your age amount of excess weight excess skin present quality of skin elasticity genetics. are some of these factors. once stable weight is achieved surgical procedures such as excision liposuction surgery skin excision etc. maybe very helpful. best wishes.
if i lose weight what will my gynecomastia look like? droopy?
it depends on the elasticity of your skin. the younger you are and the lack of a history a weight gain the better it will look (like a balloon when you let the air out). if your skin is inelastic it more like a plastic bag emptied of water. more loose.
is gynexin a safe and effective product to reduce gynaecomastia?
this product is not effective and you should not waste your money on it. see your pcp to discuss in an office setting.
i am not overweight but i have man boobs? other than surgery is there anything i should do? i tried weight loss but nothing helped.
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
is it possible to turn your manboobs into pecs with the right diet and exercise?
you will likely find that unless the increased breast size is caused by adipose tissue that diet and exercise will not change the size/shape of your breast. if persistent surgical intervention may be helpful. gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
will there be rapid weight loss with extreme calorie restriction (under 1000 a day) or will it slow the metabolism?
it will let body use essential muscle for calorie with very high risk for developing sudden heart attacks loss of muscle in gut leading to acute bowel problems and if you are a diabetic developing diabetic ketoacidosis - diabetic coma be very careful.
i m a male 22 having gynecomastia of approx 6 inches n i m severely obese! i do not want to for a surgery but still i want to get rid of both d thing?
achieving a long-term stable weight may go a long way in improving the appearance of your chest wall. assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue and/or liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
i m a male 22 having gynecomastia of approx 6 inches n i m severely obese! i do not want to for a surgery but still i want to get rid of both d thing?
see an endocrinologist for an exam. often times obese men will appear to have gynecomastia but it is just fat and will improve with weight loss. if it is really gynecomastia there is medication which may help to shrink the tissue and stop tenderness if it has been present less than a year. if present longer surgery is the only way to get rid of the tissue.
i m a male 22 having gynecomastia of approx 6 inches n i m severely obese! i do not want to for a surgery but still i want to get rid of both d thing?
losing weight will probably improve your gynecomastia. you still might need surgery if it persists after losing weight. there is really no medicine to improve it. if you smoke marijuana or use steroids stop as these promote gynecomastia.
i have left gynaecomastia since three years and i m worried. what can it be? physiological or pathological?
most likely this is physiologic. as hormonal changes occur in the body there can be an imbalance which can cause things like gynecomastia to develop. usually this is bilateral. to be 100% safe you should see your doctor and have him check various hormone levels.
i had liposuction as a fix for my gyno which was determined by an ultrasound of my chest and it did not fix it at all. what should i do now?
gynecomastia treatment varies however patients with gynecomastia that is more glandular in nature will require direct excision of the tissue. <link>#gynecomastia.
i had liposuction as a fix for my gyno which was determined by an ultrasound of my chest and it did not fix it at all. what should i do now?
sometimes liposuction is not definitive for gynecomastia and direct excision is required. seek consultation from a board certified plastic surgeon.
i have a heart murmer edema which is getting worse high blood pressure had rapid weight gain poor circulation eyesight deteriorating rapidly. help!
you need to see a cardiologist as quickly as possible to see if your heart is the problem causing you to gain edema fluid causing your weight gain and to control your high bp. also see an ophthalmologist to see if you have a diseased retina or glaucoma. from your description you appear to quite ill and are getting worse quickly. get some help quickly at their offices or go to an er asap.
i am 22 years old 5'8" tall and i weigh 85 kgs. tell me how to get rid of my belly fat and man boobs.
best to be seen in consultation. also best to achieve a long-term stable weight prior to undergoing any chest wall surgery. if gynecomastia is present surgery usually involves a partial resection of glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery of the chest wall. if/when the time is right i seek consultation with board-certified plastic surgeons. see lots of examples of their work. best.
why doesn't my lipoma shrink with exercise and weight loss?
lipomas are autonomous fatty tissue growths. consider it a fat cell gone wild and are independent from weight gain or loss. generally they are enveloped by a capsule and have an independent blood supply relative to the rest of the surrounding fatty tissue. the most important issues are size growth rate and the location of your lipoma. rarely there are malignant liposarcomas.
i would like to know the facts about liposuction-including the side effects of the procedure.
liposuction is a very safe and effective procedure if performed by an experienced and qualified physician using local tumescent anesthesia. more common side-effects are bruising tenderness swelling. less common are infection and bleeding. rare but serious complications include coma reaction to anesthesia seizures brain damage and death which are more likely to occur under general anesthesia.
what are the symptoms of diabetes mellitus type 1 in children who have not been diagnosed?
polydipsia polyuria and weight loss despite polyphagia. high blood sugars cause excessive urination and resulting excessive thirst. as the body cannot use glucose properly the children usually lose weight even as they are hungrier. in complicated cases diabetic ketoacidosis and coma may result.
what are the symptoms of diabetes mellitus type 1?
polydipsia polyuria and weight loss despite polyphagia. high blood sugars cause excessive urination and resulting excessive thirst. as the body cannot use glucose properly the children usually lose weight despite eating more. in complicated cases diabetic ketoacidosis and coma may result.
if you have diabetes type 2 what are the signs right before death?
diabetes has the classical symptoms of polyuria (frequent urination) polydipsia (increased thirst) and polyphagia (increased hunger). more severe disease can lead to heart disease kidney failure blindness loss of fingers/toes/hands/feet. death would most likely come from coma heart attack stroke or kidney disease.
is teenage boy with breast that kind of look like gynaecomastia is related to klinefelter's syndrome?
pubertal gynecomastia may effect the majority of males as the begin their pubertal transition. most are minimal and last 6m to a year but occasional longer episodes do occur (1-3yr) it is important to separate the true process from fatty breast enlargement that produces a false gynecomastia in overweight kids. spongy glandular tissue directly under the nipple is absent in the false case.
i have a gynecomastia but not very large i am not obese but i have a little central obesity although my bmi is on normal average how i can prescription it?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery may suffice.
i have a gynecomastia but not very large i am not obese but i have a little central obesity although my bmi is on normal average how i can prescription it?
make sure you are not taking any medication that can cause gynecomastia. you may also want an endocrine evaluation to ensure that your hormone levels are normal. if everything is normal and diet and exercise don't work then surgery can be very successful.
i have a gynecomastia but not very large i am not obese but i have a little central obesity although my bmi is on normal average how i can prescription it?
gynecomastia may have one or two components. the first is fat. theis may be addressed by liposuction. the other is gland which may require direct surgical excision.
what are some complications of liver disease?
jaundice fluid build up in abdomen (ascites) gastrointestinal bleeding infections coma.
what effect does diabetes mellitus have on your blood osmolarity?
especieally if you are a type 2 diabetic you can go into aroma crisis known a as nonketototic hyperosmostic coma. it can be fatal if not treaters and results from very high blood sugars that cause a dehydration state. it is as important for type 2 diabetics to maintain good control as type 1s. bad things can happen.
what are the chances of me having glaucoma at age 50 if i am a vegetarian and not overweight?
glaucoma is an inherited disease. you inherit a gene from each parent. glaucoma while more common in older people can begin at any age. this is why the test for glaucoma is part of a routine eye examination. the overall chance of having glaucoma is about 3% in the general population and has nothing to do with diet or weight.
i'm 26 i'm 5'3 and i weigh 65 kilos i want to loose weight which one is better to use? metformin phentermine? what pill is better? and how to use it?
you should use no pill unless someone--a physician--is supervising its use. drugs like phentermine have significant side effects and can cause many serious problems some like pulmonary hypertension which are fatal. a history of heart disease uncontrolled high blood pressure overactive thyroid glaucoma psychological disorder or a history of drug or alcohol issues makes phentermine a bad idea.
is it possible to have low testosteron. i started going to the gym i am tall and skinny. in 3 months gained 10kilograms and close to no body fat. can i have low testosterone despite of my fast gym gains?
at your age your testosterone is probably high normal. you do not need testosterone replacement. possible side effects of too high testosterone levels are early balding enlarged prostate (may have difficulty urinating) and gynecomastia (man-boobs). sounds like you are lean with muscle. there is no indication for testosterone replacement at your age.
i had gynecomastia surgery in 2011. i am about to undergo liposuction of the abdominals and flanks. can this further improve the looks of my chest?
you may achieve a better overall proportion to your torso but it is unlikely that it will specifically target or improve the appearance of your chest.
i had gynecomastia surgery in 2011. i am about to undergo liposuction of the abdominals and flanks. can this further improve the looks of my chest?
liposuction of an area adjacent to another body part that is to undergo surgery or has had a surgical procedure usually helps create better balance of the the two areas. it will necessarily impact the chest directly. talk to your plastic surgeon about your concerns especially if you have some uneven/asymmetric areas on your chest and s/he may be able to improve those as well for you.
i had gynecomastia surgery in 2011. i am about to undergo liposuction of the abdominals and flanks. can this further improve the looks of my chest?
the planned procedure of liposuction of the abdomen and flanks will not improve the appearance of your chest. however if you have concerns about the chest appearance address these with your plastic surgeon; it may be that improvements can be made at the time of the planned procedures. best wishes.
i had gynecomastia surgery in 2011. i am about to undergo liposuction of the abdominals and flanks. can this further improve the looks of my chest?
if no treatment is done to the chest you will most likely not see any change to your gynecomastia surgery results. speak to your surgeon and address your concerns with him for the best solution.
i had gynecomastia surgery in 2011. i am about to undergo liposuction of the abdominals and flanks. can this further improve the looks of my chest?
it will improve the balance between your chest and abdomen.
i had gynecomastia surgery in 2011. i am about to undergo liposuction of the abdominals and flanks. can this further improve the looks of my chest?
not unless the surgeon does anything on your chest. liposuction of the flanks and abdomen will have no effect on the appearance of your chest. if you're still concerned with its appearance talk to your surgeon about options for improving it perhaps a little additional liposuction.
what will be the effects on a person with diabetes type ii if that person eats food that contains sugar?
diabetic patients are not supposed to eat sugar. their sugars can go up and they have have severe dehydration or may go into severe acidosis and coma.
i can't control myself around food and keep binging. what do you suggest?
some physicians prescribe topiramate for weight loss because it creates a feeling of fullness or satiety. talk to your family doctor about this. if you are on it you must drink 8 glasses of fluid a day to prevent kidney stones. lower the dose or stop it under dr's. direction if you are feeling clumsy. be aware of the sptms of glaucoma since it can cause that on a rare occasion.
is it save to use duromine. need to loose 10kg. please asvice?
work by directly affecting the area of the brain that control your appetite. you feel less hungry. should be part of a comprehensive weight management plan which should include a medically control diet and exercise program. avoid if you have hypertension pulmonary hypertension valvular heart problems coronary artery disease thyroid problems glaucoma etc. a bariatric physician should follow u.
why is lactalose used in chronic liver disease?
generally used to treat condition known as hepatic encephalopathy. there is ammonia build-up in the system due to malfunctioning liver. the encephalopathy is associated with mental confusion tremor disorientation drowsiness which can progress to coma. lactulose aids in lowering the ammonia level and thus prevent progressive encephalopathy.
i am south indian a 28 year old male. in some positions when i look into mirror my breasts are big. i am not very obese& will reducing my weight help?
weight loss may help but gynecomastia at 28 years of age may need at the least an endocrinology work up making sure your hormones are well balanced.
what are common symptoms of alcoholic liver disease?
abdominal distension yellow jaundice edema of lower extremities weakness poor appetite loss of weight abdomonal pain itching nausea vomiting blood anemia and alcoholic facies. in end stage of aloholic liver disease it is hepatin encepalopathy with delirium and coma.
would it be okay to take lipozene to lose weight?
there are many negative reviews of this product. it is just a filler called glucomannan. fined by ftc for false claims. i would avoid. focus on fruits veggies lean meats and exercise. avoid sugars.
what is a good diet and exercise to do to reduce gynecomastia?
true gynecomastia will not improve with direct and exercise. however if adipose tissue is a component of the increased breast size improve and maybe seen with weight loss. if symptomatic and/or aesthetically displeasing surgical correction of gynecomastia can be worthwhile. treatment is individualized depending on the specific patient's situation; involves direct excision of glandular tissue.
what is a good diet and exercise to do to reduce gynecomastia?
carolyn: gynecomastia is a male problem and very common. it is more pronounced in obese people so diet and exercise is always helpful. surgical options are utilized after conservative methods fail or to remove residual "stigmata. " surgical intervention may require liposuction or open procedures to remove excess skin.
what is a good diet and exercise to do to reduce gynecomastia?
gynecomastia cannot be corrected with a special diet or any specific exercise for that matter. you can build up your pec muscles with weight training but that will probably make the gynecomastia look worse. usually surgery is the only solution. visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
i have a ball behind my puffy nipples (for 5 years now i am 17) but i am overweight my brothers have the same problem can it be gynecomastia?
i assume you are speaking of a congested eye. ask your doctor about using an antihistamine to reduce irritation and swelling.
i am overweight with gynecomastia (breast tissue) i know i can't remove it naturally but if i do exercice will my gyno look better?
hormone testing by your doc or a natural doc can give you some answers. this can help w/weight and gynecomastica. testing is quick and easy using saliva or blood. exercise can help but it's best to get to the root of the situation. the very best to you.
i have a big and pointy chest i am not obese or overweight i was concerned that i have chest fat or gynecomastia? i work out on regular bases
if your concern is of the breast and not the sternum you may have gynecomastia. many males have a period of this in their late teens or late middle age. if this problem has been established for a number of years a surgical remedy is likely the key. if this is new see your primary care doctor for a testicular exam and screening. marijuana xtc steroids supplements and alcohol can cause.
i have a big and pointy chest i am not obese or overweight i was concerned that i have chest fat or gynecomastia? i work out on regular bases
an endocrinologist (or your primary care doc) can measure your hormones and examine you to see if you have gynecomastia. glad to hear that you work out. stay healthy. peace be with you.
which type of drugs/weight loss pills do a really nice job or suppressing appetite?
the best drug for suppressing appetite is probably topiramate (topamax) which is used for epilepsy and seizures. in clinical trials the average weight loss ranged from 8% (on 50 mg) to 12% (on 200 mg). it does have side effects which can include tingling (not dangerous) metabolic acidosis (can be monitored and prevented) and rarely acute glaucoma (with eye pain). best to discuss with your md.
what are some good exercise plans to do that will make me lose stomach fat and man boobs?
you are wise in achieving a long-term stable weight. you will find that a regular exercise program and a healthy diet will go a long way in helping you achieve your goals. once you have achieved your long-term stable weight if the gynecomastia is persistent surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue and peripheral liposuction.
what are some good exercise plans to do that will make me lose stomach fat and man boobs?
weight and if your gynecomastia persists seek aplastic surgeon to review options.
will to much estrogen during puberty prevent penis growth? i am 18 obese and have had manboobs throuh from obesity though puberty.
overweight or gynecomastia are not associated with small penis size. the good news is that you can lose weight more easily while a young adult. the critical points are to restrict your calorie intake to under 1600 per day. restricting carbohydrates make it easier to hit that calorie target. vigorous daily exercise will be necessary too.
i want to take glucomannan but will that interfere with my thyroxine and vitamin d tablets? i've had thyroid cancer in the past
glucomannan is a sugar made from the root of the konjac plant. glucommanan powder capsules and tablets are used as medicine to treat constipation. it may also slow the absorption of sugar and cholesterol from the gut helping to control sugar levels in diabetes and reducing cholesterol levels. do not know if it will result in interference with medications. why do you want to take it?
what's an effective way for me to lose belly fat and man boobs?
first identify the cause for the man boobs or gynecomastia and if you are overweight then losing the weight will help. your doctor can examine and investigate you and treat accordingly. some medicines can have a side effect leading to breast enlargement in men. in others hormonal imbalance can be an issue. belly fat can pile up with weight age alcohol and lack of exercise. surgery may be indicated.
what can i do to get rid of man boobs and love handles?
diet and exercise for weight loss. if that doesn't work quick enough for your tummy you might consider coolsculpting or liposuction. gynecomastia reduction surgery may be required for your chest if conservative measures don't work for you.
what can i do to get rid of man boobs and love handles?
depending on the severity liposuction excision of gynecomastia (male breast enlargement) or noninvasive techniques. best to consult with a board certified plastic surgeon.
what can i do if my aunt has diabetes type 2 her blood sugar is always very low isn't that dangerous?
with healthy metabolism bg typically in the 65 to 120 range rarely up to 140 briefly. too low esp <40 symptoms & coma too high people feel ok short term but very bad news over time. best tx powerfully emulates this bg range. many dm choose to stay high due to feeling bad when bg goes too low e. g. with sulfonylureas and/or insulin but this is bad tx though common. hope you aunt is savvy.
weight about 236 nd have a 26. 2% body fat. if i buy testosterone boosters will that help get rid of manboobs quicker?
it is a common but not recommended practice among body holders who use illicit drugs and anabolic steroids to also incorporate tamoxifen (an estrogen blocker used for breast cancer patients) to minimize the gynecomastia associated with use of testosterone like drugs.
weight about 236 nd have a 26. 2% body fat. if i buy testosterone boosters will that help get rid of manboobs quicker?
shots are actually a cause of gynecomastia! supplementing those would make your problem worse.
i lost 80 pounds in one year and gained 12 pounds of muscles. im fit with nice muscular shape. however i still have pockets of fat in my breast why?
you could have developed a condition called gynecomastia. it can be caused by many things including hormone imbalances and medications. you should go see your doctor to have him examine the tissue and get any neccessary blood work or imaging to try to figure out the cause.
i am a healthy active male who has an active lifestyle. having a chubby chest. on fnac it showed gynecomastia. treatment?
if there is excess glandular breast tissue the surgery is the only way to remove it. diet and exercise can eliminate fat but not the glandular breast tissue. the procedure consists of liposuction and excision of the gland.
will metermine affect eyesight?
you have eye problems now specifically glaucoma possibility of blurred vision as well.
would glucomannan nautral fiber power or capsules in my diet will help suppress my appetite while on the depo-provera shot?
fiber is fine for most people to take. it may suppress the appetite in some people but this would not be something unique to depo users.
what to do if i'm a teenager and having gynaecomastia!?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
is qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) safe for weight loss?
qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) has been fda approved and shown to be safe and effective through randomized - controlled studies. every drug has a side effect. qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) can cause glaucoma increased eye pressures. there is also a warning not to get pregnant while taking qsymia (phentermine and topiramate). it works well for most people. the biggest hurdle for most people is the cost.
what to do if i have self-diagnosed myself with gynaecomastia so what should i do i haven't seen anyone about it?
hi. gynecomastia is different than typical man boobs (aka moobs). gynecomastia is ductile breast tissue in a man whereas moobs are just fat tissue. if you have true gynecomastia you should have an evaluation for underlying causes.
in recent months my weight gain has begun to result in moobs whereas it never did before at this weight. does dairy really increase this sort of fat?
dairy doesn't but some medications or other substances can. marijuana is well know for causing gynecomastia. your physician or your pharmacist can go over your medication list to see if anything else might be causing your troubles.
i'm 16 and hit puberty 2-3 years ago im also overweight i have chest fat and hardness under nipple do i have pseudogynecomastia or pubertal gyne?
teens need annual check-ups to address health lifestyle emotional & social issues. if your body mass index is 95th%ile or higher your gp will check for obesity-related disorders & do what's needed to help you get healthy if you're willing to do the work. gynecomastia of puberty goes away on its own; obesity does not.
mother 80 bmi 18. 4 cr 5. 3 had a seizure started dialysis and later had coma; now on 3-a week hd eating well but high depression. can hd decrease?
it really depends on the reason your mother suffers from kidney failure and the degree of damage her kidneys sustained. please discuss with her nephrologist for the best answer. the doctor will be able to tell you if hemodialysis is projected long-term.
what to do if i have self-diagnosed myself with gynaecomastia so what should i do i havent seen anyone about it?
i would encourage you to be evaluated for the possible gynecomastia.
is phentermine a good option for weight loss?
it can help weight loss by decreasing your hunger or making you feel full longer. phentermine is also available in a combination medication for weight loss (qsymia). like other prescription weight-loss drugs phentermine is intended to be used as part of an overall weight-loss plan. it is indicated for people who are obese and who have failed to lose enough weight with diet and exercise alone — not for people who want to lose just a few pounds phentermine is a schedule iv drug a classification given to drugs that have a potential for abuse although the actual potential appears to be low. although phentermine is one of the most commonly prescribed weight-loss medications it has some potentially serious drawbacks. common side effects include: increased blood pressure dizziness dry mouth sleeplessness nervousness constipation. phentermine isn't a good option if you have heart disease high blood pressure an overactive thyroid gland or glaucoma. it also isn't for women who are pregnant may become pregnant or are breast-feeding.
i took 4-5 60 mg vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) yesterday and then another 60 mg this morning. do i have any hope of getting sleep and not overdosing? i am an obese woman
the maximum dose is supposed to be 70 mg and you took perhaps 360 mg over the last 24 hours? i'm afraid you may already be experiencing symptoms of an overdose which can include heart arrhythmias blood pressure abnormalities seizures rapid breathing abdominal cramping and diarrhea restlessness and even confusion and coma. is there someone who can take you to the er now? if not call 911.
my doc perscribed xanax (alprazolam) 1mg xr to help me sleep. i am currently being investigated for having "obstructive sleep apnea". is it safe to take the xanax (alprazolam)?
some medical conditions may interact with xanax (alprazolam). tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have any medical conditions especially if any of the following apply to you:. some medical conditions may interact with xanax (alprazolam) especially if any of following apply to you: if you have a history of seizures glaucoma or increased pressure in the eye kidney or liver problems lung or breathing problems.
i have man boobs but i'm really skinny maybe a tiny bit rough around the edges tho. they are bigger than all really obese guys. (not breast tissue)?
hi. dr. ivy fisher a pedi md. this is normal sometimes thru puberty as your hormones are increasing esp estrogen. this will calm after 19 yrs of age. gynecomastia is common also as breast tissue increases and the soft tissue around them. people who are overweight may have this issue awhile. yours should subside. you can consider an endocrinologist if the problem worsens or increases over time.
my beau has type 2 diabetes. he says lights on the cars streetlights look red. should he be concerned?
sugar blood pressure glaucoma can affect vision. but depending on the duration of diabetes it can cause real damage to eye. see pmd.
my brother is 15 he went into puberty chubby had moobs he lost 40 pounds now he's skinny fat he still has moobs will they go away he's 130lb?
his gynecomastia will very likely go away after he has completed all 5 tanner stages of puberty. "man-boobs" or gynecomastia represent a transient increase in breast tissue that occurs to varying degrees in about 70% of normal boys during puberty. being overweight probably made them look bigger than they actually were because of the fatty tissue that accumulates in that area.
what is the safest anxiety medicine you can take with adipex. currently on prozac (fluoxetine) what could i take that won't affect each other?
i understand your need to have relief from anxiety. adipex can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia and tremors. taking prozac (fluoxetine) with adipex may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome- confusion hallucination seizure extreme changes in blood pressure coma and death. see psychiatrist for diagnosis medication benefits and side effects dose monitoring and therapy for stress in your life.
with open angle glaucoma could sleep apnea cause damage to the optic nerve?
sleep apnea decrease o2 to your body. apnea means pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. this means your body does not get o2 at that time. lack od o2 is damaging to the cells/tissues including optic nerve. one of the risk factor for glaucomatous nerve changes or nerve damage is sleep apnea. pls control the problem will help you to avoid health problem including heart brain
notice a lump under my nipple in my left breast could this be from previous bodybuilding steroid use? will it resolve on its ow i am a 39 y/o male that has used steroids for bodybuilding in the past i have a lump in my left breast that comes and goes s
it could be gynecomastia (elargement of breast tissue) from prior steroid use. however it is always better to be safe see a doctor.
please tell me can decreased level of testesterone cause gynaecomastia?
definitely not a known cause of gynecomastia. drugs both prescription and illegal are more common causes. other things to look at are hormone levels such as estradiol prolactin and progesterone.
sir i am suffering from a condition called man boobs. pls suggest me some exercise. also suggest me some exercise for chest & abs(burn fat?
get some weight loss but the gynecomastia will remain. check hormones estrogen and testosterone.
i have a dfcs case and have to take hair and urine test will lipozene cause me to test positive for any drug?
lipozene contains glucomannan a water-soluble dietary fiber derived from konjac root (amorphophallus konjac). it should not cause you to test positive for any drug.
just had male breast reduction with slim lipo when should i see results?
patients who have undergone liposuction surgery need to exercise patience; it may take 3 to 6 months before they see the final outcome of the procedure. swelling needs to dissipate and the overlying skin needs to “bounce back”. many patients with true gynecomastia as opposed to lipomastia benefit from direct glandular excision as well. best wishes.
need to know if there is any option other than surgery for gynaecomastia?
please see your physician for evaluation of your gynecomastia. . there are some drugs that cause it and that may be your only problem. your doctor should be of great assistance to you in this.
sir i am very much frustrated by my large man boobs growing still at the age of 23. i am not obese. what should i do.
we (men) have the same glands that women have in our breast tissue. it can sometimes grow into man boobs (gynecomastia) it needs a proper exam and you may need further lab testing. if it is a problem they can do surgery under the nipple to remove the fatty enlargement. keep us posted. dr. sibley
t2 diabetic. dx in feb on insulin since mar. went low 2. 5 wks ago (65-). since then have noticed a tendency for blood sugar readings to be on the lower side. is this normal? should i be concerned? am closely following diet set by dietician and cde.
insulin is more potent rx to lower blood sugar for better diabetes control. but there is more risk of low blood sugar which can cause symptoms of sweating tremor change in mental status. when severe it can cause coma or even death. mild low blood sugar should be addressed to decide if lower dose or increased intake of carbs needed to keep blood sugar more nl and avoid more serious reactions.
there is a product that contains glucomannan can i use it while i am on hormonal treatment for growth?
can
there is a product that contains glucomannan can i use it while i am on hormonal treatment for growth?
long as you're not taking pills for growth. then you need to take glucomannan an hour after you take your pills. if you're getting shots it doesn't matter.
what is the definition or description of: fastin (phentermine) overdose?
the fda encourages no more than the recommended dosage of 37. 5 mg. phentermine has effects on the nervous system. high doses can cause mental distrubance hypertension and heart rhythm disturbance. there are also gi symptoms. excessive doses are potentially fatal. phentermine is contraindicated for patients with significant heart problems glaucoma and overactive thyroid.
what's the difference between chest fat and man boobs?
you are referring to gynecomastia in the latter. fat is just simply that fat. gynecomastia involves an actual breast bud forming which has a more firm texture actual breast tissue. your mom can help you tell the difference. we see gynecomastia transiently ( for 6 months to a year) not uncommonly in teenage boys related to the relative proportions of changing hormones.
what's the difference between chest fat and man boobs?
chest fat is common and when it becomes excessive may simulate the appearance of gynecomastia. gynecomastia refers to a combination of fat and excessive glandular breast tissue. while a small amount of glandular breast tissue is normal and may become prominent in over 60% of pubertal males it tends to resolve in nearly 80% of men upon completing their puberty. persistece may require excision.
why do i have pecs with i'm cold and moobs when i'm warm. my pecs seem flatter when i stand up when i'm warm my pecs seem to come to a point why?
i hear this often from men presenting with concerns about gynecomastia. because there are muscle cells in the areola surrounding the nipple stimulation or cold temperature may produce a contraction that makes the nipple more prominent but the areola flatter. with warmer temperatures the areola relaxes and may protrude. think about relaxing your stomach muscles and having your belly bulge out ward
would my gynecomastia ever go away or what can i do to fix it?
gynecomastia can be associated with endocrine disorders but this is rare. i would suggest seeing a board-certified plastic surgeon who can give you information on your options and after an examination advise you on the appropriateness of an endocrinology evaluation. good luck!
what causes are of temporary gynecomastia?
comes to mind is medications.
what causes are of temporary gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
what causes are of temporary gynecomastia?
in this age group the most common causes are marijauna use and anabolic steroid use in bodybuilders. other less common causes include liver disease certain medications testicular tumors and thyroid imbalances. occassionally there is no explanation (idiopathic) and the problem resolves on its own.
what causes are of temporary gynecomastia?
obesity or excess weight gain hormonal imbalance medication side effects can all result in gynecomastia.
what exercise can i do for gynecomastia i do not want sergery doctor said it is gynecomastia?
there are no specific exercises that will help improve the appearance of gynecomastia. the excess tissue is superficial to the pectoralis major muscle; therefore strengthening the chest wall muscles will not necessarily help. if adipose tissue plays a role losing weight may be helpful. best wishes.
what exercise can i do for gynecomastia i do not want sergery doctor said it is gynecomastia?
one can normally get a little bit of glandular development behind the nipple area. this settles down as time goes on for most men. in cases where the tissue is really large and prominent surgery might be a consideration. if you are overweight try losing some of the extra weight as the fatty tissue contributes to the gynecomastia issue.
what exercise can i do for gynecomastia i do not want sergery doctor said it is gynecomastia?
surgery is the gold standard treatment. it can be performed either through and open technique or with liposuction. the best method would be determined by you anatomy.
what exercise can i do for gynecomastia i do not want sergery doctor said it is gynecomastia?
will help resolve this problem. in fact local manipulation might make it worse.
after massive weight loss i have extra skin on the side of my chest. in the pec area. what are my surgical options?
this is a very common concern and depending on the pattern and extent of the laxity is commonly performed on combination with an arm lift (thoracobrachioplasty) or an upper back lift. gynecomastia is also frequently associated with this condition.
what can you do to treat gynecomastia?
liposuction is used to remove the excess fat cell. if there is still a lump an open incision is used around the areola to remove this tissue.
what can you do to treat gynecomastia?
liposuction alone or surgical excision depending on degree.
what can you do to treat gynecomastia?
assuming a man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery may suffice.
what can you do to treat gynecomastia?
if this affects both breasts identify what's caused the breasts to developers and stop it. (often its a medication). if only one side is enlarged surgical removal is better to rule out the possibility of a cancer. discuss details w/ your pcp and a surgeon.
what causes man boobs?
man boobs aka gynecomastia is benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. up to 60% of men worldwide have some degree of gynecomastia and there are a variety of causes. the causes have to be ruled out for the proper treatment. if all underlying hormonal and drug causes are ruled out then the benign breast mass can be removed via liposuction or direct excision depending on the degree.
what are the best treatments available for gynecomastia?
typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
what are the best treatments available for gynecomastia?
man boobs aka gynecomastia is benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. up to 60% of men worldwide have some degree of gynecomastia and there are a variety of causes. the causes have to be ruled out for the proper treatment. if all underlying hormonal and drug causes are ruled out then the benign breast mass can be removed via liposuction or direct excision depending on the degree.
what are the best treatments available for gynecomastia?
liposuction and gland excision. rarely can medicine help unless the condition is caused by a medical problem (liver disease etc. ).
what are the signs of male breast cancer or infection?
breast cancer in men is rare usually occurs over age 60 and is usually a painless firm mass under the nipple. breast infection is also uncommon in males & would be a swollen red painful lump. gynecomastia is a painful firm lump under the nipple in men & more common. need to see a doctor for an examination to help you differentiate these.
what's the easiest way to lose man boobs?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
what's the easiest way to lose man boobs?
gynecomastia that's been present more than a couple of years won't go away without surgery. visit gynecomastia. org - a great forum.
can a diabetic die from eating too much candy?
diabetics if the sugar load is to high and they cannot metabolize sugar properly can develop a condition called "hyperosmolar coma" in which blood glucose (sugar) might get excesively high causing brain swelling.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia or just chest fat because i'm overweight?
glandular gynecomastia does not "go away" with weight loss; plastic surgical excision is required (not liposuction). fatty gynecomastia can be treated with liposuction and ultrasonic lipo is a good option. either way losing weight will improve you and your chest!
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia or just chest fat because i'm overweight?
in-person consultation with your family practitioner and/or plastic surgeon is a good place to start. accurate history and physical examination is important. eliminating “causes” of gynecomastia is also important. surgical treatment usually involves partial excision of the glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. again much of what is recommended will depend on specific physical exam.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia or just chest fat because i'm overweight?
of it to fat elsewhere if it's denser it might be glandular development. ct or mri would be definitive but usually unnecessary.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia or just chest fat because i'm overweight?
true gynecomastia patients have firm easily palpable or felt breast tissue. fat is softer than breast tissue. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
how dangerous is a bmi of under 15?
this is considered critically low. it is associated with many problems including potassium problems and cardiac problems as well as bone problems. the bigger danger is that during the recovery phase there is refeeding syndrome which occurs as the body goes from a catabolic to an anabolic state causing low phosphorus low calcium and low magnesium which can lead to delirium coma and death.
how does someone know if they have gynecomastia or just is chubby?
in-person consultation with your family practitioner and/or plastic surgeon is a good place to start. accurate history and physical examination is important. eliminating “causes” of gynecomastia is also important. surgical treatment usually involves partial excision of the glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. again much of what is recommended will depend on specific physical exam.
how does someone know if they have gynecomastia or just is chubby?
being overweight does bring some increase in breast size but firm tissue diffusely increased in size in a man is the hallmark of gynecomastia.
how does someone know if they have gynecomastia or just is chubby?
the texture and firmness of male and female breast tissue varies widely. your doctor can help decide what is normal fat vs true glandular tissue. regardless if it bothers a person it can be addressed surgically to eliminate embarrassment and help self esteem issues.
how does someone know if they have gynecomastia or just is chubby?
when just chubby there is adipose (fat) tissue distributed all over the body in gynecomastia it breast tissue with normal adipose tissue distribution. on the body like that of a teenage girl breast on a teenage boy.
how is gynecomastia treated in chubby boys?
traditionally estimates of normal pubertal gynecomastia vary from 4-nearly 70%. when associated with overweight individuals this incidence can be expected to be on the higher side. nearly 2/3 of gynecomastia cases will resolve with time. certainly in instances of obesity an effort to avhieve weight loss or at least a stable weight should be attempted first.
how is gynecomastia treated in chubby boys?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery may suffice.
how is gynecomastia treated in chubby boys?
if the child is over weight then diet and exercise will help the gynecomastia. in overweight males the gynecomastia is due to fat tissue not breast tissue. surgery can be done but only if normal weight males that have gynecomastia secondary to breast tissue.
can a iridologist ascertain if someone has had 4 recent heart attacks? my 35 yr old healthy not overweight daughter felt she was experiencing alarming symptoms such as sensations going down her left arm and strong unusual heart palpatations. she went to
the short answer is no. iridology is not supported by valid research studies and is widely considered quackery. clincal data does not support correlations between illnesses and changes in the iris. in controlled experiments iridologists have performed no better than chance in determining disease or the presence of a condition. the iris does not undergo substantial changes during an individual's life. iris texture develops during gestation and remains unchanged after birth. there are variations in color during infancy and changes caused by glaucoma treatment. the unchanging nature of iris structures allows biometric technology which uses iris recognition for definite identification of individuals. your daughter should see her doctor for clarification of the evaluation done in the emergency room and a perhaps a more focused investigation of her symptoms.
can zerona liposuction reduce men's breasts? i have "man-boobs" that i'd really like a safe and effective way to get rid of. could zerona work? .
zerona only works on fat not on breast gland or excessive skin. gynecomastia is most of the time a combination of large breast glands fat and extra skin. acting on one component only will not give you the result that you anticipate.
can zerona liposuction reduce men's breasts? i have "man-boobs" that i'd really like a safe and effective way to get rid of. could zerona work? .
zerona will not take care of your gynecomastia. . if that is truly your condition. depending if you have a large amount of skin excess you may need more formal surgical intervention with a plastic surgeon. or occasionally a smaller amount of fat on the chest can be taken care of with liposuction. you should consult your plastic surgeon. best of luck to you.
can zerona liposuction reduce men's breasts? i have "man-boobs" that i'd really like a safe and effective way to get rid of. could zerona work? .
zerona is not liposuction and it is ineffective in gynecomastia or men's breasts. good luck from nyc. for more info visit www. drgrossman. com.
can you get cancer from eating too much chinese food?
no chinese food itself is not carcinogenic. if some some chemical carcnogens are added then yes. lacking strict restriction like our fda carcinogen benzoapyrene was accedentally contaminated in camellia oil used in chinese cooking and dehp in tae. in any food nitrates(to nitrousamine) hydrogenated oils sodium glucomate acrylamids liberated by deep frying of starch are all carciinogens.
how can i tell the difference between gynecomastia and chest fat?
the breast tissue tends to be very firm and nodular and gritty when pinched between your fingers whereas fat tends to be softer and more compressible. i often ask patients to place their hands on their hips and contract their chest muscles or to raise their hands high over their heads to visualize the for mass that is responsible for gynecomastia. however gynecomastia is usually a combo of both!
how can i tell the difference between gynecomastia and chest fat?
male breast enlargement is usually due to a combination of excess breast tissue and too much fat. the breast tissue is usually located centrally under the nipple and feels a little more firm than the more peripheral fat. treatment usually involves liposuction of the fat and direct excision of the breast tissue. you should be at or near your target weight before having this operation.
how can i tell the difference between gynecomastia and chest fat?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. usually physical examination is all that is necessary to differentiate breast tissue from adipose tissue. consultation with board certified plastic surgeons may be helpful.
could male breast reduction surgery improve my sleep apnea? is it possible that my sleep apnea could improve on its own after male breast reduction? .
sleep apnea has many variables in its causation some mechanical some neurologic. but of all that is known about this condition gynecomastia is not known to contribute to sleep apnea. it may be worthwhile to have your primary care physician refer you to a sleep lab for further evaluation.
could male breast reduction surgery improve my sleep apnea? is it possible that my sleep apnea could improve on its own after male breast reduction? .
gynecomastia surgery has nothing to do with your apnea and you will not see any improvement in the breathing. good luck from nyc. for more info visit www. drgrossman. com.
how do i lose chest fat?
you can't "spot reduce" fat. some men have gynecomastia the abnormal development of large mammary glands in males resulting in breast enlargement. this can be addressed surgically.
how do i know if i have gynecomastia or just chest fat because i am obese?
gynecomastia tends to be a firm discrete lump which is centered on the nipple. fat tends to be soft and distributed more widely especially in the lower pole of the breast. obesity often obscures the physical findings for gynecomastia as the chest fills with fat. lumps in the breast for men and women should be checked by a qualified physician to determine the pathology.
how do i know if i have gynecomastia or just chest fat because i am obese?
physical examination can distinguish relatively firm breast tissue from softer adipose tissue. best for you to achieve a long-term healthy stable weight; at that point if you still have concerns about excess tissue on the chest wall seek consultation with board-certified plastic surgeons who after physical examination will be able to provide you with a diagnosis and treatment recommendations.
how do i know if i have gynecomastia or just chest fat because i am obese?
breast tissue is fairly firm but fat is obviously soft. check out www. gynecomastia. org a great forum!
how do i know if i have gynecomastia or just chest fat because i am obese?
obesity is not isolated to cetain areas of the body therefore if you are obese there is probably a large component of your gynecomastia due to fat excess. you may have breast glandular tissue that requires surgical excision however liposuctio will treat most of the excess. the other problem you mat face is skin excess due to the excess weight. excess skin must be excised.
what are some complications of paget's disease?
the abnormally rapid process of bone remodelling that is associated with paget’s disease can sometimes lead to a build-up of calcium in the blood. the medical term for this is hypercalcaemia - leasds to extreme tiredness depression drowsiness constipation bone pain heart failure sarcoma is a type of cancer that starts in the bone cells. very rarely it can occur as a complication of paget’s.
what is the recovery time after male breast reduction? even though i work out and am in pretty good shape i look like i have female breasts and it's difficult to hide. i would like to get male breast reduction but don't want anyone to know that i have h
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
what is the recovery time after male breast reduction? even though i work out and am in pretty good shape i look like i have female breasts and it's difficult to hide. i would like to get male breast reduction but don't want anyone to know that i have h
male breast reduction (treatment of gynecomastia) there are 3 major treatment options for male breast reduction. -for mild breast enlargement liposuction will be performed. -sometimes liposuction and direct excision of glandular tissue will be performed. -when there is a significant amount of excess skin no only will the breast tissue be removed but the excess skin will also need to be removed. compression garments are important after any surgery involving liposuction to improve the post-operative swelling and improve the final contour. you may ned to wear compression for upto 6 weeks. the skin will heal very quickly (days) after lipouction. you will be sore for several days. the bruising may take serveral weeks to resolve. if excess skin needs to be removed then the recovery will depend on the size of the excision. your skin incisions will take several weeks to fully heal. the discomfort will be present for about 1-2 weeks. male breast reduction in san diego: www. dassmd. com.
which medications should i stop taking before my male breast reduction surgery? i am not on any prescribed medications but i do take vitamin e gingko biloba and a drink a lot of herbal teas. should i stop using these herbal and vitamin supplements befo
yes each of these drugs you mention could cause bleeding after surgery. it's safe to stop them 2 weeks before surgery. i'm in orlando and perform a ton of gynecomastia surgery. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
what sort of results can i expect from gynecomastia surgery?
most patients who undergo surgery to correct gynecomastia are very pleased with the outcome of the procedure. the results of the procedure generally include a flatter chest wall. patients often experience a physical and “psychosocial” benefit. one of the keys associated with this procedure is avoidance of over resection and a contour deformity.
what sort of results can i expect from gynecomastia surgery?
most patients indicate that they have improved self-confidence following gynecomastia surgery. they indicate that they feel more comfortable both in and out of clothing.
what sort of results can i expect from gynecomastia surgery?
many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
what sort of results can i expect from gynecomastia surgery?
the result of every surgery will vary; however the vast majority of patients who have had gynecomastia reduction are happy they had the surgery. good results are enhanced by a careful medical history physical examination and clear discussion about what the surgery can and cannot do. the term gynecomastia reduction applies to several different surgeries so consult a board certified specialist.
what sort of results can i expect from gynecomastia surgery?
of the deformity.
what sort of results can i expect from gynecomastia surgery?
gynecomastia correction is a safe reliable procedure which is well tolerated with good results. consult with a plastic surgeon to learn more about your individual condition and find out if you are a good candidate for surgery.
will taking testosterone reduce my gynecomastia?
excess testosterone (t) is converted into estrogen which then exacerbates gynecomastia (male breasts). so taking t won't help you. instead check your estrogen level and block conversion of t into estrogen w/aromatase inhibitor such as anastrazole (prescription breast cancer drug). of course diet & exercise help too! less fat = less gyno. plastic surgeons can help when all else fails.
will taking testosterone reduce my gynecomastia?
testosterone is a cause not a treatment of gynecomastia.
will taking testosterone reduce my gynecomastia?
the development of breast tissue in men is a function of the tissue sensitivity to estrogens not a low testosterone.
will taking testosterone reduce my gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is a diagnosis typically found in men. you should see a surgeon for an examination and evaluation.
what other treatment options for gynecomastia?
other than weight loss (and treatment of any stimulating causes like testicular tumors or other hormone causes) surgery is the only way to remove gynecomastia tissues especially glandular component. liposuction can help with the fatty part but excision is needed for the glandular portion. there is no diet or supplement that can help. see an abps-certified plastic surgeon.
what other treatment options for gynecomastia?
sometimes liposuction can be useful for a male of normal weight who has minimal glandular hypertrophy with an excess of fatty tissue in the breast. combining liposuction with excisional surgery may also be an option.
what other treatment options for gynecomastia?
in adults weight loss if it is fatty surgery if it is glandular.
what other treatment options for gynecomastia?
lose wt and avoid causative substances.
what is the difference between breast cancer and tissue cancer?
there are several different types of breast cancers but generally speaking they are much more common than tissue cancers (sarcomas). breast cancers can be more susceptible to hormones (estrogen progesterone) also the treatments for two different types of cancers are quite different.
have a gut and man boobs. is there any way i can get quick visual and physical results?
if you have a gut as you say you're probably going to need to lose some weight. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
why do i have man boobs even though i'm not fat?
many patients with gynecomastia are not overweight. it's caused by a hormonal imbalance usually. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
will an aromatase inhibitor help me get rid of my male gynecomastia?
make sure gynecomastia is the correct diagnosis. breast cancer in male patients is very rare but can be potentially life threatening. using medications such as an aromatase inhibitor for breast swelling before eliminating the diagnosis of breast cancer can be potentially serious. check with your doctor for details.
will an aromatase inhibitor help me get rid of my male gynecomastia?
it is being studied in adolescent males but is far from the standard of care. anastrozole in one study reduced breast size by over 50% as compared to placebo. [for the other docs - i have to admit this was new to me: see j clin endocrinol metab 2009; 94:2975. ].
will an aromatase inhibitor help me get rid of my male gynecomastia?
a small series has shown complete reversal in one patient. others all had an improvement in swelling and discomfort.
will i be able to lift weights after i have surgery for gynecomastia?
long-term you be able to return to all forms of exercises/activities after gynecomastia surgery. your plastic surgeon will guide you when it comes to specific and timing. best wishes.
will i be able to lift weights after i have surgery for gynecomastia?
we encourage full range physical exercise after gynecomastia correction and we found that it actually improves results and decreases complications.
will i be able to lift weights after i have surgery for gynecomastia?
it depends--were you able to lift weights before the surgery? surgery for gynecomastia involves removing tissue just under your skin. while this tissue sits on top of your chest wall muscles they should not be harmed in any way by the surgery. at most you may be a little sore for a few weeks after but you will eventually be able to return to full pre-surgical activity.
will i be able to lift weights after i have surgery for gynecomastia?
once you have good early healing most patients at 3/4 wks. post-op can return to their normal routines .
why is it so common for men to develop gynecomastia?
obesity medications for prostate other medicines like spironolactone liver disease like cirrhosis lack of testosterone (andropause) intake of estrogen and who knows if high content of estrogen in certain food? in young adolescent males is common to have first unilateral gynecomastias due to hormonal changes.
why is it so common for men to develop gynecomastia?
hormonal & weight changes are common as is the use of causative substances.
why is it so common for men to develop gynecomastia?
all men have rudimentary breast tissue (small amount) and an imbalance of testosterone and estrogen can make this tissue grow. it's common in young men starting puberty particularly if they are heavy because there's a higher level of estrogen associated with excess fat.
what is the difference between gynecomastia male breast cancer?
gynecomastia is a benign condition usually caused by drug abuse or prescription medications. on the other hand male breast cancer is malignant and can spread through metastasis. fortunately it is rare for males to develop breast cancer.
what is the difference between gynecomastia male breast cancer?
gynecomastia is excess benign male breast tissue. cancer is malignant and must be treated.
what is the difference between gynecomastia male breast cancer?
gynecomastia is a benign condition. breast cancer is malignant.
what is the difference between gynecomastia male breast cancer?
the enlargement of of the breast gland in the male & is not malignant.
what is the earliest age at which you can get breast cancer?
though we can see unusual breast malignancies (sarcomas) in the pediatric / adolescent age groups the usual epithelial based cancers that you would know as infiltrating ductal or lobular carcinoma are in older women. as a guideline- less than 5%of cases are under 30 yo increasing from there with each decade. genetic mutations (brca 1 or 2) would shift the curve toward a younger age of onset.
what is breast reduction surgery exactly?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
what is breast reduction surgery exactly?
male breasts or gynecomastia comes in different sizes. here the goal is to make a male chest contour. residual gland does not move like fat. evaluation of the result requires seeing just how the chest looks when muscles flex and arms are raised overhead. skin reduction scars if needed are a compromise.
who are good candidates for breast reduction surgery?
breasts heavy enough to leave strap marks still visible in the morning after removing bra night before. also when heavy enough to affect posture or justifiable phobias about having huge breasts + women who have problems finding smart clothing due to large breasts. also men with gynecomastia.
what is gynecomastia in men?
gynecomastia is an enlargement of male breast tissue. this can be from an excess of one's own hormones or from certain medications. it is usually a benign condition but one should seek medical care especially if this is a new finding to rule out certain pathology.
what is gynecomastia in men?
approximately half of all men have breasts that are enlarged a condition known as gynecomastia. in some cases the cause is heredity or hormonal activity within the body while anabolic steroid use can also create unwanted side effects. many men choose to combine a gynecomastia procedure with pectoral etching® a liposuction technique which outlines the pectoralis muscle and axilla.
what is gynecomastia in men?
gynecomastia simply means feminzation of a man's breast so if your breasts are larger than you would like time to see a physician. causes are many and include medication side effects thc use (marijuana) and other drugs obesity endocrine disorders and familal causes.
what is gynecomastia in men?
breast tissue forming in a male is usually a side effect of medications or illicit drug use but can be a risk for development of breast cancer in men. your doctor should do a history and an exam to rule out any serious illness and offer treatment options.
what is gynecomastia in men?
abnormal enlargement of male breast has many causes and is never normal. often it is from a hormonal imbalance with the female hormone estrogen involved. always cancer must be ruled out. a thorough physical exam by your doctor is always advisable.
what is gynecomastia in men?
this is a condition characterized by breast enlargement due to development of breast tissue in men. it can be caused by a medical condition. a physician's evaluation is recommended especially when found in adults.
what is gynecomastia in men?
men have breast tissue just as women do. under the right circumstances the breast tissue in a male can enlarge. this can be due to hormonal changes such as puberty or due to medications used to treat common conditions such as gi disorders or psychiatric illnesses. certain tumors could cause this to happen as well. men do get breast cancer so this should be considered in such cases.
what is gynecomastia in men?
male breast tissue during puberty can be stimulated by the changing hormones. this can appear like female breasts but it usually resolves as boys age. in men it is usually from being overweight.
what is gynecomastia in men?
some men develop large breasts naturally or from lack of testosterone. most males going through puberty have some gynecomastia which goes away once they get through puberty. low testosterone can cause increase in men's breast size as well.
what is gynecomastia in men?
could be genetic or induced by medications.
what’s the difference between lipomastia and gynecomastia? are the treatments different?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). lipomastia refers to adipose tissue causing the breast enlargement. differentiation of these conditions important because treatment may differ.
what’s the difference between lipomastia and gynecomastia? are the treatments different?
lipomastia is a breast enlarged by fat. true gyecomastia is breast tissue enlargement.
what’s the difference between lipomastia and gynecomastia? are the treatments different?
enlargement of breast tissue in a male is called gynecomastia. if if is made up of mostly fat (say in an older of obest person it can be referred to as lipomastia. typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
what’s the difference between lipomastia and gynecomastia? are the treatments different?
gynecomastia is breast tissue hormone dependent.
what’s the difference between lipomastia and gynecomastia? are the treatments different?
lipomastia a. k. a “manboobs ” is an excess of fat in a man’s chest related to weight and fat deposits and can be reduced with diet and exercise. gynecomastia is actual breast tissue in the male chest usually related to genetics or a hormonal imbalance and may require tissue removal to prevent breast tissue from growing back. in either case liposuction can reduce the size and appearance.
what’s the difference between lipomastia and gynecomastia? are the treatments different?
fatty breast enlargement versus gynecomastia glandular enlargement. first more amenable to liposuction alone if not too much skin excess.
well i have gynecomatsia and it is not responding to training so some friends told me to take amino acids or steriods instead of surgery is it ok?
please get evaluated by a breast specialist. you will want to be sure this is truly gynecomastia and not a suspicious mass. men can get breast cancer too! be safe and get checked out.
well i have gynecomatsia and it is not responding to training so some friends told me to take amino acids or steriods instead of surgery is it ok?
in addition to the above answer: if it is found to be true gynecomastia we treat non surgically with coolsculpting. we also perform minimally invasive vaser liposelection. in any case see a breast specialist and endocrinologist for the appropriate diagnosis before attempting any treatment.
well i have gynecomatsia and it is not responding to training so some friends told me to take amino acids or steriods instead of surgery is it ok?
steroids are not the answer. gynecomastia can be caused by different reasons but anabolic steroids like testosterone can actually cause gynecomastia (breast enlargement in males). see your doctor to discuss the options.
what are the most common symptoms of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia "means breasts like a woman. " it oftens occurs in puberty and is not serious. symptoms are mildly enlarged breasts & nipples in a male. but many adolescents are embarrassed by it. sometimes surgery needs to be done for mental health reasons. rarely it is caused by neuroendocrine disorders. your doctor can help.
what are the most common symptoms of gynecomastia?
adolescent/teenager males often have this enlargement of breast tissues secondary to hormonal surge of puberty etc. . it is quite common and require no treatment or something simple i. e. ibuprofen for soreness etc. for older males this maybe of more concerns. some are caused by medications but just remember men get breast cancers too--just much less than females. consult your doc. good luck.
what are the most common symptoms of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is the abnormal development of mammary glandular tissue in a male resulting in breast enlargement. .
what do think it is and what should i do? i'm a 6 foot even african american male with male gynecomastia. in my right chest it is a small lump normal like my brothers and cousins. but in my right it is at least 2 to 3 time bbigger and harder. i developed
during the consultation process a history and physical examination will likely be very helpful. make sure you provide a list of all medications and/or drugs you use. hormonal studies although sometimes helpful are not mandatory. if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
what do think it is and what should i do? i'm a 6 foot even african american male with male gynecomastia. in my right chest it is a small lump normal like my brothers and cousins. but in my right it is at least 2 to 3 time bbigger and harder. i developed
it is not normal for a male to have a breast lump. please get this checked by a physician.
what do think it is and what should i do? i'm a 6 foot even african american male with male gynecomastia. in my right chest it is a small lump normal like my brothers and cousins. but in my right it is at least 2 to 3 time bbigger and harder. i developed
gynecomastia is a fairly common condition in young men. it is usually related to an imbalance of testosterone and estrogen. and it's not uncommon to have more of a problem on one side of the chest. at your young age you may want to be evaluated for an endocrine problem. if the problem is stable and you've had it more than a couple of years it probably won't go away without surgery.
what is gynecomastia? who gets it?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
what is gynecomastia? who gets it?
gynecomastia is the presence of glandular (potentially milk-producing) tissue in the male breast. it can happen during normal puberty but can also be caused by some meds like digoxin and cimetidine by marijuana use low testosterone use of excess testosterone or other body building steroids and certain tumors.
what is gynecomastia? who gets it?
gynecomastia is enlargement of the breast tissue. men get this when the breast tissue (yes men have breast tissue) gets stimulated from some source to grow. this can be medications hormones etc.
why do men want gynecomastia fixed?
the decision of whether or not to proceed with surgery to correct gynecomastia will ultimately be a very personal decision based on whether the enlarged breast gland causes physical and/or psychosocial “distress”. as always patient should weigh the pros/cons associated with the procedure to determine whether to proceed or not. consultation with board certified plastic surgeons may be helpful.
why do men want gynecomastia fixed?
much like many women without breast tissue feel less feminine men with breasts feel less masculine. sometimes crude remarks or being called "bitch tits" hurts enough for some men to seek remedy through surgical removal of their breast enlargement.
why do men want gynecomastia fixed?
gynecomastia is most commonly seen during puberty to young adulthood causes psychological trauma as other kids are teasing constantly due to this reason surgery is done after cheeking no other problems.
what age was the youngest male with breast cancer recorded?
but to qualify it was a breast sarcoma (connective tissue type cancer ) not a breast cancer as you would think of infiltrating breast cancer- not otherwise specified usually occurs in the older population>60 my youngest 40 but he had the breast cancer gene brca 2. but at the cancer hospital you select out for the unusual.
what if adult men develop gynecomastia? what do you treat it with?
assuming a man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
what if adult men develop gynecomastia? what do you treat it with?
1st confirm diagnosis with mammo/and maybe core biopsy 2nd try to eliminate offending medication or problem like obesity alcohocism etc 3rd check testosterone levels and some other hormones with labs 4th depending upon age of pt liposuction works very well to surgically treat or there are some meds to consider such at tamoxifen and arimidex (anastrozole).
what if adult men develop gynecomastia? what do you treat it with?
a cause for the gynecomastia should be sought and if one is found it should be treated. if no cause is found it can be left alone or surgically reduced.
what if adult men develop gynecomastia? what do you treat it with?
first visit your doctor to make sure that the breast swelling isn't actually breast cancer. this is rare in males but shouldn't be overlooked. then if it really is just gynecomastia it usually goes away within 6-8 weeks if you avoid all touching and unnecessary pressure to the breast area. if it doesn't go away you may need an operation to remove some of the extra breast tissue.
what things affect the price of a male breast reduction surgery? i've seen price ranges for male breast reduction as wide as $3000 to $10 000. what things make the price so variable? .
the cost involved will be determined by many factors. some male gynecomastia is improved with just liposuction alone some with a combination of liposuction and direct excision of breast tissue and others need more formal breast reduction with skin removal and therefore more scarring. you need to consult with a plastic surgeon in your area. best of luck to you. www. natureredefined. com.
who do you see for gynecomastia?
while most cases of gynecomastia have no known cause it can occasionally be associated with other abnormalities and is often temporary in teenage boys. start with your doctor. if he/she feels you need surgery see a board-certified plastic surgeon to discuss your options. this is a common procedure that can achieve excellent results with the right surgeon/patient/problem combination.
who do you see for gynecomastia?
depending on your age and your medical regimen you might start with your primary care doc. gynecomastia is often driven by medications particularly in an older population and with an adjustment to your medications the tissue can recede. surgeons can remove the excess tissue with a surgical procedure. often both are used surgical procedure and medical adjustment.
who do you see for gynecomastia?
i suggest first seeing your primary doctor who will be able to rule out any hormonal causes of your breast enlargement. if this is clear you may be referred to a plastic surgeon for correction. this may involve either liposuction skin excision or both depending upon the severity. best wishes /nsn.
who do you see for gynecomastia?
a board certified plastic surgeon is your best address for correction of gynecomastia. the goal for such surgery is to leave you with a normal appearing male chest. ideally your scars should be located exclusively in the areola if possible. these scars usually heal virtually invisibly and this is desirable since most men want to feel comfortable bare chested without stigmata of surgery.
who do you see for gynecomastia?
at first you may discuss with your pediatrician if you are a teenager. you might then consider an endocrinologist to evaluate for possible hormone problems. lastly you might consider seeing a plastic surgeon for excision.
who do you see for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is a harmless condition first you see your family physician after examination if you want surgical removal of excessive breast tissue due to cosmetic reason or psycholagical reason will recommend you to a cosmetic surgeon or breast surgeon.
will male breast reduction surgery improve my back pain? i know some women have back problems due to larger breasts. could a male breast reduction improve my back issues as well? .
male breast reduction surgery will probably not improve back pain. surgery done to correct gynecomastia generally improves contour proportions and potentially improves the patient's self-image….
will male breast reduction surgery improve my back pain? i know some women have back problems due to larger breasts. could a male breast reduction improve my back issues as well? .
unlikely unless your gynecomastia is very severe and requires removal of more than 300 grams or tissue or if you are compensating by rolling your shoulders forward to conceal the appearance.
what can a 19 year old male do for severe gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
what can a 19 year old male do for severe gynecomastia?
first you will want to see your primary care physician to rule out medical causes of gynecomastia. upon clearance from your primary doctor you will want to visit a plastic surgeon who can determine the next step in treatment. this may involve liposuction with or without direct excision if the excess breast tissue.
what can a 19 year old male do for severe gynecomastia?
for severe gynecomastia the first step is to consider endocrinologic evaluation for possible hormone imbalance. after this has been excluded then surgical may be an option.
what can a 19 year old male do for severe gynecomastia?
high estradiol from obesity or excess cyclic aromatse activity. (testing needed for both! ) many drugs such as spironolactone. elevated prolocatin levels. these are the most common inlcuding gaining weight and having more fat! you cannot be treated without an accurate dx.
what can a 19 year old male do for severe gynecomastia?
is the condition on 1 side only or on both sides? is there redness swelling pain discharge (milky or pus)? do you take any medications like tagamet (cimetidine) anabolic steroids anxiety meds (valium etc) antidepressants like elavil digoxin or calcium channel blockers (heart meds) hiv meds (sustiva) chemotherapy? are you overweight: excess fat has an estrogenic effect. discuss with fp to find cause.
what is the difference between male gynecomastia and male breast cancer?
gynecomastia is a benign overgrowth but breast cancer is malignant.
what is the difference between male gynecomastia and male breast cancer?
gynecomastia is benign enlargement of the male breast. while breast cancer is rare in men it does occur (and since female breast cancer is so common the overall incidence in men is measurable so any lump in a male breast should be evaluated by a physician just as if it were in a female breast. ).
what is the difference between male gynecomastia and male breast cancer?
gynecomastia is benign extra breast tissue in a male. breast cancer is malignant and needs to be treated.
can i take fluoxitine and duromine (fentermien) togeter?
there are no drug-drug interactions listed for fluoxetine & phentermine; however phentermine can elevate bp exacerbate glaucoma cause agitation & should be used with caution if use caffeine or allergy meds w/ decongestant. fluoxetine also tends to stimulate after one has been using it a while. so added potential for aggitation. ask doc if have further questions.
will anti estrogen pills remove gynecomastia in teenage boys?
consider seeing a plastic surgeon to discuss options.
will anti estrogen pills remove gynecomastia in teenage boys?
although anti-estrogen pills have been used to prevent or minimize the effects of estrogen like side effects of other medications i do not believe they will work to remove or improve existing and established gynecomastia.
would taking testosterone pellets from the doctor because my free count is232 bring about gynecomastia? (man blobs). if it does how can i counteract i
men who are treated for hypogonadism {low testosterone} have a risk of developing gynecomastia but this risk is shared with all modes of therapy. this risk is not exclusive to testosterone pellet therapy. as a matter of fact the average daily dose of pellet implant therapy is about 10mg/day while a topical dose may be 50-100mg/day. i would expect gynecomastia to be rare with pellet therapy.
would taking testosterone pellets from the doctor because my free count is232 bring about gynecomastia? (man blobs). if it does how can i counteract i
testosterone can be converted into estrogen which will cause gynecomastia (man boobs) if the level of estrogen goes too high. estrogen that is too low is also not healthy. there is medication that you can take to prevent the conversion of testosterone into estrogen. call you doctor so they can check your levels.
would taking testosterone pellets from the doctor because my free count is232 bring about gynecomastia? (man blobs). if it does how can i counteract i
your endocrinologist or primary care doctor can help manage your levels and offer medical solutions. surgical repair of gynecomastia is pretty easy and is done as an outpatient in most instances. best of luck!
why do doctors after giving the pellets for testoterone give a small pill that women use for breast cancer saying to fight the oestrogen from testo?
to prevent man gynecomastia (man boobs). testosterone and estrogen are almost identical. it takes very little effort for your body to convert testosterone into estrogen. blocking the conversion of testosterone can help prevent gynecomastia. not every patient will need that pill. your doctor will probably want to check your hormone levels.
what could lead to gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may be causative.
what could lead to gynecomastia?
the list includes: puberty excess estrogen deficient testosterone aging medications (many of them) anabolic steroids certain muscle building supplements marijuana liver disease kidney disease hyperthyroidism and even cancer of the breast testicles lung stomach liver kidney or pituitary gland. if you have gynecomastia the most common causes are benign but get checked to be safe.
what could lead to gynecomastia?
there are many possible factors. it is usually one sided tender breast swelling in a male. some medications for blood pressure or prostate or antacid pills are associated. smoking marijuana excess alcohol intake can be associated. rarely hormone imbalance or testicular disorder. can also be seen as normal in some young men at puberty and is temporary.
what can be done for manboobs?
the age listed on your profile is 36. if true this is long past the age when puberty related gynecomastia will fade. getting your body fat content below 20% can help since weight can aggravate the issue. i would see your doc and make sure you do not have a treatable condition that brought this about. if not a consultation with a plastic surgeon with experience in the area would be my next move.
what are the physiological determinants of gynecomastia?
in men and boys mammary tissue development occurs when (t) testosterone<negative_smiley>e) estrogen ratio is lower. most boys get it early in puberty; goes away as t levels go up thru pubertal progression & ratio increases. obesity exacerbates the problem because fatty tissue makes more e which lowers the ratio despite pubertal progression. certain meds like aldactone (spironolactone) can cause gynecomastia by blocking t.
what are the physiological determinants of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia can result from abnormal stimulation from elevated hormones a fact that means an endocrine work-up is indicated. the breast tissue is composed of fat and gland tissue so that heavier men can even develop pendulous breasts. fat also leads to higher estrogen levels which stimulate the breasts. some develop gynecomastia on only one side. teen hormonal breast changes can improve.
what are the physiological determinants of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
what do men suffer from gynecomastia?
in an age of abercrombie or calvin kein ads bearing shirtless muscular men as a beauty standard the primary suffering men experience from gynecomastia is the social stigma of removing their shirts in public. tenderness does occasionally occur in enlarged male breasts.
what do men suffer from gynecomastia?
gynecomastia can be caused by hormonal abnormalities excess weight gain or be a normal adolescent phase. in a 34 years old man it is usually related to excess weight or a side effect of medication or drugs. steroids and marijuana can cause breast development. a plastic surgery consultation will help you determine the cause and the treatment.
what do men suffer from gynecomastia?
most men have no symptoms from gynecomastia. some men can have pain and tenderness.
what is the estimate cost for male breast surgery?
prices vary by location and individual surgeon. an estimate on the low side would be $3600 for everything going up to $10 000 depending on where you are. some insurance companies cover male gynecomastia surgery.
what is the latest age that pubertal gynecomastia should resolve itself?
pubertal gynecomastia tends to spontaneously “regress” within one to 3 years after onset. adult on-set gynecomastia will likely not regress unless it is associated with a condition such as obesity or caused by use of a specific medication or medical condition. often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest.
what is the latest age that pubertal gynecomastia should resolve itself?
if it hasn't resolved by 18 then it probably won't.
what is the latest age that pubertal gynecomastia should resolve itself?
benign pubertal gynecomastia may never resolve completely. if one started puberty late - it can resolve as late as 20 years old. most cases resolve by the end of puberty - 16 to 17.
what does it mean if you have male nipple discharge?
may be the sign of a pituitary tumor. or chronic stimulation or infection. check in with your doctor to see if there is gynecomastia and what if anything to do next.
what're the symptoms of a tumor in the liver if you have or may have gynocomastia?
gynecomastia is caused by hormonal imbalances of many causes. one of these is liver diseases such as cirrhosis. other causes are medications. this problem is not clearly related to a tumor in the liver. liver cancer is associated with cirrhosis but gynecomastia is not a major sign typically.
what're the symptoms of a tumor in the liver if you have or may have gynocomastia?
male breast enlargement may occur is cirrhosis of the liver due to lack of estrogen detoxification but also occur in hormone producing tumors lung cancer is one but there are others making hcg. liver tumors themselves do not do this.
what doc can help me with my gynecomastia or self image problem?
the decision of whether or not to proceed with surgery to correct gynecomastia will ultimately be a very personal decision based on whether the enlarged breast gland causes physical and/or psychosocial “distress”. as always patient should weigh the pros/cons associated with the procedure to determine whether to proceed or not. consultation with board certified plastic surgeons may be helpful.
what doc can help me with my gynecomastia or self image problem?
gynecomastia is a large male breast. you need a plastic surgeon.
what doc can help me with my gynecomastia or self image problem?
gynecomatia is physical breast development in a male and can lead to a psychological self-image problem. the gynecomastia should first be evaluated by your internist family physician or endocrinologist for hormone imbalance or medication side effect. if none can be found then a plastic surgeon can remove the gynecomastia with a variety of operative techniques.
what can i do about pretty severe benign gynecomastia? it's onset began when i was 12 and i'm 20 now.
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery may suffice.
what can i do about pretty severe benign gynecomastia? it's onset began when i was 12 and i'm 20 now.
it is true as you said it is a benign disease at your age by developing pectoral muscle mass it become less obvious if psychologically bothering you get it fixed by surgery.
what can i do about pretty severe benign gynecomastia? it's onset began when i was 12 and i'm 20 now.
and laser liposuction. combined. or vaser ultrasonic liposuction.
what's the best medication to take for gynecomastia?
most gynecomastia patients get this at puberty but it can also be associated with weight gain testicular tumors other hormonal issues certain medications and even marijuana use. if the tissue is mostly fat liposuction may do the job; if mostly glandular excision is needed both usually through nipple scars. if the enlargement is significant longer scars are needed to remove the excess skin.
what's the best medication to take for gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
what's the best medication to take for gynecomastia?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
what's the best medication to take for gynecomastia?
there are a few medications out there to help with gynecomastia. they are anti-estrogen drugs but they haven't been found to be as effective as surgery.
what's the best medication to take for gynecomastia?
prominent breast in young male is called gynecomastia due to hormonal imbalance can not be reverted by hormones surgical correction is the only way.
will gynecomastia cause my chest to hurt when playing basketball?
gynecomastia may be associated with chest wall tenderness; the “excess” glandular tissue may be tender to palpation and cause irritation with activity/contact.
will gynecomastia cause my chest to hurt when playing basketball?
sometimes patients get a tiny painful nodule under the areolus that can be irritated with exercise but normally gynecomastia does not hurt just embarrasing for the fellow having it. you may wish to check out this web site for more information and go see a qualified plastic surgeon <link>
will gynecomastia cause my chest to hurt when playing basketball?
gynecomastia (male breast tissue) depending on the size can cause discomfort with repetitive trauma or activity. if the pain is new i would recommend seeing your family doctor for evaluation.
what can a bodybuilder with gynecomastia look like?
since body builders have very little subcutaneous fat. even small amount of gynecomastia may be visible. in some cases the the smooth carve of the lower chest is interupted by a large protuding areola the colored skin surrounding the nipple. in other cases the entire lower chest may be enlarged.
what can a bodybuilder with gynecomastia look like?
most body builders are very lean with very little body fat. but they still have visible breast tissue. they usually have a "puffy nipple" appearance.
what can a bodybuilder with gynecomastia look like?
since male body builder ideal is 3 to 5 % body fat gynecomastia would likely be obvious.
what can a bodybuilder with gynecomastia look like?
breast development after steroid use or hormone manipulation is usually be treated with removal of the breast tissue thru an incision around the areola. if the excess tissue is fat it can be treated with liposuction.
what type of food i can eat that reduces gynecomastia?
food will not help to reduce gynecomastia only way is surgery.
what type of food i can eat that reduces gynecomastia?
but avoiding estrogen-like compounds contained in soy many herbs (called phytoestrogens) and food dyes (called xenoestrogens) may be helpful although of unproven benefit in preventing gynecomastia. avoidance of marijuana may also decrease circulating estrogen like compounds. finally be sure your endocrine health is fine by checking with your doctor.
what type of food i can eat that reduces gynecomastia?
no food can reduce gynecomastia.
what occurs during a gynecomastia surgery?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
what occurs during a gynecomastia surgery?
of breast tissue. in my hands this operation involves ultrasonic-assisted liposuction to remove and contour the fatty component of the breast enlargement. there is generally a small amount of breast tissue that needs direct excision. all can usually be done through a very small incision around the border of the areola.
what occurs during a gynecomastia surgery?
breast tissue and fat are removed in gynecomastia surgery. visit gynecomastia. org - a great forum. there are some excellent plastic surgeons in la who perform a lot of this surgery. you'll find them on this forum.
what can be done to treat male breast enlargement?
if breast enlargement is because of meds you are taking stopping that one med can help. ask your doctor -- don't stop meds on your own. checking hormone levels in your blood looking for liver tumors and if only one side rule out breast cancer or benign tumor of breast. gynecomastia is both sides getting bigger & most common. see a breast specialist if your reg md doesn't find anything!
will declined bench press help hide gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is located superficial to the pectoralis major muscle; therefore increasing the muscle size will not necessarily help diminish the appearance of the excess breast tissue. if symptomatic and/or aesthetically displeasing surgical correction of gynecomastia can be worthwhile.
will declined bench press help hide gynecomastia?
breast tissue is on top of your pectoral muscle - won't resolve with whatever wt training technique you use.
will declined bench press help hide gynecomastia?
lifting weights won't help the breast tissue go away. on the contrary bulkier pecs will push the breast tissue out further.
what are some reasons to get gynecomastia removal surgery?
if the breasts are big and look feminine and embarrising to take shirt off then consider surgery.
what are some reasons to get gynecomastia removal surgery?
the decision of whether or not to proceed with surgery to correct gynecomastia will ultimately be a very personal decision based on whether the enlarged breast gland causes physical and/or psychosocial “distress”. as always patient should weigh the pros/cons associated with the procedure to determine whether to proceed or not. consultation with board certified plastic surgeons may be helpful.
what are some reasons to get gynecomastia removal surgery?
gynecomastia surgery isn't medically necessary but most men are embarrassed by the appearance of their chest.
how to remove man boobs and love handles before summer comes?
doesn't help see a plastic surgeon about a gynecomastia reduction surgery.
would women only get fibrocystic breast disease?
men with gynecomastia can develop fibrocystic changes albeit to a much milder degree.
what is the treatmrnt of gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
what is the treatmrnt of gynecomastia?
once hormonal imbalance medication or tumor causes have been ruled out idiopathic gynecomastia (no identifiable medical cause just puberty) requires plastic surgery. fatty gynecomastia associated with obesity can be treated by liposuction but mixed fat/glandular or glandular gynecomastia requires excision. this is usually with a small nipple incision but large breasts need skin tailoring.
what is the treatmrnt of gynecomastia?
there are degrees of gynecomastia; for some you just need reassurance ; for some you may need extensive surgery.
what are ways to treat pubertal gynecomastia?
achieving an ideal body weight and observation are the only two recommended courses of action during puberty unless the condition is unilateral and there is sufficient concern for possible tumor suspicion in which case a needle biopsy may be recommended. most cases ;~80%) of normal pubertal gynecomastia will resolve.
what are ways to treat pubertal gynecomastia?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no causative agents involved ( medication marijuana steroids…) surgical treatment can be very helpful. gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. skin excision necessary in occasional cases.
what are ways to treat pubertal gynecomastia?
this term is used to describe male breast enlargent. the enlargement can be breast only or breast and fat. breast enlargement only can be unilateral or bilateral. the cause can be hormonal medical or recreation drugs genetic and very rarely cancer. before surgical treatment all stimulants have to be stoped or taken care of. surgery involved breast excision and liposuction for excess fat
what is surgery like for gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
what is surgery like for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia surgery usually involves a combination of liposuction and direct tissue excision through a small incision at the lower edge of the areola (the pigmented area surrounding the nipple). rarely when the skin is very loose it may be necessary to also remove skin. recovery is rapid a compression vest helps prevent fluid build up and a drain may be used for a few days.
what is surgery like for gynecomastia?
smartlipo or lipolysis is easy to get rid of "moobs". it can be done in the doctors office under local anesthesia. you're back at work next day. boobs gone. visit my website robertkellermd. com i explain it in detail.
what is surgery like for gynecomastia?
it can be done as an outpatient using liposuction. go to a surgeon who does this regularly.
what are some symptoms of male breast cancer?
breast cancer in men is rare usually occurs over age 60 and is usually a painless firm mass under the nipple. gynecomastia is a benign painful firm lump under the nipple in men & more common. need to see a doctor for an examination to help you differentiate these.
what do i do if i think my teenage son has gynecomastia?
if the gynecomastia is severe and/or persistent surgical treatment may be beneficial. try to determine whether your son is physically and/or psychosocially affected. treatment is individualized depending on the specific patient's situation; involves direct excision of glandular tissue liposuction surgery and/or occasionally excision of excess skin as well.
what do i do if i think my teenage son has gynecomastia?
pretty normal most of the time. usually fat deposited from estrogen. during teenage years testosterone and estrogen bounce all over the place. check to see if any lumps there should not be. usually goes away when testosterone becomes the dominant hormone. very rare can be tumor. easy to get it checked out.
what do i do if i think my teenage son has gynecomastia?
the answer depends on the degree of gynecomastia and how much is he aware and affected by it. anyway have him seen by a surgeon.
what is the best treatment for gynecomastia (male breasts)?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
what is the best treatment for gynecomastia (male breasts)?
gynecomastia is male breast enlargement due to glandular over growth. generally the fibrous glandular tissue is not amenable to suction removal. breast enlargement caused by fatty deposits may be removed by suction techniques. you must be examined and counseled by someone you feel comfortable talking to. male breast cancer occurs in 1% of all breast cancers so one sided enlargement should not be ignored.
what is the best treatment for gynecomastia (male breasts)?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
what is the best treatment for gynecomastia (male breasts)?
typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
what is the best treatment for gynecomastia (male breasts)?
get apropper examination to understand the cause. weight loss will rarely make difference. in most people surgery is the treatment.
what is the best treatment for gynecomastia (male breasts)?
gynecomastia that persists past puberty is traditionally treated with surgery. this is typically observed and will resolve in an estimated 60-80% of male when it occurs during adolescence and puberty. when it does not resolve liposuction may help but usually the firm dense breast tissue must be excised to produce a significant difference. if obese wieght loss back to an ideal bmi may help.
does a prolactinoma affect water retention & weight gain or loss?
prolactinoma manifests differently depending on whether you are male premenopausal female or postmenopausal female. premenopausal women develop varying degrees of infertility and menstrual abnormalities and galactorrhea. post menopausal women are usually asymptomatic. men get lowered libido infertility impotence and gynecomastia.
do diet pills cause high eye pressure?
very few medications cause elevated eye pressure in and of themselves. some eyes are shaped in such a way as to be at risk for increased pressure (narrow angles). certain medications are able to cause narrow angles to become even more narrow causing the pressure in the eye to elevate. if you are at risk for certain glaucomas you should see a doctor before starting any new diet medication.
do diet pills cause high eye pressure?
patients with angle closure glaucoma may experience increases in eye pressure with some herbal preparations - best to check first.
what is gynecomastia in males?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
what is gynecomastia in males?
gynecomastia or male breasts can occur naturally in adolescence and usually resolves on its own. they can be due to some drugs or medications including marijuana and steroids; or due to some diseases. before having surgery to address gynecomastia all causes should be ruled out to make sure no serious illnesses are being missed.
what is gynecomastia in males?
gynecomastia simply means feminzation of a man's breast. it is not hamrful in the majority but can cause psycohological distress and is easiy surgically treated by a plastic surgeon. causes are many and include medication side effects thc use (marijuana) steroids and other drugs obesity endocrine disorders and familal causes and rarely from a cancer.
what is gynecomastia in males?
gynecomastia is a condition where a male has breasts. it's fairly common. see my webinar on youtube. search dr. george pope. or visit gynecomastia. org a great forum.
what is the swelling like after gynecomastia surgery?
the degree of swelling that occurs after gynecomastia surgery will depend on the exact procedure performed. for example swelling tends to be greater with larger areas treated especially with liposuction surgery. generally however swelling tends be mild to moderate and well tolerated. most plastic surgeons will use compression garments postoperatively. best wishes.
what is the swelling like after gynecomastia surgery?
swelling after gynecomastia surgery is minimized by elastic garments elevating normal blood pressure no nausea or vomiting stop taking nsaid's antioxidants and some vitamins and supplements that can cause bruising 2 wks before and after and low salt diet.
what is the swelling like after gynecomastia surgery?
i put all of my patients in compression vests after gyne surgery. that minimizes swelling. i have a number of tampa gynecomastia patients. (i'm in orlando). see my webinar on gynecomastia on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit gynecomastia. org a great forum.
what is the swelling like after gynecomastia surgery?
swelling is normal after any surgery including that for gynecomastia. but even with the swelling the chest should not appear as big or bigger than before the procedure.
what is the swelling like after gynecomastia surgery?
depends on technique used skin excision necessity whether drains used. moderate is typical.
what are the chances for a young teenage male to develop breast cancer?
1% of breast cancers occur in men. it would be rare to have breast cancer in a teenage male without a strong family histroy but if there is a concern bring it up to your primary care physician. gynecomastia or male breast enlargement is another possibel cause for breast fullness in young men. this can also be addressed with your regular doctor who can send you to a specialist if needed.
will anti-estrogens help reverse pubertal gynecomastia?
gynecomastia most often begins at puberty but can occur at any age. there many causes for gynecomastia and it is important to sort out the cause before choosing a treatment. anti-estrogens are not used for treatment as they will not reduce the size of the tissue that has already formed. the best treatment is surgical excision. if there is abnormal breast tissue the specimen can also be checked.
will anti-estrogens help reverse pubertal gynecomastia?
this will not go away with medication.
what can i do to hide pubertal gynecomastia?
most of pubertal gynecomastia regresses within 2 years. in the mean time try to lose weight if you are obese because excess adiposity further aggravates gynecomastia.
what can i do to hide pubertal gynecomastia?
the only non-surgical way i can think of to camouflage gynecomastia is to wear tight chest garments or multiple shirt layers. these are some of the methods my surgical patients resorted to before having surgery.
what's the difference between gynecomastia and pseudogynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). pseudogynecomastia refers to enlargement of the breasts secondary to fatty tissue. physical examination usually ( easily) differentiates the two.
what's the difference between gynecomastia and pseudogynecomastia?
men with gynecomastia have true breast tissue present. middle=aged men who are a little overweight (or a lot) and have alot of chest wall fat have pseudo. i'm in orlando and perform a ton of gynecomastia surgery. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction .
what's the difference between gynecomastia and pseudogynecomastia?
gynecomastia results from an imbalance between estradiol stimulation on male breast tissue and inhibition by testosterone. by age 14 over half of all boys may have detectable gynecomastia which usually resolves spontaneously in the majority. i have no knowledge of the term "pseudogynecomastia. ".
what are effects of radiation for breast cancer on the body? short and long term.
short term effects include fatigue and radiation dermatitis (like a bad sunburn). long term effects may include heart (if radiating the left breast) or lung damage though these are rare. also rare is another tumor called sarcoma in the field of radiation. this can occur more than 20 years after radiation.
what is the cure for gynecomastia?
typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
what is the cure for gynecomastia?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery may suffice.
what is the cure for gynecomastia?
this will cure it.
what is the cure for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia doesn't usually go away without surgery. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum. see dr. elliot jacobs in manhattan-one of the best!
what is the definition or description of: male breast enlargement?
gynecomastia or enlargement of the male breast gland can be due to hormone imabalances medications age or genetics. it is a medically treatable condition - see a board-certified plastic surgeon for the different options. these can include liposuction direct excision of the glandular tissue and even excision of skin in severe cases.
when will gynecomastia go away?
adolescent gynecomastia wil go away by about 18 years of age- if it is going to. it may be due to obesity and require weight loss. most commonly it requires surgery.
when will gynecomastia go away?
most cases of gynecomastia are idiopathic (no known cause). most commonly young men going through puberty may have temporary breast enlargement due to hormonal changes. typically it "goes away" after 3-4 years and therefore it is not recommended to operate right away on a 13-14 year old just going through puberty. rare hormonal causes may improve when the hormonal problem is addressed.
when will gynecomastia go away?
pubertal gynecomastia tends to spontaneously “regress” within one to 3 years after onset. adult on-set gynecomastia will likely not regress unless it is associated with a condition such as obesity or caused by use of a specific medication or medical condition. often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest.
when will gynecomastia go away?
adjusting the endocrine levels during the first six months of gynecomastia development may help in its regression. however after that time frame the breast tissue tends to remain and harden. this leaves surgery as the only treatment option. the surgical procedures include: gland excision or gland excision accompanied by liposuction.
what exercises will decrease manboobs?
persistent hormonal gynecomastia from adolescence from a drug related or other medical problem does not care how much or what exercises you do. keeping your total body fat percentage below 20% through diet/exercise can reduce any contribution by body fat but glandular tissue & some body fat stores can only be treated surgically.
does male breast reduction just involve liposuction of the breasts or is there actual breast tissue that needs to be cut out? i'm considering getting male breast reduction surgery but i'm not sure what it involves and i'm kind of embarrassed to ask. .
male gynecomastia is very common the surgeries used to treat it vary on the amount of reduction needed and on your skin elasticity. a board certified plastic surgeon can go through the options with you; but may involve excision of tissue and / or liposuction. do not feel bad most of the males treated typically are embarrassed about the way they look and is their primary motive to seek help.
does male breast reduction just involve liposuction of the breasts or is there actual breast tissue that needs to be cut out? i'm considering getting male breast reduction surgery but i'm not sure what it involves and i'm kind of embarrassed to ask. .
gynecomastia is male breast enlargement due to glandular over growth. generally the fibrous glandular tissue is not amenable to suction removal. breast enlargement caused by fatty deposits may be removed by suction techniques. you must be examined and counseled by someone you feel comfortable talking to. male breast cancer occurs in 1% of all breast cancers so one sided enlargement should not be ignored.
what type of doctor and what methods are best for surgical removal of gynecomastia?
either a general surgeon experienced with the procedure or a dedicated breast surgeon. most would do a subareolar (under the nipple) lumpectomy sparing the nipple for cosmetic purposes.
what type of doctor and what methods are best for surgical removal of gynecomastia?
either a well experienced general surgeon or plastic surgeon would be appropriate. if symptomatic and/or aesthetically displeasing surgical correction of gynecomastia can be worthwhile. treatment is individualized depending on the specific patient's situation; involves direct excision of glandular tissue liposuction surgery and/or occasionally excision of excess skin as well.
what can i do to get rid of my man boobs?
gymecomastia or "man boobs" should be evaluated prior to any treatment. 1% of all breast cancers occur in men. if no evidence of breast cancer laser-assisted or ultrasound-assisted (vaser) can be used to liquefy the fat which can then be removed with liposuction. if breast tissue remains under the nipple that can be removed through a small incision.
what do lumps in the chest mean? gynecomastia or breast cancer?
masses in the chest could be gynecomastia or breast cancer. best to be evaluated by your physician for diagnosis and treatment recommendations.
what do lumps in the chest mean? gynecomastia or breast cancer?
most palpable female breast lumps are caused by either normal fibroglandular tissues fibrocystic change cysts fibroadenomata lipomas focal mastitis (infection) or cancer. gynecomastia by definition is male breast enlargement usually from benign causes. it may be unilateral or more frequently bilateral. however the are several thousand male breast cancers diagnosed each year.
what can i do to make my gynecomastia go away?
if symptomatic and/or aesthetically displeasing surgical correction of gynecomastia can be worthwhile. treatment is individualized depending on the specific patient's situation; involves direct excision of glandular tissue liposuction surgery and/or occasionally excision of excess skin as well.
what can i do to make my gynecomastia go away?
gynecomastia is common in adolescent males and usually resolves spontaneously. it is also associated with obesity and very rarely a hormonal imbalance or drugs. weight loss will help if obesity is a factor. the definitive resolution may require surgical intervention.
can you tell me what is diet and exercise to reduce the gynecomastia! (man boobs)?
are you overweight? this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. if you aren't simply overweight consider seeing your md. you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
can you tell me what is diet and exercise to reduce the gynecomastia! (man boobs)?
unfortunately there is no magic diet to reduce gynecomastia. there are some plant like substances that may have estrogen like effects that should be avoided and include marijuana. it used to be thought that soy based phytoestrogens may have been responsible for gymecomastia exacerbation and that these products should be avoided but that has been essentially disproved.
can you tell me what is diet and exercise to reduce the gynecomastia! (man boobs)?
diet and being at or near your ideal weight can help but true gynecomastia is not dependent on or correctable with diet and exercise. the operations used are very effective. see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgery to evaluate your options. good luck.
can sleep apnea affect the eye?
the eyes are affected in two ways #1 with the oxygen at night the eyes can dry out using viscous artificial tear drops will help this. #2 people with sleep apnea are more at risk for developing glaucoma an annual eye exam is important.
will gynecomastia go away as a side effect once off medication?
impossible to predict with any degree of certainty whether gynecomastia related to the use of any specific drug will dissipate once the specific drug use is terminated. this may be one of the situations where the "only time will tell”. if the gynecomastia remains persistent surgical intervention may be worthwhile; usually consists of direct excision of gland and/or liposuction surgery.
will gynecomastia go away as a side effect once off medication?
stopping a medication may result in resolution of gynecomastia if it has not been present for years. after stopping the medication re-evaluate. if the gynecomastia is long established surgery is a more reliable solution. see a board certified plastic surgeon for advice.
will gynecomastia go away as a side effect once off medication?
gynecomastia can present with involvement of male breast tissue (one or both breasts). the breast is composed of gland tissue as well as fatty tissue. gynecomastia enlarges the gland tissue. the fatty tissue can change breast shape over time. heavy men can get pendulous breasts. if the skin is stretched for a long time/lacks elasticity surgery will improve the breast shape. treat cause early!
what effective treatments are available for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
what effective treatments are available for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia can be from various causes. it is important to discern its etiology. for most cases gynecomastia can be effectively treated by surgery most commonly via liposuction. liposuction will be effective in removing the fatty breast. at times there is tissue typically around the areola that may not be amenable to liposuction which can be surgically excised concurrently with liposuction.
what effective treatments are available for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is fairly frequent and the cause is most often unknown a combination of ultrasonic and conventional liposuction with direct excision of glandular tissue can be a very effective treatment with minimal scarring. you should be within about 10-15 lbs of your ideal weight before considering this. see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgeons to discuss your options.
will i lose feeling in my nipples after a male breast reduction?
sensation loss with male gynecomastia procedures will vary with the type of procedure required to correct the issue. true gynecomastia is caused by overgrowth of actual breast glandular tissue. often i see men in consult for " gynecomastia" where the real problem is more fat than breast tissue. in these cases often liposuction can work well: with excision procedures sensation loss can be common.
will i lose feeling in my nipples after a male breast reduction?
loss of sensation is possible but unusual after “male breast reduction” surgery. i have found that gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
what is the cause of the growth of a man's breast and how to get rid of them?
hormonal imbalance or genetic predisposition can cause gynecomastia but sometimes it may be a weight problem as well. if weight loss is not helping then surgical intervention is the next step. consider a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
what type of chemo is used to treat thyroid cancer and if you had breast cancer and a sarcoma?
the most common thyroid cancers such as papillary and follicular are treated with surgery followed by radioactive iodine. there are no chemotherapy agents that have been found to be effective for these thyroid cancers. one would consider being in a chemotherapy study if you had metastatic thyroid cancer that was not responding to radioactive iodine.
what type of chemo is used to treat thyroid cancer and if you had breast cancer and a sarcoma?
it depends on the type of thyroid ca. a well differentiated thyroid ca ( papillary folicular ) is sensitive to radio-iodine therapy and other therapies will be reserved later on. for medullary thyrod ca- there are 2 options available. chemo or tki used in anaplastic. discuss further with your oncologist. one thing to consider-you should see a genetician to r/o familial ca syndr like li-fraumeni etc.
what is pseudo gynocomastia? what are the causes and remedy of puffy and itchy nipples in males
gynecomastia is mass of breast tissue in the male breast. it can form a bump of fullness that can range from only palpable to embarrassingly large. the prefix pseudo means false or fake. anything that causes the appearance of gynecomastia but is not due to glandular tissue is termed pseudogynecomastia. the most common cause is fat. pubescent gyneco can resolve. surgery is the most common cure.
what is pseudo gynocomastia? what are the causes and remedy of puffy and itchy nipples in males
there are many different causes you need to read more than i can write in the space allowed: <link> gynecomastia. org/smf/9/the-difference-between-developed-gyno-and-'puffy-nipples'/ hope this helps.
will using nolvadex (tamoxifen) help reduce my pubertal gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
will using nolvadex (tamoxifen) help reduce my pubertal gynecomastia?
if you're 38 years-old you no longer have pubertal gynecomastia. this drug isn't recommended for chronic gynecomastia. you should be seen by an endocrinologist for a medical/hormonal evaluation to make sure nothing is amiss.
do chubby boys get pubertal gynecomastia?
yes overweight males do have a greater tendency for gynecomastia that may be only partially reversible. this is due to the fact that circulating androgens tend to accumulate in fat where they may acquire estrogen like properties stimulating the breast tissue to grow. oftentimes when obese individuals later lose weight the fat dissipates but the stimulated breast tissue persists.
do chubby boys get pubertal gynecomastia?
heavier boys are more likely to develop gynecomastia.
what are some treatments available for gynecomastia?
weight loss better diet and exercise. avoidance of otc supplements containing things like dhea. if prolactin is elevated cabergoline can help. otherwise surgery may be the only alternative.
what are some treatments available for gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
what are some treatments available for gynecomastia?
typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
what are some treatments available for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is fairly frequent and the cause is most often unknown a combination of ultrasonic and conventional liposuction with direct excision of glandular tissue can be a very effective treatment with minimal scarring. you should be within about 10-15 lbs of your ideal weight before considering this. see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgeons to discuss your options.
what can i do to treat my gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is usually a benign disease but there are several causes that need to be ruled out. usually gynecomastia is treated with surgery. liposuction resection of the gland or sometimes both. a board certified plastic surgeon can help. there are no home remedies for this.
what can i do to treat my gynecomastia?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
what can i do to treat my gynecomastia?
best to seek consultation with board certified plastic surgeons who can demonstrate significant experience helping patients with gynecomastia. accurate diagnosis is important. treatment often includes partial excision of glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. best wishes.
what can i do to treat my gynecomastia?
surgery may be the only answer but gynecomastia in males is most commonly due to weight gain. make sure someone checks your prolactin as this is a correctable cause.
what kind of test need to peform for gynocomastia my dr. said that i have but no tes?
generally speaking the diagnosis of gynecomastia is a clinical one made on the basis of a physical examination. however tests to support the findings and evaluate for a cause may include blood tests or diagnostic imaging to evaluate thyroid liver kidney testicular pituitary or the prostate. hormone levels and drugs may also be assessed to look for other causes.
what kind of test need to peform for gynocomastia my dr. said that i have but no tes?
while it may just be due to weight gain you should at least have testosterone thyroid prolactin levels checked with morning blood draw. if enlargement is severe an ultrasound may be indicated. testicular exam important. don't ignore it.
what kind of test need to peform for gynocomastia my dr. said that i have but no tes?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
what kind of test need to peform for gynocomastia my dr. said that i have but no tes?
there is little else that happens to explain this. needle biopsy through the skin can be done to confirm it but is seldom needed. a ford looks like a ford.
does gynocomastia comes from having low testosterone?
not necessarily but it may be in some cases.
does gynocomastia comes from having low testosterone?
gynecomastia is male breast enlargement. it is due to imbalance of estrogen and testosterone. it can be due to medication or weight gain. there is a great overview by the mayo clinic at this link: <link>
why hyperthyroid can cause gynecomastia? what's the connection thyroid hormone and estrogen testosterone?
gynecomastia can occur in hyperthyroidism due to an induced increase in peripheral aromatase activity leading to an increase in circulating estrogen levels and thus decreased testosterone levels. most of the estrogen in men is made from the peripheral conversion of testosterone and other androgens to estrogens. other mechanisms are probably at play as well.
why hyperthyroid can cause gynecomastia? what's the connection thyroid hormone and estrogen testosterone?
1) it is thought that high tsh causes increased activity of aromatase which converts free testosterone to estrogen. 2) it is also believed that while both testosterone and estrogen are both increased high levels of shbg bind free testosterone making estradiol seem relatively higher 3) increased levels of lh may increase production of testicular estrogens. this results in a net increase in estroge.
what is the procedure to remove gynocomastia caused by steriods?
most likely if there is hard nodular tissue in the breast as a result of steroid use a surgical resection by a plastic surgeon would be most appropriate. liposuction typically is not effective and a direct surgical excision through an incision in the areola is effective if the surgeon is experienced.
what is the procedure to remove gynocomastia caused by steriods?
subcutaneous mastectomy. gynecomastia may resolve somewhat if off the steroids or other medications. while a nuisance it is not very dangerous as long as self checked or followed with pcp.
what is the proper way to get rid of man boobs?
traditionally estimates of normal pubertal gynecomastia vary from 4-nearly 70%. when associated with overweight individuals this incidence can be expected to be on the higher side. nearly 2/3 of gynecomastia cases will resolve with time. certainly in instances of obesity an effort to avhieve weight loss or at least a stable weight should be attempted first.
what if i quit wellbutrin (bupropion) sr cold turkey after only 5 weeks will i have bad withdrawals?
means you might have gynecomastia. one of the causes of bilateral gynecomastia is a hormone producing testicular tumor but other causes are much more likely. consult a doctor for specific advice.
what are first signs of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. causes include normal adolescent development (50% of all males) metabolic disorders tumors or from medication side effects. also due to normal aging decreases in testosterone older males can also develop this condition. the good news is 80% of young males will outgrow this condition. see your primary care doctor for details.
what are first signs of gynecomastia?
the word means increased breast size. therefore increasing breast size is the first sign.
what are first signs of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the first signs are usually increased size and/or tenderness of the breasts.
what's a fast way to shrink man boobs?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
what's a fast way to shrink man boobs?
doesn't help see a plastic surgeon about a gynecomastia reduction surgery.
how to get rid of man boobs and love handles fast?
liposuction would be best for the love handles provided that you have good skin tone that will recontour when the fat is gone. excision of the subareolar tissue of the breasts accompanied by liposuction would help the gynecomastia. these procedures will be best if you are at an ideal weight. good luck!
how to get rid of man boobs and love handles fast?
the best way to lose weight is to join a fitness group and change your attitudes toward food and exercise. if you have extra fat on the front of your chest it would be appropriate to go for liposuction now. if you have actual gynecomastia (extra breast tissue) surgery is your best option -- it's not as bad as a rough trip to the dentist.
how can i get rid of my gynecomastia? i play fitness and i eat healthy food and i don't drink alcohol but its still there!
to be distinguished from fatty deposits in the chest area as a result of overweight. hormonal issues may be present. please see your doc for an exam and possible treatment. peace and good health.
why would a fibroadenoma require followup magnified mammogram and ultrasound 6 months after diagnosis if can't become malignant?
rarely what is presumed to be a fibroadenoma is a sarcoma-like tumor (phyllodes tumor). therefore if the tumor is growing on the 6-month follow-up study excision will be recommended. remember: common things happen most commonly. chances are it will not grow and be of no concern.
what exactly is the easiest and quickest way to excercise my "man boobs" away?
and exercise doesn't help see a plastic surgeon about a gynecomastia reduction surgery.
what are good ways to get rid of gynecomastia help please!?
if symptomatic and/or aesthetically displeasing surgical correction of gynecomastia can be worthwhile. treatment is individualized depending on the specific patient's situation; involves direct excision of glandular tissue liposuction surgery and/or occasionally excision of excess skin as well.
what are good ways to get rid of gynecomastia help please!?
although weight loss can help if it's related to being overweight typically surgery is needed. the procedure that is done usually involves some liposuction of the chest area removal of the thick glandular tissue and sometimes some procedure to tighten up stretched out skin. see your local plastic surgeon.
what is the treatment for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it is most often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue (lipomastia) then liposuction surgery alone may suffice.
what is the treatment for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is fairly frequent and the cause is most often unknown a combination of ultrasonic and conventional liposuction with direct excision of glandular tissue can be a very effective treatment with minimal scarring. you should be within about 10-15 lbs of your ideal weight before considering this. see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgeons to discuss your options.
what is the treatment for gynecomastia?
typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
will they remove all of my breast lumps if i have a mastectomy?
any type of breast surgery is always based on ensuring that the diagnosis is confirmed prior to making a decision especially that of proceeding to a mastectomy as the goal is to remove the least amount of breast tissue as possible. mostly mastectomy is reserved for cancer except in some women for specific reasons and men with gynecomastia. consult with your breast surgeon and discuss your options.
what do i do to get rid of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. i have found that gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
what do i do to get rid of gynecomastia?
there are several options and ultimately it will depend on how severe your gynecomastia is. liposuction is useful for minor forms. more moderate ones actually have to have the breast tissue removed (usually through a small incision under the nipple) and severe ones will need a breast reduction with removal of the excess skin.
what do i do to get rid of gynecomastia?
the most common cause of "male breasts" on both sides is weight gain. getting on an exercise regimen and changing your dietary habits can help. there are some medications that can cause gynecomastia (enlarged male breast tissue). i recommend reviewing your medications with your doctor. in some cases it may need to be surgically removed. a general surgeon can perform.
what's the best way to end man boobs fast?
the most common cause of "male breasts" on both sides is weight gain. getting on an exercise regimen and changing your dietary habits can help. there are some medications that can cause gynecomastia (enlarged male breast tissue). i recommend reviewing your medications with your doctor. in some cases it may need to be surgically removed.
what's the best way to end man boobs fast?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
what are good ways to get rid of gynecomastia?
although weight loss can help if it's related to being overweight typically surgery is needed. the procedure that is done usually involves some liposuction of the chest area removal of the thick glandular tissue and sometimes some procedure to tighten up stretched out skin. see your local plastic surgeon.
what are good ways to get rid of gynecomastia?
there are several options and ultimately it will depend on how severe your gynecomastia is. liposuction is useful for minor forms. more moderate ones actually have to have the breast tissue removed (usually through a small incision under the nipple) and severe ones will need a breast reduction with removal of the excess skin.
what are good ways to get rid of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue liposuction .
what's the best way to end man boobs?
doesn't help see a plastic surgeon about a gynecomastia reduction surgery.
would you suggest to use duct tape to hide my gynecomastia?
the adhesive on duct tape is a bit rough on the skin. medical grade tape is a better choice. if the problem is confined to the nipple/areola minor surgery can remove the extra stuffing and smooth things out permanently both in and out of clothing. consider consulting with an experienced board certified plastic surgeon in your area for more information.
would you suggest to use duct tape to hide my gynecomastia?
duct tape is not designed for skin. i would think that it would be painful to remove. try some medical grade tape - kinder & gentler if you must tape. of course surgery is really the ultimate answer for this problem.
would you suggest to use duct tape to hide my gynecomastia?
man i gotta tell you. . that does not sound pleasant! find yourself a good plastic surgeon nearby and get them fixed! duct tape is up there with the "bro" and the "mansier" from seinfeld!
how likely is it to get gynecomastia or prolactin elevation from seroquel? i think i got increased fat storage in chest from geodon (ziprasidone) and i am male
quetiapine (seroquel) is less likely to cause elevated prolactin than any atypical other than aripiprazole (abilify). this is not the same as saying there is no. studies do show a transient increase immediately after taking a dose. how important that is is not clear. but certainly it's a better medication for this purpose than ziprasidone (geodon).
will taking dhea give males enlarged breasts. should i not be taking them supplement?
high levels of dhea can cause gynecomastia (enlarged breasts) in men. for the conditions you have listed above there is no reason for you to take dhea supplements.
what are healthy recipes to get rid of man boobs?
also known as "gynecomastia" often require surgical treatment. weight loss - with fat reduction - can help. actual gland tissue will require surgical removal.
what is the best way to get rid of my man boobs?
gynecomastia surgery can help you. it involves either liposuction or excision of excess breast tissue. first your plastic surgeon would need to make sure you don't have a hormonal or other reason to have gynecomastia. see your doctor.
what is the best way to get rid of my man boobs?
gynecomastia (or man boobs as they're commonly called) can actually be caused by underlying medical conditions in older men. the best thing to do is have an evaluation by your physician to rule out any underlying causes. if negative then surgery may be an option.
what can i do to get rid of my man boobs quick and efficient?
if your "man boobs" or gynecomastia is not due to some treatable cause such as abnormal hormones or drug side effect then there are several things that can be done. the correct one for you depends on the size the amount of extra skin and the quality of the skin. they vary from liposuction to direct excision to skin and tissue excision. seek the advise of a board certified plastic surgeon.
what should i do to i get rid of my man boobs?
if your "man boobs" or gynecomastia is not due to some treatable cause such as abnormal hormones or drug side effect then there are several things that can be done. the correct one for you depends on the size the amount of extra skin and the quality of the skin. they vary from liposuction to direct excision to skin and tissue excision. seek the advise of a board certified plastic surgeon.
any non-medical treatments for glaucoma like a low salt diet etc?
a low salt diet is good for hypertension but high blood pressure and high eye pressure haven't been linked. there aren't any clear lifestyle changes you can make to decrease eye pressure that i am aware of.
doctor i m 18 yrs old and i m facing the problem of gynaecomastia and i have exercised but no result do i need surgery and are there any side effects
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight people can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
doctor i m 18 yrs old and i m facing the problem of gynaecomastia and i have exercised but no result do i need surgery and are there any side effects
consult a surgeon about possible surgery. the doctor will explain the risks involved. usually the surgery is straight forward with minor risk.
what kind of doctor will treat gynecomastia?
plastic surgeon for the best results.
what kind of doctor will treat gynecomastia?
usually a plastic surgeon.
what kind of doctor will treat gynecomastia?
a plastic surgeon and sometimes general surgeons.
are sebaceous cysts and insulin resistance connected/?
shbg or sex hormone binding globulin gets down-regulated in the insulin resistance syndrome. this is why women get hirsutism or a mustache and why men get gynecomastia or "man b##bs". if your shbg levels are low you will see more expression of the minor sex hormone testosterone in women and estrogen in men. cysts are hair follicles clogged with oil and dead skin cells puberty gone wild!
clarification required on gynaecomastia. for me?
gynecomastia in an adult male may be due to side effects of medications metabolic disorders or genetic disorders. please see your doctor.
how does diabetes mellitus affect the eyes?
glaucoma peope with dm have 40% more risk of getting glaucoma. it occurs when pressure bulds in the eye. pressure pinches the blood vessels that carry blood to retina and optic nerve. vision loss due to damage to retina cataracts people withdm have 60%more chance of developing cataract and even at younger age retinopathy there are proliferative and non proli retinopathy cause blindness if not treated
what to do to get rid of gynecomastia during puberty?
roughly half of males go through transient nipple enlargement on one or both sides at the onset of puberty. most resolve within 6m to a year it is considered normal. i went through it. a few will have persistent or dramatic gynecomastia. it can erode someones self concept surgery is helpful for those who don't clear up after a year or so.
what to do to get rid of gynecomastia during puberty?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
what to do if i'm 19 years old how can i know that i have man boobs or its just a fat. on my chest.?
physician who can evaluated to determine if you just have a lot of fatty tissue overall or if this is gynecomastia.
what to do to lose man boobs?
real gynecomastia is best treated surgically. pseudogynecomastia (fat on the breast area) is worth getting treated with liposuction. of course if you have developed or are blessed with mighty pectoralis major muscles be happy.
what are the best treatments for man boobs?
gynocomastia can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. consider seeing your md for help with a weight loss plan if need be. if you do have gynocomastia you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
what to do if i am 19 years of age male i have little gynecomastia does that mean i have klinefelter syndrome?
you're probably normal especially if you get strong erections and ejaculations like other men your age. if the gynecomastia bothers you a morning at the surgeon's office will fix things. best wishes.
what to do if i am 19 years of age male i have little gynecomastia does that mean i have klinefelter syndrome?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). himthe use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
does push ups or any chest work outs make any difference in gynaecomastia? kindly please
either it resolves in less than 2 years or you keep it. you can have surgery to reduce it. smoking pot and some medications will cause it to be worse.
does push ups or any chest work outs make any difference in gynaecomastia? kindly please
however if your pectoralis group gets really big the breast region will be more prominent but the gland itself should not change. gynecomastia is not infrequent in normal people.
does push ups or any chest work outs make any difference in gynaecomastia? kindly please
local irritation could lead to enlargement of breast tissue. but no medical evidence to support this phenomenon.
what would happen if i applied andractim gel directly on the chest for gynecomastia treatment?
there are a few old articles in the medical literature about topical treatment of gynecomastia but i am not aware that it is effective. there are many side effects of androgen treatment. gynecomastia can be very effectively treated with surgery that includes liposuction and direct removal of breast tissue.
will saw palmetto in my supplements worsen my gynecomastia? should i stay away from it?
gynecomastia is a known side effect of saw palmetto. wonder why someone as young as you is considering saw palmetto which is used for benign prostate enlargement causing urinary obstruction. you may need to consider breast reduction surgery if your enlargement is significant in spite of possible need for weight reduction/obesity treatment.
will saw palmetto in my supplements worsen my gynecomastia? should i stay away from it?
i don' t believe that saw palmetto can cause gynecomastia but lamictal and some of your drugs can cause gynecomastia.
will fermenttet soy in supplements or food cause /worsen gynecomastia should i stay away from it?
not likely. regular soy products you should avoid. they do not really cause gynecomastia but do cause other problems. especially in men so best to avoid.
will fermenttet soy in supplements or food cause /worsen gynecomastia should i stay away from it?
fermented soy can cause or worsen gynecomastia.
what are the sure signs and symptoms of a breast cancer? on what age does it occur?
if not found very early on mammography a breast cancer usually announces itself as a painful mass in the breast. they are rare in women before age 30. a majority of breast lumps are benign but the lab usually needs to make the final call on tissue. they are much less common in men but do occur; a lump under one or both of a man's nipples is usually gynecomastia which is benign.
what to do if i got man boobs and they wont piss off <negative_smiley>?
are you overweight? has your doctor ever said your bmi is high. if not then see a surgeon. you may have gynecomastia which is easily treated by removal of excess breast tissue. surgery can be done as an outpatient.
what to do if i have had man boobs since i was 12 im now 17 turning 18 this year. will they go?
you need a physical examination to see if you have a condition called gynecomastia. this can be corrected surgically.
what is the best exercises to get rid of man boobs be specific plz?
gynecomastia is relatively with obesity and simple weight loss can help in those cases. exercise itself is unlikely to do anything. at a listed age of 47 if not overweight it is important to have your doc sort this out. there are medications and medical conditions that can cause this. if you are healthy a cosmetic surgeon can remove excess glandular tissue and do liposuction to fix it.
what to do if i'm a teenager and i have man boobs. i want to lose them fast min 2 weeks?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
what do you suggest if i have had man boobs since i was 12 im now 17 turning 18 this year. will they go?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
what to do if i have a bad case of gynecomastia. i'm 16 and in very good physical condition.?
about a half of males will undergo a transient nipple/breast enlargement at he onset of puberty. normally it will resolve slowly as other hormonal changes kick in over about a year. carrying around extra weight can aggravate the issue as fat can masquerade as breast tissue. if persistent after 2+ years i would consult with a cosmetic surgeon about tissue removal ; localized liposuction.
what is cystosarcoma phylloides breast lump variant of fibroadenoma?
cystosarcoma phyllodes is a cancerous variant of a tumor that is uncommon but usually benign (phyllodes tumors). they can be confused with fibroadenomas benign common tumors. can grow to be quite large usually painless; are best completely removed after diagnosis made. unlike other breast cancer don't spread to lymph nodes but spread in blood. chemo/radiation offered. they tend to recur.
what is cystosarcoma phylloides breast lump variant of fibroadenoma?
a phyllodes is similar to a fibroadenoma but it can get really large. in most cases they are noncancerous (benign) but there are rare malignant types. the treatment is to have it removed. if it is really large then a breast surgeon should work with a plastic surgeon to remove it to prevent horrible defects (dents) and keep the breasts symmetrical.
what are some good homeopathic cures for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia can have multiple causes some of which require conventional treatment including surgery. even homeopathic physicians would want you to have a thorough conventional evaluation of your situation. a few (around 23) remedies may help with breast enlargement -- but if the gynecomastia is coming from a pituitary tumor for instance homeopathy would not be the preferred treatment.
what do you advise if i'm showing signs and symptoms of gynocomastia please help?
first the reason for the problem should be sorted out. some medications or medical problems can lead to this process and treatment may depend on the findings. if no treatable issues are involved a cosmetic surgeon can remove any residual glandular tissue and or do liposuction to remove fat.
what to do if i'm 16 years old and i have man boobs and i have had them since i was little. how do i get rid of them?
regular pubertal onset gynecomastia usually fades within the first year. persistence after 3 years is likely to improve only with surgery. i would check with your pcp about local options & seek out a consultation. removal of residual breast tissue and any supportive fat cells is usually done by a plastic surgeon.
what to do if i have had man boobs since i was 12 im now 17 turning 18 this year. will they go?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
will dim (diindolylmethane) reduce the effects of gynecomastia?
been touted for a variety of disorders but there is no scientific information that it helps any medical problem and has potential risks. gynecomastia doesn't have "effects" it is an effect caused by a variety of medical problems most commonly in males by weight gain and/or testosterone administration. check w/your doctor - not tv friends or internet scams.
can it be healthy to be overweight?
overweight puts stress on your joints and may lead to diabetes with complications including cataracts glaucoma heart disease stroke kidney disease etc. overweight is not healthy and one should make an attempt to try to improve lifestyle changes with healthy diet and increased activity in an attempt to have a normal weight.
does any doctor here know if glucomannan really works in reducing cholesterol?
there is very little strong evidence for any of the claimed effects of this substance. at best some of its claimed effects are 'possible'
does prednisolone acetate eye drops cause weight gain?
the dose is usually too small to affect your metabolism. do be aware of the fact that long term use of prednisolone eye drop may lead to glaucoma cataracts and even more seriously herpes simplex infection of the eye leading to blindness. be sure that you are not using it for more than a few days without your eye doctor's supervision.
why would you get abnormal tissue growth (lump) 7 years after gynecomastia surgery (male)? more info than get it checked out pleasei. im embarresed
all of the breast tissue may not have been removed from the prior operation. i would definitely have this checked by a physician to make sure it is not suspicious. you can undergo re-excision surgery. they should definitely check a hormone panel and perform testicular exam to make sure there is no other medical reason for your recurrent breast enlargement (lump)
why would you get abnormal tissue growth (lump) 7 years after gynecomastia surgery (male)? more info than get it checked out pleasei. im embarresed
to be checked by a professional could be recurrence of gynecomastia but must be seen by a physician to make sure not a tumor growth you don't have to be embarrassed get it removed.
why would you get abnormal tissue growth (lump) 7 years after gynecomastia surgery (male)? more info than get it checked out pleasei. im embarresed
your lump could be due to scar tissue from your previous surgery
what often causes adolesant gynecomastia? what blood tests should i have? i was 13 when the gynecomastia arrived i am now 37 will have surgery soon
during puberty there are many hormonal changes as you know. sometimes there may be a larger amount of estrogen for several reasons which usually self correct over time. this is usually a normal occurrence. in your case the enlargement persisted and the right answer is to remove them if they hurt. if you had this since adolescent years no other test is needed.
what are the treatments for gynecomastia?
the explanation for gynecomastia in men is unclear except in men who are markedly overweight - not uncommon. if you are not overweight but do have large breasts a consult with a surgeon would be my best advice. let me know what you decide and what happens.
what are the treatments for gynecomastia?
approximately half of all men have breasts that are enlarged a condition known as gynecomastia. some men choose to combine a gynecomastia procedure with pectoral etching a liposuction technique to give the chest a more athletic appearance.
can somebody tell me how does the lipozene weight loss pill work?
the company doesn't give a lot of info on it's ingredient(s). basically a rumor has it that it works because of glucomannan. a not-very-absorbed starch like paper. mostly the results on similar compounds have been (slightly) positive. there are several reasons. first diet foods work by substituting something that doesnt have calories. second fiber. helps gut hormones and metabolism
should i have surgery if i have gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
should i have surgery if i have gynecomastia?
there are causes of gynecomastia such as hormonal imbalance and excess weight that are reversible. if all reversible causes are not an issue then surgery may be your answer. a consultation with a board certified plastic surgeon will help you decide these questions.
should i have surgery if i have gynecomastia?
depends upon the cause of gynecomastia. if you are fat/obese - i would suggest first losing weight. if the gynecomastia is secondary to a hormonal condition - this should be check out. it is is idiopathic (no known cause) and it bother you i would see the counsel of a board certified plastic surgeon.
sir i have also chest problem. like gynecomastia. because iam use steroid for body building. what should i do for reduce that. please help me sir?
seriously. stop the steroids! that is one of the most common side effects. plus anabolic steroids for body building cause many other health problems like heart disease acne small testicles infertility aggression etc. stop the steroids the gynecomastia will resolve.
sir i have also chest problem. like gynecomastia. because iam use steroid for body building. what should i do for reduce that. please help me sir?
once you have stopped the use of steroids if the gynecomastia persists surgery may be helpful. i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
sir i have also chest problem. like gynecomastia. because iam use steroid for body building. what should i do for reduce that. please help me sir?
steroids will kill you. stop them. wait. if it doesn't improve see a surgeon.
soft tissue sarcoma - how can this be identified during a breast biopsy?
sarcoma can be found in the soft tissues of the breast. it is identified after biopsy of a tumor by the pathologist looking under the microscope doing special immunostains and potentially genetic fish testing for chromosomal translocations. it is important that a pathologist experienced with sarcoma review the slides to cement the diagnosis.
soft tissue sarcoma - how can this be identified during a breast biopsy?
breast sarcomas are rare relative to other tumors of the breast. they are well-described however.
should i have a surgery or not for gynecomastia?
the decision of whether or not to proceed with surgery to correct gynecomastia will ultimately be a very personal decision based on whether the enlarged breast gland causes physical and/or psychosocial “distress”. as always patient should weigh the pros/cons associated with the procedure to determine whether to proceed or not. consultation with board certified plastic surgeons may be helpful.
should i have a surgery or not for gynecomastia?
it may go away on its own especially if associated with presciption medications that can be substtuted. occasionally some patients have surgery for persistent gynecomastia that is either painful or cosmetically unacceptable.
should i have a surgery or not for gynecomastia?
whether or not to proceed with surgery will depend on how bothered you are by the appearance of it.
what are signs that pubertal gynecomastia is going away? how can i expedite the process?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. intensity varies from small lump to generous boobs. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years and or weight loss surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
what are some ways to reduce estrogen in males because i have gynocomastia and i've read estrogen influences male breast tissue. ?
true gynecomastia with breast tissue in males is rare. it can be a side effect of taking certain drugs or having a hormonal imbalance. i would see your doctor to make sure this is breast tissue and to check the chemical and hormonal balance in your body. you may also want to check your weight as that is a more common cause of gynecomastia in males.
would stopping reglan (metoclopramide) stop nipple discharge?
reglan (metoclopramide) can cause gynecomastia (enlargement) of the breasts and galactorrhea (discharge from nipples) if this was the reason. . stopping it will stop the discharge. sometimes the enlargement (in males) is permanent!
would stopping reglan (metoclopramide) stop nipple discharge?
hi in some patients reglan (metoclopramide) can cause milky nipple discharge and also enlargement of the breast (gynecomastia) stopping the pill should make the discharge disappear.
what is the treatment post-surgery for cystosarcoma phylloides?
cystosarcoma phyllodes may be benign or malignant. a complete removed benign phyllodes requires no addition treatment just ongoing monitoring for recurrence. a completely removed malignant phyllodes tumor may still require radiation to further reduce the risk of recurrence. chemotherapy might be needed if there is evidence of spread (metastasis) to other parts of the body.
will my gynecomastia ever go away on its own?
at your age you'll likely need surgery to remove it. i perform this procedure in miami fl
what's the best treatment for a painless gynecomastia? thanks
never heard of this. please explain.
am18 yrs i have small gynecomastia. i was 110 kg now 84 kg they reduce but with same shape anycure with exercise chest and no surgery?
but size may continue to decrease with further weight loss. plastic surgery may be necessary to remove excess and stretched skin over the chest area
can you tell me what to expect with someone who has taken lipozene and lost weight?
lipozene contains glucomannan that is a water soluble polysaccharide and considered to be a dietary fiber. i do not use it in my clinic the ingredient glucomannan found in many over the counter supplements for treating health ailments - from constipation to diabetes products containing glucomannan have not been approved by the fda in their effectiveness for treating these health ailments including lipozene
does minor gynaecomastia serious? do male breasts go away with cardio exercises? is it a medical condition that renders one in medical examinations?
gynecomastia can be a result of obesity or can be caused by high estrogen levels that can result from things like liver disease and some medications. how serious it is in your case depends on what else is going on. it is a symptom not a disease and as such it is just telling you that something needs to be checked out. if obesity is the problem exercise that leads to weight loss will help.
freaked out after seeing lipoma removal. can i get rid of them with weight loss?
lipomas are benign tumors ( rarely transforms to malignent liposarcomas). normal fat tissue ( adipose tissue) is under body's metabolic control during starvation normal fat break down to fatty acids and give energy where as the tumor are not in metabolic pathway they will not break down and lipoma is not affected by weight loss.
fat lump on thigh?
usually these lesions represent a benign tumor called a lipoma. resection is usually definitive but recurrence is fairly frequent. large size or certain features on mri may raise concern for other types of tumors or involvement of important local structures like nerves and blood vessels. best treated by a surgeon with experience treating sarcomas like a surgical oncologist.
fat lump on thigh?
fatty "lumps" are usually lipomas a benign overgrowth of fat cells. local area liposuction or simple removal through a small incision easily removes. however there is a small possibility of liposarcoma which has malignant potential. so pathology diagnosis of anything removed should be done.
how to treat my finger shaking slightly. but more than my fri. i'm not alcoholic. no smoke. but i have gynaecomastia. pls how to fix it.
are needed. which finger and restate your question! dr z
sir how to get rid from gynacomastea?
male breast enlargement is usually of unknown cause and the best treatment is surgical. this is generally a combination of liposuction (ultrasonic in my hands) and direct removal of breast tissue that cannot be suctioned out. he should be within 10-15 pounds or so of his target weight. this is an outpatient procedure with minimal scars and very gratifying results. see a plastic surgeon.
sir how to get rid from gynacomastea?
this is a more commonly recognized problem and is easily treated surgically by a plastic surgeon. sometimes weight may be a factor and weight reduction may help.
toremifene citrate for gynecomastia?
it has come to my attention through patients and hearsay rather than medical literature that drugs such as this and tamoxifen are being used to offset the potential breast stimulating effects of anabolic steroids. the indiscriminate and unmonitored administration of these drugs and potenttial side effects is potentially dangerous and essentially amounts to their use as street drugs.
toremifene citrate for gynecomastia?
most cases of pubertal gynecomastia resolve spontaneously without intervention. i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
toremifene citrate for gynecomastia?
toremifene citrate is a selective estrogen receptor modulator. serm's are a class of compounds that act on the estrogen receptor. they are potentially useful for gynecomastia improvement.
toremifene citrate good for gynecomastia?
expensive not approved poor side effect profile. the only way i could imagine it would be appropriate would be if the patient had proven high estrogen levels that could not be treated by other means.
toremifene citrate good for gynecomastia?
you should get a work up if over 21 yo. if younger them wait and it will like go away. if older surgery may be the only solution if no other medical explanation is found.
what is gynecomastia and hyperprolactinemia?
gynecomastia is the development of breast tissue in males. it may be small nodular areas of tissue under the nipple or it can be fairly significant with excess skin and fatty tissue as well. this can be normal during puberty related to hormone imbalances or certain drugs/medications. hyperprolactinemia is high levels of the hormone prolactin in the blood this can affect breast development.
what is gynacomastia?
about 1/2 males will undergo a transient nipple/breast enlargement at he onset of puberty. carrying extra weigh aggravates the issue as part of the enlargement is fat. most will resolve slowly as other hormonal changes kick in over about a year. onset in older males can be a medication side effect or health problem worthy of an evaluation.
what is gynacomastia?
gynecomastia is enlargement of breast tissue in males. it can be caused by many things including obesity and some medications. this symptom should be discussed with your physician in order to ensure no serious problem is the cause.
can beta blockers cause weight gain?
weight gain can occur as a side effect of some beta blockers especially the older ones such as atenolol (tenormin) and metoprolol (lopressor toprol-xl). the average weight gain is no more than 4 pounds (about 2 kilograms). newer beta blockers such as carvedilol (coreg) don't usually cause weight gain as a side effect. weight may rise in the first weeks of taking the beta blocker and then generally stabilizes. however the beta blockers that can cause weight gain usually aren't prescribed unless other medications haven't worked or if you have a specific heart condition that requires taking those medications. beta blockers are used to treat a host of conditions including high blood pressure heart failure migraines glaucoma and anxiety. doctors aren't sure exactly why some beta blockers cause weight gain. it could be that beta blockers slow your metabolism. also if you switch from taking a water pill (diuretic) to a beta blocker as a treatment for high blood pressure you may gain a few pounds of weight that the diuretic kept off. if you're taking a beta blocker for heart failure tell your doctor immediately if you begin to gain more than 3 to 4 pounds (about 1. 5 to 2 kilograms) particularly if the weight gain continues beyond your first week of taking the drug. this could mean that fluid is building up in your legs abdomen or chest which may signal that your heart failure is worsening.
hi will taking glucomannan be ok if i am taking thyroxime 75mg tablets. i am trying to loose a little weight. i am 46 years old female thankyou.
glucomannan might be ok if you are taking thyroxine but you must check this with your primary doctor. regarding weight loss please have your doctor refer you to a nurse who will work you through weight loss.
ran this through chip insurance: idiopathic gynecomastia -double lumpectomy. what are my chances of being rejected? if not covered by chip other ops?
the surgical treatment of idiopathic gynecomastia is not considered a medically necessary procedure by most insurance companies. consult a board certified plastic surgeon to learn about financial and treatment options.
ran this through chip insurance: idiopathic gynecomastia -double lumpectomy. what are my chances of being rejected? if not covered by chip other ops?
you never know if the insurance company is going to cover a procedure unless you try. have your doctor write a prior approval letter to your insurance company.
ran this through chip insurance: idiopathic gynecomastia -double lumpectomy. what are my chances of being rejected? if not covered by chip other ops?
this is not a covered benefit in many policies. if it is truly idiopathic then it typically will not be covered.
right side of my body is more feminine:wider hips &lips gynecomastia. once my left tetis moved to undescended position. what can be told about my state?
differences between the two sides of our bodies are normal. if you think about how the body forms from a single fertilized egg it is amazing that anything resembling symmetry is possible and yet it usually works! any clustering of asymmetry is coincidental. not sure what you mean by moved to undescended position but assume you have had this checked out.
right side of my body is more feminine:wider hips &lips gynecomastia. once my left tetis moved to undescended position. what can be told about my state?
a person that is made up of two different people is called a chimera and is very rare. you would need to consult with a genetic expert probably at a major university.
several lab results for pst 3 yrs indicate sec hypogonadism. i ve good ernegy normal weight wife 7 months pregnant and gynecomastia. do i need treatmen?
who knows your entire situation and con discuss whether you need treatment or not we do not go by numbers alone.
should i wear a bra if i have male breasts and they cause back and chest pain?
the purpose of a bra is to support pendulous breasts. as a male with only ductal tissue even if gynecomastia develops there would never be an indication for bra support. if there is pain in the back and chest look for another source such as intercostal neuroma costochondritis of the rib/cartilage area or lower mediastinal lesion
should i be concerned about breast cancer? who is most at risk?
while breast cancer is the most common cancer in women it is relatively uncommon in 38 year old women. at that age a family history of breast ovarian pancreatic uterine or prostate cancer(in men) childhood sarcomas & some other cancers in close relatives can increase risk. get the best family history you can & check reliable genetic internet sites for info. exercise don't gain weight etc.
should dht blockers ever cause any testicular pain or even minor discomfort? is it very uncommon for them to cause gynecomastia even minor gyno?
yes for both. those side effects are more common at the higher dose of proscar 5mg. they are very rare at the 1mg dose of propecia (finasteride).
to get to the bottom of my gynecomastia do i just suddenly ask my doctor for a hormone study? how long will this take?
during the consultation process a history and physical examination will likely be very helpful. make sure you provide a list of all medications and/or drugs you use. hormonal studies although sometimes helpful are not mandatory. if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
to get to the bottom of my gynecomastia do i just suddenly ask my doctor for a hormone study? how long will this take?
gynecomastia can be associated with endocrine disorders but this is rare. i would suggest seeing a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgery who can give you information on your options and after an examination advise you on the appropriateness of an endocrinology evaluation. good luck!
to get to the bottom of my gynecomastia do i just suddenly ask my doctor for a hormone study? how long will this take?
absolutely! an endocrine evaluation and basic lab studies looking for hormone imbalances thyroid disease etc is easily performed by your family practitioner.
treatment for puffy nipples other than surgery?
teenage boys can develop gynecomastia of varying degrees that can spontaneously regress in most cases as hormones "settle down. " but many males still have mixed glandular/fatty gynecomastia. obesity-related gynecomastia can diminish with weight loss but glandular gynecomastia requires plastic surgical excision by an expert. severe cases require skin removal as well (do not allow a female pattern).
treatment for puffy nipples other than surgery?
this could be gynecomastia. see a plastic surgeon.
there is a lump right underneath my nipple and when i touch it it hurts. im a male and i just noticed this two weeks ago should i be worried?
men can have breast tissue develop breast lumps and even breast cancer. most likely it is gynecomastia - male breast tissue - given your age. your doctor can evaluate this and direct you in the proper treatment.
tobacco effects on gynecosmatia?
i am not aware of any proven tobacco effects on developing gynecomastia.
took 10 tylenol (acetaminophen) (5000mg) in 20 hours. just had gynecomastia surgery am aware this is too much. only took it this one day. i'm 20 with a healthy liver as far as i know. am i at risk for liver fail?
tylenol (acetaminophen) dose is limited to 3 grams a day. excessive intake leads to liver failure.
took 10 tylenol (acetaminophen) (5000mg) in 20 hours. just had gynecomastia surgery am aware this is too much. only took it this one day. i'm 20 with a healthy liver as far as i know. am i at risk for liver fail?
if you just took this call poison control or go to the hospital emergency room now.
very theoretical question but if gynecomastia is often caused by excess estrogen/low t in some way can the tissue itself contain/increase estrogen?
theoretically no since the breast tissue and fat are the end receptors for the circulating estrogen the amounts in the tissue might not be increased. best to research with an endocrinologist>>>>
very theoretical question but if gynecomastia is often caused by excess estrogen/low t in some way can the tissue itself contain/increase estrogen?
all male breast tissue have +er receptors and if there is an increased estrogen in the body they respond by enlarging
what ways can i get rid of gynecomastia without surgery?
but you can mask it by wearing elastic type of compressive cloths developing pectoral muscles then will look less prominent will not make them disappear if they are bothering you psychologically ( the usual problem ) surgery is the only option to correct it. good luck
what kind of doctors or surgeons deal with gynocomastia?
usually preformed by board certified plastic surgeons.
what kind of doctors or surgeons deal with gynocomastia?
plastic surgeons normally are the ones to consult if surgery is necessary. if it's caused by a hormonal issue an endocrinologist would be a specialist that might help you. but first i recommend starting with your internist or family practice doctor.
what is cure for man-boobs? my son is 16. he is embarrassed to put on tshirts. he wears loose shirts. how can i help him. what doctor to see if need?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
what blood tests to be taken? son is 16. 3 old. got man boobs. he also sneezes often in the morning 2. blood tests? where to zero in? thanks.
if junior is getting strong erections and ejaculations like the other young men no labs are needed and you have a duty to get him to a physician who will discuss the pros and cons of surgery for the gynecomastia if that is what it is. i hope he goes with the surgery. an allergy workup for the sneezies may be in order. lab work isn't key; a blood count and chemical profile are worthwhile now.
what does it take to get gynecomastia surgery covered for most insurances?
but possible breast cancer evaluation since not sure benign until evaluated by a breast surgeon and test done only the doctor who evaluates you can do it the wording right you are above the average age for this so another reason to have it evaluated and treated if dysfiguring
what is the definition or description of: gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is enlargement of the breast tissue in male patients. a common reason for it is during the puberty. other causes are secondary to hormonal imbalnce liver function abnormality side effect of certain medications or other drugs excess alcohol consumption and sometimes unknown causes. it would be best to see a breast care provider to work up its causes and offer the best solutions.
can you tell me what to do if i want to lose a few pounds i'm hardly going to use lipozene mabe only for a week. is it safe?
ingredient. lipozene contains a single ingredient glucomannan a water-soluble fermentable dietary fiber extracted from the tuber or root of the elephant yam also known as konjac (amorphophallus konjac or a. rivieri). how about making healthy food choices portion control and exercise as alternatives to reach your goal?
eating too much tums (calcium carbonate) does what?
can lead to nausea vomiting abdominal pain/ cramping decreased appetite constipation diarrhea confusion delirium coma depression involuntary muscle twitching & cardiac arrhythmia.
female mid's 50s eurasian. eye dr thinks i have sleep apnea due to the shape of my eyes and need sleep study. eyes have been this shape since birth. no other symptom? i like my asian eyes. what?
there is no relationship between the shape of your eyes and sleep apnea. maybe he saw something else during your routine eye exam that made him consider sleep apnea. there are changes that occur in the eye ( but usually not about the shape which goes with your heritage) that may be associated of sleep apnea - like glaucoma optic nerve neurpathy or papilledema. addressing it timely may prevent.
got gynaecomastia surgery done despite losing weight afterwards fat is growing on the chest. other docs can't tell why its happening. please help.
please go to talk with your surgeon for detailing and discussing what you would expect and what something more can be done. also remember: doctors never cure anyone but just apply current available knowledge skill technology medication common sense and wisdom to help patients undergo their optimal self-healing process for optimal functional recovery with their residual strength. best wish.
got gynaecomastia surgery done despite losing weight afterwards fat is growing on the chest. other docs can't tell why its happening. please help.
there are several reasons for potential formation of gynecomastia. this could include drug use various medications adrenal tumors and others. if you are having a recurrence of gynecomastia i would suggest you see your dr. to get a thorough workup to see what the cause may be.
an earlier question i asked if risperdal can cause gynecomastia a dr answered it may cause hyperprolactinemia. would it be smart to get on bromocriptine or should i consider getting off risperdal?
you should discuss options with your psychiatrist. there are several medications like risperdal that may treat your symptoms without causing gynecomastia.
an earlier question i asked if risperdal can cause gynecomastia a dr answered it may cause hyperprolactinemia. would it be smart to get on bromocriptine or should i consider getting off risperdal?
talking with your own doctor about these concerns will provide much more personalized suggestions than we're able to here on healthtap. we can educate but we don't know you & your history like your own psychiatrist does. if you have a psychotic illness you may need risperdal or similar med for your best mental health. your doctor can work with you to use the lowest effective doses. be well.
an earlier question i asked if risperdal can cause gynecomastia a dr answered it may cause hyperprolactinemia. would it be smart to get on bromocriptine or should i consider getting off risperdal?
belong to the atypical antipsychotic medication there are other medication that u can take to help with u symptoms without the side effect of risperdal talk with u physician.
had gynecomastia surgery (incision on lower nipple line) 7 days ago my left nipple is still slightly puffy. is it possible that this is swelling and not residual gland tissue? when will i know for sure?
mosr likely it represents swelling. this is common. your doctor may recommend watching it for months. over time the swelling will decrease. talk to your doctor to make sure you are not on medication to cause gynecomastia
are lumps behind the nipples a symptom of gynecomastia or just normal hormone fluctuations?
lumps or masses beneath nipples may be concerning and should be examined by a breast surgeon. gynecomastia is typified by enlargement of the entire breast not only certain nodules beneath the nipples.
are lumps behind the nipples a symptom of gynecomastia or just normal hormone fluctuations?
a mass behind the nipple/areola complexes should be evaluated. this could be gynecomastia or breast cancer.
are lumps behind the nipples a symptom of gynecomastia or just normal hormone fluctuations?
could be either. would have a surgeon incheck it especially if any history of breast cancer in your family.
my age is 30 male i am suffer by gynecomastia please tell tablet for it?
although there may be many “causes” most cases of gynecomastia are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
my age is 30 male i am suffer by gynecomastia please tell tablet for it?
not aware of any pill to correct gynecomastia per se may be worthwhile to have your physician run labs to check hormone levels.
my age is 30 male i am suffer by gynecomastia please tell tablet for it?
the cause if any must be sought. the treatment is surgery.
my age is 30 male i am suffer by gynecomastia please tell tablet for it?
you need an endocrine evaluation. the cause may be related to hormonal issues medication or weight genetics. medication treatment is only available for certain causes and knowing what it is will be very important.
can pain in breasts mean i have breast cancer?
brian i am assuming you are male. breast pain and lump in a male is usually a non cancerous condition called gynecomastia. it is a hormonal side effect of many medications in adult males but is seen during normal hormonal changes during puberty. you should be examined and a mammogram and/or sonogram may be needed to confirm that it is gynecomastia.
can you tell me how to destroy my man boobs?
a plastic surgeon can discuss how your (gynecomastia) enlarged breasts can be treated with liposuction and/or breast tissue excision. many men with gynecomastia have a combination of excess breast fat and excess breast tissue. they require a combination of liposuction to remove the fat followed by direct excision of the excess breast tissue. they are usually very pleased with their results.
my doctor told me i have gynecomastia. what is that?
male breasts can be surgically treated and there are a number of options. the most common is using liposuction to reduce the size of the male breast. we typically try this first; even if it does not completely cure the problem it will often lead to a large reduction in the size of the breast. if the breast. (read more)
my doctor told me i have gynecomastia. what is that?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
my doctor told me i have gynecomastia. what is that?
this term refers to breast enlargement in men. it can be caused by hormone imbalances endocrine disorders and problems with the liver and kidneys.
my doctor told me i have gynecomastia. what is that?
developement.
can sertraline tablets cause gynecomastia or any other type of breast enlargement in men?
in the study cited below there is concern and evidence to suggest that it may sertraline was a probable cause if gynecomastia formation in a 67 year old particularly if combined with duloxetine. <link>
can sertraline tablets cause gynecomastia or any other type of breast enlargement in men?
gynecomastia is usually idiopathic (no known cause) associated with normal hormonal fluctuations of puberty and often resolves spontaneously after a few years. known causes can be endogenous (rare hormonal tumors) or exogenous (anabolic steroids).
can sertraline tablets cause gynecomastia or any other type of breast enlargement in men?
in pre-marketing studies .
how to treat teenage gynecomastia?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. if persistent gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction may suffice.
how to treat teenage gynecomastia?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
how to treat teenage gynecomastia?
females don't seem to mind gynecomastia as teenagers. if you're a male it happens as your body makes estrogen while it's learning to make the right amount of testosterone. it often resolves or appears to lessen as you go through puberty and gain height and weight. if not check w/your doctor re: prolactin and other problems. there is no easy solution if you're normal.
can gynecomastia be induced by steroid use?
this is a known consequence of steroid use.
can gynecomastia be induced by steroid use?
yes the use of steroids and other drugs/medications can be causative.
can gynecomastia be induced by steroid use?
testosterone is a major culprit.
can gynecomastia be induced by steroid use?
hormone medications including steroids can cause male breast swelling and gynecomastia.
can male breast reduction be done on a teenage boy? my 15-year old son's breasts have been growing for about a year now. they're actually bigger than some of the girls' he knows. he's really embarrassed and has been staying home more and more. is he too y
to a large degree gynecomastia is normal in nearly 80% of teenage males. i assume your son's may be more severe than the typical case and with that in mind it would be best to discuss with his pediatrician. a variety of medical conditions may be responsible and should be excluded. unless very severe most surgeons defer treatment until 18 years of age.
can male breast reduction be done on a teenage boy? my 15-year old son's breasts have been growing for about a year now. they're actually bigger than some of the girls' he knows. he's really embarrassed and has been staying home more and more. is he too y
given your son's situation surgery to correct gynecomastia may be perfectly reasonable despite his young age. he should develop a good understanding of the procedure and potential risk/complications associated with it. the potential for needing additional surgery should be understood as well. hopefully the operation will provide both physical and “psychosocial” benefits.
how much pain will i have after male breast reduction surgery? i need to go back to work as soon as possible but i can't be on heavy-duty pain meds. will the pain after male breast reduction surgery be manageable with aspirin or aleve (naproxen)? .
pain after male breast reduction surgery depends on how much there is to reduce and what methods are needed to do the job. the time needed off work will depend on the type of work you are doing. aspirin and aleve (naproxen) can cause bleeding so there are usually avoided around the time of surgery. there are too many variables in you question to answer specifically. it could be a few days or a few weeks depending on your circumstances. the best way to answer this type of specific question is to see a board certified plastic surgeon who has experience with gynecomastia (male breast reduction) surgery. thanks for the question. drmele. com.
how long after male breast reduction surgery can i start running again? i run marathons regularly so i try not to take too much time off my usual running schedule. how long do i have to wait after male breast reduction surgery before i can run? .
long-term you be able to return to all forms of exercises/activities after gynecomastia surgery. your plastic surgeon will guide you when it comes to specific and timing. best wishes.
how soon after male breast reduction surgery can i start exercising my chest again? do i have to wait until i've completely recovered from my male breast reduction or can i start back at reduced intensity earlier? .
some patients may start exercising as early as one week after gynecomastia surgery by lipo. if the surgery was more complicated it may be a month before your return to the gym. good luck from nyc. for more info visit www. drgrossman. com.
how can my doctor diagnose gynecomastia?
the diagnosis can usually be made by physical examination of the breasts. sometimes mammography and ultrasound are helpful. occasionally biopsy is necessary.
how can my doctor diagnose gynecomastia?
visual enlargement of the breasts constitutes gynecomastia. if they're enlarged the diagnosis is obvious.
how can my doctor diagnose gynecomastia?
diagnosis of gynecomastia is only the first step. identifying the cause is the next very important one. an experienced primary care physician will be able to conduct a complete workup and direct the next step in care.
i. have a case of gynecomastia. i have taken a hormone check and it seems normal. i need to reduce this. please advise?
assuming a man has achieved a long-term stable weight and no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery may suffice.
i. have a case of gynecomastia. i have taken a hormone check and it seems normal. i need to reduce this. please advise?
atlthough weight loss may help this will probably require surgery for breast tissue removal with excision as well as the use of liposuction.
i. have a case of gynecomastia. i have taken a hormone check and it seems normal. i need to reduce this. please advise?
most patients with gynecomastia have normal hormone levels. when you consult a board certified plastic surgeon you will discuss different procedure and pick the one that will give you the best result.
i. have a case of gynecomastia. i have taken a hormone check and it seems normal. i need to reduce this. please advise?
if you've seen an endocrinologist. a surgeon that does reductions regularly is the answer.
i have type iia gynecomastia( breast tissue). i talked my doktor and he said that i should have operation. is there any treatment except operation?
liposuction would be a good option for you.
i have type iia gynecomastia( breast tissue). i talked my doktor and he said that i should have operation. is there any treatment except operation?
only surgical reduction would be best.
i have type iia gynecomastia( breast tissue). i talked my doktor and he said that i should have operation. is there any treatment except operation?
there are a few new non-invasive methods which claim to accomplish improvements in gynecomastia using fat reduction techniques with external ultrasound cryotherapy radiofrequency and injectable lipolytic agents. however the experience is still relatively early and target only the fat and not the breast tissue.
i have type iia gynecomastia( breast tissue). i talked my doktor and he said that i should have operation. is there any treatment except operation?
liposuction is also an option. but once there is breast tissue removal is only effective therapy.
i have a pain in the far left side of my chest almost under armpit. could it be breast cancer?
breast pain is not usually a sign of cancer and is more commonly related to hormonal changes or simple mastalgia. however you should be seen by your surgeon to help figure out what is going on also imaging with an ultrasound could be helpful and or mammography this could be related to gynecomastia.
is there a way to reduce moobs?
yes moobs (man boobs) can be removed. for adolescents moobs may be temporary so waiting is often recommended. for adults weight loss may help the obese but true gynecomastia can occur at any weight and usually only responds to surgery. options include liposuction direct excision and skin reduction when necessary. more here: <link>
is there a way to reduce moobs?
moobs are enlargement of the male breasts generally referred to as gynecomastia. this can result from increase in the proportion of body fat (obesity) and also as we get older with less muscle mass. it can also be due to a hormone imbalance. reduction can occur by decrease your body fat by exercising and toning chest wall muscle. many are also resorting to surgical removal of the area.
i'm 19 years old male that have puffy nipples and some enlargement over the boobs. why do this occur and how would i get rid of it?
regular pubertal onset gynecomastia usually fades within the first year. persistence after 3 years is likely to improve only with surgery. i would check with your pcp about local options & seek out a consultation. removal of residual breast tissue and any supportive fat cells is usually done by a plastic surgeon.
i'm 19 years old male that have puffy nipples and some enlargement over the boobs. why do this occur and how would i get rid of it?
man boobs aka gynecomastia is benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. up to 60% of men worldwide have some degree of gynecomastia and there are a variety of causes. the causes have to be ruled out for the proper treatment. if all underlying hormonal and drug causes are ruled out then the benign breast mass can be removed via liposuction or direct excision depending on the degree.
i am 21 and have man boobs since the age of 12 or 13 these are very soft and feel like fat i was over wight as a teenager. what should i do?
if your breasts are truly enlarged and soft with no glandular breast tissue that feels hard you have a condition called pseudogynecomastia. which means fatty breast. losing weight will be the first way to address the issue. the other option is having liposuction to remove the fat and if you have excess lose skin a breast lift may be needed. good luck <link>
i wonder the best way to get rid of man boobs?
the best treatment is surgery which includes usually liposuction and excision of breast tissue. see if you can find a plastic surgeon in your area experienced in gynecomastia surgery.
i wonder the best way to get rid of man boobs?
by male breast reduction surgery also known as gynecomastia surgery. liposuction and partial mastectomy asn possible skin excision. <link>
i nave recently been diagnosed with gynecomastia and i want to bring it down. the nipple size is huge and very amberising. male 14?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
i nave recently been diagnosed with gynecomastia and i want to bring it down. the nipple size is huge and very amberising. male 14?
treated. options for treatment include liposuction of the area to reduce the amount of glandular tissue present. this mat be combined with breast tissue excision as well as nipple reduction. a consultation with a plastic surgeon to determine the correct treatment should be your next step.
is it normal for nipples to get smaller in length after pubertal gynecomastia subsides?
yes as the breasts in general decreases in size the nipple/areola complexes may also appear smaller in size. sometimes men do present with a desire to further decrease nipple and/or areola size even if gynecomastia is not a concern for them.
is it normal for nipples to get smaller in length after pubertal gynecomastia subsides?
as you loose the excess tissue the nipples and areolas will decrease in size.
is there a link between masterbating and gynecomastia?
no link between the two. gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
is there a link between masterbating and gynecomastia?
no.
is there a link between masterbating and gynecomastia?
gynecomastia occurs in about 1 in 20 males. masturbation occurs in almost 20 of 20 males. some gynecomastia will resolve on it's own and some will be due to obesity. surgical correction except for very large breasts is not difficult or complicated.
i have gynecomastia on one side why when i masterbate does my "boob" get bigger harder and senstive?
gynecomastia and masturbation are not necessarily causally linked. the breasts may increase in size temporarily around the time of sexual activity.
i have gynecomastia on one side why when i masterbate does my "boob" get bigger harder and senstive?
gynecomastia is enlargement of the breast tissue in a male. during sexual stimulation this breast tissue becomes engorged and sensitive in males as it does in females.
i have gynecomastia on one side why when i masterbate does my "boob" get bigger harder and senstive?
stimulation can affect the male breast.
is just breast enlargement a sign of male breast cancer?
but it is also a sign of gynecomastia - a common source of benign breast enlargement. have it checked out.
is just breast enlargement a sign of male breast cancer?
breast cancer in males occurs at about 1/100th the frequency of the disease in women and the presentation is the same: a lump in the breast. because it is rare and because men do not receive mammograms or routinely self-examine their breasts it generally tends to be more advanced in men when discovered. breast enlargement is more often benign (called gynecomastia. ).
is breast cancer the same as a breast carcinoma?
99+ percent of breast cancers are classed as carcinoma. sarcomas tend to arise in connective tissue like muscle and bones and are rare in the breast as is lymphoma.
if he has breasts can a man get a mammogram?
mammograms may be useful in men who have a strong family history nipple discharge and/or prominent breast tissue (gynecomastia).
if i have gynecomastia will i produce breast milk?
gynecomastia is not usually associated with production of breast milk and/or nipple discharge. these findings may prompt additional (endocrinology) work up.
if i have gynecomastia will i produce breast milk?
no milk.
if i have gynecomastia will i produce breast milk?
might indicate need for further work up.
if i have gynecomastia will i produce breast milk?
if a male patient is having nipple discharge from glandular tissue this may indicate concerning endocrine abnormality. the hormone prolactin may be elevated due to issues with the pituitary gland. i recommend a thorough endocrinology workup.
if i have gynecomastia will i produce breast milk?
men with gynecomastia don't have active functional breast tissue.
if i have surgery for my gynecomastia will i be able to run on a treadmill?
best to wait until your surgeon has cleared you for specific activities; long-term you will be able to perform all types of exercises/activities. best wishes.
if i have surgery for my gynecomastia will i be able to run on a treadmill?
wait 14 plus days or at advice of surgeon.
if i have surgery for my gynecomastia will i be able to run on a treadmill?
if you have physical endurance to do it you should be able to after you have recovered from the surgery.
if i have surgery for my gynecomastia will i be able to run on a treadmill?
you may want to take it easy for a few days.
if i have surgery for my gynecomastia will i be able to run on a treadmill?
i limit gynecomastia patients' physical activity right after surgery. you can resume aerobic activity in 3 weeks and resume upper body weight lifting in 6 weeks.
is it true that marijuana can cause gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
is it true that marijuana can cause gynecomastia?
studies implicating marijuana as an etiology for gynecomastia are lacking. however if "the munchies" lead to heavy calorie eating then the breasts like everywhere else will get fat.
is it true that marijuana can cause gynecomastia?
there is no scientific evidence of gynecomastia from marijuana however there are other causes of gynecomastia which include decreased levels of testosterone and certain medications.
is there a natural treatment for gynecomastia?
there is no natural treatment other than avoiding drugs of abuse or certain medications. discuss your prescriptions with your doctor.
is there a natural treatment for gynecomastia?
unfortunately there are no known natural cures for gynecomastia other than perhaps avoiding natural estrogenic products.
is there a natural treatment for gynecomastia?
treatment is either surgery (preferred treatment) or anti-estrogen drugs which are not natural (not preferred treatment).
is there a natural treatment for gynecomastia?
no natural treatment for gynecomastia.
is gynecomastia normal during puberty?
should still look for other causes e. g. steroids used for bodybuilding other pharmaceutical drugs and marijuana. could also be a feature of obesity. interestingly certain increasing prevalent environmental pollutants for example bpa's can function like female hormone in the human body.
is gynecomastia normal during puberty?
this is a very common issue in early puberty. the testosterone levels start to rise and the body initially converts it to estrogen. once levels rise moderately the ratio of testosterone to estrogen increases enough to cause breast tissue to recede.
is gynecomastia normal during puberty?
idiopathic gynecomastia first appears in teen agers. it frequetly resolves spontaneously by 18 years of age if it's going to resolve.
is there a way to get rid of gynecomastia without taking any herbal medications supplements or having surgery?
if you are normal weight it won't go away.
is there a way to get rid of gynecomastia without taking any herbal medications supplements or having surgery?
if the gynecomastia is fatty and weight-related rather than true glandular gynecomastia then weight loss will reduce the size of the male chest. most patients have a combination of fatty and glandular gynecomastia and weight loss will help only part of the problem--surgery is necessary to remove the glandular component.
is there a way to get rid of gynecomastia without taking any herbal medications supplements or having surgery?
usually.
i have large breasts–approximately 42d– for a man. should i have a mammogram done western mark
you don't need a mammogram simply because you have large breasts/gynecomastia. however approx. 1% of breast cancer occurs in men so if you have a lump or other symptom see your doctor a mammo may be appropriate in that situation.
if i have gynecomastia reduction surgery how long will i need to recover?
male breast reduction is a surprisingly well tolerated surgery without need for heavy duty analgesics. most patients are up and about within hours after surgery and back to work quickly. of course pain thresholds vary but this surgery will not keep the average male down for long.
if i have gynecomastia reduction surgery how long will i need to recover?
if you have liposuction or removal of excess skin and breast tissue you would be sore for a few days. likely you'd want to take a few days off of work. you should be fully healed within four weeks.
if i have gynecomastia reduction surgery how long will i need to recover?
this depends on the extent of surgery and what it is you actually do. most of the people that i have operated on for this condition are sore for a day or two but are then able to return to work. as any other surgery they have to make sure they don't get the wound dirty or cause bleeding or get an infection. most of the wounds are clearly healed by 4 to 6 weeks.
is gynecomastia caused by an imbalance of hormones?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
is gynecomastia caused by an imbalance of hormones?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances (directly or indirectly) etc. may also be causative.
is gynecomastia caused by an imbalance of hormones?
the diagnoses of this requires a proper evaluation by your physician.
is gynecomastia caused by an imbalance of hormones?
most gynecomastia is idiopathic (meaning no medical cause--just happens) usually from puberty. usually resolves sometimes does not. some medications hormones external estrogen-like compounds and even marijuana use and rarely things like testicular tumors can all cause gynecomastia. being overweight worsens the issue and plastic surgery is usually the only/best treatment for this. see a md.
is gynecomastia caused by an imbalance of hormones?
sometimes caused by drugs- legal & otherwise- or often no known cause.
is it possible to diagnose gynecomastia with a chest x-ray?
in-person consultation with your family practitioner and/or plastic surgeon is a good place to start. accurate history and physical examination is important. eliminating “causes” of gynecomastia is also important. surgical treatment usually involves partial excision of the glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. again much of what is recommended will depend on specific physical exam.
is it possible to diagnose gynecomastia with a chest x-ray?
you do not need chest x ray to diagnose gynecomastia simple clinical examination is suffice.
is it possible to diagnose gynecomastia with a chest x-ray?
that would be like diagnosing a train going by with a seismograph. the diagnosis is readily made by physical exam. whereas an mri could give information about what percentages of the male breast is composed of glandular tissue this test is unnecessary to plan surgical management which is best done by utilizing slim lipo unless there is a distinct mass in which case you need mammogram/mri.
is it possible to diagnose gynecomastia with a chest x-ray?
physical exam helpful.
is it possible to diagnose gynecomastia with a chest x-ray?
the diagnosis of gynecomastia is a clinical one. if you are a male and you appear to have breasts you have gynecomastia. it may be all fat because you're middle-aged or overweight (pseudogynecomastia) or you could truly have breast tissue.
is it possible to treat gynecomastia without surgery?
there are some individuals who have used off label indications if tamoxifen but this is not withou my risk and only advised if closely followed and prescribed by an endocrinologist with appropriate testing and monitoring. surgery is usually the best and most permanent option that is the standard of care.
is it possible to treat gynecomastia without surgery?
certain behaviors drugs increase the risk of gynecomastia so avoiding these helps prevent gynecomastia formation. once the breasts are enlarged surgery is usually the best option. the major exception to this is for teen aged boys who have recently developed gynecomastia as pubescent gynecomastia may resolve on its own in a year or two. a full hitory and physical exam is needed before treatment.
is it possible to treat gynecomastia without surgery?
but only by avoidance of causative factors if present.
if i develop gynecomastia does that mean that i'm getting fat?
gynecomastia is enlarged breast tissue in guys. it's the result of hormone imbalances. excess body fat can cause changes in estrogen/testosterone balance - but is by no means the only cause. skinny guys can get gynecomastia. gynecomastia does not means someone is fat. too much fat means someone is fat.
if i develop gynecomastia does that mean that i'm getting fat?
true gynecomastia refers to enlargement of the normally very small area of dense firm glandular tissue under the nipple in men. this would be due to a hormone imbalance as described in the other answers. simply gaining weight will not cause this but can cause increased fat tissue in the breast area creating the appearance of enlarged breasts.
if i develop gynecomastia does that mean that i'm getting fat?
in fact if breast volume increases in a normal adult male below the age of 50 it is a good idea to seek medical attention. breast diseases (including breast cancer) may be erroneously attributed to "unilateral gynecomastia". hormonal disfunctions can present as gynecomastia as well as side effects of many medications. surgical treatment is very effective.
if i develop gynecomastia does that mean that i'm getting fat?
gynecomastia is enlargement of the male breast. it is almost always related to hormone imbalances or medications. it has nothing to do with body fat.
if i develop gynecomastia does that mean that i'm getting fat?
just like a female breast the anatomy of gynecomastia consists of fat gland and skin. check out this drawing: <link> to understand how different components can enlarge to different degrees. male body fat tends to accumulate first chest & belly around body.
if i develop gynecomastia does that mean that i'm getting fat?
gynecomastia normally refers to an increase in glandular tissue. however extra fat can also deposit within the breasts especially when someone is overweight. indeed extra fat can result in an increase in formation of estrogen which can make breasts grow with both tissues. either way one way to treat them is with liposuction of the breasts in men.
is there a non-surgical remedy for gynecomastia that i can do myself?
some gynecomastia is related principally to fat deposition in the breasts associated with being overweight. getting back to ideal body weight in this case will reduce breast bulk.
is there a non-surgical remedy for gynecomastia that i can do myself?
there is not a home remedy for true gynecomastia. if the breasts have enlarged due to an increase in body weight and fat then weight loss is the answer and it is controllable at home and self directed.
is there a non-surgical remedy for gynecomastia that i can do myself?
n with gynecomastia a doctor can evaluate and look for disorders that increase the amount of estrogen-type hormones in men such as liver disease alcohol use marijuana use obesity etc. . sometimes gynecomastia happens without an obvious reason. non-surgical treatments such as estrogen blockers (tamoxifen is one) have been tried with some success. an endocrinologist doctor may help.
i have had a mammogram and it is not cancer but i have a lump in my left breast that feels like a pin sticking me. i am a 59 year old male they said it is like i am growing breast.
your condition is likely benign and may be related to medications gynecomastia is an enlargement of the male breast you should see a breast surgeon and get appropriate evaluation.
i have had a mammogram and it is not cancer but i have a lump in my left breast that feels like a pin sticking me. i am a 59 year old male they said it is like i am growing breast.
men can grow breast tissue is some circumstances. this condition is called gynecomastia. it warrants investigation not because it's breast cancer or makes you more likely to get breast cancer but because it can indicate an underlying medical problem. liver disease for instance will frequently cause gynecomastia. i would suggest that you discuss this with your regular doctor who will probably want to do a few blood tests.
if i have gynecomastia always tired and a small penis could that be hormone level imbalance?
please get an endocrinologist consult.
if i have gynecomastia always tired and a small penis could that be hormone level imbalance?
you could have a low level of testosterone. at your young age you certainly need to have this checked by your family doctor asap.
if i have gynecomastia always tired and a small penis could that be hormone level imbalance?
gynecomastia with low levels of energy and small genitalia could indicate a low level of testosterone. an endocrinologist could help you determine if that is the cause. gynecomastia is usually trusted by a plastic surgeon once other medically treatable causes are ruled out.
i have a small penis gynecomastia always tired retain a lot of liquid. will go to an endocrinologist. what should i tell him and ask?
tell him/her about your development during puberty. any meds you take drugs you use or used. family history. mention any other symptoms.
i have a small penis gynecomastia always tired retain a lot of liquid. will go to an endocrinologist. what should i tell him and ask?
endos deal with that kind of thing all day. start with that and the endo will take it from there. they are very smart.
im a 24 yr old male and i was wondering i don't have man boobs but i have puffy nipples is there anything i can do or take to help with this?
smoking marijuana and taking protein supplements also cause gynecomastia.
im a 24 yr old male and i was wondering i don't have man boobs but i have puffy nipples is there anything i can do or take to help with this?
gynecomastia or enlargement of the breast tissue in males can be due to obesity alcohol or some medications. you should discuss this with your doctor.
im a 24 yr old male and i was wondering i don't have man boobs but i have puffy nipples is there anything i can do or take to help with this?
you may have a minor expression of gynecomastia. your physician should diagnose your condition and recommend appropriate therapy.
i am getting male breast reduction. are there more mendoing this these days?
in early adulthood some males develop prominent breasts like in a young girl called gynaecomastia though harmless due psychological reasons surgical reduction is done by removing excessive breast tissue.
i am getting male breast reduction. are there more mendoing this these days?
yes men seem to be becoming more comfortable presenting to plastic surgeons offices to discuss their concerns. i have found that gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
i know that breast cancer in men is rare but do men with manboobs have a higher rate of breast cancer than men with no manboobs?
men can have prominent breast tissue due to obesity (lipomastia) or a condition where there is increased glandular tissue--gynecomastia. it is often stated that gynecomastia is associated with increased risks of breast cancer but no study has ever proven this. we do know however that high estrogen states can increase the risk of breast cancer in men (or women) and can be a cause of gynecomastia.
if a man gets breast cancer does he first have to have a lump of non-cancerours breast gland material under the nipple (that later turns cancerous? )?
all men have breast tissue yet this tissue may not be palpable as a defined lump under the nipple. breast cancer begins at a microscopic level and does not require palpable breast tissue in order to form. some men have a condition where there is pathologic enlargement of their breast tissue--gynecomastia. although controversial this does seem to predispose one to breast cancer.
i am a 26 year old male and i have a lump in my breast. can it be breast cancer or gynecomastia?
probably gynecomastia. but a biopsy with review by a pathologist would help solidify the diagnosis.
i am a 26 year old male and i have a lump in my breast. can it be breast cancer or gynecomastia?
best way to tell is by a mammogram and biopsy (needle vs open ) see a plastic surgeon or general surgeon for consultation.
i am a 26 year old male and i have a lump in my breast. can it be breast cancer or gynecomastia?
a lump in the male breast is usually breast tissue and is then called gynecomastia. the vast majority of these lumps are benign or non-cancerous. rarely a lump could be a cancer so have it examined by your physician.
i am a 26 year old male and i have a lump in my breast. can it be breast cancer or gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is common in infancy adolescence and in middle-aged to older adult males. pseudogynecomastia is also common and related to the heavy weight. gynecomastia must be differentiated from breast carcinoma which is far less common. there are a lot of cause of gynecomastia including drug puberty endocrine problems liver/kidney problems etc. see your doctor and have your self checked.
is male breast reduction surgery a permanent solution? before i spend the money on male breast reduction i want to be sure it's permanent. do male breasts ever grow back after the surgery? .
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. in these cases results achieved should be permanent. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
is male breast reduction surgery a permanent solution? before i spend the money on male breast reduction i want to be sure it's permanent. do male breasts ever grow back after the surgery? .
surgical treatment of male breast tissue (gynecomastia) is one of the most popular cosmetic operations requested by men. treatment depends on the size and quality of the breast tissue and the quality of the breast skin. if the skin is youthful and has good skin tone then liposuction will almost always yield a good result (up to half a kilogram per side in some cases). those with larger breasts may need more than liposuction to remove excess fat breast tissue and skin to produce a flat non-projecting chest. most men can resume full activity after two weeks. by that time all the sutures have been removed. you'll be asked to wear a tight vest for 6 weeks to help control the swelling. there is usually very little bruising. those that need open surgery (liposuction plus excision) will have scars on the chest which will remain pink for months before finally fading to the color of the surrounding skin. results are generally persistent provided a reasonably stable weight is maintained.
is male breast reduction surgery a permanent solution? before i spend the money on male breast reduction i want to be sure it's permanent. do male breasts ever grow back after the surgery? .
as long as you maintain your weight within reason the result from gynecomastia surgery should persist. dr. edwards.
is male breast reduction surgery a permanent solution? before i spend the money on male breast reduction i want to be sure it's permanent. do male breasts ever grow back after the surgery? .
male breast reduction is typically for gynecomastia a common condition. although there is usually no known cause anabolic steroids can be the culprit. surgical treatment typically involves a combination of liposuction of the fatty tissue and direct excision of breast glandular tissue. a thin layer of breast tissue is left to minimize a contour depression on the chest at the nipple/areola area. if this tissue is exposed to steroids or other hormonal infuences it may reoccur. your surgeon will discuss all the risks and consequences with you when you have your consultation.
is male breast reduction surgery a permanent solution? before i spend the money on male breast reduction i want to be sure it's permanent. do male breasts ever grow back after the surgery? .
once you have gynecomastia surgery it should be permanent unless you gain a lot of weight or some hormonal catastrophe occurs. chances of the breasts regrowing are really small. good luck from nyc. for more info visit www. drgrossman. com.
is it possible to achieve male breast reduction without surgery? are there exercises or pills that work? i don't really want male breast reduction surgery but i'm embarrassed by my male breasts. .
if the cause is gynecomastia the surgical treatment usually works well and for a long time. if the factors causing the situation (mj use testosterone use etc. ) remain a recurrence may happen. please go see a board certified plastic surgeon.
is it possible to achieve male breast reduction without surgery? are there exercises or pills that work? i don't really want male breast reduction surgery but i'm embarrassed by my male breasts. .
once it is established it is very difficult to reverse gynecomastia. weight loss may reduce the fatty component of the breast but it is unlikely to change the glandular component.
is it possible to achieve male breast reduction without surgery? are there exercises or pills that work? i don't really want male breast reduction surgery but i'm embarrassed by my male breasts. .
if you are dealing with true gynecomastia (excess breast tissue) diet and exercise will likely not improve the situation significantly. if on the other hand you have lipomastia ( excess adipose tissue) diet and exercise may be helpful. pills will not be helpful in either case. best wishes.
is it possible to achieve male breast reduction without surgery? are there exercises or pills that work? i don't really want male breast reduction surgery but i'm embarrassed by my male breasts. .
most surgery exists because there is no great non-surgical option. while some medications can increase the size of the male breasts there are no gynecomastia reduction pills. if you breast enlargement is due to fat then weight loss can help. if the enlargement is due to glandular tissue weight loss may make it more obvious.
is it possible to achieve male breast reduction without surgery? are there exercises or pills that work? i don't really want male breast reduction surgery but i'm embarrassed by my male breasts. .
if it is true gynecomastia (breast tissue growth in a male) looking at causes and stopping the cause if possible will stop growth depends on your age and the cause of growth a long list varying from marijuana medications hormones steroids. . ) once the cause is stopped growth should stop.
is it normal to have sagging breasts at 57 as a man?
when you are 57 and have sagging breasts you have developed a degree of gynecomastia which is male breast tissue. this can be weight relsated or to a type of medicine or just soemthing thast develops. it can easily be corrected with outpatient surgery or to eleiminate the offending drug.
i wanna know how to improve sagging breasts. im a 58yo guy?
probably you have gynecomastia. go and see a board certfied plastic surgeon specialising in breast.
i have alump in my breast and been told it could be a caricoma am 45 and been off premarin for 3years now and was taking it for 5 and now my milk duct is eroding and the dotors and radiologists don't know what it is can you give me an amswer.?
if there is a lump it needs to be resolved. this may require a biopsy (preferably a needle/core). if your current provider(s) can't give you an answer seek a second opinion.
i have alump in my breast and been told it could be a caricoma am 45 and been off premarin for 3years now and was taking it for 5 and now my milk duct is eroding and the dotors and radiologists don't know what it is can you give me an amswer.?
if 1 has a breast lump suspicious for cancer then 1 needs a tissue sample through some type of biopsy(ex:core bx) to determine the type of cancer. if on initial bx ductal carcinoma is found then surgery(ex lumpectomy) is needed for final diagnosis and extent of disease such as grading hormone recetors and spread to lymph nodes. follow ur docs' recommendations w/o delay for best further treatment.
if a man has gynecomastia and gets surgery for it when will he be able to go shirtless again?
many patients can have gynecomastia treated with liposuction and a small incision around the lower edge of the areola. you should be able to go shirtless in 6 to 8 weeks.
if a man has gynecomastia and gets surgery for it when will he be able to go shirtless again?
depending on the amount of fat or glandular tissue in the breast treatment may involve liposuction or excision of the glandular tissue or both. after the surgery is over there may be swelling and/or some scarring. generally these are resolved in 4-6 weeks time postoperatively.
if a man has gynecomastia and gets surgery for it when will he be able to go shirtless again?
your surgeon will be your best resource when it comes to returning to specific activities after gynecomstia surgery. protecting the incision line from sun exposure will be important; best to use sunscreen when you go out. on average it may be 4 to 6 weeks before you feel comfortable going shirtless again. best wishes.
if a man has gynecomastia and gets surgery for it when will he be able to go shirtless again?
feeling comfortable going shirtless is one of the reasons to have the surgery. wait until you are fully healed - usually 6 wks.
i use to weigh 310. now 258. i have extreme gynecomastia. is there a way to fix without surgery? if not what is the expected cost of this procedure?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. after weight loss if excess skin is present excision may be necessary/helpful.
i use to weigh 310. now 258. i have extreme gynecomastia. is there a way to fix without surgery? if not what is the expected cost of this procedure?
unfortunately there are few if any non-surgical options for gynecomastia. itisomportant to undergo a full examination to exclude medical or medication related causes. other than that surgery is a good alternative that will depend the size as amount of skin excess and laxity and may run from 3-10 000 usd.
i use to weigh 310. now 258. i have extreme gynecomastia. is there a way to fix without surgery? if not what is the expected cost of this procedure?
continued weight loss. fat converts testosterone to estrogen causing this issue. cost $15 000.
is gynecomastia an enlarged male breast?
that gynecomastia is a transient hard localized painful mass that occurs under the nipple in males. it is a benign condition. teenagers can get localized pubertal gynecomastia. just having generalized enlargement of the entire breast in males is related to obesity & is a cosmetic condition which is not gynecomastia.
is gynecomastia an enlarged male breast?
gynecomastia means an enlarged male breast. typically liposuction is used to correct it. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
is gynecomastia an enlarged male breast?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
if a man has gynecomastia and gets surgery for it does this effect on his sex life? is there any medicine available to reduce gynecomastia?
you'll feel better about yourself. the surgery is usually trivial. a few people have tried tamoxifen for gynecomastia; surgery is a much better option.
if a man has gynecomastia and gets surgery for it does this effect on his sex life? is there any medicine available to reduce gynecomastia?
gynecomastia surgery will not adversely affect your sex life. if anything it will get better because you'll be free of the breast tissue and feel much better emotionally. it did wonders for this patient of mine. he actually never dated because of his embarrassment. shortly after the surgery he emailed me that life has never been better and he has a full date card.
if a man has gynecomastia and gets surgery for it does this effect on his sex life? is there any medicine available to reduce gynecomastia?
sex life other than feeling better about himself and his appearance. there is no pill to take for gynecomastia.
if a man has gynecomastia and gets surgery for it does this effect on his sex life? is there any medicine available to reduce gynecomastia?
medicines are not used to reduce gynecomastia but some drugs have the side effect of producing it as well as marijuana usage. i suspect your sex life will improve as you will be more comfortable with your body appearance.
i have mild man breast; im a male what could i do?
men are experiencing this problem. the problem can be excess fatty tissue or a condition called gynecomastia which is a benign swelling of the tissue behind the nipple. this can be caused by many factors including medications and can resolve on its own. if this concerns you see a breast surgeon who will take a history and examine you and make the correct diagnosis.
is it okay to hide symptoms of gynecomastia?
there are many options such as compressive garments which may help to conceal the stigma of gynecomastia as well as loose clothing.
is it okay to hide symptoms of gynecomastia?
it is okay to “camouflage” the appearance of gynecomastia but only after the area has been evaluated by your physicians. it will be important to rule out other concerns such as breast cancer etc. if symptomatic and/or aesthetically displeasing surgical correction of gynecomastia can be worthwhile. best wishes.
is it okay to hide symptoms of gynecomastia?
you can always wear clothing and upper body athletic stretch garments to help hide gynecomastia but not until your doctor has ruled out hormonal or medication causes or possible tumors. most gynecomastia is idiopathic (no identifiable cause other than puberty and failure to "go away" on its own) or related to obesity. surgery can create a normal male chest--see an abps-certified plastic surgeon.
i want to lose my gynecomastia any ideas?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
i want to lose my gynecomastia any ideas?
true gynecomastia is overdevelopment of the breast tissue on a man's chest. once too large surgery is the only effective method of removal. if the chest is big due to being overweight weightloss can help reduce the chest fat but can sometimes make true gynecomastia more noticable. disproportionate fat will also respond to liposuction. seek a qualified professional for specific advice.
i want to lose my gynecomastia any ideas?
many men carry their extra weight in the chest. if your body weight is ideal and you have a flat belly then you may have to consider surgery. if the tissue is firm or hard then it may need to be removed with surgery. fat can be removed with liposuction even if your not at your ideal weight. a visit to a board certified plastic surggeon will answer these questons.
is there a cure for pubertal gynecomastia?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
is there a cure for pubertal gynecomastia?
some patients will come to have surgery for gynecomastia. most will have the process improve as they get older though.
is there a cure for pubertal gynecomastia?
most men need surgery to correct gynecomastia if the problem has persisted for more than a couple of years.
i'm 25. and i have gynecomastia. and i want to get rid of it. how safe and expensive is surgery? are there alternatives to surgery?
make sure your hormonal work up is normal then you should see a plastic surgeon.
i'm 25. and i have gynecomastia. and i want to get rid of it. how safe and expensive is surgery? are there alternatives to surgery?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery may suffice.
i'm 25. and i have gynecomastia. and i want to get rid of it. how safe and expensive is surgery? are there alternatives to surgery?
weight loss is your best first approach. there are few natural solutions to treat gynecomastia non-surgically once it is established and surgery is the only definitive method to remove the excess breast tissue. there ae non-medically recommended methods to prevent formation that are routinely used by body builders abusing anabolic steroids but these carry risk.
is it possible for pubertal gynecomastia to go away naturally?
most cases of pubertal gynecomastia dissipate with time. if persistent it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
is it possible for pubertal gynecomastia to go away naturally?
pubertal gynecomastia if it goes away at all goes away toward the end of puberty. if it's been present for more than a couple of years it's probably not going away without surgery.
is it possible for pubertal gynecomastia to go away naturally?
most of pubertal gynecomastia regresses within 2 years.
is a skin ulcer formation a normal side effect after having gynecomastia surgery?
no ulcer formation is not a “normal side effect”. best to be evaluated by your surgeon for accurate assessment and treatment recommendations.
is a skin ulcer formation a normal side effect after having gynecomastia surgery?
the skin ulcer could represent a healing problem or may be a coincidence unrelated to your surgery. you should ask your surgeon to examine the area.
is a skin ulcer formation a normal side effect after having gynecomastia surgery?
size of the breast reduction and whether the patient smoked or not. and what is your definition of ulcer.
is a skin ulcer formation a normal side effect after having gynecomastia surgery?
this is a separate problem get it checked.
i have hard lumps behind my nipple from squeezing them and rubbing them because i had inverted nipples? what can i do to get rid of it? 14 male
it sounds as if you have pubertal gynecomastia and the lumps are not from squeezing they are the actual glandular (fibrous) tissue that accompany puberty hormone surges. the good news is that usually this resolves without treatment or surgery but if the breast growth persists or worsens plastic surgeons fix this all the time with a simple safe operation. pot use make gyno worse btw.
is there any natural way to get rid of gynecomadtia?
gynecomastia is a symptom. it all depends on the cause of the gynecomastia. some can be treated without medicine; e. g. lose weight. but if it's a hormonal problem then you will need medical care for it.
i'm a male with enlarged puffy nipples. is it caused from too much estrogen? are there non surgical cures?
you may have gynecomastia which is enlarged breast tissue in males. or this could just be fat. there could be an increase of estrogen to testosterone but hormone levels may be normal. many drugs cause this. adolescent boys get some gynecomastia and in some it does not fully regress with adulthood. you should see an endocrinologist. there are some drugs but they don't work very well.
i'm a male with enlarged puffy nipples. is it caused from too much estrogen? are there non surgical cures?
gynecomastia if present for more than a couple of years is usually permanent. it's caused by an imbalance of testosterone and estrogen. see my webinar on the subject on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
i am 19 years of age male and have little gynecomastia. could this be caused by klinefelter's syndrome?
klinefelter's syndrome (47 xxy) can be associated with gynecomastia.
i am 19 years of age male and have little gynecomastia. could this be caused by klinefelter's syndrome?
klinefelters does cause some gynecomastia along with many other symptoms related to sexual maturity. breast enlargement has many causes: medications (rx and otc) mj alcohol street drugs soy food products herbal products and cleansers anabolic steroids health conditions (small testes tumors diet) etc. mild gynecomastia can be normal during puberty and often resolves within 6 mo. to 2 yrs.
i'm a guy 18 6'1 tall 167lbs i think i might have gyno beacuase of my puffy nipples. my nipples burn when a cold breeze hits them or i'm at beach?
many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
i'm a guy 18 6'1 tall 167lbs i think i might have gyno beacuase of my puffy nipples. my nipples burn when a cold breeze hits them or i'm at beach?
your puffy nipples could be a form of gynecomastia or swollen due to irritation. in the first case having them raised up could make them more sensitive. in the second case your nipples may be more sensitive causing the body to react by swelling. there are many causes so an evaluation by your doctor may help determine the problem.
i have undesended testicles i guess it caused my gynecomastia and micro penis problems. how can i fix these issues?
best so with your primary care physician and endocrinologist. cooperation between several “specialties” will be necessary to diagnose and treat your concerns. best wishes.
i have undesended testicles i guess it caused my gynecomastia and micro penis problems. how can i fix these issues?
for testicles to function properly they normally descend into the scrotum for a cooler environment. undescended testicles (cryptorchidism) may impede function and development and is a cancer risk if not treated.
i have undesended testicles i guess it caused my gynecomastia and micro penis problems. how can i fix these issues?
you possibly have what is called hypogonadism. please talk to your pcp and see an endocrinologist.
is there a way to lose my man boobs?
gymecomastia repair checkout the results on californiasurgicalinstitute. com/gynecomastia.
i'm taking anabolic steroids and i've noticed to develope gynocomastia in my right nipple today noticed painless lump in right armpit should i worry?
yes you should worry. there are very few reasons for a teenager to take anabolic steroids. actually none that i can think of. sure maybe testosterone for medical purposes such as sexual maturation but this is always done under close supervision and it's never referred to as :anabolic steroids:. so yes you need to be worried. talk to doc who's prescribing your steroids. .
i'm taking anabolic steroids and i've noticed to develope gynocomastia in my right nipple today noticed painless lump in right armpit should i worry?
sounds like you are just getting started with side effects of anabolic steroids next will come shrunken testicles enlarged prostate erectile dysfunction reduced sperm count severe acne high blood pressure and strokes whether to worry about having all these added health problems is appropriate is up to you.
i'm taking anabolic steroids and i've noticed to develope gynocomastia in my right nipple today noticed painless lump in right armpit should i worry?
anabolic steroids are very detrimental to your body longterm and you should stop taking them. they have very dangerous side effects the least of which is development of gynecomastia. the breast tissue development is usually not reversible when the drug is stopped. i'm in orlando and perform a lot of gynecomastia surgery. consider checking out the forum on gynecomastia. org.
is rf body lift effective after gynnocomastia?
it will not work. if you truly have gynecomastia you will likely need a surgical procedure to correct that. and i see you have many questions over many topics. why?
is rf body lift effective after gynnocomastia?
or in place of gynecomastia? rf body lift is a very subtle skin tightening or smoothing technique that works by destroying fat cells. depending on the issues you are looking to resolve this may or may not address your concerns. best to consult with a board certified plastic surgeon to discuss your concerns and learn what options are best suited to your specific case.
i have had gynecomastia for like 6 years now on my left chest it hurts when pressure is applied and streched vertically is this a bad sign?
it seems that you have unilateral non-resolving gynecomastia. an endocrinologist will need to examine you and perform some investigative work-up. if medical causes are eliminated then s/he will refer you to a plastic surgeon for surgical correction.
i have had gynecomastia for like 6 years now on my left chest it hurts when pressure is applied and streched vertically is this a bad sign?
best to seek consultation with board certified plastic surgeons. if persistent symptomatic and/or aesthetically displeasing surgical correction of gynecomastia can be worthwhile. treatment is individualized depending on the specific patient's situation; involves direct excision of glandular tissue liposuction surgery and/or occasionally excision of excess skin as well.
i have had gynecomastia for like 6 years now on my left chest it hurts when pressure is applied and streched vertically is this a bad sign?
you should be evaluated for starters by an endocrinologist and possibly a breast specialist. if this current condition (pain) is of no serious nature then plastic surgery will be beneficial. good luck from nyc
i have had gynecomastia for like 6 years now on my left chest it hurts when pressure is applied and streched vertically is this a bad sign?
this sounds like the gynecomastia which is breast tissue is spreading. the fact that it is tender is common and does not mean there is something more serious like cancer. you should see an endocrinologist because there is medicine that can help the pain and sometimes shrink the tissue. however the longer it is present the less likely it is to go away and may have to be surgically removed.
i have had gynecomastia for like 6 years now on my left chest it hurts when pressure is applied and streched vertically is this a bad sign?
it is not uncommon for benign gynecomastia to be tender to the touch. rarely breast masses are tumors or are caused by testicular tumors. most commonly they represent benign breast tissue. new. or enlarging tissue should be checked by your primary medical doctor to be safe. more info here: <link>
i have had gynecomastia for like 6 years now on my left chest it hurts when pressure is applied and streched vertically is this a bad sign?
; have him check your testicles for possible tumor
i have had gynecomastia for like 6 years now on my left chest it hurts when pressure is applied and streched vertically is this a bad sign?
you should see a board certified plastic surgeon. let him/her examine you and advise you.
i want to remove fat from my chest coz it really looks like man breast. plz suggest me an exercise.
a man breast look may be due to breast tissue. this condition is known as gynecomastia. if there are no medical causes for the gynecomastia then the excess breast tissue can be surgically removed. if there is simply excess fat without breast tissue then diet and exercise may be beneficial. consult a board certified plastic surgeon to learn about your options.
is gynecomastia a common side effect for certain medications?
it depends on how you define “common”. gynecomastia can certainly occur secondary to the use of many different types of medications and/or drugs. stopping the use of the medication/drugs may or may not allow for resolution of the breast gland enlargement.
is gynecomastia a common side effect for certain medications?
though a variety of medications can cause gynecomastia this "side-effect" is uncommon.
is gynecomastia a common side effect for certain medications?
especially aldactone (spironolactone).
i had gynnocomastia. and now i have excess skin around my chest what is the best possible way to make the skin tighter without excision.
unfortunately there may be no good way to “make the skin tighter”. sometimes especially after significant weight gain/loss some skin excision may be necessary during or after treatment of gynecomastia. you may benefit from consultation with board-certified plastic surgeons. best wishes.
i had gynnocomastia. and now i have excess skin around my chest what is the best possible way to make the skin tighter without excision.
excercise. this will help some but you will probably need surgery.
i m 20. n i hav gynecomastia. is it possible to reduce in this age. or surgery is only the way?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery may suffice.
i m 20. n i hav gynecomastia. is it possible to reduce in this age. or surgery is only the way?
gynecomastia is normal for newborns (it resolves when the mother's hormones leave the infant) and at adolescence. the gynecomastia of adolescence usually resolved in a year or two. at other times gynecomastia is unlikely to resolve. there are no medications for this so surgical removal is the primary means of treatment.
i m 20. n i hav gynecomastia. is it possible to reduce in this age. or surgery is only the way?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
i found a lump on my 9 year old daughters breast. there is no rubor swelling or heat present. is there anyway this could be breast cancer?
highly unlikely. there are some rare instances of breast carcinomas and sarcomas occurring in the pediatric population- however this is rare. most likely - it's a benign (non cancerous process) lump. these benign lumps can occasionally be locally destructive (over taking the normal breast tissue) and need to be surgically removed. see your pediatrician to start. you may need to see a surgeon.
i have small lumps under the skin of my lower chest they feel like little lumps of fat. i also have slightly puffy nipples which make it look worse?
small smooth soft rubbery mobile lumps within the lower chest may be fat or breast tissue. collections under the nipple and areola can cause puffy nipples a mild form of gynecomastia. gynecomastia usually begins at puberty and often resolves in a few years. if persistent surgical removal can help. consult with a plastic surgeon in your area to learn more.
i'm considering taking female growth hormones for male breast enlargement. what do i need to know?
are you male or female? if you are a male taking female hormones will make your breasts larger (gynecomastia). if you are a female taking female hormones will not change your breast size at your age.
is it possible that i have male breast cancer?
most tenderness or swelling under the male breast is because of the development of benign breast tissue called gynecomastia. this can be caused by certain medications and medical conditions. male breast cancer occurs but is rare. best advice check with your doctor he may even order a mammogram to be sure.
is gynecomastia only around the nipple?
sometimes liposuction alone can improve gynecomastia. however i often combine glandular excision (around the areola) and in sever cases make an additional incision in breast fold if skin is really saggy.
is gynecomastia only around the nipple?
gynoceomastia is caused by prolific sub-mammary glandary discoid tissue as well as excess adipositiy of the surrounding breast tissue. as such surgical treatment requires not only direct excision of the discoid tissue but also lipo suction of the periferal disc adiposity.
is there anything besides surgery i can do to get rid of man boobs?
gynecomastia is male breast developement which may be caused by endocrine or genetic disorders medications recreational drugs or extra weight due to increased estrogen levels. the most common cause is idiopathic or unknown. breast cancer can occur in males as well. it is recommended that you be evaluated and surgery is effective at treating this. symptomatic is usually covered by insurance.
is there anything besides surgery i can do to get rid of man boobs?
gynecomastia is best treated by ubcutaneous mastectomy (surgical excision).
i have varicocele and gynecomastia and suffer from leg and lower back pain after masturabating and also water like sperm. can it lead to infertility?
your symptoms sound like a hormone imbalance possibly related to medications you are already taking. consult with a physician for laboratory analysis and medication review. infertility is a question of failure to conceive involving both you and your partner and can rarely be predicted.
i have varicocele and gynecomastia and suffer from leg and lower back pain after masturabating and also water like sperm. can it lead to infertility?
a varicocoele can increase the temperature of the testicles and decrease sperm production.
is there a medicak problem for over sized male breasts? how do you rectify it? to reduce the size? exercise doesn't seem to be doing much good. help!
the medical term for enlarggement of the male breasts is gynecomastia. it has been nicknamed moobs (man boobs). excerise helps if the breast enlargement is due to being over weight. if the enlargement is due to breast tissue surgery is the best treatment.
is there a medicak problem for over sized male breasts? how do you rectify it? to reduce the size? exercise doesn't seem to be doing much good. help!
<link> org/news-and-resources/september-2012/gynecomastia-abnormally-enlarged-male-breasts-becoming-less-of-a-taboo-topic. html.
is there a medicak problem for over sized male breasts? how do you rectify it? to reduce the size? exercise doesn't seem to be doing much good. help!
gynecomastia is well known. some medications may be related obesity is related hormonal disorders and some tumors are causative have a good thorough exam.
i have gynecomastia how would i be able to increase my testosterone and estrogen levels?
best not to “treat” the gynecomastia by attempting to manipulate your hormonal levels. if you have concerns about abnormal hormonal levels being causative of the gynecomastia best to seek consultation with an endocrinologist. if in the long term gynecomastia remains a concern surgical correction may be indicated; usually involves direct excision of gland tissue and/or liposuction surgery.
i have gynecomastia how would i be able to increase my testosterone and estrogen levels?
if you increase your estrogen levels your gynecomastia may worsen. if you have concerns about your hormone levels consider consultation with an endocrinologist.
i had gynocomastia done. but the skin is lstill lax. i don't want to have another scar the laxity is not too much but still noticeable options?
although some manufacturers of lasers and other devices make great claims about skin contraction in my experience these results are greatly exaggerated.
i had gynocomastia done. but the skin is lstill lax. i don't want to have another scar the laxity is not too much but still noticeable options?
if you have scars consider a revision where your old scars are used again to remove the excess skin you are concerned about. other ways of tightening skin do exist but are not as effective as skin excision.
im just wondering if my dr. said i got gynocomastia does that goes in my chart.
if you were told a diagnosis then it should be documented appropriately in your chart would be expected.
im just wondering if my dr. said i got gynocomastia does that goes in my chart.
since gynecomastia is abnormal enlargement of the male breasts i suspect it would be recorded in your medical record. is that a problem?
im just wondering if my dr. said i got gynocomastia does that goes in my chart.
complicated question and i'm curious as to your motivation but yes any abnormal symptom or physical exam finding discussed during a visit should be documented in the medical record. if you know of a reason why you might have gynecomastia (mj non-prescribed testosterone use) you really should level w/ your doctor.
im just wondering if my dr. said i got gynocomastia does that goes in my chart.
if the observation is correct it is a significant physical finding and needs clarification as to why? you have it. hormonal medication induced.
i have to undergo gynecomastia. i stopped smoking tobacco for a month. do i still have to tell my anesthesiologist about my habit in the past?
in order to achieve the best care possible it is in your best interests to make sure that all of your physicians know about your past and current medical history and habits. best wishes.
i have to undergo gynecomastia. i stopped smoking tobacco for a month. do i still have to tell my anesthesiologist about my habit in the past?
always tell your physicians your full health and smoking history. smokers may have more problems with anesthesia such as cough and secretions. your anesthesiologist should know this in advance even if you quit smoking a month ago.
i have to undergo gynecomastia. i stopped smoking tobacco for a month. do i still have to tell my anesthesiologist about my habit in the past?
smoking has some negative effects on the lung that can affect your anesthetic. if you stop smoking the effects can take up to three months to disappear. the anesthesiologist will not be disappointed in you for smoking more likely they will encourage you to keep up the good work. good job.
i have to undergo gynecomastia. i stopped smoking tobacco for a month. do i still have to tell my anesthesiologist about my habit in the past?
please do. it isn't fair to expect a doctor to be able to provide you with safe anesthesia if he or she does not know your medical history.
impotence and gynocomastia from the time of puberty. what should i do?
hi if you have not been to a men's health expert then it may be time. if i knew where you are located i could perhaps help you. if you have been to this type of doctor please give me more information on what was tested what the findings were. i have a millon other questions.
impotence and gynocomastia from the time of puberty. what should i do?
the clue is gynecomastia which suggests an excess of estrogen in relation to testosterone. too much e can also cause ed. exercise can help shed fat weight thereby lowering e & allowing your t to do its thing. if that's not enough some doctors will talk to you about an aromatase inhibitor to lower e. tobacco doesn't help your ed either so quit smoking.
i am 19 years old and i have a pointy chest. i think it is gynocomastia. can it be cured without surgery?
you are a male. are you taking about your breasts? in that case could be gynecomastia. young man could have it and will subside with time. but if you have a pigeon chest that is a deformity of your sternum and ribs (pectus carinatum). that will need surgery to correct. google the term and see what do you indeed have. if it is gynecomastia i would pe patient.
i am 19 years old and i have a pointy chest. i think it is gynocomastia. can it be cured without surgery?
what do you mean by a "pointy chest"? gynecomastia is a condition in which males develop breast tissue enlargement. it usually is benign meaning nothing to be worried about but you should see your doctor to check if this is a new onset condition.
i am 19 years old and i have a pointy chest. i think it is gynocomastia. can it be cured without surgery?
only very mild forms will respond and i have treated nearly anorexic males with 4% body fat that still require surgery. while some claims of external ultrasound or radio frequency have been made i have tried and am. it impressed with the results if there is any degree if breast tissue enlargement. hormone pills are not reliable and not generally recommended. exercise may camouflage mild cases.
i'm 18. i have no pain but i have large areolas and lost a lot of weight recently. i am not positive if i have gynecomastia but do you think it will go away?
many young men get enlarged breasts at puberty. usually they subside and become normal in about three years. if they persist even after three years > you might need surgery. see a board certified plastic surgeon in your area.
i'm 18. i have no pain but i have large areolas and lost a lot of weight recently. i am not positive if i have gynecomastia but do you think it will go away?
consultation with board certified plastic surgeons may be helpful. during the consultation process a history and physical examination will likely be very helpful. make sure you provide a list of all medications and/or drugs you use. hormonal studies although sometimes helpful are not mandatory. if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue.
i'm 18. i have no pain but i have large areolas and lost a lot of weight recently. i am not positive if i have gynecomastia but do you think it will go away?
if your gynecomastia is related to your weight and your weight loss left you with deflated breasts skin can shrink but if you do not appreciate this over a few months you will have to consider surgical reduction. there is no non-surgical way to diminish the size of your areola.
i am having puffy nips coming outwards round please help me when i wear a t shirt it looks weird to me can you help me please?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight people can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue be required.
is it common for cyst to form under nipple in male? swells up oneday next day smaller. should i be worried about male breast cancer? 27 yr old male
it would be highly unlikely to be breast cancer but it could be gynecomastia where breast tissue develops in men. it could be related to meds or other causes and your doctor can review these with you. or it could be either a sebaceous or epidermal cyst which can be managed quite easily.
i'm 77 a male diagnosed with gynecomastia (non-cancerous tender lump size of walnut under one nipple). doctor wants to start tamoxifen. is this necessary?
if you are very sure this isn't male breast cancer (i'm going to assume it was biopsied) and it doesn't bug you you're within your rights to have it left alone. you can also get with a surgeon and have the thing out in the office. truth be told i'm wondering whether communications may have broken with with your own physician & if it's not time just this once for a 2nd opinon just for this reasn.
i'm 77 a male diagnosed with gynecomastia (non-cancerous tender lump size of walnut under one nipple). doctor wants to start tamoxifen. is this necessary?
gynecomastia can be treated with tamoxifen in certain circumstances (usually with partial response) after ruling out certain conditions and drug effects. whether it is necessary for you i can't say. make sure your doc answers your questions to your satisfaction before you take any drug. he may have very valid reasons to try it but you always have the right for a second opinion too.
i'm 77 a male diagnosed with gynecomastia (non-cancerous tender lump size of walnut under one nipple). doctor wants to start tamoxifen. is this necessary?
you are a 77 year old male who has gynecomastia. your doctor wants to start tamoxifen but you do not have breast cancer. whenever you have a new diagnosis make sure you spend the time to discuss with your doctor the reason for any new medication. also talk with your pharmacist regarding interactions of medications. if you are uncomfortable seek a second opinion before starting.
i am 6'4" and around 250 lbs and i want to lose weight. how i can decrease the size of my chest (man boobs) and stomach?
you are wise in achieving a long-term stable weight. you will find that a regular exercise program and a healthy diet will go a long way in helping you achieve your goals. once you have achieved your long-term stable weight if the gynecomastia is persistent surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue and peripheral liposuction.
i have a very painful breast lump under my nipple. ii'm 16. could this be serious?
pubertal gynecomastia may effect the majority of males as the begin their pubertal transition. most are minimal and last 6m to a year but occasional longer episodes do occur (1-3yr) spongy glandular tissue directly under the nipple defines the process.
is there any way to reverse gynocomastia?
this is usually done with surgery. liposuction can be used to sculpt the fatty tissue in the area. direct removal of the gland with a small incision or "pull-through" technique can be used to remove any residual firm glandular tissue.
is there any way to reverse gynocomastia?
there is no medication will reverse gynocomastia once develops surgical corrections done more often for psychological reasons.
i'm a 17 year old male and i have a little lump under my left nipple it hurts a little when i apply pressure on it do i have male breast cancer?
this is probably gynecomastia a little bit of breast development from teen hormones. being a teen is difficult enough without this. have your physician take a look; removing it is a simple procedure.
i'm a 17 year old male and i have a little lump under my left nipple it hurts a little when i apply pressure on it do i have male breast cancer?
it is common for teenage males to develop a small amount of breast tissue under the nipple which is called gynecomastia. it feels like a firm nodule and can be moved around a little bit. usually a little tender. that said the other doctors that commented on this answer are absolutely right. any new lesion has to be examined by a doctor & possibly some imaging studies done. please see your doctor.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia or if i'm just fat?
if you still have breasts it's gynecomastia. or pinch it: if texture is dense and cobblestoney is gland if soft and compressible it's fat. compare the feel to an abdominal fat roll. or you can get an mri or ct.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia or if i'm just fat?
actual breast tissue feels firm. fat is softer. visit gynecomastia. org to find an experienced plastic surgeon in your area.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia or if i'm just fat?
gynecomastia refers to abnormal male breast enlargement and does not occur in females.
how might a man detect breast cancer without going to a doctor?
it is usually detected as a lump behind the nipple. that being said a benign condition called gynecomastia is far more common in men than breast cancer.
how is a subcutaneous mastectomy different from a normal mastectomy?
subcu mastectomy leaves the areola and nipple intact but removes 90 to 95ish % of the breast tissue hard to see in upper outer quadrant toward axilla -from the usual inframammary fold incision line- therefore have to be careful in getting all the breast tissue out --- often used in a boy with ptotic gynecomastia ie large breasts.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia?
differentiating between weight induced breast size increase and true breast tissue growth can be safely done by your md. important to do so if you feel that your breast have grown.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia or male breast enlargement is caused by an over development of the glandular breast tissue of the breast. it is often also used to describe any enlargement of the male breast including that from weight gain (primarily fat). the diagnosis is made by physical examination. there are many causes so if you have a recent or ongoing change in breast size see you doctor.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia?
are your breasts enlarged? do they stick out in a tight t-shirt? if so you have gynecomastia.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is simply breast tissue in a man. it may occur at certain ages where there are peak hormone levels. you may suspect this if you have had a gradual increase in fat-like tissue under your nipple either on one or both sides. this is best confirmed by physical examination by a physician often supplemented with an ultrasound.
is gynexin the best remover for gynecomastia? thanx
i have found that gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
is gynexin the best remover for gynecomastia? thanx
you're paying money for a bunch of herbs. while i wish we knew more about exactly what herbs do -- the subject is fascinating -- the ads also suggest that surgery is dangerous painful disfiguring even "embarrassing". it is none of these. you're being manipulated by their ads -- the scars will be tiny and who really looks hard at your nipples anyway? outpatient trip to a good surgeon.
i have a very painful breast lump under my nipple. i'm 16 so what could it be?
gynecomastia which is a temporary sore breast lump that sometimes occurs in young men. usually on one side tender to touch without skin redness. i also agree with the possibilities described by dr. sarraga. best to be seen by your doctor for an evaluation.
is it true that progesterone cream helps to eliminate man boobs?
my gynecomastia surgery patients have not had success with creams. for men with breast tissue and / or excess fat around the breast area surgery seems to be the only answer. <link>
i have man boobs what exercises can i do to get rid of them?
if not depending on the severity liposuction excision of gynecomastia (male breast enlargement) or noninvasive techniques. best to consult with a board certified plastic surgeon.
i have man boobs what exercises can i do to get rid of them?
exercise alone may not be enough to decrease the size of fatty tissue around your chest. you may need to change your diet in order to achieve the results you are after. some men have a condition called gynecomastia which may be beyond what diet and exercise can change. a board certified plastic or breast surgeon can help diagnose and treat you.
is gynecomastia harmful?
i think the answer to your question would depend on whether the enlarged breast gland causes physical and/or psychosocial “distress”. if so and if persistent it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
is gynecomastia harmful?
gynecomastia simply means feminzation of a man's breast. it is not hamrful in the majority but can cause psycohological distress and is easiy surgically treated by a plastic surgeon. causes are many and include medication side effects thc use (marijuana) and other drugs obesity endocrine disorders and familal causes and rarely from a cancer.
is gynecomastia harmful?
while gynecomastia typically causes anxiety regarding ones appearance there is a small possibility of a cancer in a male breast. best to see your local plastic surgeon who can do a thorough history and exam and help determine the cause and potential treatment options for your problem.
is gynecomastia harmful?
gynecomastia or male breasts isn't physically harmful but can be psychologically or emotionally traumatizing. it could be due to excess estrogen relative to testosterone so adjusting that ratio might be enough. if not and it bothers you consult plastic surgeon.
is gynecomastia harmful?
i presume that you are inquiring if there are dangers associated with enlarged breasts in males. the answer is rarely yes as breast cancer is a remote possibility. usually though the younger male with enlarged breasts is commonly plagued by psychosocial issues & possibly sensitivity of nipples & pain in the breast in a few. if medical issues are ruled out then surgical correction is the treatment.
is gynecomastia harmful?
since roughly half of males go through transient gynecomastia at the onset of puberty and most resolve within 6m to a year it's hard to consider it a horrible affliction. a few will have persistent or dramatic gynecomastia. if its not due to some medical condition or drug use is primarily a cosmetic issue. it can erode someones self concept surgery is helpful.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia if i don't have 7000 dollars laying around?
it is best to seek medical attention to find the cause of the gynecomastia which is more likely to be a hormonal imbalance which would not require surgery.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia if i don't have 7000 dollars laying around?
gynecomastia surgical treatment depends on the degree of the problem and other health risks associated. the cost can vary depending on the actual procedure needed and the type of anesthesia required from around $3500 to $7500 in our area.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia if i don't have 7000 dollars laying around?
frequently gynecomastia today is caused by anabolic steroid use. there are also some "prohormone" supplements that can cause male breast development. both of these products should be avoided. if your problem is primarily fat accumulation then liposuction alone can be curative. that should cost significantly less than you are suggesting.
how do you define male breast cancer?
develops a lump or assymmetry of breast/pectoral tissue. adolescemt boys commonly get gynecomastia during puberty that may embarrass them but has no clinical import. adult men develop duct cancer just like women but much much less frequently but it can be as lethal or curable as women. all men have remnants/precursors of true breast tissue. find a lump seek a cause and answer from your doc.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia naturally?
if you are an 11-13 yo male who had developed gynecomastia at the start of puberty relax & understand it occurs in ~1/3 of males lasts for a year or so & then fades on its own.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia naturally?
mild cases can be treated by just not manipulating the breast at all. even occasional manipulation can prevent the tissue from going back down to a normal size.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia naturally?
if someone is at their ideal body weight with large breasts then surgery is the only option. however if excess weight is involved major improvements in breast size can often be acheived by getting down to ideal weight. liposuction which is minimally invasive is frequently the treatment of choice.
how do i get rid of male breasts?
large male breasts may be a sign of a hormone imbalance side effect of certain medications or due to use of marijuana. causes such as these are treated by cessation of the causative agent or by taking a different medication. if medical reasons for gynecomastia can be ruled out by your primary physician a plastic surgeon is the best to see for definitive treatment.
how do i get rid of male breasts?
gynecomastia (or man boobs) is actually pretty common and can be caused by a number of things. to treat it you really need to remove not only fatty tissue but also underlying glandular tissue and sometimes skin. some surgeons will simply liposuction the area which often proves ineffective because nothing is done to remove the glandular tissue.
is there a way i can get toned and get rid of my man boobs?
and exercise doesn't help see a plastic surgeon about a gynecomastia reduction surgery.
i had a breast reduction for "gyno. "mass came back! all tests and hormones back normal. breasts swollen and no answers from any doctors including endo?
unclear what type of surgery you have for your gynecomastia did you have biopsy or cosmetic removal it is unusual to come back again speak to your surgeon.
if i have a gynecomastia should i consult to an endocrinologist?
your family doctor is a good place to start. s/he can examine your breast tissue and testicles if necessary as well as asses your risk factors. most gynecomastias after adolescence do not require an endocrinological evaluation and are removed for cosmetic reasons.
if i have a gynecomastia should i consult to an endocrinologist?
the vast majority of patients who present with gynecomastia do not have associated hormonal imbalances. therefore endocrinology consultation is not necessary or mandatory in most cases. at some point you may benefit from consultation with board certified plastic surgeons. learn about the pros/cons associated with gynecomastia surgery. best wishes.
i have gyneacomastia small penis and small hands i am a 62yo male is it a chromosomal problem?
you should see your local doctor first and confirm all of your concerns. you could have your hormones evaluated and chromosomal studies if indicated. speculating on some concerns you have about your characteristics will not help here.
i have gyneacomastia small penis and small hands i am a 62yo male is it a chromosomal problem?
i would need a lot more information to make a diagnosis. small hands and small penis are relative judgments and yours may be absolutely normal. gynecomastia may be a hormone imbalance or a sign of excess estrogen from being too fat. get checked out to be sure.
how bad is the swelling after male breast reduction surgery? i know it will eventually go away but will the swelling make my breasts look even bigger than before the surgery? .
even if you had a lot of breast tissue liposuctioned and or excised the swelling is never more than the the size of your gynecomastia was. i place my patienrs in compression vests for 3-4 weeks and place epifoam over the chest. this is a soft foam pad which uniformally compresses the breast skin and chest to minimize swelling and bruising.
how bad is the swelling after male breast reduction surgery? i know it will eventually go away but will the swelling make my breasts look even bigger than before the surgery? .
with all the swelling in the world you will still be much smaller after gynecomastia surgery. once the swelling is gone (about 3 months) you should be quite happy with the results. good luck from nyc. for more info visit www. drgrossman. com.
how do i tell new lady that i have to wear a bra because i have male breast enlargement?
real gynecomastia (male breast enlargement) is easy to treat surgically. most men who have it would prefer to be rid of it but some men love it. some overweight men have fat that simulates breasts ("pseudogynecomastia"); most men with this don't like it and it can be removed by liposuction. before the shirt comes off tell her -- she may like it or like you for who you are and ignore it.
how can i get rid of my gynecomastia taking any herbal medication?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
how can i get rid of my gynecomastia taking any herbal medication?
there are no readily available herbal methods of eliminating or reducing gynecomastia other than losing weight for the fatty component. the glandular component will require resection.
how can i get rid of my gynecomastia taking any herbal medication?
do you mean "is there an herbal that will improve the problem once it exists? "(no) or do you mean "could the herbal be causing gynecomastia & would stopping it help? "(yes & maybe). the best treatment in my opinion is slim lipo with 3-4 months continuous postop compression with surgical garment.
i am 19 and i have manboobs after losing a lot of weight. i have a small body but moobs. help me pls.
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
i am 19 and i have manboobs and if i were to take testosterone supp will it help? or fat burners?
will not help you have gynecomastia only way is by surgical correction see a plastic surgeon.
is surgery is the only way to get rid of gynecomestia? is the use of tablets cause sideffects?
in plastic surgery we look at the degree of gynecomastia as well as the cause. a small amount around the nipple areolar complex can be treated with liposuction and sculpting to avoid a depression. as the breast becomes more droopy there is an excess of skin as well as fat and gland tissue. we then have to do liposuction as well as direct excision hiding scars in the shape. stop causal meds/food.
is surgery is the only way to get rid of gynecomestia? is the use of tablets cause sideffects?
options for treatment of gynecomastia are 1) observation 2) drug therapy or 3) surgical intervention. drug therapies can always have potential side effects which should be considered when choosing a treatment plan n.
i had gynocomastia the glands removed now i have extra skin it's not that much that it needs excision can i do pec implants or rf skintighting?
most of the time extra skin molds it self at your age with exercise and time. if you want better appearance see a plastic surgeon will hep you and they are not for just woman only more and more men are seeking cosmetic surgeons
is gynomastia reversable?
gynecomastia involves the breast tissue and while most young males have some breast enlargement during puberty and it is temporary true gynecomastia is an overgrowth of breast tissue and seldom resolves without surgery. being overweight can cause breast enlargement but the breast tissue is not really involved and weight loss will usually take care of the problem .
i had uti several times. i experience pain in my testicles after urination and sometimes there is swelling in the veins on my testes. i got a culture done and it had e. coli; there are pus cells in semen and urine. any treatment?
there are medications that can cause gynecomasia as well as excessive use of cannabis. teen age boys often have some and sometimes it does not regress with adulthood. excessive estrogen is a very rare cause. gynecomastia needs to be distinguished from obesity. supplements are not your answer. see your doctor.
i had uti several times. i experience pain in my testicles after urination and sometimes there is swelling in the veins on my testes. i got a culture done and it had e. coli; there are pus cells in semen and urine. any treatment?
there are no supplements to reduce gynecomastia.
can you use nolvadex (tamoxifen) to get rid of gynecomastia?
nolvadex (tamoxifen) is effective in reducing estrogen driven gynecomastia. it works to prevent better than to treat the problem and is given prophyllactically when men are given estrogens to treat various disease states.
can you use nolvadex (tamoxifen) to get rid of gynecomastia?
once the breast tissue has grown and developed into true glandular gynecomastia only surgical treatment is effective.
can you use nolvadex (tamoxifen) to get rid of gynecomastia?
although tamoxifen is not fda-approved for this use multiple studies have been published demonstrating it's benefit treating gynecomastia. it is probably most beneficial early in the development of the disease. if no effect is seen after three months continuing the drug further is probably not helpful.
could testosterone pills make my gynecomastia go away and make me gain muscle?
testosterone pills will make your gynecomastia worse. you'll possibly develop an imbalance between testosterone and estrogen and your breast tissue could enlarge.
could testosterone pills make my gynecomastia go away and make me gain muscle?
it may not make your gynecomastia away and it will be easier to build muscle but your balls will grow smaller and you will have increased risk of prostate issues.
could testosterone pills make my gynecomastia go away and make me gain muscle?
steroids can cause gynecomastia.
can gynecomastia make my nipples leak a clear liquid?
nipple discharge of any kind is not typically seen with gynecomastia. best to be evaluated by your physician to determine cause of this charge. best wishes.
can gynecomastia make my nipples leak a clear liquid?
it may not be gynecomastia doing this. either there is irritation of the nipple and you are seeing oozing as liquid or it maybe a sign of pathology in the breast tissue. you definitely need to see a doctor preferably a breast doctor.
can gynecomastia make my nipples leak a clear liquid?
the same thing causing the gynecomastia may cause the disch. if there is a family history of breast cancer must get mammogram. removal by surgery or laser lipo may be good options.
can men without breasts get breast cancer?
just because a male does not have breast enlargement (gynecomastia) does not eliminate their risk of getting breast cancer. breast cancer in men is not very common but happens more than most think. there is breast tissue in all men.
can a 15-year-old boy get breast cancer?
junior needs to be evaluated by a physician. most often this is gynecomastia and junior deserves the option of having the lump removed -- being a 15 year old boy is difficult enough without growing beast buds which is no fault of his. and all breast masses need to be seen also because of the (here remote) possibility of cancer.
can my doctor give me testosterone pills for my gynecomastia?
first testosterone pills aren't really safe (dangerous to liver). second excess testosterone is converted into estrogen which then exacerbates gynecomastia (male breasts). instead check your estrogen level and block conversion of testosterone into estrogen w/aromatase inhibitor such as anastrazole (prescription breast cancer drug). of course diet & exercise help too! less fat = less gyno.
can my doctor give me testosterone pills for my gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is more complex than just prescribing testosterone for it. i do bio-identical hormone replacement in miami fl but my management of gynecomastia is not solely based on giving the patient testosterone. an evaluation by a cosmetic or plastic surgeon experienced in both gynecomastia removal surgery liposculture and hormone replacement is your best option.
can my doctor give me testosterone pills for my gynecomastia?
estrogen dependent gynecomastia can sometimes respond to anti estrogen drugs like tamoxifen however. testosterone can cause gynecomastia.
can my doctor give me testosterone pills for my gynecomastia?
low testosterone does not cause gynecomastia but high estrinics to testosterone ratio will in addition to a familiar predisposition. evaluation by your primary care physician or endocrinologist will resolve the issue.
can my doctor give me testosterone pills for my gynecomastia?
your doctor can determine whether or not you have a testosterone imbalance and also what the cause of the gynecomastia is. see your doctor for an examination and proper treatment.
can men develop breast cancer?
breast cancer is much more rare in men than women with a lifetime risk of app. 1:100 000. risk factors in men include a strong family history gynecomastia or high estrogen levels as sometimes seen in men with liver disease.
can tamoxifen help me get rid of my gynecomastia?
but i wouldn't want to try it outside of a clinical trial.
can tamoxifen help me get rid of my gynecomastia?
tamoxifen is an anti estrogen prescribed for hormonal dependent breast cancer in females also for prevention of breast cancer. i am not aware of the use of tamoxifen in males. most gynecomastias are caused by medications. simply lowering the dosis or stopping them there will be improvement. tamoxifen is indicated for mastalgia ( not gynecomastia) in females but not in males.
can tamoxifen help me get rid of my gynecomastia?
it is an anti-estrogen drug which may keep the condition from getting worse but it probably won't reverse it.
could my gynecomastia because of a kidney tumor?
some adrenal tumors that interact with the pituitary gland might be. the adrenal gland is attached to the upper pole of the kidney but is distinct in function from the kidney.
could my gynecomastia because of a kidney tumor?
not from a primary kidney tumor but be careful- is it an adrenal cancer overlapping and involving the kidney instead - your doctor should know.
could my gynecomastia because of a kidney tumor?
gynecomastia can develop in so called "para-neoplastic syndromes" but in general that is not the case. a complete endocrinologic and physical examination is necessary. i certainly would hope that a kidney tumor is not in the background.
has anyone that has taken citalopram experienced enlarged breasts?
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (ssri) type antidepressants like celexa (citalopram) zoloft prozac paxil (paroxetine) and lexapro can cause breast enlargement both in women and men (gynecomastia).
has anyone that has taken citalopram experienced enlarged breasts?
gynecomastia is rare with ssris.
help! my boyfriend has man boobs. what can he do?
lots of things can contribute to 'man boobs' aka gynecomastia. pot muscle building supplements and steroids certain medications and even testicular cancer can do it. have him checked by his regular doctor and possibly by an endocrinologist to be sure.
how much should my breasts increase in size if i have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is a benign enlargement of the male breast and is defined clinically by the presence of a rubbery or firm mass extending concentrically from the nipples. although the condition is usually bilateral it can be unilateral. the condition known as pseudogynecomastia or lipomastia is characterized by fat deposition.
how much should my breasts increase in size if i have gynecomastia?
anything more that normal breast tissue in a man is called gynecomastia. typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
how much should my breasts increase in size if i have gynecomastia?
gyneocomastia calvary in extent from mild to severe. i do not think anyone can answer this question for you. weight control and avoidance of certain drugs or medications such as spironolactone or marijuana is important as well.
how long does pubertal gynecomastia last?
pubertal gynecomastia may effect the majority of males as the begin their pubertal transition. most are minimal and last 6m to a year but occasional longer episodes do occur (1-3yr) it is important to separate the true process from fatty breast enlargement that produces a false gynecomastia in overweight kids. spongy glandular tissue directly under the nipple is absent in the false case.
how long does pubertal gynecomastia last?
difficult to pinpoint an “average” duration of adolescent gynecomastia; for many young men this process continues for 1 to 2 years before resolving spontaneously. for many however the process continues into adulthood. gynecomastia can be seen in all age groups.
how to tell between male breast cancer and temporary puberty boobs?
the temporary puberty that you are referring to is called gynecomastia and can be common in men. it is seen at puberty but can also be seen in grown men who are overweight (the man boob) or due to medications. male breast cancer usually occurs on 1 side and is firm. i recommend getting evaluated by your family doctor who can refer you to a surgeon for complete evaluation.
how to tell between male breast cancer and temporary puberty boobs?
gynecomastia describes prominent breast tissue in men very common at puberty. breast cancer is virtually unheard of in male teens. if there is no strong family history of breast cancer your son's pediatrician will be able to reassure you and your son by exam alone without the need for any testing.
how do i lose man boobs fast without surgery?
if at the age 38 you have a large breast and you are not obese you must see your doctor to rule out gynecomastia primary or secondary. some of the cause of gynecomastia is testicular tumor pituitary or adrenal tumor smoking of marijuana etc. your best bet is to see an endocrinologist.
i have got puffy nipples for more than 3 yrs. when i bath or in cold it contracts. is this fat? it can be removed? and how? thank u
gynecomastia is the development of glandular breast tissue. if the "man boobs" have glandular tissue they sometimes respond to estrogen blockers like tamoxifen and reloxifine. if the tissue is fat medication will not help. surgery is an option but may not effect nipples.
if your gynemostia is idiopathic would taking tamoxifen or raloxifene be harmful?
whatever your age most men with gynecomastia prefer surgery which is effective definitive and easy. i'll trust this is not pseudogynecomastia and that your thyroid and liver are in good working order. tamoxifen is acceptable if for some reason surgery isn't right foryou.
if your gynemostia is idiopathic would taking tamoxifen or raloxifene be harmful?
these are both very safe drugs to use. yet i am not aware of any experience in using them for gynecomastia and whether they can help or not. you could try under the supervision of your doctor if he/she is open to this idea.
is it possible that i have gynecomastia or is it just regular fat on my man boobs?
your physician can tell easily by feel. don't try to guess yoruself. both are very much worth treating surgically though the procedures are different.
is it possible that i have gynecomastia or is it just regular fat on my man boobs?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. usually physical examination is all that is necessary to differentiate breast tissue from adipose tissue. consultation with board certified plastic surgeons may be helpful.
i've grade 2 gynecomastia will it go away over time?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
i've grade 2 gynecomastia will it go away over time?
are you overweight? this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. if you aren't simply overweight consider seeing your md. you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
is it possible to have marijuana induced gynecomastia?
marijuana is one of the known causes of gynecomastia. true gynecomastia needs to be distinguished from fat (obesity). stopping the weed will probably help but it will take a while.
is it possible to have marijuana induced gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” including the use of marijuana most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause).
i need to know what is the difference between gyno and man boobs?
gynecomastia is real breast duct tissue and edematous stroma in a man. "man boobs" is a vulgar term for gynecomastia fat in the breast area or big pectoralis major muscles. surgery is appropriate for the first two.
i am wondering what causes gynecomastia?
this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue including endocrine tumors. if you aren't simply overweight consider seeing your md. you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
i am wondering what causes gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
can you place test cream on a males nipple to get rid of gynecomastia? i took a supplement that gave me mild gynecomastia
there's no topical cream that will cure or correct gynecomastia. surgery is required. check out www. gynecomastia. org - a great forum.
can you place test cream on a males nipple to get rid of gynecomastia? i took a supplement that gave me mild gynecomastia
there are some supplements including steroids and marijuana that can cause gynecomastia. sometimes if you stop taking them then the gynecomastia resolves. if it doesn't the surgery is the only solution.
can you place test cream on a males nipple to get rid of gynecomastia? i took a supplement that gave me mild gynecomastia
no there is no cream that will get rid of gynecomastia. i would advise stopping the supplement if you have not already done so. weight loss if you are overweight may help. if your gynecomastia persists please see an endocrinologist or plastic surgeon for evaluation.
can my local general practitioner doctor do anything about man boobs?
large male breasts may be a sign of a hormone imbalance side effect of certain medications or due to use of marijuana. causes such as these are treated by cessation of the causative agent or by taking a different medication. if medical reasons for gynecomastia can be ruled out by your primary physician a plastic surgeon is the best to see for definitive treatment.
can jogging and sit-ups get rid of man boobs?
if the man boobs are part of general obesity losing weight will reduce the masses. however some men have abnormally enlarged breasts gynecomastia that may require surgical removal.
can aromatase inhibitor help me get rid of gynecomastia?
much will depend on your specific situation and on your own physician's thoughts after physical examination. i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
can aromatase inhibitor help me get rid of gynecomastia?
aromatase inhibitors such as arimidex (anastrozole) can decrease the tenderness associated with gynecomastia but the size seldom fully disappears. it may nevertheless be worth discussing with your physician.
can aromatase inhibitor help me get rid of gynecomastia?
no unlikely to help.
how is gynecomastia surgery done?
a skilled plastic surgeon may use several different techniques depending on the anatomic severity at hand. periareolar incisions and liposuction techniques are often used and can be incomplete and unsatisfactory but combination excision and lipo can yield nice results with minimal scarring. more severe cases will require skin incisions and scars. technique and experience is important here.
how is gynecomastia surgery done?
excision and liposuction depending on severity.
how is gynecomastia surgery done?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary. best wishes.
how is gynecomastia surgery done?
it is often done with liposuction but if there is a lot of breast tissue involved an incision will need to be made to cut the fibrous tissue that won't come out with lipo alone.
how can i get rid of hardened fluid in pocket where gynecomastia was removed surgically?
best to see your surgeon to see your options. do you know if it is a fluid collection hematoma bruising or is it healing firm scar tissue? how long ago was your surgery? your surgeon could aspirate fluid with a needle if indicated. if it is a hematoma or scarring it will resolve with time.
how can i get rid of hardened fluid in pocket where gynecomastia was removed surgically?
you need to be examined by your gynecomastia surgeon.
how can i get rid of hardened fluid in pocket where gynecomastia was removed surgically?
needle fluid aspiration.
how to tell difference between gyno and breast cancer?
gynecomastia right? you probably want it removed surgically; the pathologist will take a look at it and you'll know for sure. symmetric enlargement under a man's nipples is almost always gynecomastia; if it ulcerates or keep growing or is invading then it's time for biopsy or wide excision.
how to reduce gynomastia swelling without surgery?
depending on age and cause of the gynecomastia some young men respond to an antiestrogen such as tomoxafin. talk to an endocrinologist.
how can i get rid of man boobs?
man boobs may represent gynecomastia which is a swelling of the breast tissue due to hormones most likely estrogen. this may due to medications but is increasingly seen as part of metabolic syndrome associated with obesity and excess abdominal fat. try losing weight first. if they persist surgery may be in order.
how can i get rid of man boobs?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
how does one treat teen gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
how does one treat teen gynecomastia?
about 2/3 of all boys going through puberty have some breast development at the beginning. persistent gynecomastia may be related to familial tendency obesity or some other hormonal disorder. certain drugs like marijuana can contribute to this. if hormonal disorders and other medical causes are ruled out persistent gynecomastia is referred on to plastic surgery at our institution.
how can i get rid of pubertal gynecomestia?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
i need your expertise is gynecomastia curable?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
i need your expertise is gynecomastia curable?
gynecomastia can actually be caused by underlying medical conditions in older men. the best thing to do is have an evaluation by your physician to rule out any underlying causes. if negative then surgery may be an option.
i need advice with gynecomastia?
while most cases of gynecomastia have no known cause it can occasionally be associated with other abnormalities and is often temporary in teenage boys. start with your doctor. if he/she feels you need surgery see a board-certified plastic surgeon to discuss your options. this is a common procedure that can achieve excellent results with the right surgeon/patient/problem combination.
i need advice with gynecomastia?
pubertal gynecomastia often resolves within 1 to 3 years after onset. adult onset gynecomastia however does not necessarily do so. if persistent it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery may suffice.
im 20 and i think i may have gynecomastia but not 100% sure. what do i need to know?
gynecomastia may be the result of actual glandular enlargement (sometimes due to hormonal imbalance) and/or accumulation of excess adipose (fat) tissues surrounding and behind the breast tissue. assuming this shows on both sides having an examination with primary doctor can help make the diagnosis and determine what is primary cause. if fat accum some use liposuction techniques to reduce.
im 20 and i think i may have gynecomastia but not 100% sure. what do i need to know?
with youthful male gynecomastia- please have pcp check your testicles for some type growth?
i'm a guy with curves and man boobs what is wrong with me?
are you overweight? you are not alone. consider seeing your pmd regarding helping you get set up with a diet and exercise program. speaking with a nutritionalist may be of benefit as well. good luck! you should be examined by your pmd as well for evidence of breast mass or true gynocomastia.
i have a man boobs. is it okay to take a zinc supplements before i sleep?
do you have excess breast tissue because you are overweight? if you are of normal weight and still feel as tho you have "man boobs" this may be a condition known as gynocomastia. this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger problem. if you aren't overweight consider seeing your md.
i'm 19 and have type 1 gynecomastia. what would be the best treatment?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
i'm 19 and have type 1 gynecomastia. what would be the best treatment?
gynocomastia can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork. with type 1 liposuction best first choice understand the skin will retract some and may need later resection.
i need to know what is a mastectomy?
of breast. it has several versions: subcutaneous (for gynecomastia) partial simple (or total) modified radical or rarely radical.
i need to know what is the best way to lose weight (manboobs)?
once gynacomastia or enlarged breast in men develops will not go away with out surgical correction. you will loose weight if you want and work for it consume less calories go to gym almost every day if you walk 1 mile you spend only 100 cal. to loose 1 lb of fat by have to burn 3500 cal. so lot of work involved go for it.
is it possible that i have gynecomastia?
are you overweight? this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. if you aren't simply overweight consider seeing your md. you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
is it possible that i have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. the diagnosis can be made by physical examination where relatively firm tissue (breast gland tissue) can be differentiated from relatively soft tissue (adipose tissue).
is it typical for a 13 year old to have "1" sided gynecomastia?
roughly half of males go through transient nipple enlargement on one or both sides at the onset of puberty. most resolve within 6m to a year it is considered normal. i went through it. a few will have persistent or dramatic gynecomastia. it can erode someones self concept surgery is helpful for those who don't clear up after a year or so.
is it typical for a 13 year old to have "1" sided gynecomastia?
one-sided presentation of gynecomastia is not unusual but it will be best for the young man to be seen in person for evaluation. the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative. gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery.
i have a golf ball size lumps behind my nipples for 2-3 years. help with gynecomastia please. i am currently 16?
typically it is recommended that you wait until completion of the majority the pubertal growth spurt which is around 18 for most males. if you proceed at an earlier date you may need another surgery for remvoval log more tissue and occasionally this is performed with parents consent for extreme cases. you may want to see your pediatrician to exclude medical causes and drugs to avoid for meantime.
i have a golf ball size lumps behind my nipples for 2-3 years. help with gynecomastia please. i am currently 16?
in-person consultation with your family practitioner and/or plastic surgeon is a good place to start. accurate history and physical examination is important. eliminating “causes” of gynecomastia is also important. surgical treatment usually involves partial excision of the glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. again much of what is recommended will depend on specific physical exam.
is there any medication that i can take to recuse gynecomastia man boobs i have had them since puberty i am 18 now and i am sick of it please help.
a plastic/reconstructive surgeon for advise. medication is not very effective unless caused initially by a medication which should be withdrawn if safe to do so.
is there any medication that i can take to recuse gynecomastia man boobs i have had them since puberty i am 18 now and i am sick of it please help.
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. intensity varies from small lump to generous boobs. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
can a pediatric surgeon do the gynecomastia surgery?
most commonly gynecomastia surgery is performed by general or plastic surgeons. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
can a pediatric surgeon do the gynecomastia surgery?
certainly this is within the scope of pedatric surgeons. the real question is timing. if very severe early intervention may be considered. however in the vast majority surgery has been recommended after 18 years of age to alllow for resolution of normal pubertal gynecomastia. at this age most patients are beyond the scope of practice of pediatric surgeons & will seek a general/plastic surgeon.
can a pediatric surgeon do the gynecomastia surgery?
surgery for pure gynecomastia ( when tumor is not suspected ) is a cosmetic surgery more often done by plastic surgeons. most of the insurances will not pay for it.
can gynecomastia cause a clear thick nipple discharge?
nipple discharge of any kind is not typically seen with gynecomastia. best to be evaluated by your physician to determine cause of this charge. best wishes.
can gynecomastia cause a clear thick nipple discharge?
this is not a typical sign of gynecomastia and can be due to a variety of causes but persistent drainage beyond one month should be evaluated by your md with possible endocrinologic screening imaging ductal bushings and/or biopsy to fully determine the nature of the drainage.
can gynecomastia cause a clear thick nipple discharge?
they tend to cause more pain than anything. any persistent nipple discharge should be carefully evaluate by ur doctor.
can gynecomastia cause a clear thick nipple discharge?
whenever there is a nipple discharge you'll need to have a thorough history and physical performed and possibly an endocrine workup. prolactin a hormone usually associated with milk production can be elevated leading to lactation in males.
how would a guy know if they have gynecomastia or just fat breast?
gynecomastia is a small firm painful localized inflammatory mass located under the nipple in men and may be located on only one side. fatty breast findings would be a generalized soft fullness diffusely across the chest on both sides of the chest.
how would a guy know if they have gynecomastia or just fat breast?
both descriptions would fall under the general heading of gynecomastia. . typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
how would a guy know if they have gynecomastia or just fat breast?
men with true gynecomastia usually have easily palpable or felt breast tissue. it's firmer than fat. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
how can you get rid of gynecomastia?
a combination of liposuction or surgery is best mode of treatment.
how can you get rid of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
how can you get rid of gynecomastia?
surgical excision by an abps-certified plastic surgeon is required and liposuction alone usually fails to adequately remove the fibrous glandular component of true gynecomastia. ultrasonic power-assisted or laser liposuction techniques can help but a small periareolar incision is usually needed to remove the actual breast mass properly. if huge skin tailoring may also be necessary!
how can you get rid of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia that's been present for more than a couple of years is usually stable and won't go away without surgery.
how can i treat lipomastia without surgery?
do you mean gynecomastia treatment? if the breast tissue is primarily fatty then weight loss may help.
i had two times glanular glands removed surgically still i have man boobs some loose skin is also around it maybe hormonal disturbance? solution?
depending on how severe your gynecomastia is it should be addressed differently. mild forms can be treated with simple liposuction or direct excision. more severe cases require actual skin removal to prevent excess skin. would definitely meet with an endocrinologist to rule out hormonal causes.
i have a huge hard mass in my rt. groin 16x15cm extending to rt thigh. when the tumor doubled it's size in 0<negative_smiley>13 i began having severe lymphedema.
there are a number of possibilities. lymphadenopathy lymphoma some other tumor sarcoma or even a giant hernia-less likely. general surgery or oncologist surgery may be best to start.
i have a breast lump (1cm diameter) under my right nipple and it feels a little sore when i feel it. i'm a 24 year old male. can this be cancerous?
men can have breast tissue develop breast lumps and even breast cancer. most likely it is gynecomastia - male breast tissue - given your age. your doctor can evaluate this and direct you in the proper treatment.
i have had gynecomastia for over a year. it was attributed to finesteride which i stopped 6 months ago. tenderness persists on 1side. is this unusual?
yes few develop gynecomastia in 3 % when discontinued may or may not reverse to normal size also slight increased incidence of male breast cancer. make sure to see your doctor if needed get a biopsy done
i have had gynecomastia for over a year. it was attributed to finesteride which i stopped 6 months ago. tenderness persists on 1side. is this unusual?
effect of finasteride could be long lasting or even permanent. if you have a palpable residual mass show it to your doctor because it could be in rare cases a tumor.
i would like info about breast growth spurts please?
many breast growth spurts are merely due to growth and hormones depending on age. could be related to being pregnant. the growth spurts are not always normal. could be a mass or cancer. could be related to medications disrupting the normal hormones such as with gynecomastia in males.
i have man boobs from the age of 13. and they growed day by day. now i am of 18 years and have very large boobs. is boobs will go after a few months
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
i am a 19 year old athletic male with gynecomastia help!?
about a half of males will undergo a transient nipple/breast enlargement at he onset of puberty. normally it will resolve slowly as other hormonal changes kick in over about a year. carrying around extra weight can aggravate the issue as fat can masquerade as breast tissue. if persistent after 2+ years i would consult with a cosmetic surgeon about tissue removal ; localized liposuction.
could male breast enlargement be caused by soy productcs?
gynecomastia is generally caused by puberty hormones some medications marijuana use and rarely testicular tumors. some male breast enlargement may be caused or worsened by obesity as well but soy product use is not implicated in this surgically-correctible problem.
could gynecomastia cause nipple discharge?
nipple discharge in a male is not normal. if its fluid or milky it could be galactorrhea which can be caused by medications hormone imbalances and even tumors. you should definitely go get checked out. seek a plastic surgeon for your gynecomastia after you find out what the cause is first for the discharge.
could gynecomastia cause nipple discharge?
be evaluated. it's not a normal part of gynecomastia.
could gynecomastia cause nipple discharge?
gynecomastia is enlargement of breast tissue in men. it is a noncancerous condition. it can cause nipple discharge usually clear or yellow. if you are experiencing blood/red or brown discharge please see your doctor for evaluation.
can gynecomastia be due to hormonal imbalance?
adolescent gynecomastia is usually due to a difference in the metabolic clearance of estrogen and testosterone.
can gynecomastia be due to hormonal imbalance?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
can gynecomastia be due to hormonal imbalance?
that's the primary cause. it usually doesn't get better without surgery. i'm in orlando and perform a lot of gynecomastia surgery. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great for.
how do you tell if you have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia or excessive breast tissue in males can be predominantly adipose or glandular. your surgeon will help you differentiate this and help you decide if breast reduction techniques such as liposuction or open resection vs general weight loss or altering your medications or concomitant disease processes is most appropriate for you.
how do you tell if you have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia or male breast enlargement is caused by an over development of the glandular breast tissue in the breast. it is often also used to describe any enlargement of the male breast including that from weight gain (primarily fat). the diagnosis is made by physical examination. there are many causes so if you have a recent or ongoing change in breast size see you doctor.
how do you tell if you have gynecomastia?
in-person consultation with your family practitioner and/or plastic surgeon is a good place to start. accurate history and physical examination is important. eliminating “causes” of gynecomastia is also important. surgical treatment usually involves partial excision of the glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. again much of what is recommended will depend on specific physical exam.
how do you tell if you have gynecomastia?
any enlargement of the tissues of the chest above the muscle is considered gynecomastia. although in most instances it is excess fat in the area in some patients especially younger ones there is true enlargement of breast tissue. the treatment involves either liposuction or excision of the breast tissue or a combination.
how do i know if i have gynecomastia or just manboobs?
the formal name for man boobs is gynecomastia. typically liposuction is used to correct it. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
how do i know if i have gynecomastia or just manboobs?
many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
how do i know if i have gynecomastia or just manboobs?
man boobs and gynecomastia are equivalent terms and essentially represents a spectrum of breast fullness and associated skin fat and gland excess that vary from normal to markedly abnormal.
how do i know if i have gynecomastia or just manboobs?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
hi mam/sir i am having very small breast. can u suggest me what to do.?
i must apologize but i am not familiar w/presumably indian names so i cannot determine if you are male or female nor your age. if you are a prepubertal female then you'll just have to wait for puberty. if you're a post-pubertal female then you can consider augmentation mammoplasty (implants). if you are male then you'll need to see your doctor regarding gynecomastia treatment -drugs or surgery.
how much does a surgery for gynecomastia work to remove the problem?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is very effetcively treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
how much does a surgery for gynecomastia work to remove the problem?
in the properly selected patient a board certified plastic surgeon usually can satisfactorily resolve the problem. remember there are always "trade offs" for surgery.
how much does a surgery for gynecomastia work to remove the problem?
whether by direct tissue excision or by a liposuction technique surgery for gynecomastia successfully removes the breast tissue. it is important to maintain a smooth breast contour with which ever technique is used.
how do i know my gynecomastia is based off of hormones versus a kidney tumor?
kidney tumors do not produce gynecomastia. the adrenal gland is next to the kidney and very rarely produces female hormones. gynecomastia is common - feminizing adrenal tumors are exceedingly rare.
hi doctor. i am suffering from gynecomastia. i am 24 years old. please help.?
gynecomastia is very common and when not caused by hormonal reasons is easy to treat. the most common treatment today is liposuction either ultrasound or laser-assisted. i advise you to seek consultation with a board-certified plastic surgeon.
hi doctor. i am suffering from gynecomastia. i am 24 years old. please help.?
gynecomastia can be associated with endocrine disorders but this is rare. i would suggest seeing a board-certified plastic surgeon who can give you information on your options and after an examination advise you on the appropriateness of an endocrinology evaluation. good luck!
hi doctor. i am suffering from gynecomastia. i am 24 years old. please help.?
most gynecomastia is benign. if if you have symptom of pain or mass underneath the beast then it time for surgical evaluation.
had gynecomastia due to low testoterone had surgery on nov16. havent smoke weed since october. is it possible i could smoke a joint without a problem?
not a good idea to risk recurrence of the gynecomastia. avoid the use of marijuana or any other agent known to expose you to the risk of recurrence. best wishes.
had gynecomastia due to low testoterone had surgery on nov16. havent smoke weed since october. is it possible i could smoke a joint without a problem?
anything is possible but why risk it. weed is know to lower your testosterone and lower testicular function. whether the breast enlargement was directly due to the weed indirectly due to the weed due to low testoerone due to higher estrogen level or estrogen intake or due to obesity you have take steps to reduce the gynecomastia why would you do something that might cause it to return?
had gynecomastia due to low testoterone had surgery on nov16. havent smoke weed since october. is it possible i could smoke a joint without a problem?
the gynecomastia was probably due to the "weed" you smoked not low testosterone. since it is impossible to totally remove all the breast tissue you could get a recurrence of the gynecomastia if you go back to smoking the "weed. ".
hi dr. i am 19yrs male suffering from gynecomestia. is there any solution to get rid of it without surgery?
gynecomastia is caused by high estrogen levels. this can be the result of soy foods insulin resistance obesity high sugar diet. stop all sugar reduce your carbs and avoid all soy.
hi dr. i am 19yrs male suffering from gynecomestia. is there any solution to get rid of it without surgery?
gynecomastia is very common in teenage men but often goes away by itself with further passage of time. i would advise you to see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgeons to discuss the best options for your individual case. good luck!
hi dr. does hereditary gynecomestia be treated without surgery. i am thin male of 18yrs. old. how can i get rid of it. please give me suggetion?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
hi i am a 19 year old man and my nipples seem to be swollen. one is bigger than the other. but it is really embarresing. i googled gynecomastia. could it be that?
one variation of gynecomastia is puffy nipples. this is caused by excess tissue localized beneath the areola. gynecomastia reduction surgery can remove this excess tissue and provide a smoother profile. more info here: <link>
hi i am a 19 year old man and my nipples seem to be swollen. one is bigger than the other. but it is really embarresing. i googled gynecomastia. could it be that?
puffy nipples/areolas are part of gynecomastia presentation. typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
hi i am a 19 year old man and my nipples seem to be swollen. one is bigger than the other. but it is really embarresing. i googled gynecomastia. could it be that?
you are correct that this is likely male breast tissue-gynecomastia. this is often a normal variant but in some can be due to hormone imbalance. you should be evaluated by your md to make sure. treatment is removal of the tissue. i like to use vaser (ultrasound) liposuction with a small incision to remove the fibrous/fatty tissue and provide skin tightening. rarely a larger incision is needed.
is there any other treatment available for gynecomastia?
first the reason for the problem should be sorted out. some medications or medical problems can lead to this process and treatment may depend on the findings. if no treatable issues are involved a cosmetic surgeon can remove any residual glandular tissue and or do liposuction to remove fat.
is there any other treatment available for gynecomastia?
many men choose to combine a gynecomastia procedure with pectoral etching® a liposuction technique developed to give the chest a more athletic appearance. in a pectoral etching® procedure i use a detailed liposuction technique to outline the pectoralis muscle and axilla in order to reveal the muscular contours of the male chest.
i used finasteride 5mg for yrs. developed gynecomastia which drug withdrawal cured. hair now thinning. is it safe to take 1mg for hair growth!
a reduced dose finasteride is less likely to cause gynecomastia. i would also tell you that gynecomastia is not particularly a health problem but is more of a cosmetic issue. (clearly cosmetic issues are important to you at 71 years of age).
i'm a 19 year old athletic male with gynecomastia. what are my options?
at 19 adolescent gynecomastia should have resolved. if the size is persistent and bothering you consider seeing a board certified plastic surgeon in your area with experience treating male breast enlargement. surgery is the best option in most cases. <link>
i'm a 19 year old athletic male with gynecomastia. what are my options?
about a half of males will undergo a transient nipple/breast enlargement at he onset of puberty. normally it will resolve slowly as other hormonal changes kick in over about a year. carrying around extra weight can aggravate the issue as fat can masquerade as breast tissue. if persistent after 2+ years i would consult with a cosmetic surgeon about tissue removal ; localized liposuction.
i'm a 19 year old athletic male with gynecomastia. what are my options?
gynecomastia can be pubertal or adult type. once medical causes for the problem have been eliminated or treated then a fair number of patients are candidates for surgical correction. see a plastic surgeon in your area and s/he may be able to better guide you better re options specific to you.
i would like to know the ways to find out whether i have gynecomastia or not. if yes how to find out its grade and who should i consult?
there are many causes for gynecomastia including medication effect side effect of marijuana or other drugs pseudogynecomastia obesity endocrine disorders and developmental processes. your doctor can help determine if you have it it's cause and what should be done. the grade is less relevant than the cause but can be determined by a simple ultrasound examination.
i would like to know the ways to find out whether i have gynecomastia or not. if yes how to find out its grade and who should i consult?
gynecomastia simply means feminzation of a man's breast so if your breasts are larger than you would like time to see a physician. causes are many and include medication side effects thc use (marijuana) and other drugs obesity endocrine disorders and familal causes.
i would like to know the ways to find out whether i have gynecomastia or not. if yes how to find out its grade and who should i consult?
doctor and have him/her examine you. they can answer your questions.
i am 16 and i have man boobs is mediation like gyenemax will help me?
this rather crude description describes gynecomastia. unless you are having a social issue they can be ignored. the ultimate treatment is surgery if required. i am not familiar with the gyenemax. so far the only acceptable treatment to my knowledge is surgery. talk to your dr. about this.
i'm a guy with puffy nipples is this bad?
this is most likely a benign condition of breast tissue overgrowth called gynecomastia which can be caused by several factors. male breast cancer is rare but still a possibility. get it checked!
is the gynecomastia or just chest fat?
gynecomastia is a small firm painful localized inflammatory mass located under the nipple in men and may be located on only one side. fatty breast findings would be a generalized soft fullness diffusely across the chest on both sides of the chest.
is the gynecomastia or just chest fat?
about 1/2 males will undergo a transient nipple/breast enlargement at he onset of puberty. carrying extra weigh aggravates the issue as part of the enlargement is fat. most will resolve slowly as other hormonal changes kick in over about a year. if the process is unchanged after 2-3 yrs ; you've made an effort to lose any extra weight it is time to discuss it with a surgeon. no meds will fix it.
i am 19 years old guy and i have gyno. how can i get rid of them. can increasing testosterone level help? if yes is there any med. to increase it?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
if i work on my pecs with weights and run a mile and more every day will my gynecomastia leave or kind of leave?
gynecomastia is a medical condition whereby males develop breast type tissue; if this is what you truly have it will not respond to exercise since the breast tissue is under the skin and over the muscles; if you are simply overweight and have fat overlying your pectorals then it will improve with fat loss; and exercise will help this; if you think you really have gynecomastia see an md.
is it true testosterone injections can cause hair loss breast enlargement in males?
any kind of testosterone (t) can this. over conversion of t into dehydrotetsosterone (dht) can occur. this can lead to stimulated hair loss on scalp. the other conversion pathway leads to estrogen. yes in men. too much conversion leads to high blood pressure foggy thinking and finally gynecomastia aka "man-boobs". both situations can be corrected if properly monitored while on therapy.
i have this gynecomastia? or man boobs? for like 5 years? i forgot because i didn't cared at first and im 17 years old now
gynecomastia most commonly occurs during puberty and may completely resolve within a few years. if it persists as in your situation corrective surgery may be indicated. check with your physician for a referral to a plastic surgeon for consultation. the surgical procedure is very common with relatively minimal risks and downtime.
can my gynecomastia go away on its own?
most cases resolve on their own over a period of several months especially if it is associated with prescription medications that can be substituted.
can my gynecomastia go away on its own?
most cases of pubertal gynecomastia resolves spontaneously without the need for intervention. gynecomastia in older patients however usually does not resolve spontaneously. i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
can my gynecomastia go away on its own?
most gynecomastia cases involve breast tissue which does not go away on it's own.
can everyone no matter the age get gynecomastia?
very rare prepuberty. most common in males middle aged and above. seen in younger males especially if taking body building hormones or smoking lots of pot. a large percentage of gynecomastia is idiopathic i. e. we don't know for sure what caused it.
can everyone no matter the age get gynecomastia?
yes males of all ages ( after puberty) can present with gynecomastia. if symptomatic and/or aesthetically displeasing surgical correction of gynecomastia can be worthwhile. treatment is individualized depending on the specific patient's situation; involves direct excision of glandular tissue liposuction surgery and/or occasionally excision of excess skin as well.
how to tell if i have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts diagnosed by physical examination. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances may also be causative.
how to tell if i have gynecomastia?
we recommend having a consultation with a surgeon who can determine if gynecomastia or liposuction are needed.
how to tell if i have gynecomastia?
a female appearing chest is the obvious sign of gynecomastia. it may manifest as pain with or without a visible or palpable mass under the nipple. (palpable means that you can feel it with your fingers or hand. ).
how can i make my gynecomastia go away?
surgery is the only solution.
how can i make my gynecomastia go away?
typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
how can i make my gynecomastia go away?
gynecomastia or enlarged male breasts is often a normal variant but in some can be due to hormone imbalance. you should be evaluated by your md to make sure. treatment is removal of the tissue. i like to use vaser (ultrasound) liposuction with a small incision to remove the fibrous/fatty tissue and provide skin tightening. occasionally a larger incision is needed if there is a lot of excess skin.
how can i make my gynecomastia go away?
you'll most likely need surgery to rid yourself of gynecomastia. most people need a combo of liposuction and tissue excision. see my webinar on the subject on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
how can i make my gynecomastia go away?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
how to get rid of man boobs fast? my son is 15 145lbs had them since 13. he is a runner and 6 feet tall.
your boy has a condition known as gynecomastia. it is a perfectly normal condition for boys to have. as he grows older and taller his breast tissue will take on more of a normal appearance. on rare occasions the breast tissue remains enlarged and surgery may be necessary. for now it important to stress to your boy that this is a normal phase he is going through. his manhood is unaffected.
how to get rid of man boobs fast? my son is 15 145lbs had them since 13. he is a runner and 6 feet tall.
it is normal for the male breast to enlarge at puberty. often this resolves as the adolescent hormones stabilize. if the fullness has not resolved over a year especially if the fullness is disproportionate surgical gynecomastia reduction can be performed. consultation with a board certified plastic surgeon can provide you with specific options.
how to reduce man boobs?
you'll most likely need surgery to correct gynecomastia. it is usually a combination of liposuction and direct tissue excision. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org - a great forum.
how to reduce man boobs?
man boobs or gynecomastia can be caused by a increase in breast tissue an increase in fat or a combo of both. depending on your age weight exercise level and medical history is used to help determine the cause. once the cause is sorted out treatment options can range from time alone to diet and exercise and even surgery.
how to remove gynocomastia?
breast development in males can be idiopathic (no known cause) or can be related to steroid use or marijuana use. the idiopathic type of gynecomastia is treated by surgical removal of the excess breast tissue. if there is excess fat then this can be removed as well. consult with a board certified plastic surgeon to discuss your options.
how to remove gynocomastia?
often treating the cause if the gynecomastia will result in resolution of the problem. otherwise the breast can be made smaller with surgery.
how to prevent gynecomastia thru exercise?
do you mean prevent or treat gynecomastia? exercise will help you lose body fat including chest wall fat but the breast tissue will not go away without surgery.
how to prevent gynecomastia thru exercise?
true gynecomastia cannot be prevented through exercise. however if the breast enlargement is related to adipose tissue ( pseudogynecomastia) improvement may be seen with diet/exercise and achieving a long-term stable weight.
how to prevent gynecomastia thru exercise?
you can not prevent gynecomastia by exercise unless it is pseudogynecomastia which is male breast enlargement due to fatty tissue. true gynecomastia that has not regressed over a period of 1-2year surgery like partial mastectomy with liposuction to treat it. <link>
how will i recognize that i am suffering from gynecomastia i am 18?
if your breasts look like female breasts u have gynecomastia.
how will i recognize that i am suffering from gynecomastia i am 18?
in-person consultation with your family practitioner and/or plastic surgeon is a good place to start. accurate history and physical examination is important. eliminating “causes” of gynecomastia is also important. surgical treatment usually involves partial excision of the glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. again much of what is recommended will depend on specific physical exam.
how will i recognize that i am suffering from gynecomastia i am 18?
gynecomastia is benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. causes include normal adolescent development (50% of all males) metabolic disorders tumors or from medication side effects. also due to normal aging decreases in testosterone older males can also develop this condition. the good news is 80% of young males will outgrow this condition. see your primary care doctor for details.
how will i recognize that i am suffering from gynecomastia i am 18?
you usually have puffy appearing nipples with enlarged breast that have a hard consistency like a young female breast. to confirm it visit an experienced board certified plastic surgeon that performs this operations often. <link>
hi i'm a teenager and i think i have gynecomastia. is there anything at all i can do to try and get rid of it or reduce it at all?
you should be evaluated by a plastic surgeon
hi i'm a teenager and i think i have gynecomastia. is there anything at all i can do to try and get rid of it or reduce it at all?
see a board certified plastic surgeon. after examining he/she will explain the treatment. few can be corrected just by liposuction. but many will also need open removal of the glands.
hi i'm a teenager and i think i have gynecomastia. is there anything at all i can do to try and get rid of it or reduce it at all?
gynecomastia or male breast development may be related to certain medications being overweight or drug use (specifically marijuana or anabolic steroids). if these are issues you can control or eliminate you can start there. otherwise talk to your primary care physician endocrinologist or plastic surgeon about your concerns.
how can i get rid of man boobs!?
medical treatment of chronic gynecomastia is usually futile. if chronic gynecomastia is treated surgical removal of glandular breast tissue is usually required. surgical approaches to the treatment of gynecomastia include subcutaneous mastectomy liposuction-assisted mastectomy laser-assisted liposuction and laser-lipolysis
how can i get rid of man boobs and puffy nipples?
man boobs aka gynecomastia is benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. up to 60% of men worldwide have some degree of gynecomastia and there are a variety of causes. the causes have to be ruled out for the proper treatment. if all underlying hormonal and drug causes are ruled out then the benign breast mass can be removed via liposuction or direct excision depending on the degree.
how can i get rid of man boobs and puffy nipples?
man boobs moobs and puffy nipples can have many causes. this would require a visit to the doctors to sort out. the most common reason is the develpment of excess breast tissue (gynecomastia). once formed it usually requires surgical reduction via liposuction or dirrect excision.
how can i get rid of man boobs and puffy nipples?
gynecomastia is fairly frequent and the cause is most often unknown a combination of ultrasonic and conventional liposuction with direct excision of glandular tissue can be a very effective treatment with minimal scarring. you should be within about 10-15 lbs of your ideal weight before considering this. see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgery to discuss your options.
how can i get rid of man boobs and puffy nipples?
it would be important to consult with a board-certified plastic surgeon to make a good diagnoses. if you are dealing with gynecomastia then partial excision of the breast gland plus/minus liposuction surgery may be very helpful in improving your situation. achieve a stable weight prior to surg. if you are using any substances/medications that can cause this “problem” best to stop asap.
how can you get rid of man boobs with medication?
gynecomastia is the development of glandular breast tissue. if the "man boobs" have glandular tissue they sometimes respond to estrogen blockers like tamoxifen and reloxifine. if the tissue is fat medication will not help.
how do you know if you have man boobs? !
the term "man boobs" (moobs for short) is a subjective description implying the male breasts are too big. there is no chart or formula of objective measurements and it not a medical diagnosis. moobs can be from weight gain gynecomastia or genetics. if you have a mass or the breast are continuing to enlarge consult with your physician. there are many causes and some should be treated promptly.
how do you know if you have man boobs? !
life's difficult enough without people making fun of other people's bodies sadly they do. gynecomastia is button-like hard nubbins under your nipples; a surgeon can remove these in your office and it's a good idea because most folks consider them unsightly. an obese man laying fat on his chest has "pseudogynecomastia" & can get liposuctioned. big pic major muscles are good.
i've had gynecomastia for almost three years now. right now im 16. is there any signs showing that it's going away? what age does it usually leave?
it doesn't usually leave but by doing exercise your breats can become less prominent. if gynecomastia is a problem consult a plastic surgeon for surgery.
i've had gynecomastia for three years. is there any signs thats it's going away? and what age does it usually go away?
signs of gynecomastia going away are typically the noticeable decreased size of the breast tissue. typically in adolescents this condition starts to improve in 6 months to 3 years after diagnosis. has your doctor done an exam on you recently? have you had recent laboratory tests to rule out possible causes? if you are concerned i think a visit to your doctor is a good idea.
is there any natural way to treat gynecomastia? any exercise is there for this?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males &generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if you lose some weight and this persists after 3 years a consultation with a doc for surgical treatment is likely your next step.
i am a boy and i have man boobs can i use geynixen? my age is 16
the condition called gynecomastia is quite common in young men. mostly it is a transient hormone related development of a growing male and resolves in 3-4 yrs. drugs like gynixen are not recommended by medical profession as this is not a prescription medication. be careful with positive reviews of such drugs as they may be company-sponsored. talk to your doc re your anxiety about this and f/u
im a male. my height 1. 56m weight 88kg. age 23. 8 years. my breasts are bigger than normal male size( similar to a female). how i can have plain chest?
your condition sounds like gynecomastia and is considered a cosmetic problem for males. it is not uncommon for men with this problem to seek out surgical treatment for the social embarrassment that can occur. often this can be done by liposuction so that there are not large incisions.
is it a fact that peppermint oil and lavanda oil in shampoo and conditioner causes moobs?
in a man of 79 years of age there are other causes of gynecomastia. hormonal changes benign or malignant sometimes self inflicted may be the primary cause. weight gain is another important factor. visit you family doc and discuss your concerns. good luck from nyc
i have painful gynecomastia would any doctor accept caloptima for the surgery?
to check with your insurance company and/or ask the specific doctor. first however have you had a full medical evaluation and possibly a visit to an endocrinologist to see if non-surgical therapy would be effective?
i developed gynecomastia 2 weeks ago from taking saw palmetto after a period of 4 days. how long will it take for my gynecomastia to fully disappear.
most of rapid onset gynecomastia due to accumulated tissue fluid which should be re-absorbed quite quickly after discontinuing saw palmetta. mild permanent enlargement may occur.
can breast cancer occurr in boys?
a breast lump condition in young males is most commonly gynecomastia and may occur behind one or both nipples. there are several causes. the condition usually resolves after several months or if the offending agent is discontinued.
can breast cancer occurr in boys?
male breast cancer is rare- only about 1-2%- and majority will be at older population-at the age range of 70 year gynecomastia due to different reasons are more likely the case in boys. other cancer like hodgkin's lymphoma or soft tissue sarcoma can be presented with a mass on the breast/chest wall area. go to see your doctor for further evaluation.
can gynocomastia be cures withoit surgery?
te best results are often obtained with surgery otherwise weight loss is your best option. while some physicians may prescribe estrogen blockers it is not generally recommended and really only preventative. it generally does not reverse the changes and is used only for mild cases. building up a lot of muscle may camouflage mild forms .
can gynocomastia be cures withoit surgery?
if it doesn't regress on its own after puberty or cessation of drugs that can cause it and it isn't related to obesity its unlikely to resolve without surgical resection of the excess tissues.
can gynocomastia brme cured without surgery?
you could loose some of the fatty tissue by exercise and dieting. but the gland can be removed only by surgery.
can gynocomastia brme cured without surgery?
only very mild forms will respond and i have treated nearly anorexic males with 4% body fat that still require surgery. while some claims of external ultrasound or radio frequency have been made i have tried and am. it impressed with the results if there is any degree if breast tissue enlargement. hormone pills are not reliable and not generally recommended. exercise may camouflage mild cases.
can gynocomastia brme cured without surgery?
gynecomastia is benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. causes include normal adolescent development (50% of all males) metabolic disorders tumors or from medication side effects. also due to normal aging decreases in testosterone older males can also develop this condition. the good news is 80% of young males will outgrow this condition. see your primary care doctor for details.
can you prevent pubertal gynecomastia from happening with letro or something else?
if you are going to develop you will develop gynecomastia no medication will prevent it if psychologically bothering you get fixed by surgery which will give normal appearance.
can you prevent pubertal gynecomastia from happening with letro or something else?
i am not aware of any medications useful in the prevention of gynecomastia. letrozole an aromatase inhibitor as indicated in the treatment of breast cancer/tumors. be careful about the source of information you receive; there is a lot of misinformation around for example on the bodybuilding blogs etc.
can under eating cause fat on chest or is there another reason for me being skinny with man boobs (not gynecomastia)?
this is gynecomastia and usually related to hormone changes in someone your age. i highly recommend a check up by your pediatrician and possibly a breast specialist. this will most likely go away by the time puberty is complete.
can under eating cause fat on chest or is there another reason for me being skinny with man boobs (not gynecomastia)?
no i do not think that “under eating” is a cause of your situation. for accurate advice given that you feel that you do not have gynecomastia best to be seen by your physicians who ( after history and physical examination) can make a proper diagnosis and treatment recommendations. best wishes.
can under eating cause fat on chest or is there another reason for me being skinny with man boobs (not gynecomastia)?
are the most common cause of gynecomastia (defined as male breast enlargement which is what you do have). gynecomastia can occur like yours in thin males from hormone changes in obese males from fatty breasts and with certain medications endocrine tumors and even smoking pot. really! regardless of the cause if it doesn't go away on its own plastic surgery is needed and works great!
can under eating cause fat on chest or is there another reason for me being skinny with man boobs (not gynecomastia)?
the formal name for this is gynecomastia. it is not caused by being skinny. typically liposuction is used to correct it. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
can under eating cause fat on chest or is there another reason for me being skinny with man boobs (not gynecomastia)?
heredity and certain drugs with obesity are leading causes.
hi i wana ask about the durg: prozac: did this drug can induce gynecomastia. and how mach in percent. with thanks?
it is not common but prozac (fluoxetine) is associated with gynecomastia.
how to cure gynocomastia?
it depends on the etiology severity of it. often it resolves on its own. make sure you have been checked for thyroid and gonad conditions and your medications are reviewed to rule out gynecomastia as a side effect. some drugs are effective and if it is very severe surgery is an option.
how to cure gynocomastia?
a combination of liposuction of fatty breast tissue and sharp (cutting out) of harder breast tissue. usually not possible by lipo alone. see californiasurgicalinstitute. com/gynecomastia.
how/ does estrogen effect man boobs? if so what's the best way to get rid of the boobs?
estrogen grows breast tissue low testosterone in relation to estrogen will too. causes of gynecomastia (man boobs) include obesity pot ace inhibitors various other drugs and phytoestrogens present in soy and processed foods. a combination of liposuction to the breast and surrounding area & direct excision of breast tissue are necessary to insure a good result. results reviews of surgeons!
how would i be able to tell my gynecomastia is based off of hormones and not a kidney tumor?
your medical physician can do blood tests to make sure you do not have a tumor causing your breast to grow.
how would i be able to tell my gynecomastia is based off of hormones and not a kidney tumor?
kidney rumors are unlikely to cause gynecomastia. most of gynecomastia patients have normal hormone levels. some could be related to a particular testicular tumor. an ultrasound of the testicles should be performed to rule it out.
how big will my pubertal gynecomastia get? i have only seen the bad cases on the internet so i was wondering how bad is the average gynecomastia?
gynecoamastia can range from a small lump under the nipple that goes away after a few years to hypertrophy filling the entire breast. persistence of adolescent gynecomastia accounts for 25% of all gynecomastia cases. the best advice is to get checked out by your family doctor or a plastic surgeon in your area.
how big will my pubertal gynecomastia get? i have only seen the bad cases on the internet so i was wondering how bad is the average gynecomastia?
there are a wide variety of presentations possible with gynecomastia. fortunately the majority of pubertal gynecomastia cases resolve without the need for treatment. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
how big will my pubertal gynecomastia get? i have only seen the bad cases on the internet so i was wondering how bad is the average gynecomastia?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. intensity varies from small lump to generous boobs. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
hi. i have what people call man boobs. is there a way to reduce them. my chest pouts too. any work out that won't trigger my asthma.? thanks!
man boobs and gynecomastia are equivalent terms and essentially represents a spectrum of breast fullness and associated skin fat and gland excess that vary from normal to markedly abnormal. although weight loss may he p surgery is usually the best option for maximal improvement.
hi. i have what people call man boobs. is there a way to reduce them. my chest pouts too. any work out that won't trigger my asthma.? thanks!
some men develop breasts during the teen years. most cases have no known cause and this condition is called idiopathic gynecomastia. there is no proven non-surgical treatment for idiopathic gynecomastia. the excess breast tissue can be surgically removed to reliably result in a more masculine appearing chest.
hi. i have what people call man boobs. is there a way to reduce them. my chest pouts too. any work out that won't trigger my asthma.? thanks!
depending on the reason for your gynecomastia it is first important to rule out hormonal/medical reasons for having gynecomastia. once this is done by your primary care physician then the surgical options considered by board certified plastic surgeons include: liposuction direct breast tissue excision and possibly a breast lift if left with excess skin.
i had just had gynecomastia surgery 2 weeks ago. my chest was flat for a week and now has hematoma. can i drain it myself instead of my doctor?
it is known complication of immediate post operative period. however you must have surgeon examine that area. just to make sure there will not be reaccumulation. and blood is good medium for bacterial growth so potential for infection.
i had just had gynecomastia surgery 2 weeks ago. my chest was flat for a week and now has hematoma. can i drain it myself instead of my doctor?
don't get crazy. you went through the trouble of surgery now you want to try do-it yourself? go see your surgeon.
i (male) have hard uneven lump left of my nipple stays still but tender/sore to touch. i had gynecomastia reduction 7 years ago. could this be cause?
yes this could be the reason and yet you should have this evaluated by a dr. it is not urgent and the sooner the better
i've gynecomastia. prolactin is raised. no finding on mri brain. i'm taking dopergin for high prolactin. will this reduce my prolactin nd gynecomastia?
the drug may reduce your prolactin but i doubt if it will have any effect on your gynecomastia. you may have to consult a plastic surgeon forbreast reduction
i have gynecomastia i am 19 years. i am just 5'2''. please how to reduce gynecomastia if doesn't goes. mine is really quite big. help.!
best is to seek only in person opinions from boarded plastic surgeons. there are a few types of "gynecomastia" 1. fatty 2. glandular 3. a combination. either liposuction of some type or excision are the surgical options. but a complete workup is advised including endocrine. good luck.
i've been diagnosed with gynecomastia and i just wanted to know if pills are a good option? if the answer is yes can you please suggest some?
no pills to recommend unless you have had a medical evaluation and a diagnosis. discuss it with your doctor. if you are overweight get on a diet and exercise program. if you have taken anabolic steroids that may be the cause and you should stop immediately.
i have gynecomastia surgery tomorrow and i was around my friend who had a cough and sniffle yesterday. i feel a tickle in my throat today will they cancel my surgery if it turns out i catch it?
it often takes several days for these illnesses to set in. unless it caused significant irritation to your airway before the procedure there would not be a real reason for delay. you might call the office to share your concerns with the staff and let them help you.
i know only1% of all breast cancers are in men but what % of male breast lumps turn out to be male breast cancer?
a lot. most turn out to be gynecomastia.
i have moobs and i took proscar (finasteride) for 6 yrs and i have low t can this be the cause of my moobs?
man boobs or gynecomastia is a rare side effect of taking proscar (finasteride)
i have moobs and i took proscar (finasteride) for 6 yrs and i have low t can this be the cause of my moobs?
proscar (finasteride) is a drug in a group called 5-alpha reductase inhibitors. this can cause gynecomastia (breasts in a male). talk to your doctor about ruling out other causes and other treatment for the enlarged prostate. depending on the degree of enlargement the treatment after removing the cause would be surgical if it is bothering you. good luck
i have low t and took proscar (finasteride) for 6 years i stopped proscar (finasteride) if i raise my t would my gynecomastia reside?
if you are on testosterone your doctor should periodically check your estradiol level and if you are converting testosterone to estradiol your doctor can prescribe an aromatase inhibitor to stop that conversion.
i had vaser male breast reduction 5 years ago. now developed lump under nipple no breast enlargement could this be gynecomastia regrowth? or cancer?
rare for male breast cancer especially in field of previous gynecomastia. one can have reappearance of the male tissue that was not completely removed and has regrown or a lipoma representing a fatty deposit in the remaining breast tissue. if questionable or enlarging a simple bx will resolve the problem.
in gynecomastia if it is cause by hormonal imbalance how long do you have for rebalancin until it becomes something that require surgery? after 20s.
there is an off-label use of a medication for gynecomastia--clomiphene. the benefits of this over testosterone is that there is no resultant testicular atrophy associated with clomiphene use. neither is there decreased sperm count. the medication is used to enhance fertility in men and women so you may find yourself more fertile. talk to your physician about whether clomiphene may be an option.
i had taking anibolic steroids and i weight 61 but my boobs are a bit bigger. my chest is hard but has a little bit of fat. do i have man boobs?
developed gynecomastia. anabolic steroids have many complications and this is one of them. it could be irreversible. have a surgeon look at it to be sure.
can there be any store you can buy a product to help you with gynecomastia that isnt online?
loosing weight will help for sure many men store excess weight in the chest. gynecomastia can be related to abnormal hormones and this needs to be checked. i diet and exercise do not help then surgery is the answer. either with liposuction alone or combined with breast tissue removal. men can also get breast cancer and you should be checked especially if it is on only one side.
can there be any store you can buy a product to help you with gynecomastia that isnt online?
dont bother.
can there be any store you can buy a product to help you with gynecomastia that isnt online?
best not to use “products”. gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may be necessary.
can you have a tumor that causes gynecomastia but no other symptoms?
can be caused by "paraneoplastic" hcg production or estrogens: testis tumors small cell lung cancers are common there are others. and yest this can be the only symptom. many drugs also do this. see a doc to run the list of prosepcts.
can you have a tumor that causes gynecomastia but no other symptoms?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances tumors etc. may also be causative.
can you have a tumor that causes gynecomastia but no other symptoms?
producing tumor of adrenal glands or testis or any other organ can cause gynecomastia but it is rare. ask your doctor for specific recommendations regarding which blood tests can check for these tumors.
could my risperdal be causing my gynecomastia? should i ask for a different antipsychotic? will it go away if it's the cause?
impossible to predict with any degree of certainty whether gynecomastia related to the use of any specific drug will dissipate once the specific drug use is terminated. this may be one of the situations where the "only time will tell”. if the gynecomastia remains persistent surgical intervention may be worthwhile; usually consists of direct excision of gland and/or liposuction surgery.
could my risperdal be causing my gynecomastia? should i ask for a different antipsychotic? will it go away if it's the cause?
riserdal increases prolactin in a high percentage of patients. prolactin can stimulate breast growth in both genders. your doctor can check your blood to see if the prolactin level is elevated. if you discontinue there may or may not be regression of the tissue that has already appeared.
can a gynecomastia come back?
can recur. gynecomastia (male breast enlargement) can be due to drugs hormones or medical conditions. many men also can have excess fat deposits on their chest. liposuction and if necessary surgical excision of excess tissue can improve the appearance of male breast enlargement.
can a gynecomastia come back?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also cause of recurrence.
can a gynecomastia come back?
especially in chronic pot smokers and steroid- using body builders. it can also recur if there is an unsolved hormonal issue liver or testicular disease that is not addressed.
could you tell me how to reduce my man boobs?
the formal name for this is gynecomastia. typically liposuction is used to correct it. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
could you tell me how to reduce my man boobs?
depending on the severity liposuction excision of gynecomastia (male breast enlargement) or noninvasive techniques. best to consult with a board certified plastic surgeon.
could you tell me if i work in the gym on my man boobs will they go down?
man boobs gynecomastia happen as we age and gain weight. young men can also get growth because of hormones and steroid use can cause gynecomastia. certain drugs and medications can also contribute to larger male breasts. decrease you bodies fat content with diet and exercise and this should help. if you are still having issues with it seek a plastic surgeon.
could you tell me if i work in the gym on my man boobs will they go down?
enlarged breasts due to excess fat may decrease in size with weight loss; if they are due to excess breast tissue then they will not change with weight loss. increasing muscle bulk will not have any significant effect either. male breast reduction surgery is often required to treat gynecomastia. excess fat is treated with liposuction and excess breast tissue is excised. satisfaction is high.
does gynecomastia in puberty eventually go away?
not always. unfortunately teenagers are probably the least able of any age group to handle it psychologically.
does gynecomastia in puberty eventually go away?
unlikely to go away but will have some changes with growth of rest of the body will be less visible.
does gynecomastia in puberty eventually go away?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
does gynecomastia in puberty eventually go away?
many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia. org a great forum.
how do you get rid of manboobs?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
how do you get rid of manboobs?
gynecomastia is treated with lipo and or direct excision of skin.
hoping you can tell me is mastectomy cutting off the whole tit including nipple?
mastectomy would involve removal of entire breast mound including the nipple/areola. a subcutaneous mastectomy done usually in men with gynecomastia removes the breast tissue only and spares the nipple/areola. a modified radical mastectomy would involve total mastectomy plus removal of axillary lymph nodes.
how can i tell if i have pseudogynecomastia or gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. the diagnosis can be made by physical examination where relatively firm tissue (breast gland tissue) can be differentiated from relatively soft tissue (adipose tissue).
how can i tell if i have pseudogynecomastia or gynecomastia?
breast tissue growth in a male hormones certain medications steroids marijuana. . are some of the causes.
how can i tell if i have pseudogynecomastia or gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is true enlargement of the breast tissue in the male breast. pseudo gynecomastia is fat accumulation in the male breast making it look larger. gynecomastia is usually firmer and more tender.
hi i have a bad case of gynecomastia. im 16 and in very good physical condition. what can i do?
if the gynecomastia remains an issue long-term surgical intervention may be quite worthwhile. treatment is individualized depending on the specific patient's situation; involves direct excision of glandular tissue liposuction surgery and/or occasionally excision of excess skin as well.
hi i have a bad case of gynecomastia. im 16 and in very good physical condition. what can i do?
gynecomastia can be related to certain medications. i recommend you see a breast specialist who can evaluate you. you are still in puberty and this is most likely hormone related.
have bilateral breast tenderness for six months. getting ultrasound and mammogram. is breast cancer the primary concern with these symptoms.
breast tenderness particularly bilateral would be an unlikely presentation of cancer of the breast. more likely it is painful gynecomastia due to meds or hormonal changes. that being said i agree with having it worked out men can have breast cancer. hope it turns out well for you.
have bilateral breast tenderness for six months. getting ultrasound and mammogram. is breast cancer the primary concern with these symptoms.
it is most likely gynecomastia.
have bilateral breast tenderness for six months. getting ultrasound and mammogram. is breast cancer the primary concern with these symptoms.
should be ruled out so the mammogram and ultrasound is a good idea. bilateral breast pain or tenderness in a 73 year old male is likely gynecomastia.
had ultrasound and mammogram 4 bilteral male breast tenderness had for 6 mths. why do both? are either gynecomastia or cancer possible?
yes both are possible and need to be excluded. late gynecomastia development may be caused by hormonal imbalance as a side effect of medications.
had ultrasound and mammogram 4 bilteral male breast tenderness had for 6 mths. why do both? are either gynecomastia or cancer possible?
ultrasound is useful at detecting cystic changes and mammogram x-ray is better at detecting calcifications and solid mass. given your age and the symptoms you describe it is not unusual to have both exams performed. hormonal level blood test may also be done as part of the work up. gynecomastia or pseudogynecomastia are more likely but 1% of all breast cancer does occur in men so cant be ignored
had ultrasound and mammogram 4 bilteral male breast tenderness had for 6 mths. why do both? are either gynecomastia or cancer possible?
men can get breast cancer. men make up 1% of all breast cancers. bilateral makes it more likely to be gynecomastia but sometimes removal is the only way to know for sure.
had ultrasound and mammogram 4 bilteral male breast tenderness had for 6 mths. why do both? are either gynecomastia or cancer possible?
complementary examinations each providing different information on the same tissue. they are often performed together and concordant results can increase the confidence level of a particular diagnosis. in your case gynecomastia is much more probable than cancer. what did the imaging show?
had ultrasound and mammogram 4 bilteral male breast tenderness had for 6 mths. why do both? are either gynecomastia or cancer possible?
mammogram shows mass or calcium ultrasound helps with fluid-cystic asses.
how can i lose weight fast i have gynecomastia and i weigh about 210 pounds. age 23 5'8?
are still the best with lots of emphasis on a low carb high protein diet and aerobic exercise. have your thyroid checked to make sure it's not under-active.
how can i lose weight fast i have gynecomastia and i weigh about 210 pounds. age 23 5'8?
there is no fast weight loss (without liposuction) as it takes burning off 3500 calories that you don't eat to lose a pound. you are over 50# above ideal body weight which will take approx. 2 years to lose if you exercise daily and eat about 1700 calories a day which is about 2500 less than you need per day to keep your weight stable. don't fall pray to internet/tv scams either they don't work.
how do doctors tell if a man has breast cancer?
a woman in most case but an obese man may have flabby pectoral fat. . asymmetry palpable hard lump and more common in older men. usually a mammo is done than a biopsy. many boys develop gynecomastia during puberty - leave this alone. some medication produces this usually bilateral. some testis tumors also produce. go to a doctor to distinguish and find out.
how to tell if you have breast cancer male?
while breast cancer is not common in men it does sometimes happen. history and physical examination from a healthcare provider is the best place to start. a doc could help to distinguish gynecomastia (growth of benign breast tissue in men) from cancer. if needed imaging studies and/or a biopsy could be performed to confirm benign versus malignant diagnosis. don't wait. see a doc & find out.
hi iam 62 yo i have gyneacomastia a small penis and always tired i also have a testicle that is much much lower than the other could you advise thank?
you may have a genetic/chromosomal issue causing your symptoms. get a check up by an endocrinologist for an eval as certain conditions such as "kleinfelters" (an extra x chromosome) for example may produce those symptoms. best wishes.
hi iam 62 yo i have gyneacomastia a small penis and always tired i also have a testicle that is much much lower than the other could you advise thank?
if you have been taking omeprazole regularly then the gynecomastia smaller testis tiredness may be secondary to the medication. talk to your primary care and he/she can change the medication and that may help reverse the side effects.
ive had gynecomastia for a little over 2 years. my nipples still seem soft and protrude slightly. are there any signs that tell me its going away?
a physical examination by a doctor experienced in gynecomastia and follow up examinations can help determine if your current stage is resolving/going away.
ive had gynecomastia for a little over 2 years. my nipples still seem soft and protrude slightly. are there any signs that tell me its going away?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
i'm 16 is this normal i feel like squishy things below my nipples on both sides and when i lean or bend over they sag how do i tell if it fat or moobs?
it is sometimes difficult to tell breast tissue from fatty tissue. fatty tissue typically feels soft and can be compressed whereas breast tissue is more dense and can feel like a hard lump under the nipple/areola. gynecomastia is more common than most people think and is very common in boys during puberty resolving on its own in most cases. i would see your primary physician who can evaluate
i have gynecomastia for a bit more than 3 years. my nipples are puffy mainly my right one. it is less sensible now but still puffy. im 18 now will it go?
physiologic or " expected" gynecomastia should last for no longer than 1 year. see your doctor for an exam to determine if this is glandular tissue or fat tissue. often fibrotic changes occur that require treatment. other causes of prolonged gynecomastia should be reviewed. look at any medications you may be taking. your md can do any necessary tests and refer you to a gynecologist.
i have gynecomastia for a bit more than 3 years. my nipples are puffy mainly my right one. it is less sensible now but still puffy. im 18 now will it go?
hormones checked by your doc. if they are out of balance he/she can help you. there are natural ways to do that also but you need a doc who is trained in that. so that extra breast tissue may go away. remote possibility of surgery. peace and good health.
i have a test today and my testosterone and estrogen are in a good range. im 18 and my gynecomastia is not severe but i have puffy nipple. will it go?
gynecomastia in adolescent males is not uncommon and is harmless. it is best not to focus on it and consider it as a normal finding. to decrease the discomfort from your clothes rubbing on the nipple you may want to wear a t-shirt or tank top underneath your shirt. it will be less noticeable as time goes by. take care!
i took 5mg risperdal and developed gynecomastia age 16-19. lost weight since 115kgs-81kgs. a bit of gynecomastia has yet remained will it go?
can resolve over time. congratulations on the weight loss. may want to check your prolactin level now if you have not already done so. discuss the matter with your doctor too. everyone is different when it comes to this sort of thing.
i took 5mg risperdal and developed gynecomastia age 16-19. lost weight since 115kgs-81kgs. a bit of gynecomastia has yet remained will it go?
to decrease with further weight loss but some may be permanent.
i have puffy nipples since puberty which doctor should i go to check my hormones? male 25 weight 68 kg has chest fat.
very normal to get gynecomastia from puberty but usually lasts a few years. if 25yo and bothers you there is surgery to fix it. if concerned with hormones then an endocrinologist deals with that.
im 18 and i have gynecomastia for about 3 years. hormones(healthy range). i notice that now my nipples is not sensible and softer now is it a good sign?
gynecomastia enlarged breasts is usually benign; occurs transiently in 40-60% of adolescent males 10-16 yrs old. usually resolves spontaneously within 3 yrs in 90%. can be caused by: high estrogen low androgen levels; specific drugs (eg. anabolic steroids some anti-depressants alcohol & marijuana use); & more. less tender & softer nipples can mean resolution. continue to follow w/ your doctor.
my nipples are leaking what looks like breast milk i'm male and 19 this is the 1st time its happened i'm also on tamoxifen if this helps now for 1 w?
man is not common and ascribing it to the often seen male gynecomastia when you are now 19 also seems odd. i like the idea of seeing and endoceinologist as well as imaging of your pituitary gland located at the base of your brain above teh sphenoid sinus. issues of libido male function weigh gain or loss appearance lead to hormones that the "master gland' produces. need dx b4 rx!
male breast enlargement herbs available?
male breast enlargement is usually called gynecomastia. there may be an underlying medical condition causing that. so you need to have a medical evaluation. in addition sometimes breast tumors can cause the enlargement. breast cancer can also happen in men so it is imperative to have your breasts checked by your physician.
male breast enlargement--what surgery?
the first place to start would be in person consultation with a board-certified plastic surgeon; making the a correct diagnosis is important. if gynecomastia is the issue usually partial resection of glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery is helpful. best wishes.
my mother had an acoustic neuroma at 35 and was diagnosed with breast cancer at 55. could this be related to li fraumeni syndrome?
this syndrome requires that the affected person meet 3 criteria - 1. patient had sarcoma <45 yrs. 2. 1st deg relative had any cancer <45. 3. another 1st or 2nd deg. relative had any cancer <45 or sarcoma at any age. unless you or your mother had a sarcoma before 45 or another relative like an aunt/grandparent had anything this is not likely. but you/your mom should still get worked up.
my mother had an acoustic neuroma at 35 and was diagnosed with breast cancer at 55. could this be related to li fraumeni syndrome?
this is a very rare genetic disorder in which predisposed individuals develope canxer at a young age and then develope a second. the most common tumors involved are brain breast leukemias sarcomas and adrenal carcinomas. diagnosis requires specitic genetic testing.
could you tell me if i work on my upper body a lot at school in the gym will my 'man boobs' go down at all?
doesn't help see a plastic surgeon about a gynecomastia reduction surgery.
can zyprexa or haldol (haloperidol) decanoate or prozac all together cause gynecomastia?
anitpsychotics usually cause prolactin elevation which can lead to gynecomastia. prozac would not generally be considered as a cause. haldol (haloperidol) may cause slightly more prolactin elevation than zyprexa.
can anyone tell me syptoms diet and home remedies to recover from gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is enlargement of the male breasts. there are no home remedies for this. certain meds have it as a side effect. it is also seen with marijuana use and steroids. so stay away. if the symptoms are severe then surgery can correct it.
can anyone tell me syptoms diet and home remedies to recover from gynecomastia?
it is very common to develop some gynecomastia during adolescence. this usually goes away with further development and at age 17 you likely have some filling out to complete. best advice now is to exercise keep your weight under control (so your chest is not full of adipose) and let natural development improve your appearance. if it is severe see your doctor.
does gynecomastia go away by itself?
generally you can wish in one hand and. . well you know the cliche. better to have laser body sculpting with slim lipo. recovery is almost a non- issue. call 877drsisto for more info.
does gynecomastia go away by itself?
unlikely may get less conspicuous with growth of rest of the body.
does gynecomastia go away by itself?
usually if the gynecomastia has been present for a couple of years or more it's not going away without surgery.
do they make bras for men with gynecomastia?
custom bras can be made for men. check with doctor or google it to find who makes them for women. you may wish to consider surgery (yes i'm a surgeon) however which can be very effective.
do they make bras for men with gynecomastia?
if a man feels he is large enough to need a bra then he should buy a bra in a manly color. under armor makes elastic shirts that help conceal breast size.
do they make bras for men with gynecomastia?
the seinfeld episode made a point of this. however custom bras can be purchased in most areas.
do i need surgery if i am a male with gynecomastia?
the contour issue of breasts in men or gynecomastia bothers many but some enjoy living with breasts. surgery is not "needed" unless there are medical issues present such as cancer or tumor causing breast growth. the options about gynecomastia are quite broad depending on problem. learn more <link>
do i need surgery if i am a male with gynecomastia?
the decision of whether or not to proceed with surgery to correct gynecomastia will ultimately be a very personal decision based on whether the enlarged breast gland causes physical and/or psychosocial “distress”. as always patient should weigh the pros/cons associated with the procedure to determine whether to proceed or not. consultation with board certified plastic surgeons may be helpful.
do i need surgery if i am a male with gynecomastia?
this is a subjective decision. typically liposuction is used to correct gynecomastia. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if their is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
do i need surgery if i am a male with gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is a benign condition that is not a health problem. like a nose with a noticeable hump it is just another variable in human appearance. people choose to change these features only if they are sufficiently bothered by them.
do i need surgery if i am a male with gynecomastia?
no. if you have benign gynecomastia no further intervention is required unless you develops symptoms such as nipple discharge breast pain etc. careful monitoring is all that is needed and if any changes occur then surgery may be needed then.
does breast reduction with hormonal therapy work for men?
although bodybuilders are known to use various drug cocktails to mini ze the development of breasts during illicit anabolic steroid use these are not advised for the treatment of gynecomastia.
does breast reduction with hormonal therapy work for men?
hormonal treatments are not without risk and often do not accomplish the goal of reducing breast enlargement. also gynecomastia may be aggravated by deposits of fat tissue in and around the glandular elements. see a qualified cosmetic-plastic surgeon who is accomplished in breast surgery and reductions. mastectomy is an option if glands very large volumes.
does breast reduction with hormonal therapy work for men?
endocrine causes of breast enlargement in men (gynecomastia) must be investigated (i. e. a hormone secreting tumor). most commonly however the cause is not endocrine and if the condition is severe enough and persistent the only effective treatment is surgical.
do gynecomastia compression bros like on seinfeld actually work?
garments may be helpful after surgical correction of gynecomastia. however besides camouflaging the prominence they are not helpful otherwise.
do gynecomastia compression bros like on seinfeld actually work?
compressive garments like underarmor only camouflage the problem by flattening the breast tissue. it must be surgically removed to be able to return to a semblance of normal again.
do gynecomastia compression bros like on seinfeld actually work?
gynecomastia usually seen in boys at puberty which will cause psychological trauma to avoid detection boys may wear it but will not cure it.
does insurance cover male breast reduction surgery? i have gynocomastia because of a hormonal issue. since the breast growth was caused by a medical problem would insurance consider male breast reduction surgery a covered procedure? .
in my experience it is becoming more difficult to obtain authorization for correction of gynecomastia surgery. for more specific information you will need to contact your health insurance provider. best wishes.
does insurance cover male breast reduction surgery? i have gynocomastia because of a hormonal issue. since the breast growth was caused by a medical problem would insurance consider male breast reduction surgery a covered procedure? .
gynecomastia or male breast enlargement is a very embarrasing condition for a lot of men. this is the number 2 operation i perform on men in my practice. insurance does not cover it usually. depends on your insurance plan if they include this as a covered medical condition. if you have been seein an endocrinologist for your hormonal issues than maybe they can wirte a letter to your carrier in your support. good luck.
does insurance cover male breast reduction surgery? i have gynocomastia because of a hormonal issue. since the breast growth was caused by a medical problem would insurance consider male breast reduction surgery a covered procedure? .
the only way to see if you insurance will cover gynecomastectomy will be to meet with a provider on your plan and undergo evaluation. bottom line is that some plans will cover and some will not. realize too that gynecomastia from being overweight is improved on by weight loss. dr. edwards.
does insurance cover male breast reduction surgery? i have gynocomastia because of a hormonal issue. since the breast growth was caused by a medical problem would insurance consider male breast reduction surgery a covered procedure? .
gynecomastia or oversized male breasts may be a condition that can be treated and covered by your insurance company. it often depends on the cause of your gynecomastia and your insurance coverage. if your oversized breasts are largely glandular in nature you will have a better chance of coverage than if the overgrowth is secondary to disproportionate fat.
does insurance cover male breast reduction surgery? i have gynocomastia because of a hormonal issue. since the breast growth was caused by a medical problem would insurance consider male breast reduction surgery a covered procedure? .
depends on your age your insurance the clinical findings the symptoms.
does insurance cover male breast reduction surgery? i have gynocomastia because of a hormonal issue. since the breast growth was caused by a medical problem would insurance consider male breast reduction surgery a covered procedure? .
if you have gynecomastia that is a results of hormonal abnormalities then you may have to raise that issue with your insurance company. let us know how that goes. good luck from nyc. for more info visit www. drgrossman. com.
how to get rid of puffy nipples? i'm 24 male and bodybuilder. never user any medications or steroids.
a form of mild gynecomastia. see a plastic surgeon for a consultation - it may respond to liposuction or a removal of the excess glandular tissue.
how to get rid of puffy nipples? i'm 24 male and bodybuilder. never user any medications or steroids.
see your doctor to have your estrogen and testosterone levels checked. gynecomastia can be caused by high estrogen levels.
how to get rid of gynecomastia.
gynecomastia is easiy surgically treated by a plastic surgeon. using direct excision and/or liposuction techniques. first step is to look at causes which are many and include medication side effects thc use (marijuana) steroids and other drugs obesity endocrine disorders and familal causes and rarely from a cancer.
how to get rid of gynecomastia.
in-person consultation with your family practitioner and/or plastic surgeon is a good place to start. accurate history and physical examination is important. eliminating “causes” of gynecomastia is also important. surgical treatment usually involves partial excision of the glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. again much of what is recommended will depend on specific physical exam.
how to get rid of gynecomastia.
don't try to cure gynecomastia on your own. you should get checked by a doctor. you could potentially worsen things by self-medicating. more importantly they need to determine why you have gynecomastia.
hi. can tamoxifen have this side effects if uset by male for gyno water retention acne and weight gain?
outpatient surgery for gynecomastia is a much better option than medication that is going to make you sick. you describe yourself as having gained weight as well -- you might instead / also have psedogynecomastia which tamoxifen won't touch and which a surgeon / liposuction person can treat easily. this may be the boost you need to get your life turned around. best wishes.
have had gynecomastia for 4 years now. im 16 will they go away? by themselves?
puberty brings about some changes in boys that they're never that happy about - some growth of their breasts. majority of times it will resolve but if significant then it may need surgical correction. also if the child is overweight then that should be addressed first with weight loss better diet and exercise and then pursue surgical correction for the non-resolving gynecomastia.
have had gynecomastia for 4 years now. im 16 will they go away? by themselves?
in most situations gynecomastia in adolescents does get better on its own as you get older.
have had gynecomastia for 4 years now. im 16 will they go away? by themselves?
if so office surgery is simple and i think you'll be happy with the results. if not it usually regresses on its own in a few years.
i think i have gynecomastia. what can and should i do? any exercise or medicine i can take?
plastic surgeons are the best at and have the most options for evaluation and treatment of gynecomastia. if you are at a bmi greater than ideal you may wish to try to try weight-loss first.
i think i have gynecomastia. what can and should i do? any exercise or medicine i can take?
overweight - then sometimes weight loss will help. could consider consultation with a plastic surgeon.
i've had gynecomastia for 3 years but i noticed the outside of my nipple getting lighter especially on the bottom. does this mean it's clearing up?
is enlargement of breast tissue. overlying pigmentation probably has nothing to do with it. sorry it probably does not mean it is clearing up.
i have a hard round lump behind each nipple. i'm a 19 y/o male. is this pubertal gynecomastia? if so what are my options for this issue?
gynecomastia with breast bud needs examination by your fm plastic surgeon endocrine doctors. than the options of a wait and see or surgical excision with pathology diagnosis will be presented to you.
i have puffy nipples and what looks like (could be) gynecomastia. i'm hoping it could just be fat. can excess fat in chest cause puffy nipples too?
yes it can. see a doctor who will be able to do a physical examination to determine what kind of tissue is causing this situation with your nipples.
i am taking a medication to treat reduce and ultimately remove gynecomastia and would like consult from a doctor.
i know of no such medications to reduce gynecomastia?
i have gynecomastia caused by steroids is there anything i can do for this its ruining my life because of one mistake please help me thank you?
things always find a way to work themselves out. if no other options exist surgery to remove the breast tissue can be performed by a plastic surgeon. hope this helps!
is the drug gynexin a safe and permanent solution for gynecomastia? i am against surgical reduction and want to know an alternative method- 17 yr old
it depends on the cause. . talk to your doctor you don't need surgery.
is there any otc or such treatment for gynecomastia other than surgery. there are many drugs circulating the internet claiming for such purpose. are any of such drug accurate.
these medications are available by prescription and are called aromatase inhibitors. they are not fda approved so their use is off label.
i'm a 21 year old male with puffy nipples but i cannot feel whatsoever any "glands" does this mean i automatically have gynecomastia. what else could?
it would not be uncommon for a young man your age to have some residual breast enlargement which is postpubertal. this can persist for sometime. less common reasons can include anything from certain medications to liver disease to estrogen producing tumors. if there are any questions relative to this an endocrinologist should be consulted and an appropriate examination performed.
is it normal for males to have areolar glands?
yes but not normal for them to be enlarged. gynecomastia in males needs to be evaluated by your physician
my left breast is sore to touch its been that way for a month?
male or female? gynecomastia can be a tender breast swelling in males usually resolves with time and would be best to see a doctor for an examination. breast tenderness in women not uncommon from fibrocystic conditions and can become worse during the menstrual cycle.
male breasts question. how big before they flop when you run?
this would indicate that one has enough breast tissue to fall below the crease. this can be improved with surgery but may require more scars than a conventional gynecomastia repai r performed through limited incisions.
my 16 year old son has had gynecomastia for 2 and a half years what can he do to help it why hasnt it gone away yet?
about a half of males will undergo a transient nipple/breast enlargement at he onset of puberty. normally it will resolve slowly as other hormonal changes kick in over about a year. carrying around extra weight can aggravate the issue as fat can masquerade as breast tissue. if persistent after 2+ years i would consult with a cosmetic surgeon about tissue removal & localized liposuction.
my 16 year old son has had gynecomastia for 2 and a half years what can he do to help it why hasnt it gone away yet?
assuming the gynecomastia is persistent a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. consult with board-certified plastic surgeons.
my 16 year old son has had gynecomastia for 2 and a half years what can he do to help it why hasnt it gone away yet?
ultrasonic liposuction is an alternative procedure for gynecomastia.
are there foods i can stop eating to reduce my gynecomastia?
most meats and other foods commonly consumed today have large doses of antibiotics and hormones with feminizing effects. also avoid consumption of large doses of alcohol and definitely avoid marijuana (a known cause of gynecomastia).
are there foods i can stop eating to reduce my gynecomastia?
some foods and nutritional products have estrogenic properties which can cause gynecomastia in men. these include soy products black cohosh red clover lavender and tea-tree oil. alcohol and marijuana use can also cause gynecomastia.
are there foods i can stop eating to reduce my gynecomastia?
gynecomastia enlargement of the male breast is unrelated to food intake. enlargement of the female breast (sometimes referred to as "macromastia") may be related to weight gain since the female breast often has a large component of fat. in that case the best way help to reduce breast size is to go on a weight-reduction diet.
are there foods i can stop eating to reduce my gynecomastia?
if you consider beer a food : ) too much alcohol consumption can trigger or increase gynecomastia. some suggest that reducing meat or milk raised with hormones may also help. reducing this meat is plausible to me (not the milk) but i haven't seen studies looking into this. certain pesticides also have estrogenic effects. decreasing these are no guarantee but might tilt the odds of improving.
are men with gynecomastia more likely to have daughters with large busts?
there is no association between gynecomastia and offspring with larger breasts. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
are men with gynecomastia more likely to have daughters with large busts?
there is no known correlation with gynecomastia and daughters with larger breasts unless you are considering the larger breast size seen in both men and women who are overweight. that excess fat will give a male even with a small gland component breasts. the fat will make a female breast bigger. pseudogynecomastia is a poor term as there is a gland component in every breast.
are men with gynecomastia more likely to have daughters with large busts?
absolutely not. i don't know where you could have heard that.
are men with gynecomastia more likely to have daughters with large busts?
there can be genetic traits that tend to obesity. however they can be sometimes hard to separate from social behavior that can also be trend setting in family groups. when such issues are present father mother and children can all have larger breasts.
are lumps behind a man's nipple symptom of gynecomastia or cancer?
they can be either. it requires physical examination by a physician possible mammography and/or ultrasound and in some cases biopsy in order to determine whether a lump in a male breast is cancer or gynecomastia.
are lumps behind a man's nipple symptom of gynecomastia or cancer?
although it can be either it is most commonly benign. see a doctor for an exam and to be sure a biopsy would make the diagnosis.
are lumps behind a man's nipple symptom of gynecomastia or cancer?
firm tissue under nipples can be fat gland scar tissue or tumor. male breast cancer is quite rare. although fat tends to be soft and gland firm gland can be soft and fat firm. check out anatomy of puffy nipple gynecomastia <link> use the roll overs to see varying components for contour deformity.
are lumps behind a man's nipple symptom of gynecomastia or cancer?
a small lump behind the nipple in young (pre-teen or adolescent) males is normal. it is part of the hormonal changes we all go through as we pass through puberty. breast masses in older males should be evaluated by a physician especially if any first degree relatives have had breast cancer.
are there any new or up-and-coming non-surgical treatments for gynecomastia?
there are fat freezing and radiofrquency therapies which are new to the fat reduction arsenal of treatment modalities. time will tell if they will transition to the male breast.
are there any new or up-and-coming non-surgical treatments for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia options depend on the problem causing the contour. bodyshaping garments offer contouring without surgery but do not fix underlying condition. <link> demonstrates the effectiveness on different body shapes. treatment options though is something much more than 400 characters permits. i have hundreds pages explaining subject.
are there any new or up-and-coming non-surgical treatments for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is breast tissue enlargement in men and is due to the effects of estrogen hormones. a little male breast enlargement can be normal especially in teenagers. a lot of breast enlargement would be a problem to be evaluated by a doctor. medications (like tamoxifen) that block the production or the effects of estrogen can reverse some gynecomastia. an endocrinologist is the doctor to ask.
a friend was just diagnosed with gynecomastia is that a serious condition?
it is a benign (non-cancerous) growth or swelling of the nipple and breast tissue in men. there are multiple causes and it often goes away by itself especially in younger persons. it can be surgically removed if it is a cosmetic issue but this is not necessary. alcohol use marijuana and steroid use can cause it but often it just happens by itself.
a friend was just diagnosed with gynecomastia is that a serious condition?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. the decision of whether or not to proceed with surgery to correct gynecomastia will ultimately be a very personal decision based on whether the enlarged breast gland causes physical and/or psychosocial “distress”.
a friend was just diagnosed with gynecomastia is that a serious condition?
see my response to same question below. friend should see doctor in follow up. can be treated if necessary. usually goes away by itself. exercise and weight lifting helps. be sure it's not a neuroendoctrine disorder.
a friend was just diagnosed with gynecomastia is that a serious condition?
this is quite common in young males and is often temporary during the early pubertal years. if it persists surgical treatment might be indicated. a work up by a qualified physician is needed.
a friend was just diagnosed with gynecomastia is that a serious condition?
there are various medical reasons and medication side effects that can cause this condition. a plastic surgeon will be able to guide your workup based on your history and physical exam. in most cases it is easily treatable with liposuction and minor excision of tissue.
a friend was just diagnosed with gynecomastia is that a serious condition?
just like some women are flat chested some men have small breasts. if breast growth is sudden or bothersome it should be investigated by your physician to rule out an underlying endocrine abnormality. very rarely male breast cancer can present as breast enlargement. often it is associated with weight gain or anabolic steroid use.
a friend was just diagnosed with gynecomastia is that a serious condition?
relatively easy to treat.
are there things i can do for gynecomastia at home?
lose weight lift weights. be sure you consult your doctor to help you and to be sure it's only gynecomastia.
are there things i can do for gynecomastia at home?
in most cases gynecomastia causes pain that is bearable and improves with time. (make sure that a doc has verified the diagnosis if you are an adult - as men occasionally have breast cancer). if you smoke marijuana - stop - that is linked to gynecomastia. have your doc look at any medications - some are linked to it. if you have a lot of fat in the chest wall diet may help cosmetically.
are there things i can do for gynecomastia at home?
if your breast enlargement is associated with obesity or extra weight then weight loss can dramatically reduce and indeed eliminate fatty breast size in some individuals.
are there official recommendations for treating gynecomastia?
gynecomastia can be caused by many things including medication side effects hormonal imbalance street drugs and alcohol liver failure and cirrhosis kidney failure hyperthyroidism tumors (pituitary adrenal testes) hypogonadism (low testosterone) malnutrition. . the recommendations depend on the cause.
are there official recommendations for treating gynecomastia?
is usual treatment.
are there official recommendations for treating gynecomastia?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. skin excision may be necessary in some cases.
are there official recommendations for treating gynecomastia?
like big or unusually shaped noses gynecomastia can seriously interfere with self confidence in many individuals and hence can be emotionally but not physically disabling. if there is any unusual rapid growth pain discharge or color changes a visit to your physician is indicated. mammography and breast biopsy can help diagnose problems that require surgical attention.
are there official recommendations for treating gynecomastia?
depends on your age. if young teens wait until mature to twenties. if persists surgery is indicated. smoking marajuana makes it worse.
after gynecomastia surgery why do i have a skin cancer?
it's not related. 2 separate events.
after gynecomastia surgery why do i have a skin cancer?
skin cancers are relatively common so there probably isn't a connection unless the cancer arose from a poorly healing scar. risk factors for skin cancer include sun exposure and family history.
after gynecomastia surgery why do i have a skin cancer?
there is no association between the skin cancer and the presence of gynecomastia; coincidence only.
after gynecomastia surgery why do i have a skin cancer?
having gynecomastia surgery has nothing to do with a person's chances of getting skin cancer. they are two unrelated events.
are compression vests effective for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
are compression vests effective for gynecomastia?
they help post surgically to prevent fluid accumulation but do nothing to suppress or remodel existing enlarged breast tissues.
are compression vests effective for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is enlargement of the breast tissue. compressing it will not help it shrink or make it smaller.
are there some non-hormonal meds that have a probability of producing gynecomastia?
drugs are responsible for 10-25 of male breast enlargement. h2 blockers like cimetidine and omeprazole calcium channel blockers and spirinonolactone have all been associated with gynecomastia.
are there some non-hormonal meds that have a probability of producing gynecomastia?
there are a large number of non hormonal medicines that can cause gynecomastia. some chemotherapeutic agents antihypertensive meds anti anxiety and anti seizure meds among a host of others can cause gynecomastia. don't forget marijuana use. go online if you are unsure and research your medicines and conditions to see if they contribute.
are there some non-hormonal meds that have a probability of producing gynecomastia?
anything that can throw the body's hormonal balance out of whack can potentially have gynecomastia as a side effect.
are there some non-hormonal meds that have a probability of producing gynecomastia?
although there may be many “causes” most cases of gynecomastia are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative. gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
are there symptoms with male breast enlargement?
male breast enlargement or as we call it gynecomastia. young men and teenagers get embarassed with large breasts. they are called and feel freaks breast pain can happen frequently some diseases and medications can cause gynecomastia. anabolic steroids tagamet aldactone (spironolactone) casodexand several other medicines.
are there symptoms with male breast enlargement?
it is not uncommon to have some symptoms that come with male breast enlargement or gynecomastia. these may include soreness or tenderness. there are a couple of surgical approaches that can easily treat this issue. one is liposuction to the area with smaller cannulas and the other would be an excision of the area(s). a recommendation could easily be obtained in a consultation.
a male teenager with breast tissue is normal or gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
a male teenager with breast tissue is normal or gynecomastia?
teenagers often have excess breast tissue also call gynecomastia. it is best to wait until after puberty as it often self corrects.
a male teenager with breast tissue is normal or gynecomastia?
-al doesn't really matter as much as the psychological effect: no teenage or any age male wants to have breasts. sometimes the problem is transient and therefore does not indicate treatment and it may also simply be fat if the individual is over wt. if practical in the remaining cases most males would benefit from treatment. the best treatment in my opinion is slim lipo.
a male teenager with breast tissue is normal or gynecomastia?
it is gynecomastia and normal. don't despair it usually goes away by 18. don't let anyone do any surgical procedure.
are there symptoms of male breast enlargement?
male breast enlargement or as we call it gynecomastia. young men and teenagers get embarassed with large breasts. they are called and feel freaks breast pain can happen frequently some diseases and medications can cause gynecomastia. anabolic steroids tagamet aldactone (spironolactone) casodexand several other medicines.
can you help me with my gynecomastia?
is overgrowth of breast tissue in males and can result from medication marijuana or liver failure. in most cases cause is unknown. if condition is severe enough and does not respond to medical treatment you will need surgery. sometimes liposuction can help but usually a surgical removal (subcutatneous mastectomy) is required. consult with a surgeon.
can you help me with my gynecomastia?
best to seek consultation with board-certified plastic surgeons. examination will be important to make diagnosis. i have found that gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery alone may suffice.
can any doctor give me his skype id user name regarding gynecomastia. i want to consult it to u. can't consult to a doctor coz of some problems. plzzz?
the most common cause of 'male breasts' on both sides is weight gain. getting on an exercise regimen and changing your dietary habits can help. there are some medications that can cause gynecomastia (enlarged male breast tissue). i recommend reviewing your medications with your doctor. in some cases it may need to be surgically removed if causing pain. most times it can be monitored.
can any doctor give me his skype id user name regarding gynecomastia. i want to consult it to u. can't consult to a doctor coz of some problems. plzzz?
in-person consultation with your family practitioner and/or plastic surgeon is a good place to start. accurate history and physical examination is important. eliminating “causes” of gynecomastia is also important. surgical treatment usually involves partial excision of the glandular tissue plus/minus liposuction surgery. again much of what is recommended will depend on specific physical exam.
can any doctor give me his skype id user name regarding gynecomastia. i want to consult it to u. can't consult to a doctor coz of some problems. plzzz?
about your gynecomastia it will not cause harm you is one of the common condition in your age if your up set causing psychological problems get it corrected is simple out patient procedure. speak to your family doctor first.
can tamoxifen or raloxifene reduce male breasts (gynemostia)?
male breast enlargement at age 79 is usually due to weight gain and decreasing testosterone not excess estrogens. anti-estrogen drugs are not indicated but full endocrine work up can eliminate hormonal concerns. gynecomastia is treated with plastic surgery to excise any glandular component (very fibrotic) and liposuction for fatty components. large breast may require skin removal and tailoring.
can tamoxifen or raloxifene reduce male breasts (gynemostia)?
it is important to rule out more sinister causes of gynecomastia however idopathic gynecomastia can be treated with tamoxifen or raloxifene.
can drinking milk and consuming a lot of dairy products plus grains such as wheat and rice worsen gynecomastia?
although there may be many “causes” of gynecomastia most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative. an increase in weight may cause the appearance of the breasts to seem larger.
can drinking milk and consuming a lot of dairy products plus grains such as wheat and rice worsen gynecomastia?
it can be caused by wt gain genetics and sometimes hormone imbalance.
can i tell me how i can tell if i have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. the diagnosis can be made by physical examination where relatively firm tissue (breast gland tissue) can be differentiated from relatively soft tissue (adipose tissue).
can i tell me how i can get rid of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia can actually be caused by underlying medical conditions in older men. the best thing to do is have an evaluation by your physician to rule out any underlying causes. if negative then surgery may be an option.
can i tell me how i can get rid of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
can i tell me how i can get rid of man boobs?
real gynecomastia is best treated surgically. pseudogynecomastia (fat on the breast area) is worth getting treated with liposuction. of course if you have developed or are blessed with mighty pectoralis major muscles be happy.
can i tell me how i can know i have gynecomastia?
enlargement of breast tissue in a male. breast tissue has different consistency than fat. it is harder and more nodular than fat tissue. you probably cannot tell the difference so best to show it to a surgeon.
can i tell me how i can know i have gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. the diagnosis can be made by physical examination where relatively firm tissue (breast gland tissue) can be differentiated from relatively soft tissue (adipose tissue).
can i tell me how i can get rid of "moobs"?
you are probably referring to gynecomastia. if it is a fat problem then diet and exercise may help. if it is a skin problem then surgery would correct it. if it is a combination of skin/fat/excess breast tissue then surgery will take care of it. liposuction+/-conventional surgical reduction may be necessary. it depends on the degree of excess.
can i tell me how i can naturally get rid of gynecomastia?
are you overweight? this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. if you aren't simply overweight consider seeing your md. you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
can i tell me how i can naturally get rid of gynecomastia?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
can you tell me how i can lose weight and why do i still have gynecomastia?
if your gynecomastia is more due to excess glandular tissue it will have no relationship to your weight and is solely under the influence of hormones or hormone like substances. surgical excision is probably the best option in these cases and it is best done by a plastic surgeon
can you tell me how i can lose weight and why do i still have gynecomastia?
gynocomastia can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. consider seeing your md for help with a weight loss plan. if you do have gynocomastia you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
can there be medicine that can treat male breast enlargement?
there are so many causes of male breast enlargement or gynecomastia including medications ; drugs breast cancer benign lesions tumors of adrenal or pituitary glands and hyperthyroidism. many of these can be ruled out with a few simple blood tests ; an ultrasound of the breasts. you want to know what is causing the enlargement to determine if you need treatment ; what is the best treatment.
can there be medicine that can treat male breast enlargement?
gynecomastia refers to abnormally large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the chest.
can you tell me how do i get rid of gynecomastia?
gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
can you tell me how do i get rid of gynecomastia?
true gynecomastia requires surgery. if it is fat and you are overweight - try diet. gynecomastia is the over development of breast tissue in the male.
do anti estrogen pills remove gynecomastia in teenage boys? is that a good therapy?
generally no treatment is required. pubertal gynecomastia resolves spontaneously within several weeks to 3 years in approximately 90% of patients. breasts greater than 4 cm in diameter may not completely regress. for patients with idiopathic gynecomastia or with residual gynecomastia after treatment of the primary cause medical (antiestrogens ) or surgical treatment may be considered.
do anti estrogen pills remove gynecomastia in teenage boys? is that a good therapy?
surgery is the answer.
do anti estrogen pills remove gynecomastia in teenage boys? is that a good therapy?
for most young men with gynecomastia medical treatment is not necessary. this persistent gynecomastia is best treated with surgical excisional procedures. this may include direct excision of breast gland tissue liposuction surgery and in some cases ( especially after significant weight gain/loss) skin excision also.
do you get hormone therapy if you have gynecomastia?
most cases of gynecomastia are not treated with hormonal therapy. if persistent it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery may suffice.
do you get hormone therapy if you have gynecomastia?
unless you have an endocrine imbalance you do not receive hormone therapy for gynecomastia.
do you get hormone therapy if you have gynecomastia?
while some cases of male breast enlargement are due to hormone imbalances in the vast majority the cause is unknown. the treatment is generally surgical with a combination of liposuction and direct removal of glandular tissue. this operation is usually quite successful and leaves very small scars. rarely skin will have to be removed; this will result in more scarring.
do you get hormone therapy if you have gynecomastia?
although many hormone therapies such as those used for prostate cancer and other medications may produce gynecomastia it is generally not treated or prevented with oral medications due to concerns with adverse side effects. however it has come to my attention that body builders illicitly using andrgneic hormones will take tamoxifen to prevent side effects of breast growth.
do males w/ gynecomastia produce milk (in some/special cases)?
if so check prolactin levels and consider ct/mri of brain.
do males w/ gynecomastia produce milk (in some/special cases)?
only in cases of prolactin producing tumors will there be milk secretion associated with gynecomastia. in the vast majority of cases there is no milk production.
do males w/ gynecomastia produce milk (in some/special cases)?
generally speaking males with gynecomastia do not produce milk. in rare instances of prolactin producing tumors it is possible to have milk but this would be very unusual.
does ensure powder have estrogen and does it cause gynecomastia? it seems to be the case: <link> (around 3rd page).
ensure products have no estrogen but do contain soy which has been thought to have estrogen-like effects in men. but per livestrong. com "no research has shown that soy isoflavones can produce effects similar to pathologically high estrogen in men. a 2011 analysis of clinical data in the journal "fertility & sterility" found no effects of soy products or isoflavones on male sex hormones in men.
does ensure powder have estrogen and does it cause gynecomastia? it seems to be the case: <link> (around 3rd page).
gynecomastia usually w/o specific cause but meds and liver dis are linked.
does masterbating effect the size of your gynecomastia?
no.
does masterbating effect the size of your gynecomastia?
there is no link between the two.
does masterbating effect the size of your gynecomastia?
unknown.
do i need reconstructive surgery to get rid of gynecomastia?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
do i need reconstructive surgery to get rid of gynecomastia?
male breast enlargement comes in many shapes and sizes. small amount of gland can be directly removed via a small scar around the lower areola. more diffuse enlargment may benefit from liposuction. often a combination of the two is employed. when the skin is redundant then the excess skin itself must be removed.
do i need reconstructive surgery to get rid of gynecomastia?
some gynecomastia can be treated just with liposuction.
does gynecomastia get covered by insurance?
unless you have a medical condition associated with your gynecomastia most insurers consider the surgery cosmetic.
does gynecomastia get covered by insurance?
in my experience it is becoming much more difficult to have health insurance coverage provided for most cases of gynecomastia. best for you to check with your insurance company. best wishes.
does gynecomastia get covered by insurance?
in my experience all of the ases i have operated have been covered by insurance. occasionally i will find a company trying to weasel out of pating by claiming it is a cosmetic procedure. a carefully worded history & physical usually takes care of that matter.
hello docs is breast cancer the same as breast carcinoma?
most of the time it would refer to the same thing although there are other rare malignancies that can develop in the breast (sarcoma or lymphoma) that are not carcinomas.
help doctors! what're the treatments available for gynecomastia?
male breast enlargement can come from fatty tissues building up or from enlargement of breast gland-ductal tissues. depending on which is dominant use of liporeduction surgery often helps. occasional requires mastectomy (removal) of glandular tissues to resolve.
help docs! i'm trying to find out what causes gynecomastia in puberty?
1/2 of males experience gynecomastia during puberty involving hormonal stimulation of tissue. males make some estrogen and the target tissue of breast development can respond to small amounts before a males testosterone begins to dominate. it generally subsides over 6 mo to a year. overweight kids can have a false gynecomastia. persistence for more than 2 yrs may require surgery for cosmetic outcom.
how to reduce my man boobs fast and without surgery. i am 23 years old with 5'6" height and 70 kg.
i trust there's no modifiable underlying cause such as hypogonadism or liver disease and that you are not taking anabolic steroids. your physician knows of medications such as aromatase inhibitors or tamoxifen; medical treatment usually fails if gynecomastia has been present for more than a year. this is simple office surgery and most guys would prefer it to taking pills long-term.
hi docs would my gynecomastia go away naturally or do i have to take action?
the age listed on your profile is 43. if true this is long past the age when puberty related gynecomastia will fade. i would see your doc and make sure you do not have a treatable condition that brought this about. if not a consultation with a plastic surgeon with experience in the area would be my next move.
how to treat men puffy nipples without surgery?
depending on exam radiofrequency (e. g. vanquish) or ultrasonic (ultrashape) may offer a non surgical option for gynecomastia/puffy nipples. see a board certified plastic surgeon for best recommendations.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia?
because 50 percent of the breast is composed of fat i'm able to reduce its size predominantly through liposuction alone. many men choose to combine the gynecomastia procedure with pectoral etching a liposuction technique developed to give the chest a more athletic appearance.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia?
first the reason for the problem should be sorted out. some medications or medical problems can lead to this process and treatment may depend on the findings. if no treatable issues are involved a cosmetic surgeon can remove any residual glandular tissue and or do liposuction to remove fat.
if i hav enough calories left over will i get manboobs if i eat a cup of special k cereal w/ a half cup of half and half milk? i'm a guy and 15 yo
gynecomastia is due to hormonal imbalance or medication side-effects not obesity
i'm 16 and a guy i weigh 137pounds my height is 5'5 why when i'm cold my i got pectorals but when i'm warm i got man boobs?
you may have abnormal male breast enlargement called gynecomastia. see you primary care provider for an exam and a more complete evaluation. no hurry as this is not dangerous. hope this helps!
i have gynecomastia and is there any real help except surgery? esterogen blockers special fitness training or anything else?
at a listed age of 36 it would be important to make sure your doctor has excluded certain medication effects or disorders as a cause. it is also important to eliminate the contribution of excess weight to the process. if you have done both residual tissue especially if it is true breast tissue would need surgical removal. exercises won't remove it.
is lexapro (escitalopram) known to cause gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is usually related to major antipsychotic medications such as risperidone or others. it is unlikely that escitalopram could cause such side effect.
i have gynecomastia since about 14 15 but i'ts not a severe one. its no longer tender but they are still puffy. i will be 19 soon. will it go away?
yes 90%of male gynecomastiathatstart around puberty will go away. if not see a local surgeoms they will ive you different options includin surgical option. again the majority go away
male age 17 years have breast enlargement please help link for pics <link>#0l70mp48ybk83?
gynecomastia. org is a great site where you can upload pics.
male age 17 years have breast enlargement please help link for pics <link>#0l70mp48ybk83?
most likely you have natural pubertal breast enlargement that many young boys develope going through puberty. this gradually improves on its own. a more severe case is called gynocomastia. most of the times hormonal changes cause this. you need to have a medical evaluation to make sure that there are no other significant causes. if the condition did not improve over time surgery can help.
my breast size is big so how i can reduce my breast?
a plastic surgeon to discuss whether breast reduction surgery would be right for you. (if you are male this is known as gynecomastia surgery. ).
my brother aged 15yrs is sufering from mild gynecomastia what treatment should he prefer or any changes in his routine that can help?
in most cases boys with gynecomastia transiently develop this as part of normal early puberty. this usually regresses on its own within a couple of years. about 2/3 of boys develop this.
my brother aged 15yrs is sufering from mild gynecomastia what treatment should he prefer or any changes in his routine that can help?
this is typical of his age especially if symmetric. he should avoid being overweight.
my brother aged 15yrs is sufering from mild gynecomastia what treatment should he prefer or any changes in his routine that can help?
most gynecomastia is idiopathic in nature with no known cause. some however can be caused by medications cannabis marijuana or endorine problems. make sure he has a complete history and physical exam to determine if there is a cause which can be treated.
my breast has some fat existed from my teenage and does not have good shape what should i do to get rid of them?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
am a man & i have big man breast how can i get rid of them?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
are there serious illnesses associated with gynecomastia?
gynecomastia in and of itself is not associated with any diseases. things like smoking pot can make it more likely to occur. but the one thing to keep in mind is that breast cancer also occurs in med and if you have any questions about your gynecomastia you should get a good evaluation by a plastic surgeon.
are there serious illnesses associated with gynecomastia?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
are there serious illnesses associated with gynecomastia?
not caused by gynecomastia but commonly mistaken for it is male breast cancer. it accounts for 1% of all diagnosed breast cancer and is nothing to ignore.
are breast cancer and leukemia hereditary?
most breast cancers and most leukemias are not hereditary but there are hereditary types of both. families that have breast cancer leukemia and sarcomas may have a rare genetic abnormality called li fraumeni syndrome. if you are concerned seek out a genetic counselor or high risk breast specialist.
can you tell me some good chest exercises to get rid of man boobs?
if you have true gynecomastia (development of the male breast) which involves glandular tissue - exercise will not help. exercise strengthens muscle but doesn't do anything for the overlying soft tissue.
can you tell me is gynecomastia safe for teenagers?
since roughly half of males go through transient gynecomastia at the onset of puberty and most resolve within 6m to a year it's hard to consider it a horrible affliction. a few will have persistent or dramatic gynecomastia. if its not due to some medical condition or drug use is primarily a cosmetic issue. it can erode someones self concept surgery is helpful.
could puffy nipples (male teenager) eventually go away?
roughly half of males go through transient nipple enlargement on one or both sides at the onset of puberty. most resolve within 6m to a year it is considered normal. i went through it. a few will have persistent or dramatic gynecomastia. it can erode someones self concept surgery is helpful for those who don't clear up after a year or so.
can the military pay for gynecomastia surgery?
active duty? if yes the military will generally provide this surgery if it is deemed indicated. if you are not in the military at this time - see you are on zoloft (sertraline). if you have a mental health condition - it may be disqualifying for entry.
can the military pay for gynecomastia surgery?
consult your surgeon to find out directly if paid or not.
could moobs dissappear on their own?
true gynecomastia is common in the teens and disappears on its own most of the time. pseudogynecomastia (fat) requires weight loss or liposuctioning.
do patients who undergo gynecomastia insision surgery in england get put under?
the exact type of surgery and anesthesia used will likely vary from one practitioner to another. therefore for accurate information best to address this question to your chosen surgeon. best wishes.
do patients who undergo gynecomastia insision surgery in england get put under?
depending on the severity of the case gynecomastia surgery can be performed under local anesthesia iv sedation or "twilight sleep" or general anesthesia regardless of where you are in the world.
do patients who undergo gynecomastia insision surgery in england get put under?
gynecomastia surgery can be performed with local "twilight" or general anesthesia. sometimes this depends on the amount of tissue to be removed. you should discuss this with your surgeon.
does tamoxifen treat gynecomastia?
much will depend on your specific situation and on your own physician's thoughts after physical examination. i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
does tamoxifen treat gynecomastia?
there is no magic pill for this.
does tamoxifen treat gynecomastia?
while it may help block growth of the breast iris it considered forts taking therapy for gynecomastia and is not indicated for this purpose not is it commonly used.
drs. m 20. n my frndz tell i hav built more chest. that means as a breast. n somwer i think its man breast. how to solve this problem. plzz help plzz?
gynecomastia can be from various causes. it is important to discern its etiology. for most cases gynecomastia can be effectively treated by surgery most commonly via liposuction. liposuction will be effective in removing the fatty breast. at times there is tissue typically around the areola that may not be amenable to liposuction which can be surgically excised concurrently with liposuction.
diagnosed w/ minor gynecomastia its painful. cant afford cosmetic surgery can i legally ask my surgeon to call the procedure a bilateral breast biopsy?
idiopathic gynecomastia does not have an underlying medical cause and will not harm your health. therefore medical insurance companies consider it a cosmetic condition and will not pay for treatment. performing a medically necessary procedure such as a biopsy to treat a cosmetic condition would constitute insurance fraud.
diagnosed w/ minor gynecomastia its painful. cant afford cosmetic surgery can i legally ask my surgeon to call the procedure a bilateral breast biopsy?
pain in male breasts in a younger patient is likely hormone induced. see your primary care for assessment and management biopsies are only indicated if there is a lump mammogram is not helpful and there is suspicion of cancer. this concern arises in an older patient. it would be unethical for you as well as a physician to consider defrauding your insurance by misrepresenting facts.
diagnosed w/ minor gynecomastia its painful. cant afford cosmetic surgery can i legally ask my surgeon to call the procedure a bilateral breast biopsy?
unfortunately insurance companies and regulators take a very dim view of this. it's called "insurance fraud" if you misrepresent a procedure.
diagnosed w/ minor gynecomastia its painful. cant afford cosmetic surgery can i legally ask my surgeon to call the procedure a bilateral breast biopsy?
gynecomastia surgery is not cosmetic. surgery is called subcutanous mastectomy and it is covered by most insurance policies. consult a surgeon the office can tell you what cpt code is used in billing insurance then you can confirm with your insurance company.
how to know if i'm developing gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is enlargement of the male breast. males have breast tissue like females that contain duct tissue. the only things missing at the end of the ductal tissue are the glands that characterized the female breast. in gynecomastia the breasts enlarge significantly with breast tissue which in many instances is self production of an abnormal level of hormones or taking of drugs.
how to know if i'm developing gynecomastia?
approximately half of all men have breasts that are enlarged a condition known as gynecomastia. in some cases the cause is heredity or hormonal activity within the body while anabolic steroid use can also create this unwanted side effect.
how to treat gynecomastia with surgery? which doctor examines gynecomastia cases?
about a half of males will undergo a transient nipple/breast enlargement at he onset of puberty. normally it will resolve slowly as other hormonal changes kick in over about a year. carrying around extra weight can aggravate the issue as fat can masquerade as breast tissue. if persistent after 2+ years i would consult with a cosmetic surgeon about tissue removal ; localized liposuction.
how can i turn man breast into pecs?
gynecomastia is fairly frequent and the cause is most often unknown a combination of ultrasonic and conventional liposuction with direct excision of glandular tissue can be a very effective treatment with minimal scarring. you should be within about 10-15 lbs of your ideal weight before considering this. see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgeons to discuss your options.
how much time would it take to get rid of man boobs?
regular pubertal onset gynecomastia usually fades within the first year. persistence after 3 years is likely to improve only with surgery. i would check with your pcp about local options & seek out a consultation. removal of residual breast tissue and any supportive fat cells is usually done by a plastic surgeon.
how do i know if i am having a pigeon chest (pectus carinatum) or man boobs (gynecosmatia)?
these are two completely different diagnoses and present differently. the pigeon chest implies a congenital deformity of the middle portion of your bony chest bulging out whereas gynecomastia is a condition affecting the front &lateral or sides of the fleshy part of the chest i. e. breasts and occurs during puberty or later. see your pcp and s/he will be able to guide you better.
how do i know if i am having a pigeon chest (pectus carinatum) or man boobs (gynecosmatia)?
pigeon chest is a chest wall deformity. gynecomasty is enlargement of the breast tissue in males. pigeon chest does not jiggle and does not cause breast tenderness.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia help please!?
first the reason for the problem should be sorted out. some medications or medical problems can lead to this process and treatment may depend on the findings. if no treatable issues are involved a cosmetic surgeon can remove any residual glandular tissue and or do liposuction to remove fat.
how to know if i look like i'm developing gynecomastia?
if you've got a fair amount of upper body fat (pseudogynecomastia) you can have it removed by liposuction. if you have a lot of firm tissue under you nipple and it's a bit pointy it's probably true gynecomastia. a few minutes in a general surgeon's outpatient office will fix it.
how can i get rid of my fat and my man boobs?
there are many reason why you may have "man boobs". you can deposit fat in your chest and the only way to get rid of it is with diet and exercise. you can get gynecomastia which is growth of actual breast tissue due to many causes. i would be evaluated by a physician before starting a diet and exercise regimen anyhow. voice your concerns about your chest with your doctor then.
how long does it take for gynecomastia to disappear?
at your age gynecomastia is permanent. weight lifting can make them a bit less prominent. however see a plastic surgeon for a possible surgical approach
how can i hide or lose man boobs?
gynecomastia a benign proliferation of the glandular tissue of the male breast is caused by an increase in the ratio of estrogen to androgen activity. it can be secondary to certain meds cirrhosis or malnutrition hypogonadism hyperthyroidism testicular tumor. please follow up with your health care provider for a complete history and physical examination.
how can i get rid of gynecomastia (man boobs) without paying (how to get rid of them the natural way)?
gynecomastia can be caused by obesity side effects of medications and marijuana and by the hormones produced by brain or testicular tumors. the enlargement can also rarely be caused by male breast cancer. the first step is to get a thorough physical exam to rule out the dangerous causes. then surgery or non-surgical treatment can begin. weight loss / drug avoidance are the only free options.
how painful does a tummy tuck and a male breast surgery hurt?
since your are asking as a male i am assuming you have not had children. following pregnancy nearly all individuals require muscle repair. muscle repair is less likely in those who have not had children or massive weight loss. in this instance a yummy tuck is more akin to a panniculectomy (skin/fat only) which is considerable less painful. pain pumps help. gynecomastia surgery is not as severe.
how can i turn man boobs into a toned chest?
but very much worth it. your diet needs to include 1 gram of lean protein per pound that you weigh -- more is a waste -- and otherwise leave you hungry most of the time. bench presses several times a week -- 3 sets of 10 reps each maximum weight to make it hurt and pleasant-burn. a good trainer or other gym type can suggest other activities. if you have true gynecomatsia get surgery.
how can i tell if i have gynecomastia. i am 6'2 & just turned 50 and noticed them getting bigger. i took risperdal for about a year. how do i tell?
for an exam and evaluation for gynecomastia
i'm 17 and i think i have a condition called gynaecosmatia and it's making me very self conscious and it's affecting my eating i need some advice onit?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
i'm 17 and i think i have a condition called gynaecosmatia and it's making me very self conscious and it's affecting my eating i need some advice onit?
gynecomastia is not uncommon as you go through puberty. it is relatively harmless except when the breasts become tender. if it bothers you too much go see a breast specialist(surgeon). there may may be a pill he can give you or rarely surgery may be advised. it all depends on shared decision between you and the surgeon who has experience in managing gynecomastia( ask this question to your docto
i am male (22). i am having puffy nipples. and i am lean too. how can i get rid of this. is it required to do surgery?
udayg233~ is there any physical stimulation of nipples. if yes ~ stop. if no~ are you on any meds. yes ~ what are they? no- is there any swelling of breast tissue under nipple: yes- gynecomastia - see md no- do you have anything in garments -make-up detergents that's could cause allergy? yes - remove no- is there any oral meds etc that can cause allergy. see an md to sort out thx
im 16 i think i have mild gynocomastia. i had chest fat for yrs started feeling for lumps when i was 14 i feel a gland i still have it. will it go?
many nodules at that age are benign you should be evaluated by your physician
im 16 i think i have mild gynocomastia. i had chest fat for yrs started feeling for lumps when i was 14 i feel a gland i still have it. will it go?
gynecomastia in teenagers is most often physiological due to release of some female hormone like estrogen along with the male hormone testostrone. mild gynecomastia gets better as you go through puberty in most cases and does not need any therapy it is especially more common in chubby or fat kids. there is nothing you can do. in cases where it gets worse and remains only treatment is mastectomy
i think i m klife syndrome. have gynecomastia and small penis and testis. which medical test is required to sought out the actual problem?
start by seeing a urologist they can tell you if you have any problem with your external make genitals and your hormone level they can confirmed the pathology by genetic testing
my husband has a painful lump under his left nipple. ultrasound & mammogram showed not cancerous. doc said could be from antacids? how?
gynecomastia is the benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. gynecomastia is the most common abnormality in the male breast. clinically it presents as a soft mobile tender subareolar mass. there are many causes of gynecomastia including hormonal (declines in testosterone level) medication side effect (cimetidine for example - antacid known to cause it! ) systemic conditions and idiopathic.
my husband has a painful lump under his left nipple. ultrasound & mammogram showed not cancerous. doc said could be from antacids? how?
are associated with gynecomastia which can cause the symptoms your husband is having.
my brother developed male breasts he is just 20 years old. he is also not having hair on his chest. what could be the reason?
gynecomastia comes from the greek meaning "gyne" meaning woman and "mastos" meaning breasts. it refers to abnormal development of large mammary glands in males. although there may be many “causes” most cases are idiopathic (no specific cause). the use of certain medications drugs organ dysfunction (kidney or liver) hormonal imbalances etc. may also be causative.
might somebody have breast cancer at 14?
impossible anything is possible. but breast cancer in this age groups is rare. occasionally you can get benign tumors or sarcomas of the breast.
might getting gynecomastia removal surgery raise my overall testosterone levels?
gynecomastia surgery should have no effect on your overall testosterone level. if persistent gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
might getting gynecomastia removal surgery raise my overall testosterone levels?
correct the appearance of your breasts will have no impact on your testosterone level. if you feel your testosterone level is low your doctor can check it. if it is indeed low s/he can prescribe medication to raise it.
my mam she is 50 years old was unconscious since 8 month the doctors says the cause she got coma was she did not take food for long time and the mri r?
starvation is not the usual cause to go into coma you may not be knowing all the facts have to speak to the doctor she may have other associated diseases bad diabetic may have taken excessive insulin accidentally stroke etc. most likely she had all the required tests .
my mam she is 50 years old was unconscious since 8 month the doctors says the cause she got coma was she did not take food for long time and the mri r?
based on what the doctor said your mother may have gone into unconcsciousness due too low blood sugar ketosis electrolyte imbalance or malnutrition. an mri might show the type of damage associated with her type of unresponsiveness.
my husband had been on resperidal for years now and is afraid of growing man boobs. so he has stopped taking it. he suffers from bipolor disorder. what should i do?
it is called gynecomastia and not everyone gets it. its better to discuss risks and benefits with physician as some medications cause it more then others but it doesnt mean he will in fact get it it just means there is a small chance.
are there breast reduction treatments available for men?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necessary.
are there breast reduction treatments available for men?
the procedure you are interested in is for gynecomastia. your plastic surgeon will discuss your options with you.
any advice for guys with gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. patients should be as close to a long-term stable weight as possible and avoid use of any substances that increase risk of recurrence.
any advice for guys with gynecomastia?
gynecomastia is often self limited and resolves spontaneously. if you are obese weight loss is the first step. it is associated with sustance abuse so take appropriate steps if that is the case.
anyone can advice how to reduce the man boobs? or lower the estrogen level? i now have man boobs and they look ugly. plz advise
first you should see an endocrinologist and find out if its medications or something else that's causing the condition and if the condition can be treated. if the condition can't be addressed in a nonsurgical manner than gynecomastia surgery is the only option. my our plastic surgeon will determine the best approach. good luck from nyc.
anyone can advice how to reduce the man boobs? or lower the estrogen level? i now have man boobs and they look ugly. plz advise
make an appointment to be evaluated by a board certified plastic surgeon for a complete evaluation. there are a number of medications that can cause gynecomastia such as steroids marijuana and diuretics but the majority of time it is unknown.
anyone can advice how to reduce the man boobs? or lower the estrogen level? i now have man boobs and they look ugly. plz advise
or gynecomastia can be distressing. if you know you have a medical condition causing this treat that first. assuming you do not then surgery is your only answer and you should be able to get information from any local plastic surgeon.
anyone can advice how to reduce the man boobs? or lower the estrogen level? i now have man boobs and they look ugly. plz advise
if it is a medical problem then you should see an endocrinologist who will evaluate you for a hormonal or other cause for the gynecomastia. if there is no medical reason that this condition exists you can be evaluated by a surgeon to have the breast tissue removed with either liposuction surgery or a combination of the two. you should see your family physician first to be evaluated.
anyone can advice how to reduce the man boobs? or lower the estrogen level? i now have man boobs and they look ugly. plz advise
gynecomastia in an adult needs to be removed once it is established. if it occurs in a teenager then waiting a few years will sometimes result in reduction in size. if anabolic steroids is the cause then going off steroids forever is necessary because it can recur even after surgical excision if they are continued. see a plastic surgeon for a consultation.
am suffering from the gynecomastia. i am 24 years male. are there any other treatment available for gynecomastia?
if an adult male develops gynecomastia other than with weight gain and elevated prolactin level or taking anabolic steroids he needs a full medical evaluation. have you been taking anabolics or other crap ordered off the internet? surgery can remove some of the breast tissue.
am suffering from the gynecomastia. i am 24 years male. are there any other treatment available for gynecomastia?
typically liposuction is used to correct it. if there is also a lot of loose skin often this is also removed. occasionally if there is firm redundant breast tissue it is surgically removed. see a board certified plastic surgeon.
am suffering from the gynecomastia. i am 24 years male. are there any other treatment available for gynecomastia?
man boobs aka gynecomastia is benign enlargement of breast tissue in males. up to 60% of men worldwide have some degree of gynecomastia and there are a variety of causes. the causes have to be ruled out for the proper treatment. if all underlying hormonal and drug causes are ruled out then the benign breast mass can be removed via liposuction or direct excision depending on the degree.
am suffering from the gynecomastia. i am 24 years male. are there any other treatment available for gynecomastia?
surgery is an option of there are no known medical reasons for the gynecomastia and the condition has been present for at least 6 months.
besides cancers what might cause breast pain in the man?
cancers including breast are not typically painful. if they were detection would be made earlier. gynecomastia is hormonally driven breast growth. just like female breast tenderness associated with pms male breast discomfort and pain are typically related to gynecomastia.
breast. enlargement in men. is it inevitable?
while up segal gynecomastia is inevitable in pubertal boys and may occur in as much as 80% of teenage men it tends to resolve in most. thereafter many other f actors will determine the persistence or recurrence of the breast fullness. genetics weight gain male "menopause" aging medications and many other factors will play a role in this.
can gynecomastia be cured using letrozole tablets?
gynecomastia is associated with higher estrogen levels due to hormone changes. see your doctor. typically surgery is your only option for true gynecomastia. plus common side effects of that include hot flashes hair loss joint/bone/muscle pain tiredness unusual sweating nausea diarrhea dizziness and trouble sleeping. see your doctor.
can gynecomastia be cured using letrozole tablets?
there are no good medicines for primary gynecomastia. the safest and most predictable treatment is surgical. see your doctor and be certain that you have the right diagnosis. recently developed gynecomastia can be observed to see it if will resolve. current meds should be reviewed. if gynecomastia persists consider surgery. more info here: <link>
can chest sculpting exercises reduce moobs?
but not to a great deal. weight loss and exercise can decrease girth of gynecomastia a little but not significantly. liver function okay? have you talked to your prescribing physician about current medications and relationship to gynecomastia? while weight loss and exercise can help if it does not decrease it enough when you are at a healthy weight then surgery is next option.
can someone tell me how to get rid of my gynecomastia?
gynecomastia can be pubertal or adult type. once medical causes for the problem have been eliminated or treated then a fair number of patients are candidates for surgical correction. see a plastic surgeon in your area and s/he may be able to better guide you better re options specific to you.
can someone tell me how to get rid of my gynecomastia?
first the reason for the problem should be sorted out. some medications or medical problems can lead to this process and treatment may depend on the findings. if no treatable issues are involved a cosmetic surgeon can remove any residual glandular tissue and or do liposuction to remove fat.
can gynecomastia medicine help if you are in puberty?
while some cases of male breast enlargement are due to hormone imbalances in the vast majority the cause is unknown. pubertal gynecomastia usually resolves without treatment. medications are not used or effective unless a specific cause is identified that can be treated medically.
could anastrozole 1mg tablets for breast cancer also help in preventing bone cancer in women?
hello anastrozole is excellent in helping to keep breast cancer from coming back. when breast cancer returns it is usually to either the bones (most commonly) the liver or the lungs (and other organs). anastrozole is effective at preventing breast cancer from recurring in all of these places (and others). bone cancer (like osteosarcoma) is very rare and not related to breast cancer good luck.
can you advise for some stuff about man boobs?
since roughly half of males go through transient gynecomastia at the onset of puberty and most resolve within 6m to a year it's hard to consider it a horrible affliction. a few will have persistent or dramatic gynecomastia. if its not due to some medical condition or drug use is primarily a cosmetic issue. it can erode someones self concept surgery is helpful.
can you tell me for gynocomastia ; can any one suggest best doctor?
since all males have breast tissue with the presence of normal ducts but missing the glandular tissue overgrowth of the male breast can occur. this is especially true when there is an excess of estrogen circulating or meds are taken which simulate hormone. a good plastic surgeon or breast surgeon can easily correct the situation in an ambulatory facility.
can you tell me for gynocomastia ; can any one suggest best doctor?
gynecomastia is fairly frequent and the cause is most often unknown a combination of ultrasonic and conventional liposuction with direct excision of glandular tissue can be a very effective treatment with minimal scarring. you should be within about 10-15 lbs of your ideal weight before considering this. see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgeons to discuss your options.
can you tell me any chance that taking/took anti-psychotic meds causes development of permanent feminine man boobs?
psychotics/mood stabilizer most likely to cause sustained increased prolactin levels causing gynecomastia (man-boobs) reduced testosterone levels & risk of osteoporosis the latter especially in sedentary smokers. talk to your psychiatrist about referral to an endocrinologist & the possibility of reducing doses or changing medications. please don't change anything without medical supervision.
does herballife product helps to reduce gynecomastia?
no medications no herbs will reduce gynacomastia only surgical procedure or liposuction will.
does herballife product helps to reduce gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
does herballife product helps to reduce gynecomastia?
the are no over the counter or prescription meds to reduce gynecomastia. once developed surgical excision is the only safe and effective method of treatment. seek a board certified plastic surgeon in your area with lots of experience for the best results.
doing multiple pushups helps lose man boobs?
gynecomastia (aka man boobs) are accumulation of breast tissue in men. they are not a function of fat and working out your pectoral muscles will not eliminate them. if you truly have gynecomastia it will need to be corrected by a plastic surgeon once the underlying causes have been ruled out.
doing multiple pushups helps lose man boobs?
"man boobs" or gynecomastia are usually due to a combination of glandular tissue and fat. of the two fat contributes far more to the problem in most cases. the muscles that grow due to pushups are buried beneath those layers and are usually hidden as a result. on the other hand exercise of any sort reduces fat throughout the body and may therefore be of indirect benefit.
dear dr i just wanna ask what is the best way treat gynocamastia condition.? and is the tamoxifen 40mg is a good treatment? is surgery needed?
tamoxifen is the medical treatment of choice for gynecomastia. if gynecomastia has been there less than 6 mths then medicine can often cause it to shrink. however if it has been there longer then it often will develop fibrosis or scar tissue and can only be removed at that point with surgery. so surgery is usually recommended when of longer duration or medicine does not work.
does gynecomastia from risperdal go away?
impossible to predict with any degree of certainty whether gynecomastia related to the use of any specific drug will dissipate once the specific drug use is terminated. this may be one of the situations where the "only time will tell”. if the gynecomastia remains persistent surgical intervention may be worthwhile; usually consists of direct excision of gland and/or liposuction surgery.
does gynecomastia from risperdal go away?
from pharmaceutical drug use usually does resolve with cessation of the offending drug. however with risperdal its appears lawsuits are being filed because of this suggesting it may not resolve. regardless surgery is an option to 'normalize' your chest if you wish to resolve this problem.
does gynecomastia from risperdal go away?
discontinuing risperdal & switching to another psychotropic is option.
does gynecomastia resolve itself?
gynecomastia are accumulation of breast tissue in men. they are not a function of fat and working out your pectoral muscles will not eliminate them. if you truly have gynecomastia it will need to be corrected by a plastic surgeon once the underlying causes have been ruled out.
does gynecomastia resolve itself?
pubertal gynecomastia often resolves within 1 to 3 years after onset. adult onset gynecomastia however does not necessarily do so. if persistent it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery may suffice.
does gynecomastia resolve itself?
unless it is mostly fat and you are very over weight.
does skin tighteners help man boobs?
you need weight loss and/or plastic surgery depending on the tissue make-up of the gynecomastia--predominantly fat mixed fat/gland or predominantly gland. lose weight first then see an abps-certified plastic surgeon for advice about surgery to correct what remains. no skin tightener of any kind is of any true value (except to the seller). don't waste your time or money.
does skin tighteners help man boobs?
if weight loss doesn't help see a plastic surgeon about a gynecomastia reduction surgery.
does gynecomastia effect on sex life?
gynecomastia should't effect your sex drive or sex life. provided you have sufficient testosterone easily measured with a blood test by your pcp.
does gynecomastia effect on sex life?
having male breast enlargement (gynecomastia) does not in and of itself affect sex life (fertility or impotence) but what causes the gynecomastia might. if that is a concern see your primary care doctor for a complete (including testicular and breast) exam and they will know what blood tests to order. it could just be from being overweight or genetic but rule out a medical cause.
hi. i have gynecomastia ( gyno ). and i want to get rid of this. would you like to tell me how to get rid of this. its embressing me to much.
about 1/2 males will undergo a transient nipple/breast enlargement at he onset of puberty. carrying extra weigh aggravates the issue as part of the enlargement is fat. most will resolve slowly as other hormonal changes kick in over about a year. if the process is unchanged after 2-3 yrs ; you've made an effort to lose any extra weight it is time to discuss it with a surgeon. no meds will fix i
hi. i have gynecomastia ( gyno ). and i want to get rid of this. would you like to tell me how to get rid of this. its embressing me to much.
see plastic surgeon to remove the hypertrophied tissue. all the medicines / potions in the world will not reverse the process.
how long of a usage of lavender oil would cause gynecomastia? would discontinuation stop development?
lavender oil contain some compounds which suppresses male hormones and mimics female hormones which causes gynecomastia in males research has shown that this condition would resolve after discontinuation
how long of a usage of lavender oil would cause gynecomastia? would discontinuation stop development?
prolong use for 4-6 weeks weeks can produce gynecomastia. the condition is reversible once the oil is no longer used
has c4 been associated with gynecomastia? if so how long off c4 is required for regression?
is one of the ingredients and that has been known to cause gynecomastia but there are also many other causes including marihuana other drugs and low testosterone for various reasons. usually there is regression in breast size in boys in puberty or men with gynecomastia with refeeding syndrome. a good summary may be found at <link>
how do boys get gynecomastia?
hi. if boys have new bilateral gynecomastia at 19 there's a problem with prolactin or estrogen. see your doctor.
how do boys get gynecomastia?
approximately half of all men have breasts that are enlarged a condition known as gynecomastia. in some cases the cause is heredity or hormonal activity within the body while anabolic steroid use can create this unwanted side effect.
how do you check if you got chest fat or manboobs?
what you are referring to is male breast tissue or gynecomastia. this is more common than most people think and is very common in boys during puberty resolving on its own in most cases. it is sometimes difficult to tell breast tissue from fatty tissue. fatty tissue typically feels soft and can be compressed whereas breast tissue is more dense and can feel like a hard lump under the nipple/areola
how can saw palmetto not cause of moobs but moobs is a side effect of saw palmetto?
hormonal imbalance causes gynecomastia and saw palmetto may cause hormonal imbalance. therefore one may have gynecomastia without taking saw palmetto.
how long until my gynecomastia goes away?
the age listed on your profile is 51. if true this is long past the age when puberty related gynecomastia will fade. i would see your doc and make sure you do not have a treatable condition that brought this about. if not a consultation with a plastic surgeon with experience in the area would be my next move.
how can a young teenager get rid of man boobs?
regular pubertal onset gynecomastia usually fades within the first year. persistence after 3 years is likely to improve only with surgery. i would check with your pcp about local options & seek out a consultation. removal of residual breast tissue and any supportive fat cells is usually done by a plastic surgeon.
hi. how can i know if i have gynecomastia or just fat that has to be burned? i weight about 230lb and my height is 5. 6 ft. thanks.
it can be difficult to tell between excess fat around your breasts vs gynecomastia. if you do not have any tenderness around your nipples it is more likely fat. you could get an ultrasound done if you really want to know but weight loss is likely the be best way to proceed.
i had gynecomastia surgery 6 weeks ago and today i saw a puffy lump just behind aerola i removed the compression garment 2 days ago. what to do?
you are still at risk for acute swelling in that time frame can be isolated to a limited area. could also be small seroma [a fluid collection] reapply the compression garment if swelling does not resolve than could be seroma and see your surgeon.
is there ay medication i can take to reduce gynecomastia in my chest the doctor said that my estrogen level is just a bit over that normal?
if it persists after 21yrs. then see a plastic surgeon
is there ay medication i can take to reduce gynecomastia in my chest the doctor said that my estrogen level is just a bit over that normal?
b"sd once gynecomastia occurs and especially if it is long standing takes time to reverse even if the hormonal abnormalities are corrected. in any case we endocrinologist evaluate for the cause and appropriate intervention to normalize hormonal cause. would be glad to discuss - can be a bit complicated and in some cases a serious health issue
i have a mildly complex cystic mass on my right epididymis and have bilateral gynecomastia. what can be causing this? i'm 20 years old
see urologist and plastic surgeon
iv been having low back pain for awhile now and it's around where my kidneys would be. i also have been experiencing signs of low t such as bilateral gynecomastia for over a year now. can low t and ckd or kidney problems be related? shudibeconcrnd
cannot really relate low t to ckd. however i would certainly get a checkup.
iv been having low back pain for awhile now and it's around where my kidneys would be. i also have been experiencing signs of low t such as bilateral gynecomastia for over a year now. can low t and ckd or kidney problems be related? shudibeconcrnd
high levels of testosterone can be converted by the body into estrogen which in turn leads to pubertal gynecomastia. you must have been asleep during that lecture in medical school. it was given during the endocrine rotation. if the gynecomastia bothers you enough the person you should see is a breast surgeon for a reduction mammoplasty. good luck!
iv been experiencing back pain decreased appetite fatigue shortness of breath gynecomastia and when i urinate i feel like i have to go again right after i'm done. iv had these symptoms for a 6-12 months. what could this be? and what do i do?
is one possibility. please see you doc. he/she may test your hormone levels. please don't let this go on any longer. peace and good health.
iv been experiencing back pain decreased appetite fatigue shortness of breath gynecomastia and when i urinate i feel like i have to go again right after i'm done. iv had these symptoms for a 6-12 months. what could this be? and what do i do?
you shut down your computer get offline call your local uc clinic or private physician and get examined: cannot be diagnosed online. your symptoms are serious and you deserve a comprehensive workup.
iv been having back pain gynecomastia decreased appetite fatigue and when i urinate i feel like i still need to go afterwards. the back pain seems worse when i drink soda or take my ibuprofen. what is this? have had symptoms for 6-13 months
please get a full evaluation by a physician. you need a complete history and physical examination along with some blood tests and possibly some other diagnostic examinations. start with a family physician or internist. if needed they may consider referring you to an endocrinologist if it seems appropriate.
iv been having back pain gynecomastia decreased appetite fatigue and when i urinate i feel like i still need to go afterwards. the back pain seems worse when i drink soda or take my ibuprofen. what is this? have had symptoms for 6-13 months
what are you doing? do you smoke thc? better get off this if you do. the back pain needs evaluation. better change your eating habits too. all that soda and tylenol (acetaminophen) is no good. you need to see your doctor for evaluation and proper treatment
if a person has wider hips mild pectus caranatum no gynecomastia 5' 10'' blonde hair along with coarse blonde facial hair at the age of 17 is ther?
what exactly are you asking? please rephrase and re-submit you question.
i'm confused. i've read multiple different misleading things on gynecomastia. bodybuilders inject t have high t get gyno. low t causes gyno. which1?
it is believed to be a transient problem with some hormonal implication. if one excludes iatrogenic causes it is not usually concerning medically. normal puberty can be associated with it in young men. if concerend you may consult a doctor for some evaluation and check hormone levels. again they tend to be normal in healthy individuals. if you have any complaints you must consult a doctor.
paget's disease of bone is a type of cancer?
this is a disease of bone also known as osseitis deformans. there is increased bone formation and destruction and even increased bone mass but the bone is not structurally stable. it starts to be seen in mid adulthood and progresses. patients may be asymptomatic. there is evidence that it is caused by a paramyxovirus that produces a slow virus infection with inflammation. sarcomas 5-10%.
pubertal gynecomastia. how do i get rid of them?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
pubertal gynecomastia. how do i get rid of them?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
pubertal gynecomastia. how do i get rid of them?
if you're 39 and have had gynecomastia since puberty you need surgery. visit gynecomastia. org a great forum. consider visiting dr. elliot jacobs in manhattan one of the best gyne plastic surgeons in the country.
pain on my left nipple but only when i touch it. i'm a guy. could it be breast cancer?
gynecomastia can be common benign related to medication smoking marijuana or a sign of another cancer (testis) so you need to be examined. breast cancer in men is possible but not the most common for a painful breast/nipple enlargement. go get checked out.
pain on my left nipple but only when i touch it. i'm a guy. could it be breast cancer?
male breast cancer is rare and usually occurs after age 65. male breast nipple discomfort is most likely a benign condition like gynecomastia. but need to see a doctor for a physical examination to be sure.
an 18 year old had three abdominal cts. is it possible for an 18 year old male with no family history or risk factors other than vitamin d defficiency to get breast cancer?
if he's got a lump / lumps i'm betting he has gynecomastia. a quick trip to the surgeon will give diagnosis and if he wishes cure.
am i allowed to get gynecomastia surgery if i am underage?
patients with persistent gynecomastia under the age of 18 can undergo surgery with the permission of their parents/guardians. often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice.
am i allowed to get gynecomastia surgery if i am underage?
gynecomastia in teenage boys is common and may resolve as you get older. don't rush into surgery until you are fully mature.
am i allowed to get gynecomastia surgery if i am underage?
your history says that you are 46? if you are asking for a child and you are the responsible adult you can provide the signature on the informed consent. clearly there are many factors to take into consideration to review if it is the proper timing for surgery. nearly 40-60% of pubertal males will develop gynecomastia that resolves in 80% of cases so surgery is generally not warranted.
as a fat guy i'm tired of having man boobs. is there an easy way to get rid of it?
and exercise don't help see a plastic surgeon about a gynecomastia reduction surgery. this may involve liposuction if the extra stuff is mostly fatty or gland removal if the tissue is more glandular.
approx. 20 yr. old male m i having gynecomastia? not crossed puberty changes(body indicates) no chest hair and not full facial hair? should i wait?
you're "approximately 20 years old" and you seem to be using euphemisms for not having powerful erections / ejaculations like your peers. i suspect you have xxy or some other disorder preventing you from becoming a complete man. in any case you don't have to tolerate having gynecomastia -- removing these is office surgery. i hope you get what you want -- and an xxy has a choice. best wishes.
approx. 20 yr. old male m i having gynecomastia? not crossed puberty changes(body indicates) no chest hair and not full facial hair? should i wait?
gynocomastia can be secondary to drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. you need a testicular exam review of your meds and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork. with no 2* sex characteristics at 19 there is an increased chance that there may be a bigger issue. see endocrinologist asap.
any relationship between masturbating and pubertal gynecomastia?
although both processes tent to appear within the same time frame it is the emergence of hormones that may bring on both as separate events. masturbation does not bring on the gynecomastia.
best anti estrogen pills to remove gynecomastia?
while it may help block growth of the breast cancers in women it is generally not considered first line therapy for gynecomastia and is not indicated for this purpose. however i recently had a patient whose endocrinologist prescribed this as an off label indication. you should first be fully evaluated by an endocrinologist.
best anti estrogen pills to remove gynecomastia?
much will depend on your specific situation and on your own physician's thoughts after physical examination. i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
best anti estrogen pills to remove gynecomastia?
there are no anti-estrogen pills just ads for them for insecure males trying to "boost" testosterone or build muscles. males do not suffer from excess estrogen and if a male develops gynecomastia he needs a full medical evaluation. have you been taking anabolics or other crap ordered off the internet. stop playing russian roulette with your health. you're taking one pill to try to fix another.
bf's nipple is enlarged and he is having pain. is this breast cancer?
he needs to have an examination by his doctor in order to find out what is wrong. if there is no lump felt there it may be what is called gynecomastia which is a benign enlargement of male breast due to hormone imbalance.
bf's nipple is enlarged and he is having pain. is this breast cancer?
this may be gynecomastia or an infection. cancer is unlikely.
can you tell me how i could get ride of my man boobs?
gynecomastia is fairly frequent and the cause is most often unknown a combination of ultrasonic and conventional liposuction with direct excision of glandular tissue can be a very effective treatment with minimal scarring. you should be within about 10-15 lbs of your ideal weight before considering this. see a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgeons to discuss your options.
could gynecomastia have any correlation with hypospadias?
these two things are not related.
could gynecomastia have any correlation with hypospadias?
most common cause of gynecomastia is obesity. however it might be hormonal thus worth consulting with an endocrinologist. boston certainly has a number of outstanding endocrinology departments.
can you tell me how to get rid of gynecomastia naturally?
look up all pharmacologic and recreational substances you use to see if they cost gynecomastia if they do get rid of them. try losing weight if you're above your ideal bmi. if those things don't help see a plastic surgeon. there's nothing unnatural about surgery.
can you tell me how to get rid of gynecomastia naturally?
please forgive my frankness. there are many herbal and diet-based remedies that are helpful for many things. but having gynecomastia -- especially if you're a military man -- can be utterly humiliating. no "superfood" or "natural supplement" will touch it. to refuse the simple surgery that cures it because of a superstitious preference for "natural healing" is to add insult to suffering.
could letrozole alone cure gynocomastia?
it doesn't cure but can reduce breast size in men. it is not recommended for this as there are many side effects and issues related to using this medication. do not use.
can gynecomastia be cured by some natural sources like tribulus terrestris turmeric flaxseeds with some exercises or not?
you need to know why you have gynecomastia. i do not think that tumeric flaxseed can get rid of gynecomastia. if that is caused by medication you should then stop taking the medication. exercise on the upper body may help you develop /build up more pectoralis muscles on the chest and perhaps can make the gynecomastia less noticeable -but will not make it go away. discuss with your md further.
can gynecomastia be cured by some natural sources like tribulus terrestris turmeric flaxseeds with some exercises or not?
hi. sorry but no gynecomastia cannot be cured by the stuff you listed. go ahead an try. you'll see.
can orchitis cause someone to develop gynecomastia?
unlikely but if it lasted long enough and caused enough damage and resultant changes in hormone levels. you could prove this via lab work with dheas testosterone and estradiol levels. it would also be somewhat dependent on your age and length of time that you had the condition
can orchitis cause someone to develop gynecomastia?
is no. perhaps they received some medication that causes gynecomastia.
could geodon (ziprasidone) cause gynecomastia. i feel like i'm man boobs from it. prolactin elevation?
ziprasidone is a second-generation antipsychotic used in the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. prolactin elevation is a possible side effect of all of the medications in this class although some are more likely than others. patients having possible gynecomastia should discuss this possibility with their prescribing physician and a prolactin level may be indicated.
can drinking a lot of soy milk cause gynecomastia in men?
soy does have estrogen like properties but it would be unlikely that consumption in moderation would produce gynecomastia. gynecomastia in men occurs when testosterone is out of balance with estrogen and causes of this include drugs/medications alcohol endocrine disorders tumors obesity et al. stopping soy products and monitoring for breast reduction can help determine if soy is causing it
can drinking a lot of soy milk cause gynecomastia in men?
drinking soy milk does not usually cause gynecomastia in men
can taking prednisone 10mg twice daily cause gynecomastia? i have to take it for 10 days; will symptoms go away after i stop?
taking prednisone can cause gynecomastia. it may take months for the condition to reverse if at all
can adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) xr make gynecomastia worse?
adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) xr is not known to cause gynecomastia
can adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) xr make gynecomastia worse?
increase prolactin levels.
can losing a testicle after puberty cause gyno (gynecomastia) in males after a long period of time? (low testerone man boobs? )
testicles are glands that produce testosterone. when glands appear in pairs in the body and one gland gives up the other gland will compensate for that - unless that gland is sick too. a blood test will reveal if the remaining gland is functional.
can losing a testicle after puberty cause gyno (gynecomastia) in males after a long period of time? (low testerone man boobs? )
loss of one testicle is compensated by forcing the remaining testicle to produce more. increase in breast tissue in males is usually a genetic condition (runs in families). low testosterone alone will not produce gynecomastia but should be investigated by an endocrinologist. being overweight can in some individuals cause this condition.
does prednisone cause gynocomastia or enlarged breasts? if it does will it go away after stoping it?
prednisone does often cause increase in fat storage in areas like the breast. generally it should resolve after stopping the medication.
does gynecomastia has got anything to do with fertility of male? or any other problems in future?
gynecomastia is growth of breast tissues and it is common in early adolescence but usually resolves. most late cases are related to steroid or steroid like performance enhancing formulations. see your physician for an evaluation to rule out an endocrine abnormality.
does gynecomastia has got anything to do with fertility of male? or any other problems in future?
gynecomatia in developing young men is normal in most cases. most men grow out of the condition and it does not indicate any medical problem. gynecomastia can be caused by some medical conditions that affect your hormone levels. if you have a medical condition that also causes gynecomastia then it may also hurt your fertility. at your age you should start to see your gynecomastia go away.
does turmeric supplements or capsules help against gynecomastia? any side effects and please tell the dosage plan and for how much time?
i know of no evidence that turmeric will treat gynecomastia.
does turmeric supplements or capsules help against gynecomastia? any side effects and please tell the dosage plan and for how much time?
tumeric is not a treatment. weight loss stopping any contributors to it (marijuana bulking steroids certain meds and yes some supplements) and then surgery (either direct excision or liposuction) are effective.
doc. i m a 18 year old boy n i hv an prblm i. e. gynecomastia. i feel very embarrassing when i put on a t-shirt bt i also scare from surgery.
make the time to see a plastic surgeon. 90% of the time this condition can be completely corrected with simple liposuction without a trace or a scar. the satisfaction rate is tremendous. good luck.
doc. i m a 18 year old boy n i hv an prblm i. e. gynecomastia. i feel very embarrassing when i put on a t-shirt bt i also scare from surgery.
depending on the degree of severity of your gynecomastia different things can be done. sometimes things can be done that are non-surgical. you should definitely see a plastic surgeon board-certified for this.
does saw palmetto cause moobs?
if you mean gynecomastia no.
deep localized sharp pain between left shoulder blade and spine for months. chest ct showed only gynecomastia and borderline enlarged spleen. ?
20's male w. chronic unilateral rhomboid muscle region pain suggests localized tendonitis. no history of trauma given but concern arises for strenuous athletics or weight lifting. an osteopath can diagnose ; a physical therapist can assist in resolution. ergonomics must also be considered. heat massage and acupuncture might benefit. eventually a single cortisone injection might resolve.
does gynecomastia happen during puberty? does it go away after sometime? how much time does it take? what to do to make it go away?
most of the gynaecomastia occurs during puberty - and most of them go away by itself within three years --- if it does not go away then surgery may be the answer.
does gynecomastia happen during puberty? does it go away after sometime? how much time does it take? what to do to make it go away?
roughly half of males go through transient nipple enlargement on one or both sides at the onset of puberty. most resolve within 6m to a year it is considered normal. a few will have persistent or dramatic gynecomastia. it can erode someones self concept surgery is helpful for those who don't clear up after a couple of years.
dr. has diagnosed gynecomastia from finisterise. after six months withdrawal pain persists on only one side. is this significant?
breast pain in a 71 year old can be from many things and your doctor should talk with you and examine you. male breast cancer is only 1% of all breast cancers but not impossible to get.
do you know of a treatment for gynecomastia?
there is a surgical gynecomastia procedure. it involves liposuction to remove the excess fat from the upper chest area. this surgery can also be combined with pectoral etching for a more defined look.
do you know of a treatment for gynecomastia?
first the reason for the problem should be sorted out. some medications or medical problems can lead to this process and treatment may depend on the findings. if no treatable issues are involved a cosmetic surgeon can remove any residual glandular tissue and or do liposuction to remove fat.
does calcium d-glucarate reduce gynecomastia?
as far as i know the medication is used in breast cancer but not in gynecomastia. you might see a plastic surgeon to reduce your breasts
do prolactinemia or gynecomastia have any effect on fertility? !
hi. hyperprolactinemia will cause infertility in many men and women who have it. gynecomastia per se has no effect on fertility but is a manifestation of the hyperprolactinemia and hypogonadism it causes in men.
fatty gynecomestia how dr deal with in the operation. it is moderate and not glandular?
your surgeon may want to do a modified form of liposuction. ask him/her. also ask why you developed the gynecomastia.
how strong is the relation between dht blockers and developing gynecomastia/ puffy nipples? read some men got this cause increased estrogen. explain?
dht is the active metabolite of testosterone responsible for hair loss it does not increase estrogen. the soy component of many natural dht blockers may increase estrogen
how do you get rid of gynecomastia?
the key is to figure out the underlying cause. medications hormonal issues kidney or liver problems tumors etc can all cause the condition. treatment is generally focused on correcting the cause. in some cases medicines and even surgery can be prescribed to eliminate the problem. please see your doctor.
how do you get rid of gynecomastia?
begin with observation only. stop causative medication. treatment underlying medical problems (hypogonadism hyperthyroidism) if not resolved or having pain last more than 12 months then consult specialist for medical and surgical treatment. pubertal gynecomastia starts at 10 to 12. peak at 13 to 14. should regress in 6 months to 2 years. no treatment needed. if persist beyond 17 years old see doc
hi 4 week post gynecomastia and aerola reduction surgery over time will the nipple size reduce as it heals?
your body does not know the difference between an operation by a surgeon and trauma (i. e. getting a cut or other wound). like a bruise the operated area will swell and hurt for a while. regardless see your surgeon. he/she can make sure that there is no hematoma/serous (a fluid collection after operation).
how effective is toremifene citrate for puffy nipples and gynecomastia?
1) what are you ingesting (pot cimetidine "steroids " too-numerous-to-list other drugs) that can cause gynecomastia? 2) is there a family history of breast cancer? 3) are you on cancer treatment? (if so talk to your oncologist 4) are you close to your ideal bmi? a surgical option is preferable to long-term use of hormone-related rx
how to decrease the size of boob at the age of 17?
what things are going into your system for example marijuana anabolic steroids or other pharmaceutical drugs (for example cimetidine and several psychiatric drugs) which have listed "gynecomastia" as a side effect. also being overweight can be associated with differential fat deposition in the male breast. sometimes no reason can be identified and it may go away after puberty. plastic surgeons have the most surgical treatment options
hello doctor. my age is 18 and my weight is 108 kilos. i dont know i have chest fat or gynecomastia. can you help me?
you're having excess weight. please consult your physician to get a thorough physical examination.
hello doctor. my age is 18 and my weight is 108 kilos. i dont know i have chest fat or gynecomastia. can you help me?
eat healthfully. try to eat at least 5 servings of vegetables & 4 of fruit per day. increase nutritional fiber. avoid refined sugar & junk carbohydrates. avoid alcohol sweetened juices soda & caffeinated beverages. aim for 7. 5 to 8 hrs of sleep / night. hydrate w at least 64 oz of water / day. calories burned must > calories consumed. do both cardio & weight training.
hi. i'm 23 and having slight gynecomastia. i don't have any hormone problem. surgery or lipolysis? which one is the solution? thanks
consult a plastic surgeon most of the time surgical removal of excessive breast tissue will be done with a small scar liposuction will not leave any scar will take fat tissue only will leave most of the breast tissue
hi i have had steroid induced gyno for about 2 years. ( pea size lump in right gyno in left) will it go away naturally or will i need surgery?
answer depends. are you still taking steroids? is anyone monitoring your use? especially your conversion of testosterone into estradiol. if estradiol remains elevated then less likely for gynecomastia to resolve until it's normalized ie see if gyno resolves once estradiol drops. if estradiol is already normal then will probably need surgery. work closely w/dispensing doc and/or your familydoc.
how can you tell the difference between fat and gynecomastia?
usually a good exam can differentiate between fat and breast tissue which would be gynecomastia.
how can i get rid of my moobs? am 46 and have had them all my life.
see only boarded ps in person for options in treating surgically gynecomastia. options: excision or liposuction techniques or both.
hello doctor i get operated for gynaecomastia im free for past 1 yr but often i get itching inside of left nipple any home remedy and any problem?
a year later it is not directly due to surgery. benadryl (diphenhydramine) is a sleeping pill. it will not help the itch but will make you accident prone.
hello doctor i get operated for gynaecomastia im free for past 1 yr but often i get itching inside of left nipple any home remedy and any problem?
itching after surgery isn't uncommon. just use some otc benadryl (diphenhydramine) other emollient or hydrocortisone.
i am 21i have a small penis (about 3. 5 erect) i also have very severe gynecomastia. if i have gynecomastia surgery will my penis size increase?
if you are a male with a small penis there is no apparent indication that you have gynecomastia. if that is concerning you an office visit to your doctor is essential! please keep me informed.
i'm 16 and have gynecomastia. i experienced fluid discharge and pain in nipples when i was 11-13 not after that. will it get cured on its own?
but you should try to avoid irritating the area and avoid the offending agent if any such as marijuana. if it persists surgical excision or liposuction can be done.
is there any medicine to reduce man boobs?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job. there is no med that ends this.
i have a painless lump in my left nipple i just found i got my nipple twisted really bad when i was a teen. is this breast cancer or just scar tissue?
breast cancer does occur in males but is quite rare. this may be residual tissue from adolescent gynecomastia a process that can cause nipple/breast enlargement during puberty that usually fades after a year or so. scar tissue might be a possibility but it is worth a doc visit at your age to sort out the true cause. at that time you can explore having it removed.
is gynecomastia very common when taking 1mg of propecia (finasteride) for hair loss?
nipple tenderness can occur but gynecoomastia rarely.
is gynecomastia very common when taking 1mg of propecia (finasteride) for hair loss?
not infrequent
is penis size and gynecomastia (grade 7) related in growth and development?
yes they can be related however without more information any answer here would be vague. it is very common to have small breast buds as boys pass through the early stages of puberty. as testosterone level rises in later stages it usually goes away. the testosterone will also promote penis growth. determining if things are "normal" depends on exam of growth rate testicular size pubic hair etc.
i believe i have gynecomastia. (glandular)my primary agrees. what doctor should i see now and how do i figure out for sure if my insurance will cover?
if your weight is in the normal range and not part of the problem the next step is to see a surgeon familiar with the condition. some of the mass would be glandular tissue left over from pubertal changes and some may be fatty tissue. removal of the glandular tissue along eith some liposuction would be needed. the insurance company may or may not cover it. the docs office crew can find out.
male age:17. puffy nipples. its really annoying me & i need to get rid of it without a surgery. normally my chest looks fine except this. not gynecomastia?
this could be a minor form of gynecomastia. please see a plastic surgeon to evaluate and offer a surgical game plan if indicated.
male age:17. puffy nipples. its really annoying me & i need to get rid of it without a surgery. normally my chest looks fine except this. not gynecomastia?
if you are overweight getting to a normal weight may help. if it is gynecomastia (gland) weight loss may make it look worse if you are normal weight and this is new waiting a year or two may help. by 17 however adolescent breast buds should be resolving. if this is gynecomastia or disproportionate fat there are no pills creams or injections that work. surgery is the best and only treatment.
male age:17. puffy nipples. its really annoying me & i need to get rid of it without a surgery. normally my chest looks fine except this. not gynecomastia?
it is a sign of puberty there is an excellent chance it will go away by itself gave it time by the way it is a gymcomastia there is no special manic beside waiting and time if persisted you need to see your doctor good luck
please describe the treatments available for gynecomastia?
i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery alone may suffice. for patients with excess skin common after weight loss skin excision may also be necesary.
please describe the treatments available for gynecomastia?
enlarged male breasts can come from a number of different causes. before any treatment can be done you must first have a complete physical exam and may need bloodwork to rule out hormonal issues. there are a number of medications that can also cause gynecomastia. once all medical reasons are ruled out one may consider treatment. you should seek a consultation with a plastic surgeon.
please describe the treatments available for gynecomastia?
offending cause if known. and if unknown or persistent surgical excision. you might want to ask a plastic surgeon if liposuction is option.
please tell me if it is possible to heal gynecomastia without surgery?
are you overweight? this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. if you aren't simply overweight consider seeing your md. you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
please tell me if it is possible to heal gynecomastia without surgery?
pubertal gynecomastia often resolves within 1 to 3 years after onset. adult onset gynecomastia however does not necessarily do so. if persistent it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery may suffice.
please explain what are some good excercices to get rid of "moobs"?
it is not possible to lose weight in one particular area. fat is gained and lost evenly over the entire body. consider seeing your pmd regarding helping you get set up with a diet and exercise program. speaking with a nutritional isn't may be of benefit as well. good luck! you should be examined by your pmd as well for evidence of breast mass or true gynocomastia.
please help me with gynecomastia or "man boobs"?
approximately half of all men have breasts that are enlarged a condition known as gynecomastia. because 50% of the breast is composed of fat dr. mentz is sometimes able to reduce its size predominantly through liposuction alone. many men choose to combine a gynecomastia procedure with pectoral etching a liposuction technique that can give the chest a more athletic appearance.
please help me with gynecomastia or "man boobs"?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
please tell me can a 19 year old female have breast cancer?
possible. there is a tumor called cystosarcoma that can happen in younger women. get her to a doctor.
are all man boobs called gynecomastia? can you share some sources?
look up all pharmacologic and recreational substances you use to see if they cost gynecomastia if they do get rid of them. try losing weight if you're above your ideal bmi. if those things don't help see a plastic surgeon. there's nothing unnatural about surgery.
are all man boobs called gynecomastia? can you share some sources?
gynecomastia is enlargement of the glandular portion of breast tissue and is usually located directly behind nipple. it is also possible for the fatty tissue surrounding this to be enlarged due to weight gain or to variations in body shape. the causes and treatments are different for each one.
are there any procedures that can reduce gynecomastia without cutting into skin? read there is some sort of ultrasound for milder cases breaks up fat?
results are very unpredictable with external ultrasound to rf therapy for gynecomastia. plus the expense must be considered vs surgical intervention and result recovery timing.
big areola (nipples) but no gynecomastia what to do?
accept yourself.
behind my nipple i have multiple small lumps. my nipples are puffy but no tenderness. do i have gynecomastia? or is it just chest fat that i can fix?
best to have your chest examined by a physician. he/she can confirm if you have gynecomastia.
could "noninvasive body surgery" be used for gynecomastia? essentially just ultrasound that breaks up the fat? any word on this possibly working?
i think not but the best advice you will get is from a gynecologist.
can chronic prostatitis has anything to do with gynecomastia?
"chronic prostatitis" is not related with gynecomastia which may result from various reasons including drugs (>25 being implicated) aging puberty prolactin-producing tumors etc. because of altering estrogen/testosterone ratio although both may be within their normal range. so ask and discuss with doc about your concern.
can surgeons/do they negotiate prices for gynecomastia surgery? i'm 21 and need it but costs too much. can he technically give it to me cheaper or?
gynecomastia surgery is often a cosmetic problem instead of a major medical disorder. that mean's a patient is expected to save up money to pay for it. one can just explain his situation and ask how much to save up before getting the surgery. also one can see 3 surgeons and get 3 estimates for the surgery. some surgeons do adjust their prices depending on their assessments of the situation.
can gynocomastia(male breast tissue) be cured without surgery?
if you loose weight that may help if you're overweight
can severe gynecomastia surgery correct small penis size?
surgery on abnormally enlarged breasts will not affect the size of one's penis. likewise surgery on one's penis will not affect the size of his breasts. there probably is another part of the body such as a hormonal gland that is affecting one's breasts and penis. one's primary care doctor and an endocrinologist can evaluate.
can gynocomastia ( male breast tissue ) be cured without surgery? i workout everyday at the gym
at a listed age of 49 it would be important to make sure your doctor has excluded certain medication effects or disorders as a cause. it is also important to eliminate the contribution of excess weight to the process. if you have done both residual tissue especially if it is true breast tissue would need surgical removal. exercises won't remove it.
does boron supplement cause moobs?
boron blocks conversion of testosterone to estrogen so if anything boron should help to reduce gynecomastia or 'moobs'
ever seen a schizoid fibromyalgic anxious and depress man with ptsd. husband father of an addh girl. teacher with dermatillomania and gynecomastia?
sounds like a lot going on. but it is actually common to have multiple psychiatric conditions at the same time. so don't fear that you are terminally unique in this matter. you are on cymbalta (duloxetine) - but are you receiving psychotherapy? cognitive processing therapy or the more generalized cognitive behavioral therapy may be helpful for you. take care.
ever seen a schizoid fibromyalgic anxious and depress man with ptsd. husband father of an addh girl. teacher with dermatillomania and gynecomastia?
i can't say that these are a specific combination that i have encountered but these are fairly common diagnoses that can be managed with appropriate therapy.
feel like geodon (ziprasidone) got rid of my gynecomastia and zyprexa added to it. is this possible?
geodon (ziprasidone) causes far less elevation of prolactin which causes your gynecomastia than does zyprexa. switching from geodon (ziprasidone) to zyprexa would therefore is been the cause of your gynecomastia returning. discuss this with your psychiatrist. best wishes.
for what length of time do you think my gynecomastia will stay?
there are many variables involved; gynecomastia may "stay" for months to years ( or may be a permanent concern). i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
for what length of time do you think my gynecomastia will stay?
gynecomastia in teenagers may go away on its own. this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. if you do have gynocomastia you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
for what length of time does gynecomastia last for?
gynecomastia in teenagers may go away on its own. this condition can arise on its own or can be secondary to certain drugs (ie marijuana and many prescription meds) and also can be secondary to hormonal problems that may signal a bigger issue. if you do have gynocomastia you need a testicular exam review of your medications and several blood tests that are not part of routine bloodwork.
for what length of time does gynecomastia last for?
there are many variables involved; gynecomastia may "last"for months to years ( or may be a permanent concern. i have found that gynecomastia if persistent is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area.
for how long does gynecomastia caused by puberty last?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. intensity varies from small lump to generous boobs. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
for awhile my left breast is larger then my other. i feel no lump just feels firmer then the other. no history of breast cancer. likely possibilities?
this can be related to many causes most are benign like gynecomastia and related to medications or use of marijuana. it is more concerning that it is unilateral and thus you should see a surgeon to evaluate and get imaging as indicated.
for awhile my left breast is larger then my other. i feel no lump just feels firmer then the other. no history of breast cancer. likely possibilities?
it could a benign ' gynacomastia ' or could be a tumor you need to see your doctor for further investigation. breast cancer is rare in men but 1% of them are in men.
for how long does gynecomastia last during puberty?
roughly half of males go through transient nipple enlargement on one or both sides at the onset of puberty. most resolve within 6m to a year it is considered normal. a few will have persistent or dramatic gynecomastia. it can erode someones self concept surgery is helpful for those who don't clear up after a couple of years.
fsh is 28 and lh 10. 2 due to chemo damage to testicles. t levels are normal but could the elevated fsh/lh levels predispose me to gynomastia?
unlikely with normal t. gynecomastia triggered by a decrease in the amount of the hormone testosterone compared with estrogen. most cases of gynecomastia either idiopathic or related to medications. elevated fsh: implies damage to the sperm producing cells which make up most of the volume of the testis. elevated lh: implies damage to the leydig cells in the testis which produce testosterone.
gynecomastia in adolescents. is this becoming more common?
i am not aware of any evidence that demonstrates that the incidence of gynecomastia is increasing. it is possible that the increased incidence of obesity may be a factor. also adolescents may be becoming more aware of this “diagnosis” through readily available information online etc. often these young men present with concerns about their chest wall appearance especially in tighter clothing….
gynecomastia in adolescents. is this becoming more common?
no evidence to support that theory.
gynecomastia in adolescents. is this becoming more common?
gynecomastia is common in adolescent males and usually resolves spontaneously. some studies state that it occurrs in 50% of normal adolescent males. perhaps the epidemic of obesity in young people makes the appearance of individuals with this condition more obvious.
gynocomastia in teens. what are the treatment options?
a surgical problem in face of stable weight.
gynocomastia in teens. what are the treatment options?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated to treat persistent gynecomastia. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposuction surgery.
gynocomastia in teens. what are the treatment options?
gynecomastia is likely to resolve spontaneously so observation is appropriate. if obesity is part of the problem weight loss willl help bu redundant skin may be the residual problem that needs surgical intervention.
gynecomastia male breast problems what can i do?
assuming a young man has achieved a long-term stable weight and there are no “causative agents” involved surgery may be indicated. it is often best treated with partial excision of the prominent glandular tissue as well as liposuction surgery of the peripheral chest area. if the prominence of the chest wall is caused by adipose tissue then liposculpture surgery may suffice.
gynecomastia male breast problems what can i do?
the enlargement of male breasts or gynecomastia is best treated surgically with or without laser assistance. an ultrasonic laser is very good for this.
gynecomastia male breast problems what can i do?
an option if there is no identifiable medical problem assoc with the condition and the condition has been present for over 6 months.
gynecomastia does it persist after antipsychotics discontinued?
quite likely depending on your age. as we age a natural propensity toward gynecomastia may be provoked or hastened by medications. consult with your local plastic surgeon regarding options for treatment.
gynecomastia does it persist after antipsychotics discontinued?
impossible to predict with any degree of certainty whether gynecomastia related to the use of any specific drug will dissipate once the specific drug use is terminated. this may be one of the situations where the "only time will tell”. if the gynecomastia remains persistent surgical intervention may be worthwhile; usually consists of direct excision of gland and/or liposuction surgery.
gynecomastia breast tenderness has lasted over yr. mammogram findings normal/benign with f/u scheduled. is time abnormal. finasteride caused.
sure of the question but there are several stages of gynecomastia and each can look different on the mammogram. so you can have gynecomastia and the mammogram can look different in a year without invoking any new pathology.
gynecomastia maybe btwn grade 1 or 2. have it since i was 14yrs. anything serious? how do i reduce it? will exercise work? and if yes then which exercise?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. intensity varies from small lump to generous boobs. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
gynecomastia compression vest shirt is this effective?
this will not solve the problem in the long run. it will reduce the obvious nature of the process while it is being worn. for long term improvement have an evaluation done to eliminate any ongoing medical problems. once completed consult a cosmetic surgeon for a surgical solution.
gyno man boobs how to treat?
the most common cause of "male breasts" on both sides is weight gain. getting on an exercise regimen and changing your dietary habits can help. there are some medications that can cause gynecomastia (enlarged male breast tissue). i recommend reviewing your medications with your doctor. in some cases it may need to be surgically removed.
gyno man boobs how to treat?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
gynecomastia developed at age 28 after pro-hormone use what to do now?
gynecomastia can be associated with endocrine disorders but this is rare. i would suggest seeing a surgeon certified by the american board of plastic surgery who can give you information on your options and after an examination advise you on the appropriateness of an endocrinology evaluation. good luck!
how can kidney disease cause gynecomastia?
renal failure has very widespread consequences on normal body function. in regard to gynecomastia this results from decreased testosterone production and an increase in lh and fsh; the female hormone equivalent. the latter results from less excretion in the urine. this hormone imbalance causes breast enlargement that typically resolved within a year.
how can kidney disease cause gynecomastia?
build up of estrogen (female hormone) by failing kidneys
how can kidney disease cause gynecomastia?
gynecomastia in men occurs when testosterone levels are decreased compared to estrogen levels. so it occurs when test. levels are decreased or estrogen levels are increased. it is (relatively) common in infant males & adolescent males. certain medicines anabolic steroids alcohol marijuana liver/thyr disease tumor malnutrition and kidney failure/dialysis can all result in hormonal imbalances
how to reduce man boobs?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally before disappearing. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
how can i distinguish between gynocomastia (male breast tissue ) and only chest fat?
the simple but difficult way would be to drop the weight. however an ultrasound of the area could help distinguish what is fat or glandular breast tissue. there is likely some of both.
i am experiencing enlarged male breasts.
in your age breast enlargement which is commonly associate with pain is called gynecomastia. most of the time it will improve on its own over time. however it is advisable to see your health care prodider for evaluation to assure there are no other medical issues of concern.
i am experiencing itching all over the body without any rash (severity: severe) (quality: severe itching). i was treated from gynocomastia month ago?
cause of gynecomastia? treatment of it?
i am an 18 yr old male! i dont know what my symptom is called but i do know it is not gynocomastia! my areolas and nipple are dome like structures.
about 1/3 to 1/2 of all males will go through transient nipple &/or breast gland enlargement in puberty & that usually fades in 6m-1yr. carrying extra weight can exaggerate the process. if it persists after 3 y a cosmetic surgeon may need to remove the excess tissue. you can decide to call it what you want but we call it gynecomastia.
i am an 18 yr old male! i dont know what my symptom is called but i do know it is not gynocomastia! my areolas and nipple are dome like structures.
your description of your aerola and nipples are suggestive of gynecomastia. follow up with a doctor to confirm diagnosis and cause for extra breast tissue development.
i am completely confused right now as i am suffering from enlarged breast problem. now i dont know either it is pseudogynecomastia or gynocomastia?
in order to properly diagnose your problem you will have to have a complete exam at which time a mammogram of your breast may be suggested. i advise you to please go to a medical clinic or private physicians office in your country as soon as possible. the sooner a proper diagnosis is made the better your chances of a recovery are. i wish you the best with your health!
im 33. is it normal to have occasional pain from gynecomastia. ive had it in 1 breast since i was 16. never went away. should my hormones be tested
excessive breast tissue in men and pain needs to be examined by your doctor. please see him/her. also the tissue can be removed surgically if you and your doc think it necessary. peace and good health.
if b-cell lymphoma is found in a breast biopsy is that breast cancer?
common breast cancer derives from the glands and/or ducts of the breast. a few unusual sarcomas arise from the stroma of the breast. a lymphoma in the breast will behave like a lymphoma arising in the lymph nodes or wherever and treatment will not be given as if it were a common breast cancer.
i am 33 and have suffered with gynocomastia since puberty. can estrogen blockers reduce breast tissue or just prevent it? i was big am now 5'10" 152#
it would be important to make sure your doctor has excluded certain medication effects or disorders as a cause. it is also important to eliminate the contribution of excess weight to the process. if you have done both residual tissue especially if it is true breast tissue would need surgical removal. estrogen blockers won't do it.
i am 33 and have suffered with gynocomastia since puberty. can estrogen blockers reduce breast tissue or just prevent it? i was big am now 5'10" 152#
your gynecomastia since puberty if remaining stable in size requires no treatment. using estrogen will make it even bigger. to enhance your general well-being peruse articles listed in <link> more? contact me at www. healthtap. com/dr-lin.
just got gynecomastia surgery done for 4 wk ago almost all glant is removed. when will it be ok to start using testosterone and anti estrogen again?
if you are a male with large breasts that have been removed you may not need testosterone have your doctor check your testosterone level. why do you need anti-estrogen. just to be sure are a female changing to male? if so that would indeed have an effect on your testosterone level.
just got gynecomastia surgery done for 4wk ago almost all glant is removed. when will it be ok to start using steroids for muscle gain again?
have a lot of side effects many more serious than gynecomastia some even life-threatening. i don't think any medical professional will advise use of steroids for muscle gain.
long term effects of chemotherapy for breast cancer vs radiation?
chemotherapy long-term can increase the likelihood of developing bloodstream cancers such as leukemia radiation treatment can cause tissue scarring and also increase the possibilty of developing other cancers such as sarcoma.
lost 105 pounds and still have man boobs. what else can i do?
even in spite of massive weight loss gynecomastia usually persists. you may have a problem of too much skin in addition to breast tissue present. many young men have a mild case of gynecomastia with only puffy nipples. others have a more serious case. most require surgery for correction even mild puffy nipples. see my webinar on youtube - search dr. george pope. or visit www. gynecomastia.
looking for more information about sarcoma of the breast post mastectomy can i prevent recurrence?
to prevent local recurrence of most soft tissue sarcomas the most important thing is a complete surgical resection by a swith negative margins. for high grade sarcomas many centers also use adjuvant radiation therapy as an additional local control measure. a metastatic staging evaluation is very important and the decision of whether to pursue chemotherapy is really up to you and your oncologist.
looking for more information about sarcoma of the breast post mastectomy can i prevent recurrence?
primary sarcomas of breast are rare accounts for less than 1% of breast malignancies so very few centers have vast experience need multidisciplinary approach in this case if have negative surgical margins by mastectomy (do not spread to lymph nodes as in ca ) need chemo radiation as a team approach to prevent future recurrence and metastasis speak to your doctors and look for other opinions.
looking for surgery options on gynecomastia. what are the best ways to find a great doctor?
hospital in your area and ask for a list of credentialed surgeons and schedule consultations to help decide which is the best fit for you. most will have portfolios of their work as well as patient testimonials.
let's say i have gynecomastia /am prone to it. i take propecia (finasteride) (rare side efx is gynecomastia) will my chance be higher of it making mine worse?
if you have real gynecomastia (not just fat) finasteride will probably make it worse.
my grandmother had breast cancer and my grandfather passed from sarcoma both before the age of 40 (both dad's side) would i benefit from brca testing?
having a second degree relative like a grandmother with breast cancer before the age of 40 is a red flag for possible brca. if your grandmother is living then she could be tested. if not then your mother or father could be tested depending on which side of the family. if they do not have the gene then they cannot pass it on to you. hope this helps.
my grandmother had breast cancer and my grandfather passed from sarcoma both before the age of 40 (both dad's side) would i benefit from brca testing?
is recommended before and after any genetic test. this counseling is provided by a doctor who is experienced in cancer genetics.
my grandmother had breast cancer and my grandfather passed from sarcoma both before the age of 40 (both dad's side) would i benefit from brca testing?
so sorry to hear that. there is a formula that your pcp can go through with you to calculate your risk. unless your grandmother had an early breast cancer younger than 40 it probably won't increase your risk of hereditary cancer. 90% of breast cancers are not brca cancers. typically there is a history of several breast cancers in first degree relatives and early breast cancer.
my dr just put me on 1mg arimidex (anastrozole) once a day for gynecomastia. can. you tell me more about this medication and the dose i am taking?
a testosterone blocker. when too much testosterone turns into estrogen gynecomastia excess breast tissue in men can occur. certainly speak w/your prescribing physician or an endocrinologist. men who take testosterone can develop excessive breast tissue but that is not the only cause. peace and good health.
my dr just put me on 1mg arimidex (anastrozole) once a day for gynecomastia. can. you tell me more about this medication and the dose i am taking?
this is anti estrogen medication anti female hormone usually given to a female with breast cancer that was tested positive for hormones receptors. i personally never used it for your diagnosis. i will get a local second opinion before i use it. unless he is confidant that your problem is driven by increase hormone of estrogen most make gyncomastia are not. it usually start in puberty
my dr just put me on 1mg arimidex (anastrozole) once a day for gynecomastia. can. you tell me more about this medication and the dose i am taking?
it blocks estrogen. as such it will lower all estrogen effects. it isnt generally used for this and was developed for breast cancer but it is a hormone blocker of a hormone a male doesnt need not a chemotherapy drug. and there is the question of why one has it. it isnt that rare to just have it with puberty. hormones are all high and that can be it. but hormones can be unregulated in diseases.
my lab work came back with low vitamin d at 26. 4 low free testosterone at 7. 6 high bilirubin at 2. 3 platelets are 326 can any of this be bad? iv had symptoms of loss of appetite fatigue back and joint pain gynecomastia shortness of breath
low vit d is common just supplement low testosteroen occurs usually older men but is not uncommon- there are supplements platelets are ok. the elevated bilirubin is unusual and has to be evaluated. it reflects with liver or gallbladder dysfunction rarely pancreas need liver function tests ultrasound or ct maybe gilbert's avoid alcohol tylenol (acetaminophen) smoking. f/u this weeks w/ doc/ gi.
my lab work came back with low vitamin d at 26. 4 low free testosterone at 7. 6 high bilirubin at 2. 3 platelets are 326 can any of this be bad? iv had symptoms of loss of appetite fatigue back and joint pain gynecomastia shortness of breath
dear cole out of all lab results you mentioned i would recommend to investigate why your bilirubin level is high. it can be a sign of subacute or chronic liver condition. all your symptoms are presentation of systemic problem and it may be liver disease as well in regard of testosterone levels interpretation usualy it is age dependent and not recommended to check unless males have infertility
my son is 16. 5 old. he's got man boobs & sneezes many times after waking up. why sneezes occur in the morning. what doctor specializes in man boobs?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males & generally last about a year before fading. up to 3 years is noted occasionally. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue & liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job. plastic surgeons manage this problem.
male age-20 i am having gynocomastia (puffed nipples). will consuming soy milk affect it in any way?
there are no studies to my knowledge indication that soy products will aggravate or cause gynecomastia.
need advice on what is the the best way to get rid of man boobs?
weight loss then surgery for gynecomastia-- which is either excision or liposuction.
need doctor's help! i have gynecomastia!
start off by seeing your physician. he or she will evaluate and may make referral to an endocrinologist a breast surgeon or a plastic surgeon.
need doctor's help! i have gynecomastia!
i presume that you are inquiring if there are dangers associated with enlarged breasts in males. the answer is rarely yes as breast cancer is a remote possibility. usually though the younger male with enlarged breasts is commonly plagued by psychosocial issues ; possibly sensitivity of nipples ; pain in the breast in a few. if medical issues are ruled out then surgical correction is the treatment.
nearly 16 yr old son felt large thing under his both nipples i think it's gynecomastia will it go away?
these are breast buds. they are normal with growing boys
only if i bend over or if i'm bloated my gynocomastia is noticeable. why? i'm 16
bending over will allow the breast to be prominent that lumps becomes more evident to be noticed.
please tell me what should i do about my gynecomastia?
plastic surgeons are the best at and have the most options for evaluation and treatment of gynecomastia. if you are at a bmi greater than ideal you may wish to try to try weight-loss first.
please tell me what should i do about my gynecomastia?
at 47 an evaluation should be done by your doc to identify any medications or conditions that could cause it. if these are excluded a referral to a cosmetic surgeon for removal of any glandular tissue and or liposuction of fatty tissue can treat this.
please tell me what are signs that pubertal gynecomastia is going away?
pubertal gynecomastia will occur in 1/3 to 1/2 of males ; generally last about a year before fading. intensity varies from small lump to generous boobs. overweight kids can appear to have it from just fat accumulation. if present after 3 years surgical removal of the glandular tissue ; liposuction of any associated fatty tissue will do the job.
my mom went in2 cardiac arrest & brought back but on life support -before her brain died completely could she hear me telling her i love her please?
it is likely that she heard you. i guess it was her time. i tell the loved ones and staff that are within earshot of my patients who are in a coma to assume that everything they say can be heard and understood. if they cannot hear then nothing is lost through such acts of kindness.
what is the difference between selective and non-selective beta blockers for glaucoma treatment?
side effects such as effects on breathing are less common with selective than with non-selective beta blockers. if blockers are used in tablet form for oral medication eye drops may not be as effective. choice of glaucoma treatment can depend on other medical co-conditions and side effect profile.
what is the difference between selective and non-selective beta blockers for glaucoma treatment?
beta blockers can either block beta1 or beta2 receptors. beta 1 receptors are in the heart and blocking them can cause the heart to slow down causing tiredness irregular heart beat and shortness of breath. one of the drawbacks of timolol. selective beta blockers such as betoptic (betaxolol) are supposed to have less of an effect of this type but are best avoided if a patient is sensitive to beta blockers.
is it normal to be in a coma have a heart attack caused by thyroxine overdose?
none of the items coma heart attack or thyroxine overdose are normal. thyroxine overdose may cause the other two.
i take three glaucoma meds and i try to drink a lot of water. could either of these be the cause of pvcs?
while some glaucoma medications especially in the category of beta-blockers may have heart rhythm side effects the majority do not. i would recommend discussing your glaucoma drops with your internist or cardiologist. i am not aware of water drinking as a risk factor for arrhythmias.
i take three glaucoma meds and i try to drink a lot of water. could either of these be the cause of pvcs?
anxiety or excess caffeine need be excluded. need cardiogy evaluation if symptomatic.
i have been diagnosed with cardiomyopathy bbb copd chronic bronchitis and glaucoma all symptoms effect my life should i seek disability?
if you cannot work due these conditions then you should apply for disability. otherwise you should work.
i have been diagnosed with cardiomyopathy bbb copd chronic bronchitis and glaucoma all symptoms effect my life should i seek disability?
the severity of your various conditions will determine whether you qualify for disability. often the combination of heart and lung disease makes your performance worse than either alone. good luck!
i haves svt + wenckebach and atypical wenckebach - should i take medication for svt even if it can worsen the heart block? what u will reccomand?
more data needed. sometimes we need a pacemaker to allow the rapid heart problem to be treated while protecting from slow.
what are the most common symptoms of beta blocker overdose?
airways and lungs breathing trouble no breathing wheezing (in people who have asthma) eyes ears nose and throat blurred vision double vision heart and blood irregular heartbeat lightheadedness low blood pressure heartbeat - rapid or slow heart failure shock nervous system coma confusion convulsions drowsiness excessive sweating fever nervousness weakness please call 911
i'm 4 weeks 4 days pregnant i am low in magnesium for so i've been having pvc's. how dangerous this could be for the baby or myself? thanks.
magnesium levels drops slightly in most pregnancies. mildly low magnesium usually doesn't cause a major problem for you or your baby and its easy to resolve with magnesium supplements. a more severe magnesium deficiency can be serious because you can have heart beat arrhythmias abnormalities of calcium metabolism and neuromuscular problems like seizures and coma that are life threatening.
what is the normal heart rate of a comatose patient?
often slow heart rate but can be normal or elevated depending on physiology of the individual.
how often do cardiac ablation surgeries result in complications requiring pacemakers implantation?
in ablating cardiac dysrhythmias the ablation catheters can sometimes affect the conduction to or from the atrio-venticular node (avn). this is an important regulator of heart rate and if affected the reslutant 'escape rhythm' may be too slow to accomadte normal activity; thus a pacemaker is required. in some conditions like atrial fibrillation the goal may be avn ablation and pacemaker implant.
how do high blood pressure medications (beta blockers) affect the course of glaucoma treatment with eye drops? my medication regimen consists of beta blockers for high blood pressure and anxiety-related chest pains. recently i have been diagnosed with mi
beta blocker lowers eye pressure. some glaucoma medications contain beta blockers.
how do high blood pressure medications (beta blockers) affect the course of glaucoma treatment with eye drops? my medication regimen consists of beta blockers for high blood pressure and anxiety-related chest pains. recently i have been diagnosed with mi
your beta blocker medication will not interfere with your glaucoma treatment it may actually help lower your eye pressure. glaucoma is sometimes treated with a beta blocker eye drop which in your case might be less effective since you are already taking a systemic beta blocker. fortunately your ophthalmologist has other choices of glaucoma eye drops if needed.
what is a vagal surge?
when the vagus nerve is stimulated it is called vagal surge the response is often a reduction in heart-rate or breathing. in some cases excessive stimulation can cause someone to have what is known as a vaso-vagal response appearing to fall into a faint or coma because his or her heart rate and blood pressure drop so much.
had heart attack five years ago ended up in coma for 3 day and had a stent put in. for the 3 weeks have chest tightness difficulty breathing ?
you need to be checked by a cardiologist. your symptoms could be from another blocked artery. do it soon.
had heart attack five years ago ended up in coma for 3 day and had a stent put in. for the 3 weeks have chest tightness difficulty breathing ?
see your doctor asap these can be symptoms of cardiac trouble.
had heart attack five years ago ended up in coma for 3 day and had a stent put in. for the 3 weeks have chest tightness difficulty breathing ?
stents are helpful but recurrence or new blockages can happen. you are describing angina like symptoms. the pattern of new onset needs attention now.
had heart attack 5 yrs ago had stent put in a coma for 3 days. last month have difficulty breathing arms/legs weak or heavy numbness in hand?
see your doctor asap these can be symptoms of cardiac trouble.
had heart attack 5 yrs ago had stent put in a coma for 3 days. last month have difficulty breathing arms/legs weak or heavy numbness in hand?
those are concerning symptoms. please see your md.
what is the average time a patient who is in coma due to a cardiac arrest for 15-25 mins will take to show signs of improvement?
if they had no spontaneous circulation requiring cpr for >15 minutes the prognosis is very poor. there may be irreversible brain injury. the prognosis is not determined by the timing however. it's determined by their condition. if there's no brainstem activity there will likely be no recovery. if they have higher cortical activity recovery is likely will be slow and may be incomplete.
heart attack brain aneurysm or anxiety attack how can i tell the difference?
sometimes it is hard to differentiate between a heart attack and and anxiety attack because of overlapping symptoms of chest pain/difficulty breathing. however a brain aneurysm rupture is hard to miss. the typical symptom is the sudden onset of the "worst headache of one's life". the pain is excrutiating and often produces coma. neurosurgical attention is needed immediately.
i have afib and hypertension and take spironolactone and omeprazole and have noticed an increase in my chest measurements of late. should i worry?
spironolactone is known to cause breast tissue enlargement (gynecomastia) in males. average prevalence is about 10%. there is another similar medication eplerenone without this effect. you can discuss this with your cardiologist and resolve this issue. you can read this ref for your knowledge. <link> good luck. let me know how you feel.
my pulse rate is 35. i m 65 yrs. and taking medication for glaucoma. how can i increase my pulse rate?
call your ophthalmologist and change eye drops if you can and call your cardiologist.
i have third degree heartblock and i am 100 percent pacemaker dependent. what would my life expectancy be without a pacemaker?
prob here is definition of 100% dependent not precise. if pm stops& u have no hrt beat u may last in coma few mins & rescued if acls begun&pm restored. if w/o pm you have a slow rhythm that temporarily supplies a suboptimal card output&not rescued rapid deterior-ation of mentation&death will occur mins/hrs not days. if w/o pm slow&poor output w/o rescue rapid deterioration/death results.
my pregnant girlfriend had a heart attack and was in a coma for a few days. she has no memory of me. is this permanent or will she get it back?
if by 100 days she still does not know you the probability of her recognizing you become less likely but never say never.
my pregnant girlfriend had a heart attack and was in a coma for a few days. she has no memory of me. is this permanent or will she get it back?
if this was a recent event remain hopefull. i am sure you have a wonderful team of doctors including a neurologist who can help you process all these questions. good luck.
my dad had a heart attack now in coma and on life support what to do?
obtain physician opinion on chances of recovery and also consider your dads wishes in account whether he wants to be on life support or not. basing on that you and your family decide. if there is reasonable chance of recovery with good functional status then it is wise to wait and see.
my dad had heart attack now in coma on life support. what should i do?
you will need guidance from the physicians taking care of your dad in the hospital. some conditions have a higher likelihood of recovery than others. it is difficult to make a good assessment from the information you have given.
my sister went with oxygen for 7 minutes and a heart attack she a diabetic and had very low blood pressure kidney damage will she have brain damage?
was she found down and it was 7 minutes before any cpr was started along with respiratory support or was cpr started right away but it took 7 minutes to get an airway on her? the target time limit for before brain damage occurs is taken to be 4 minutes. having said that everybody is different and therefore if your sister is in a coma right now we must let 24 hrs. elapse before saying much more.
my mom has graves' disease acute glaucoma & had 1/2 a lung removed to cancer. she is allergic to beta blockers. what else can she use for glaucoma?
there are several medication classes beside beta blocker that can be used to treat glaucoma. plus depending on the severity and how acute the symptoms your mother suffers from treatment can vary. it is best to have you mom seen by a local opthalmologist since untreated glaucoma can lead to blindness.
my mom has graves' disease acute glaucoma & had 1/2 a lung removed to cancer. she is allergic to beta blockers. what else can she use for glaucoma?
an ophthalmologist is best qualified to advise you. your mom may be intolerant of beta blockers rather than truly allergic to them and she may be able to tolerate them in the form of eye drops. however this very important question is best answered by the ophthalmologist and her attending physician with additional input from a pharmacist.
how effective is an induced coma for treating cardiac arrest?
when you have cardiac arrest you are dead. induced coma is done only when you are alive. as such it isn't a treatment for cardiac arrest. if a patient happens to be resuscitated from cardiac arrest inducing coma can be a consideration to hope the brain will recover with less metabolic demand on it. it isn't done regularly. we are considering if cooling post arrest survival is as useful as thought
lump in thigh 5cmx2cmx? deep. pain when walking but not on palpitation. doc arranging ultrasound. is it lipoma or more serious?
usually lipomas are fairly superficial painless and relatively soft. if the mass is deeper and firmer this can be a muscle or bone tumor some are benign and some are not. if this is the case you may need a ct or mri to get a better idea of it's relationship to other structures. if there is a concern this is sarcoma you should see a surgical oncologist as the correct removal is critical.
hello my neurone specific enolase level has come back high. (31. 7). with excessive hot flushing and tachycardia what should i do next/ ask for?
i doubt you have a neurodegenerative disease or are comatose since you posted this question. therefore the cause of high nse is most likely a neuroendocrine tumors like small cell lung cancer carcinoid tumors neuroblastoma or pancreatic islet tumor. a lot depends on your past history. flushing & symptoms points to carcinoid diagnosed by urine 5-hiaa test. use healthtap prime to discuss. gl.
what is the definition or description of: toprol (metoprolol) xl overdose?
toprol overdose sx's & signs may include nausea/vomiting slow or uneven heartbeat (bradycardia or atrioventricular block) shortness of breath (with hypoxia) dizziness weakness or fainting hypotension heart failure & coma.
what is the cause of high blood pressure in the eyes?
see your eye doctor to find out if you have glaucoma.
which one is better to lower ocular pressure in open angle glaucoma. 5 mg amlodipine (calcium channel blocker) or 5 mg bystoilc ( beta blocker).?
they both "help" but neither is considered a primary treatment for glaucoma.
which one is better to lower ocular pressure in open angle glaucoma. 5 mg amlodipine (calcium channel blocker) or 5 mg bystoilc ( beta blocker).?
most medications used to treat high blood pressure are not indicated in the treatment of open angle glaucoma.
which one is better to lower ocular pressure in open angle glaucoma. 5 mg amlodipine (calcium channel blocker) or 5 mg bystoilc ( beta blocker).?
take glaucoma drops?
which one is better to lower ocular pressure in open angle glaucoma. 5 mg amlodipine (calcium channel blocker) or 5 mg bystoilc ( beta blocker).?
the effect is minor but if your cardiologist is considering either one as equal for your blood pressure or heart condition a beta blocker will boost the eye drops just a little bit.
what is the prognosis for heart attack patient with kidney/bladder cancer mass induced coma?
one needs full details to be sure but the pattern is gloomy.
what's the difference between a aneurysm and non aneurysmal sah?
sub arachnoid hemorrhage (sah) is blood between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater cover of the brain. two main reasons for it: trauma to the head and spontaneous sah due to a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. severe headache vomiting confusional state coma the symptoms. it is a medical emergency. it is diagnosed easily by mri. early treatment results usually in full recovery.
what is the best way to reduce fat fro breast for men?
it depends on what is causing the accumulation of fat. the medial term for this is gynecomastia. this may be from generalized weight gain excessive consumption which can increase blood levels of estrogen or several other medical conditions. i would see your doctor for an accurate diagnosis first. if from excessive weight diet/exercise will reduce breast fat.
what is the correct eye drop for red eye high blood pressure?
i would not reccomend any eye drops until a complete ophthalmologic exam is performed. there are many reasons why one may have a red eye. 1. allergy 2. infection 3. iritis 4. episcleritis 5. sub-conjunctival hemmorhage 6. glaucoma. each of these diagnosis would require a different form of treatment an immediate exam is warranted.
what are the risks of coumadin (warfarin) levels of 3. 1 is it a concern?
an inr of 3. 1 is minimally elevated. most patients goal inr is 2. 5 to 3. 0. there are always risks to using comadin but this do not put you at excessive risk.
what are the common symptoms of pxe?
but it can cause cataract (blurred vision) and glaucoma (no symptoms).
what is the treatment for pxe?
pxe or pseudoexfoliation is an unknown condition that shows up as deposits on the surface of your lens. most of the time it does nothing and no treatment is needed. however sometimes it can block the drainage in your eye causing glaucoma. if that's the case drops or laser can be effective.
what are the side effects of amiodarone[cordarone]?
the most serious reaction that is due to amiodarone is interstitial lung disease. hypothyroidism hyperthyroidism corneal micro-deposits gynecomastia epididymis peripheral neuropathies blue-grey discoloration of the skin and inflammation of the liver.
what is the precautions for use of timoptic (timolol)?
timoptic (timolol) is one of the best tolerated anti-glaucoma medications. it's side effects include: red eye heart-block (in patients with arrhythmia) aggravation of asthma glucose intolerance (in diabetics) and finally in patients with hyperthyroidism the drop can exacerbate withdrawal symptoms (palpitations sweating etc).
what's the difference between apoplexy cerebral edema?
apoplexy in the brain involves sudden bleeding into the cerebral or pituitary tissue. this can cause associated swelling which is called cerebral edema. the combination of bleeding and swelling can cause neurological deficits such as weakness speech problems coma or death.
what happens if i take aspirin while pregnant?
nothing should happen if it is a small dose. do not take it without medical recomandation.
what would be the cause of my 27 yo husband being diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis? we went to the local er because my husband was having trouble with his acid re-flux. while there they had ran a couple of test and found his cpk (? ) levels were extremely el
if the er could not uncover the reason why he went into rhabdomyolysis then you may never know. i will list some common causes for you maybe this will help: muscle trauma or crush injury burns(severe) physical torture prolonged lying down prolonged coma severe muscle contractions from seizures cocaine use increased body temperature extreme physical activity drug and alcohol intoxication low electrolytes genetic muscle diseases near drowning low body temperature) medications: most commonly statins which are used to treat high cholesterol; psychiatric medications anesthesia medications hiv medications colchicine(used for gout) viruses and some bacteria untreated hypothyroidism (low thyroid level) myopathies(muscle diorders) snake venom best of luck.
what are the risks associated with getting postural hypotension in the eye?
the change in pressure is miniscule and not clinically relevant unless one has severe glaucoma.
will tube shunt eye surgery restore my vision? glaucoma has caused my vision to deteriorate and i have been advised to undergo tube shunt eye surgery. will the surgery make me be able to see perfectly again?
unfortunately glaucoma surgery will not restore vision lost to glaucoma. the optic nerve damage that results from high pressure is not reversible. the goal of glaucoma surgery is to reduce the eye pressure and prevent further loss of vision.
will tube shunt eye surgery restore my vision? glaucoma has caused my vision to deteriorate and i have been advised to undergo tube shunt eye surgery. will the surgery make me be able to see perfectly again?
not knowing all the details about your remaining visual function i can only say that your glaucoma surgeon has advised tube shunt surgery to lower the intraocular pressure to a more acceptable level to protect the optic nerve to stabilize the remaining visual function. unfortunately vision loss from glaucomatous optic neuropathy is irreversible.
will tube shunt eye surgery restore my vision? glaucoma has caused my vision to deteriorate and i have been advised to undergo tube shunt eye surgery. will the surgery make me be able to see perfectly again?
glaucoma surgery is done to prevent further visual loss. in glaucoma any optic nerve damage is permanent.
will tube shunt eye surgery restore my vision? glaucoma has caused my vision to deteriorate and i have been advised to undergo tube shunt eye surgery. will the surgery make me be able to see perfectly again?
it will help to control your eye pressure and hopefully maintain the vision you have now by slowing or stopping the progression of your glaucoma. glaucoma causes permanent progressive damage to the optic nerve. nothing can restore vision that has been lost to glaucoma that is why early diagnosis and treatment are so important in this disease.
why does my doctor measure my blood pressure so closely in pregnancy?
blood pressure can be a silent & deadly problem & you can have it & never know. some pregnant ladies have an unexplained increase in blood pressure that reaks havoc on their body and can cause the placenta to begin to age too rapidly & provide less nutrition to baby. a babies growth may slow down & mom's kidneys can start to fail with seizures & coma a possibility. u want this picked up early.
what are the complications associated with pregnancy-induced hypertension?
fetus: slow growth & development prematurity death mother: kidney disease liver disease anemia bleeding seizures coma death. note: most cases are mild and can be managed very effectively. close followup is needed with your obstetrician!
why can’t i give my baby aspirin?
although rare babies with certain viral illnesses who are given aspirin for fever can develop something called reye syndrome. the symptoms include vomiting confusion seziures and can progress to coma and liver failure. so unless your pediatrician specifically told you to give your child aspirin it's best to stick with acetaminophen (tylenol) or at 9 months or older ibuprofen (motrin advil).
why can’t i give my baby aspirin?
in the 60's & 70's a dredfull problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. it hasn't been recomended for kids
why should i not give aspirin to a child with chickenpox?
back in the late 60's & early 70's a devistating illness called reye's syndrome started appearing. kids with chickenpox or flu would appear to get better before lapsing into coma & dying of liver failure. after a link with salycilates(aspirin) was made we stopped giving it to kids under 16. reye's has almost disappeared. it didn't happen to all kids but we never knew how to predict who would.
why can't i give aspirin to my child with chickenpox?
in the 60's & 70's a dredfull problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. it hasn't been recomended for kids <16 in 20+yrs. not all kids that were given aspirin got it but we couldn't predict who would.
what's the difference between glaucoma and ocular hypertension?
ocular hypertensives are a subset of "glaucoma. " this is because they fall into the category of glaucoma suspects. not all ocular hypertensives go on to develop glaucoma (actually a small overall percentage in the ocular hypertension treatment study) and others have glaucoma without elevated eye pressures. glaucoma suspects need to be followed to see if they develop glaucoma.
what's the difference between glaucoma and ocular hypertension?
glaucoma is actual damage to the optic nerve. ocular hypertension is elevated intraocular pressure and is simply a risk factor for developing glaucoma. risk can be calculated based on guidelines provided by the nih ocular hypertension treatment trial.
what's the difference between glaucoma and ocular hypertension?
glaucoma is diagnosed when nerve damage is present. ocular hypertension describes an elevated pressure with no nerve damage. studies have shown that the incidence of glaucoma transition in ocular hypertenives to glaucoma is less if the elevated pressure is treated. discuss your options with your ophthalmologist.
what is called pituitary apoplexy?
when there is a tumor usually adenoma growing within the pituitary gland at the base of the brain hemorrhage or infarct of the tumor can result in catastrophic headache visual loss confusion disorientation coma and likely death. this event is often terminal.
which cold medicine can my father on blood pressure medicines with glaucoma take?
angle closure glaucoma is rare but not everyone who has the potential for this condition has been treated or even knows that they have it. ask your father if he has open angle glaucoma and then the most common cold medicines are safe to use. generally avoid one with decongestants if you are on certain types of blood pressure meds your family doctor can advise you if this is an issue.
which cold medicine can my father on blood pressure medicines with glaucoma take?
all drugs over the counter or prescription have in the package insert a legally ordered disclaimer: "do not use if you have glaucoma". if you have ordinary glaucoma you can ignore this. if you know you have angle closure potential (uncommon) you have probably already had this treated. so over all you can ignore this warning.
which cold medicine can my father on blood pressure medicines with glaucoma take?
if he has closable angle glaucoma then he should be treated with laser and cured. otherwise he should avoid medications that can dilate his pupils such as antihistamines.
what type of learning disability do people with marfan syndrome usually have?
marfan syndrome patients if severe can have disabilities involving vision such as reading. patients can have dislocated lens in the eyes (lens are out of position and cannot focus properly) retinal detachments (retina comes off the inside surface of the eyeballs) early cataracts (lens become cloudy) or early glaucoma (excess pressure inside the eyeballs).
which symptoms of marfan syndrome can be treated with cannabis?
i do not believe that marijuana is really medicine no matter what a number of states have decided. the only proven effects of cannabis (which comes in a pill by the way) are in increasing appetite reducing nausea and (maybe) reducing intraocular pressure (glaucoma). every other use - for arthritis pain etc. - is unproven. medicine is not smoked nor is it impure or has unknown amount of drug.
why would my doctors have induced a 3-day coma after i had a post-operative stroke?
if is a common treatment of brain edema (swelling) that reduces the metabolic demands of the brain.
why would my doctors have induced a 3-day coma after i had a post-operative stroke?
when you have a stroke there are parts of the brain at risk of dying that can be salvaged. by inducing a coma the physician decreases the demands of those "at-risk" areas and in some cases is able to minimize the extent and impact of the stroke.
why would my doctors have induced a 3-day coma after i had a post-operative stroke?
therapeutic coma reduces brain metabolism brain swelling and prevents seizures. this measure saves brain at risk for damage or destruction. good work by your doctors. and good results for you!
what is the prognosis for a brain stem stroke 7 days ago still on ventilator?
in general coma from a brainstem lesion lasting one week bodes poorly. if diaphragmatic weakness without coma is present the prognosis is only slightly better.
what cold medicines can my father on blood pressure medicines with glaucoma take?
only a narrow occludable angle without a patent laser iridotomy is at risk for pupillary block angle closure induced by otc cold meds. a narrow angle needs to be found preventatively on gonioscopy exam in the office.
what cold medicines can my father on blood pressure medicines with glaucoma take?
most over the counter (otc) cold remedies are ok - just beware of those containing pseudo ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) as this may increase bp and also potentially the pressure in the narrow angle glaucoma -- some rare allergy to the most common antihistamine (diphenhyramine or benadryl) occurs that may cause increase pulse and blood pressure.
what is the importance of pressing near the eye (punctal occlusion) after taking eye drops for glaucoma? instructions for 0. 5% timolol include "punctal occlusion. " is this a standard instruction for anyone using timolol? or might it have been written by
punctal occlusion increases ocular penetration and reduces systemic absorption which can be a concern in certain individuals sensitive to beta blockers. closing the eye gently for 5 minutes accomplishes the same thing as puntal occlusion and is more comfortable to perform.
what is the importance of pressing near the eye (punctal occlusion) after taking eye drops for glaucoma? instructions for 0. 5% timolol include "punctal occlusion. " is this a standard instruction for anyone using timolol? or might it have been written by
this is not mandatory but it will decrease the amount of drug getting into your system and increase the amount of drug getting into the eye. if puncutal pressure bothers you or if not done does not bother you systemically (no symptoms) it is not necessary.
what is the importance of pressing near the eye (punctal occlusion) after taking eye drops for glaucoma? instructions for 0. 5% timolol include "punctal occlusion. " is this a standard instruction for anyone using timolol? or might it have been written by
punctal occlusion is advised to minimize side effects. blocking the outflow of the medication by holding closed the 'drain' that opens into your nose from your eyes keeps the medicine in your eye longer. this allows more medicine to absorb where it is needed and less of it to drain into the nose and then into the body. so blockage of outflow may decrease side-effects and increase usefulness by allowing more of it to soak into your eye. as an aside timolol has the most probability of causing side effects in the rest of the body especially the lungs. the newer drops called prostaglandins are safer and as or more effective in lowering pressure.
what is the importance of pressing near the eye (punctal occlusion) after taking eye drops for glaucoma? instructions for 0. 5% timolol include "punctal occlusion. " is this a standard instruction for anyone using timolol? or might it have been written by
timolol belongs to a class of medication called beta-blockers and has side effects just like any other medicine. one of the more concerning side effect is the ability of the beta-blockers to constrict the air passage ways. for most people this is not an issue but if you have an asthma it is advised you obtain different class of medicine. there are many other potential side effects with beta-blockers to minimize these effects patient can press on the punctum to limit the medicine from entering the body. fortunately there are many other class of eye drops for treating glaucoma. you should discuss with your ophthalmologist the option you have regarding the drops.
what is the importance of pressing near the eye (punctal occlusion) after taking eye drops for glaucoma? instructions for 0. 5% timolol include "punctal occlusion. " is this a standard instruction for anyone using timolol? or might it have been written by
i am a big proponent of nasolacrimal obstruction (nldo) for all glaucoma drops. i have had many patients come to me who were not in control of their pressures. by just instructing proper drop installation including nldo many of them had dramatic lowering of pressure without having to add any medication.
what is the importance of pressing near the eye (punctal occlusion) after taking eye drops for glaucoma? instructions for 0. 5% timolol include "punctal occlusion. " is this a standard instruction for anyone using timolol? or might it have been written by
it's to decrease systemic absorption and increase efficacy in the eye. i'd get punctal occlusion by plugs if i were you. it's easier and more effective and also solves dry eyes.
what kind of complications might happen from a bypass?
wound infection failure of sutures bleeding in the chest shock cardiac arrest paralysis coma renal failure delirium pleural effusion. . etc.
what are signs of dilantin toxicity? i have been having bad chest pains for a few days been dizzy shakey weak just started running a fever 2 hours ago been throwing up. i have had this before but i don't remeber much about it.
"the initial symptoms are nystagmus ataxia and dysarthria. other signs are tremor hyperreflexia lethargy slurred speech nausea vomiting. the patient may become comatose and hypotensive. death is due to respiratory and circulatory depression. " if you don't feel well go see your family physican.
what symptoms does someone with congenital heart disease always have?
most congenital heart disease is accompanied by a dusky appearance because blood from the right side of the heart (blue beacuase of low oxygen) mixes with blood from the left side (red because it is saturated with oxygen). also increase respiratory rate can accomany congenital heart disease because many of these heart malformations cause the lungs to flood with fluid.
what are the symptoms of brain aneurysm i should be looking for?
most nonruptured aneurysms cause little or no symptoms depending on their location. ruptured aneurysms cause brain hemorrhage and may cause symptoms ranging from moderate headache to severe headaches loss of consiousness and coma.
what are symptoms of stroke from bleeing?
the symptoms are different depending on where the bleed is occurring and the size of the hemorrhage. symptoms can range from only a headache to weakness paralysis numbness loss of speech coma or death.
which is safer to use allegra (fexofenadine) or zyrtec? i have glaucoma and heart problems.
both should be the same. however ask your pharmacist who knows your medication history to tell you which you should use if either.
which is safer to use allegra (fexofenadine) or zyrtec? i have glaucoma and heart problems.
if you have open-angle glaucoma both medications are safe. you need to remember that zyrtec may be sedating while allegra (fexofenadine) usually does not.
what can accidental aspirin overdose do to your body?
aspirin od is dangerous-go immediately to the er if you have accidentally overdosed. toxicity begins at around 20 tablets less if you're small much less in children. sx include nausea vomiting including blood stomach pain ringing in the ears; more serious signs are fever shortness of breath (from acidosis) lethargy stupor coma hallucinations seizures and death. treatment is lifesaving.
what is the prognosis of a stroke in hypothalamus?
the hypothalamus is a critical region and a stroke-either hemorrhagic or ischemic can have profound symptoms. it depends on the extent and size of the stroke. if there is coma as a symptom the prognosis is not as good.
why do the prescribe betaxolol ophthalmic and diamox (acetazolamide) for the eyes?
these are standard treatments for glaucoma - a condition in which the internal pressure of the eye is high enough to risk the vision. if you are getting these (or know someone who is getting them) then an eye doctor (hopefully a real one termed ophthalmologist) has seen you determined the condition is present and prescribed these effective agents to protect your eyesight.
what's the association between aspirin & reye syndrome?
in the 60's & 70's a dreadful problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids <16 unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. there has been a dramatic decline in cases since. those of us who treated cases know it well.
what are some of the side effects of timolol eye drops?
timolol is an effective anti-glaucoma drops. there is some systemic absorption of the agent termed a 'beta-blocking' agent. it can change the heart rhythm usually by capping the rate in exercise and it can increase the chance of asthma in the susceptible. if these symptoms occur see your ophthalmologist for alternative treatments.
which of this three medication give glaucoma: alphagan (brimonidine) or timolol maleate?
timolol maleate is the generic name of one medicine timoptic (timolol). alphagan is another medication to treat glaucoma. they can be used in combination.
what are they looking for in a arterial blood gas?
abg is used for two purposes: 1) how your lungs are handling the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide 2) the acid/base metabolism affected by breathing and various metabolic disturbances (eg. diabetic coma toxic ingestion of substances sepsis).
what usually happens if you slip into a coma after having a brain aneurysm?
even if a patient has a coma after an aneurysm rupture they have a chance of recovery. it depends on the interventions that are taken by the neurosurgeon to reverse the cause of the coma. frequently there is excess pressure from hydrocephalus that is readily reversed. if the coma is because of damage to the brainstem then the prognosis is not as good.
what usually happens if you slip into a coma after having a brain aneurysm?
thats a complex question. need more details. is there an associated in the brain? has the aneurysm been repaired? is there increased intracranial pressure? sometimes aneurysms are something a patient can recover from even if ruptured. though with limited information this is hard to say.
why can't people get heart cancer?
people can get tumors of the heart muscle-most are benign. though exceedingly rare there are a group of malignant tumors called sarcomas which can originate in the heart muscle.
what are some consequences of a parasitic disease that stops the flow of lymph?
filariasis (wucheria bancrofti) is the parasite and the lympedema is quite severe. chronic lymphedema cannot be cured although exercise compression stocking etc. may help. the worst consequence is lyphangiosarcoma which is a cancer.
what are the consequences of forgetting diabetic / high blood pressure meds?
'forgetting' to take your blood pressure pills for even 1 day may cause a rapid rise in blood pressure causing a stroke or precipitating angina. i have admitted patients to the hospital for such a problem. also missing diabetes meds or insulin can cause severe hyperglycemia in a short period of time causing dka (acid in blood) or coma (hyperosmolar syndrome). please don't skip meds!
what is timoptic (timolol)?
is an eye medication used to treat glaucoma (high pressure in the eye).
what would a dying stroke patient look like lying in a hospital bed?
patients dying from a stroke near the end of their life are in a comatose state. they are unresponsive the eyes may or may not be open but they are not seeing they cannot speak and often have deep sonorous respirations like snores and gasps. it is all distressing for a family who is at their bedside.
what are the main symptoms of low blood pressure?
weakness dizziness syncope tachycardia. severe hypotension may result in mental status changes coma or even death.
what is the use of propranolol?
for hypertension anxiety/panic angina arrhythmias myocardial infarction essential tremor prophylaxis of migraine or cluster headaches tension headache akathisias from antipsychotic medications aggresion in brain injuries glaucoma post-traumatic stress disorder.
which is worse a higher a1c or low blood sugars? as a 30-year type-i diabetic my goal has always been an hgb a1c lower than 7. 0. however i find that when i have good a1cs in the 6's my blood sugars run lower; less than 60 5-10 times a week. i've neve
the goal should be balance so you have the best possible a1c with the least possible low blood sugars. 5-10 hypoglycemic episodes a week is too many! it can lead to hypoglycemia unawareness coma & death. slightly higher sugars cause long term complications. given how long you have had diabetes & how long you will aim for good control 6-7%. work closely with your endo & this should be achievable!
which is worse a higher a1c or low blood sugars? as a 30-year type-i diabetic my goal has always been an hgb a1c lower than 7. 0. however i find that when i have good a1cs in the 6's my blood sugars run lower; less than 60 5-10 times a week. i've neve
neither is good but too low can lead to shock and coma. your physician and endocrinologist need to regulate you to keep you at correct level.
what is end stage empysema?
due to structural lung disease. co2 retention followed by coma and death if untreated. treatment is often not successful in the long term.
what are symptoms of a brain aneurysm and what can be done for it?
brain aneurysms are usually asymptomatic until they rupture and they present with the worst headache of your life or even coma. there are two main ways to treat them: 1. coiling them 2. clipping them. see your friendly neighborhood neurosurgeon to see which is best for you.
what are symptoms of a brain aneurysm and what can be done for it?
if ruptured generally the worst headache of your life and sometimes coma. if unruptured usually asymptomatic. please evaluate our guide for women with aneurysms www. chicagoaneurysm. com for a nice overview of brain aneurysms symptoms among other things.
what are the signs and symptoms of heat stroke?
body temperature often core) above 105? plus absent sweating unresponsiveless organ failure seizures coma death.
what happens when to your body when you have low sodium?
a little low (130-140) - no symptoms moderately low (120-130) - fatigue and malaise very low (<120) - risk of seizures and coma; eventual death.
what are the signs of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm?
almost all patients who present with a ruptured cerebral aneurysm describe a severe headaches or "the worst headache of my life" and that is the least severe presentation. in more severe cases patients can have depressed levels of consciousness all the way up to a coma. a specific aneurysm location can also cause a enlarged pupil.
what are the chances of coming out of a coma after a brain aneurysm?
there are many factors that need to be considered such as the age of the patient the amount of blood from the aneurysm the location of the aneurysm how quick and aggressive was the up front treatment. other factors that may contribute to the coma-like state need to be treated such as seizures or hydrocephalus.
what are the chances of coming out of a coma after a brain aneurysm?
i'd say if one goes into a "coma" after aneurysm rupture all depends on what level of neurologic impairment is associated with it. what i mean to say is that a coma patient's examination tells one a lot about the level and site of injury. generally younger and otherwise healthy patients recover with higher likelihood. recovery can be protracted.
what are the chances of coming out of a coma after a brain aneurysm?
the lenghth of coma depends on a number of things including how much brain damage can be seen on the mri scan the age of the patient and how long the patient has already been in coma. if the patient is young thn there is always some hope.
what are the symptoms of brain aneurysm?
if ruptured generally the worst headache of your life and sometimes coma. if unruptured usually asymptomatic. please refer to the brain aneurysm center for women guide at www. chicagoaneurysm. com for a nice overview of brain aneurysms symptoms among other things.
what are the worst symptoms of cushings disease with regards to your vision?
cushing's is due to a pituitary tumor that causes the body to secrete excess steroid. if the tumor is large enough it can squeeze on the optic nerve with loss of vision. prolonged steroid levels in the body can also cause cataracts and glaucoma. these are the major effects of this condition on the eyes.
what is prognosis of atrial sarcomas with adrenal and liver involvement?
cardiac sarcomas in general carry a poor prognosis due to their difficult location and often inability to be removed surgically. metastatic cardiac sarcomas carry an even poorer prognosis where survival is the exception rather than the rule. statistics are not good as this is so rare but survival is no better than 10-20% at 5 years.
what is prognosis of atrial sarcomas with adrenal and liver involvement?
what kind of sarcoma is this? unfortunately for majority of cancer-once the cancer spread beyond the primary organ- it is an incurable disease -although still treatable. prognosis for sarcoma - in general is usually not great especially at stage iv disease. look for clinical trial. chemo like gemcitabine/ taxotere (docetaxel) adriamycin/cisplatin dtic trabectadine pazopanib have been used in sarcoma.
what's the risk of getting glaucoma if i already have raynauds which is supposed to be a risk factor?
not much greater than the population at large. just have an annual eye exam with intraocular pressure testing! when detected early it is very treatable!
what's the risk of getting glaucoma if i already have raynauds which is supposed to be a risk factor?
raynaud's disease is not a major risk factor for glaucoma. age ethnicity and family history are stronger risk factors to consider. if glaucoma is a concern it is important to obtain a thorough eye examination.
what's the risk of getting glaucoma if i already have raynauds which is supposed to be a risk factor?
raynauds as a risk factor for glaucoma is very low. get regular yearly check ups for changes in eye pressure and the appearance of your optic nerves but the chance of actually developing glaucoma is low.
what is brain stroke?
it is an area of dead tissue in brain that is caused by lack of blood and oxygen. can cause neuogocak deficits memory loss cognitive deficits coma and death.
what does cause a coma when shot in the heart or around the heart (pericardium)?
absence of blood circulating to the brain.
what would you do to decide if you're having a brain aneurysm?
brain aneurysms are usually undetected except when they rupture. when this happens it is cataclysmic with the sudden onset of the "worst headache of ones life". this can lead to neck stiffness sensitivity to light nausea/vomiting coma. the headache is often described as a "thunderclap" headache. immediate medical attention shoudl be sought.
what cancers common in woman can cause strokes siezures comas etc?
any type of cancer that has spread ( metastasized) to the brain can cause the symptoms that you list. due to the frequency of breast cancer and lung cancer these would be the most likely to spread to brain (stage 4).
what idoes it actually mean if you're heart is beating you are breathing but you are not "responding? "?
you are in a coma.
why do african americans at risk of higher blood pressure. ?
they have hereditary genes basically which put them at high risk not only for hypertension but also diabetes and glaucoma. like wise other race person are at high risk for other diseases. consult your doctor to see if you have any risk factors?
what can i do if my uncle just had a heart attack now hes in a coma for 2 days already when will he wake up?
stroke and coma are severe complications. i hope by now he is alert and fine but some do not recover.
what can i do if my uncle just had a heart attack now hes in a coma for 2 days already when will he wake up?
waking froma coma depends on the damage that caused the coma. can't predict if and when from out here.
what to do if blood pressure goes low like 130/60 and sugar rises to 425 in a diabetic male aged 51?
blood pressure of 130/60 - is nothing i'd worry about. a sugar reading of 425 is high but it's hard to base a theory on just one reading. it would make more sense to have a 3 month test done called a1c to get an average of sugar readings over 3 month's time and also glycomark test that will tell you hidden peaks that are not picked up by the a1c test.
will doctors induce coma for stroke victim?
there have been studies of barbiturate induced coma and hypothermia in many stroke patients. outcomes have been mixed or disappointing and still the best approach is acute t-pa given in the emergency dept.
which one of the following blood pressure medicine arb diuretic or calcium channel blocker can lower ocular pressure best in open angle glaucoma. ?
will lower your eye pressure and your blood pressure. diuretics (except carbonic anhydrase inhibitors which are not used to treat hypertension) or calcium channel blockers have no effect on eye pressure.
what is the difference between glaucoma and occular hypertension. thanks a lot?
glaucoma requires a specific set of findings including loss of vision on a visual field pressure elevation thinning of the cornea and changes of the disc at the back of the eye. ocular hypertension consists of those usually with elevated pressure and none of the other conditions (although a few may have also disc and corneal changes). these can be watched to see if it worsens.
what carcinogens can cause heart cancer?
in almost four decades in pathology i've never heard of a chemical that causes that rarest of rare primary cancers -- primary cardiac cancer usually an angiosarcoma. in fact i'm the discoverer of one of the rare heart tumors. therapeutic radiation is the one carcinogen i'd think could increase the risks for the angiosarcs but i couldn't find a series to confirm this.
what are some alternate causes of ocular hypertension?
ocular hypertension (also called glaucoma suspect) is a condition in which several of the criteria which would make your ophthalmologist be concerned about glaucoma exist. in these patients no actual damage is present to vision and many will be followed frequently to see if glaucoma develops. as many will not develop a problem it is useful just to follow them.
what are side effect of using timolol maleate eyedrops for glaucoma/macular degeneration?
are used to lower eye pressure in patients with glaucoma. side effects are mostly due to the timolol getting in your system through your tear drainage system. they include shortness of breath low heart rate tiredness dry mouth and decreased libido. the preservatives in these types of drops can cause eye redness irritation and blurry vision. good luck.
what are the side effects of overdose inderal (propranolol)?
wheezing (in people who have asthma) blurred vision double vision heart and blood irregular heartbeat lightheadedness low blood pressure heartbeat - rapid or slow heart failure shock coma confusion convulsions drowsiness excessive sweating fever nervousness weakness.
what to do if i'm experiencing frequent headaches without hight blood pressure.?
there are many causes of headache. onset of headaches at age 47 obviates an evaluation which should include a fundoscopic exam careful musculoiskeletal exam examination of the facial sinuses a check for glaucoma in some cases and a good neuro exam. often a ct scan of the head is obtained depending on the current signs and symptoms. best of luck.
what to do if i have hypertension how can i stop my eyes from being blurry?
high blood pressure (hypertension) shouldn't cause blurry eyes although high pressure inside your eyes (glaucoma) can cause blindness. bottom line go see your family doctor regarding your blood pressure and your eye doctor regarding your blurry vision. check your bp at home and bring your bp cuff in for calibration. keep in close contact w/your family doc. exercise & dash diet can help lower bp
what would cause visual disturbance during intense exercise? it seems to coincide with high blood pressure as the blurring throbs with each pulse.
there are several reasons that you might have visual blurring with exercise. examples would be: low blood pressure or glaucoma. a visit to your doctor would be indicated to find out if it's nothing serious or something to be treated.
what do you suggest if my sister had a heart valve replacement 25 days ago since thah she is in coma and high infection on her lung?
you should ask for a meeting with the surgeon the infectious disease specialist and the neurologist taking care of her to discuss her status and what they feel her chances for recovery are. you may want to include any other interested family members and any other people you trust for advice in your life. get the most up to date and precise info you can to aid in your decisions
what do you suggest if my mother is in a coma due to a stroke and possible aneurysm or moyamoya.?
i suggest you engage the services of the best and most experienced neurosurgeon in your area. good luck.
what type of cancers are known to affect the heart?
cardiac tumors are rare to start secondary tumors or metastases from a separate cancer are the most common cancer to go to heart (lung cancer & lymphoma. most commonly) primary tumors of the heart are even more rare. the most common of these are myxomas which are benign. angiosarcoma is the most common aggressive primary tumor of the heart. imaging with ct or mri is the most helpful in assessment
why don't people in comas develop deep vein thrombosis (dvt) and then die of a pulmonary embolism?
yes people in comas do develop deep venous thrombosis. in order for a pulmonary embolism to developed. the patient needs to get up and move which causes the dvt to transfer from the legs of the lungs. if the patient doesn't get up the dvt won't move the pe will not develop
who discovered cardiac cancer? how is it treated?
cardiac tumors are rare. secondary tumors or metastases from a separate cancer are the most common cancer to go to heart (lung cancer lymphoma most commonly) primary tumors of the heart are even more rare. the most common of these are myxomas which are benign. angiosarcoma is the most common aggressive primary tumor of the heart. therapy often a combination of chemotherapy and surgery
which type of heart cancer is most severe?
primary cancer of the heart is extremely rare. . only about one case per year in the us. most of the tumors of the heart are benign. cancer is usually a type of sarcoma none of which is worse than the next. it's just a bad place to have a sarcoma as the primary treatment is surgical removal.
what kind of tumors grow on the aorta?
while rare tumors of aorta do occur in both thoracic and abdominal aorta with equal frequency. . histologically sarcomas constitute the majority of primary aortic tumors with the malignant fibrous histiocytoma subtype being most common. they arise in the intima and grow along the intimal surface and into aortic lumen forming polypoid masses but tend to not invade the aortic wall.
