if a human gets a hand cut off who can sew it back?
swelling after a stroke may be due to loss of vascualr and motor tone. vasodilation and edema occur. of course one could also fall asleep on the arm and get weakness and circulation impairment. and a compartment syndrome can be present. in either case a stroke or falling asleep on your arm after being drunk or injured seek attention.
why is the pain from a dressing my doctor put on my shin getting severe and moving into my bone up from the wound? i had a severe crush injury to my left foot and shin. i have a laceration that needs a skin graft on my shin. the stitches have been out for w
severe pain following a sever crush injury may result in what is called a compartment syndrome. have it evaluated asap and avoid possible limb threatening complications.
why is the pain from a dressing my doctor put on my shin getting severe and moving into my bone up from the wound? i had a severe crush injury to my left foot and shin. i have a laceration that needs a skin graft on my shin. the stitches have been out for w
following any crushing injury patients are at higher risk for compartment syndrome due to swelling. if your dressing is suddenly feeling tight and your pain is unresolved with loosening of it-go to the er immediately.
what is the primary concern for an electrical burn patient?
the primary concern is assessing the extent of damage which can be deeiving due to the "tip of the iceberg" effect. the surface damage may be misleading and not reveal the extent of muscle and nerve injury. muscles should be assessed for tissue death and possible early compartment syndrome requiring release and debridement.
got a deep cut (7 stitches) on my arm. my hand (top) is now partly numb and i've got mild pain/discomfort in the surrounding area. what's the cause?
hand numbness after deep arm cut may indicate some minor inflammation from edema or more serious problem such as compartment syndrome which usually results from bleeding or swelling after an injury please see the hand or plastic surgeon asap to prevent any permanent problems
edema in leg. swelling red spots ankle swollen hurting tightening calf swelling up to knee stings saw dr today nothing was done i'm concerned of celllitis should i goto er? or can this wait til tmrw?
you could have cellulitis compartment syndrome or other serious problem. get immediate e d evaluation. don't wait any longer.
will it help if i lose weight if i have compartment syndrome in my calves?
for a normal weight individual no. if you are significantly overweight or morbidly obese yes. losing weight decrease stress and pressure in the lower extremity. tissue edema also improves especially if heart disease and high blood pressure are better controlled or improved with the weight loss.
extreme lower leg pain almost like my bones are hurting after running barely 30 min? not sure what's wrong im a little overweight
could be shin splints exertional compartment syndrome radiculopathy from the back dvt extreme pain should be ruled out. see an orthopedist.
extreme lower leg pain almost like my bones are hurting after running barely 30 min? not sure what's wrong im a little overweight
consider exertional compartment syndrome of superficial peroneal nerves vascular claudication neurogenic claudication periostitis and strain.
my legs and feet have been swollen for over a year. i have just been told that i have lymphedema. the only thing about that is that i have a terrible shooting pain. what should i do?
cause by removal of or damage if lymph node by cancer. do you have cancer or cancer treatment? symptoms are tightness and aching/discomfort decrease range of motion hardening of the skin infections. cancer infections like parasites surgery and congenital causes. terrible pain not common but in theory peripheral neuropathy and compartment syndrome a possibility. see your physician asap.
is lymphedema related to hashimoto's thyroiditis fibromyalgia or compartment syndrome?
there is no relation although all of these problems can occur in the same patient.
is lymphedema related to hashimoto's thyroiditis fibromyalgia or compartment syndrome?
compartment syndrome cause edema which may compress the lymphatic drainage leading to mild lymphedema. hashimoto's thyroiditis or fibromyalgia does not cause lymph edema.
is lymphedema related to hashimoto's thyroiditis fibromyalgia or compartment syndrome?
lymphedema is when there is a compromise of the lymphatic circulation. this third circulation (arteries veins) carries things too thick to be safely carried in arteries and veins like bacteria eaten by white cells and digested food. it is propelled along by normal body movements but contains a thick material called lymph. any blockage causes it to back up causing soft tissues/skin deformity.
what is the icd-9 code for exertional compartment syndrome?
brachial plexus lesions.
what is the icd-9 code for exertional compartment syndrome?
her it is.
what are the dangers of having high levels of coumadin (warfarin)?
excessive bleeding is the danger of too much coumadin (warfarin). bleeding into the skin can cause bruising and pain. into muscle can cause a hematoma and stiffness and could lead to a compartment syndrome. into a joint can cause swelling stiffness and pain. in the stomach and intestines can anemia and gastrointestinal bleeding black tarry stools and diarrhea. into brain can cause a stroke.
what can cause pain and swelling and brusinig of ankle and shin with no noted injury and dvt already ruled out?
a shin splint is a mild form of compartment syndrome involving the most vulnerable compartment or anterior compartment. a shin splint can occur with regular or mild exercise. it will hurt to elevate your foot. usually shin splints get better in a few days with rest stop exercise. if the pain persists you get numbness or have difficulty raising or wiggling your toes go see your doctor and ask.
what causes cpk levels in the 5000 range and what problems would it cause?
elevated cpk indicates muscle damage and can be resolving or ongoing. there are many causes of this but the main issue is that it can lead to kidney failure since the muscle breakdown proteins aren't filtered well by the kidneys. also ongoing muscle damage can lead to compartment syndrome a surgical emergency.
