swelling on both shins no pain not warm slight redness and when i push on the skin it makes a dent like play doh. i have had cellulitis before but the similarity is the dent in the skin after pushing on it with my finger.
swelling the causes "pitting edema" with dents after compassion may be a sign of systemic disease including possible congestive heart failure. long standing pitting edema leads to increasing multiple morbidties including stasis dermatitis and painful ulcerations. simple blood pressure management and otc compression hose are possibilities.
painful swelling of mrs. rajashree mohanty’s legs from knee joints to feet(both legs) the disease started first with cellulitis of left leg about 6to 7?
bilateral leg swelling can have many causes. whether prior cellulitis in one extremity played any role is difficult to know but was unlikely to have been responsible for both legs. congestive heart failure lymphatic insufficiencies venous insufficiency and other systemic causes are more probable.
is sleep apnea a life threatening condition? can a 20 year old develop it? i do not snore vey loud but feel that i don't rest very well
there are numerous complications of untreated sleep apnea including high blood pressure congestive heart failure and stroke. this is something that should definitely be evaluated by your physician.
is it better to weigh myself every morning? or should i weigh myself every other day?
no "right" answer. if a patient is monitoring congestive heart failure then close monitoring is needed. if one is on a weight loss program daily assessment could help reinforce progress but the safe level of decrease is 2 lbs per week so weighing in 1-2 times per week is more than enough.
i need some answers about current symptoms i am having. i am a recovering alcoholic. i have only been sober for 11 days. i also had a gastric bypass in 2004. i was drinking a 5 liter box of wine a day and prior i was drinking vodka. within the last 4
the sudden weight gain swelling and low back pain seem to point to a kidney issue. it is possible that your kidney function has decreased which is causing your body to not filter fluid effectively and instead retain large amounts fluids (leading to swelling in the body). however the swelling can also be attributed to congestive heart failure where your heart is not functioning properly so blood and fluid gets backed up into the body system. seeing a doctor is crucial. if the pain becomes too severe to tolerate it is prudent to go to the emergency department.
i heard snoring can trigger harmful health and personality changes. is this true?
sleep apnea is assciated with floppy eyelid syndrom glaucoma. untreated sleep apnea can lead to congestive heart failure.
i am experiencing weight gain. what could be causing it?
weight gain can be caused by a multitude of reasons. medications such as some antidepressants and hormone replacement can cause weight gain. smoking cessation and sedentary lifestyle are also culprits. more serious reasons can include hypothyroidism diabetes renal failure or congestive heart failure. a simple visit to your doctor and lab tests should be able to diagnose these conditions.
i keep gaining weight but i don't eat much is there a medical reason for this?
hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone) cushing's syndrome (too much cortisol) med side effects inactivity fluid retention; there are many reasons why weight could increase despite not eating much. regardless apart from retaining too much fluid (eg. congestive heart failure) if weight is increasing it is because the number of calories exceeds the body's need.
i have an old cad and i am hypertensive and obese. what is the best antihypertensive agent?
you might want to consider a weight loss program combined with exercise if your physician thinks it is appropriate for you. in addition to weight loss and in the absence of edema in your legs i would say you should start with an ace-i or and arb to control your bp. these have been shown to be effective agents in preventing congestive heart failure. discuss these options with your physician.
what are symptoms i can look for that may point to thyroid problems that result in weight gain? family thinks thyroid issues are to blame i think food
thyroid dysfunction can be characterized by changes in weight heat/cold intolerance a fast or slow pulse swelling and even congestive heart failure. thyroid evaluation starts very simply with blood tests ( tsh and free t4). you may require further testing if these results are abnormal.
what is my next step to treating sever sleep apnea? i was made to sleep on my back only during my first night at the sleep center. it resulted in a diagnosis of severe sleep apnea but there was not time to test a cpap. do i need to spend another night a
severe sleep apnea needs to be treated as it can lead to among many other things congestive heart failure long-term ( cor pulmonale). having had the psg ( sleep study) your next step is to get a cpap titration test. wearing the mask at the proper pressure settings can be 100% effective in treating the condition and is the most successful non-surgical alternative available. sleeping on your back would expectedly favor obstruction as gravity and loss of muscle tonus allows the tongue base to fall backward and cause obstruction. it is possible you obstruct in all positions but i wouldn't know that without the test results. you should further discuss this with your sleep pulmonologist.
what could symptoms of severe weight loss heart palpitations stomach pain and respiratory distress signify?
beri-beri is due to a vitamin deficiency and can cause heart palpitations weight loss congestive heart failure and respiratory distress. hyperthyroidism could also cause a lot of these symptoms. you should see a doctor where they could check your blood thyroid levels.
what are the health risks of obesity that doctors will help?
there are many risks associated with obesity including type 2 diabetes hypertension high cholesterol heart disease congestive heart failure arthritis sleep apnea alzheimer's disease to name a few. with weight loss under help of a doctor many of these conditions can be reversed or significantly improved.
what is a good med regimen for someone with pcos and congestive heart failure to lose weight? very desperate!
especially given cardiac issues your weight loss has to be medically supervised. please discuss with your cardiologist. there are good cardiac rehab programs which involve weight management with diet and exercise if that is appropriate for you based on your cardiologist's recommendations.
i have sinus tachycardi but want to stop bisoprolol and see how i go. i eat healthy and im not stressed but my bp is always 140/93 and 120bpm causes?
you say you have sinus tachycardia but there are many causes of this including excess thyroid hormone (endogenous or medication) pregnancy infection anemia stress anxiety pain fever - and then there are cardiac causes like congestive heart failure and inappropriate sinus tachycardia. what's your cause?
wanted to know where can i find a diet plan for congestive heart failure and renal disease combined?
your nephrologist and heart failure cardiologist should absolutely be involved in your diet. good nephrology departments should have a dietician available to consult with you as diet is very important in renal disease.
if someone does of a heart attack with diabetes 2 and had swollen legs from a fall could that have been the cause?
heart attacks occur for multiple reasons. diabetes can affect the coronary circulation and cause blockages. swollen legs could indicate congestive heart failure or even blood clots in the legs which could travel to effect the lungs and the heart. even bruising of the heart from a fall could set up abnormal heart rythms which might lead to a heart attack.
my body mass index is 32. 8 are there any risks on my body or any health problems in the immediate future?
by those measurements you are obese. depending on your bone structure and muscle mass you are at risk. as far as the immediate future that would depend on your current state of wellness. sleep apnea heart disease congestive heart failure diabetes and others? discuss with your pcp and get on a good safe weight reduction program associated with diet and exercise. you can do it!
my grandmother has pneumonia with bloodcots. what is that & how that can effect her with congestive heart failure & diabeties type 2?
pneumonia is an infection in the lungs. it can be serious especially in elderly and those with chronic medical problems so it should be seen and treated at once. chf and diabetes can impair blood flow. impaired or sluggish blood flow can cause clots and infection can potentially increase the body's tendency to clot so all of this can be related.
what about pioglitazone as a treatment of type 2 diabetes and about restrictions and side effects?
pioglitazone is an excellent secondary choice or added to metformin - oral type 2 anti-diabetic drug. should be avoided in cardiac patients with mod - severe congestive heart failure may cause lower extremity swelling/edema.
my weight seems to fluctuate alot. is it normal or okay for it to be fluctuating from 62-65kg each few days?
your changing weight is due to fluid. you can easily gain or lose 1 kiolgram/day in fluid weight. rapid weight gain or loss is due to fluid accumulation or excretion. if you continue to gain weight rapidly you are accumulating fluid and need to see a cardiologist to see if you have congestive heart failure.
my husband had severe high blood pressure has gone from 290 to 225 has maintained weight 3 years. shouldnt his dosage be lowered? he gets liteheaded.
hi. your husband still has severe high blood pressure! he needs a thorough evaluation for causes of high bp and for congestive heart failure and kidney disease. not enough information to tell you anymore. he needs really good medical attention! good luck!
is congestive heart failure due to high blood pressure and obesity reversible? heart is enlarged and stiff but there's no plaque buildup in arteries.
if the blood pressure is well controlled and weight is reduced the heart will remodel and become more flexible again.
life duration of someone with congestive heart failure corrected by diet?
congestive heart failure has many many causes. without knowing the cause and severity of congestive heart failue there is no way to answer this question.
life duration of someone with congestive heart failure corrected by diet?
corrected would imply cured and even though diet (i. e. : low salt vitamin supplements and weight loss) can help congestive heart failure (chf) usually means there is significant underlying disease of the heart muscle and a cure is elusive. the outlook for someone with chf has a lot to do with what caused the heart problem in the first place & treatment will almost always include medication.
my husband is overweight and the third time in a year he has has pnuemonia. is this normal?
is not uncommon in middle-aged and elderly adults (age 50-85) following treatment in hospital for community-acquired pneumonia. risk factors for recurrent pneumonia include: male sex congestive heart failure lung disease and/or other chronic diseases. it is important to have chest xray between episodes of pneumonia to be sure that it is clearing up.
my sleep apnea home study came back with an average of 3. 3 episodes per hour. my o2 average was 90. 5%. i had 26 episodes of low o2. the lowest was 81%?
your study is consistent with obstructive sleep apnea. you should see your physician and have cpap set up for you. osa can lead to hypertension congestive heart failure or early dementia and difficulty losing weight. it is important therefore to use your cpap machine. see your physician about getting one and having it set up for you.
what meds should someone with congestive heart failure due to hbp stress and obesity be on? no plaque buildup but heart is enlarged and stiff.
generally expect to see a diuretic beta blocker and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor in addition to meds to control underlying cardiac risk - meds for diabetes hypertension cholesterol etc. many other meds may be added - hydralazine / nitrate digoxin for example and others may be substituted. your cardiologist will know your case best.
what meds should someone with congestive heart failure due to hbp stress and obesity be on? no plaque buildup but heart is enlarged and stiff.
a beta blocker to control blood pressure and heart rate an ace inhibitor or arb to reduce the development of fibrosis in the heart muscle aspirin and possibly a staton (even with no plaque). just as important is weight loss. your heart has to work harder to supply that extra fat. less fat means less work for your heart.
how do diuretics cause weight loss?
diuretics are a class of drugs that cause the kidneys to excrete a larger volume of urine. this can be a beneficial effect in patients with high blood pressure congestive heart failure or soft tissue fluid retention. these are not generally used for weight loss except in those individuals retaining extra fluid. can cause dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities in normal pts trying to lose weight.
how bad is it to drink diet tea? for example 1 gallon a week.
tea also contains caffeine. diet tea contains an artificial edulcorant like splenda or nutrasweet or alike which is suspicious but not proven to cause many things. 1 gallon a week for someone with congestive heart failure or for pts with difficulty to urinate may be problematic. but in general i do not see anything wrong.
can children get congestive heart failure if they are obese?
generally no unless they are grossly or morbidly obese with complications such as high blood pressure severe sleep apnea etc.
can children get congestive heart failure if they are obese?
children don't get congestive heart failure just from being obese. kids with birth defects of the heart can get heart failure but kids born with normal hearts usually don't have enough years of childhood to develop heart symptoms from obesity. obese kids can get cholesterol plaques in the arteries high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes but the heart damage should not appear until adulthood.
who should avoid taking herceptin (trastuzumab)?
there are many considerations but you should not take herceptin (trastuzumab) if you have a history of congestive heart failure. visit with your doctor to see if herceptin (trastuzumab) is right for you.
will a thigh high compression garment help with lymphedema?
it depends on why you have lymphedema your activity level your associated illnesses such as congestive heart failure and your ability to wear a compression garment appropriately. it is definitely worth a try however you should consult with your doctor to make sure that there are no other treatments for your lymphedema and that associated diseases are being treated. good luck!
what can mammograms show besides tumor?
the mammogram can show non-cancerous lesions like lymph nodes cysts and fibroadenomas. the appearance of the milk-producing tissue (fibroglandular tissue) can change depending on your hormonal state. even trauma e. g. from a seat-belt injury can show up on a mammogram. the breasts can also change in the setting of systemic illness such as congestive heart failure.
what are risks of the cancer drug herceptin (trastuzumab)?
herceptin (trastuzumab) is remarkably well tolerated. the most common side effect is a decline in the pumping ability of the heart (called the left ventricular ejection fraction) possibly leading to congestive heart failure. thus people getting herceptin (trastuzumab) should have an echocardiogram done before and about every 3 months while on herceptin (trastuzumab). most of the time the heart recovers after the herceptin (trastuzumab) is stopped.
does lisinopril for blood pressure cause weight gain?
while anyone can have any adverse reaction to a drug in general lisinopril and other ace inhibitors do not cause weight gain as a side effect. however some large studies have seen a relationship. the question is whether the association means that the drug caused the weight gain or is the weight gain from something else. one cause of gain is congestive heart failure so may need to be checked out.
does gallbladder adenomycsis cause weight gain?
is no. but how do you know you have gallbladder adenomyosis? if you have problems with sudden excessive weight gain it could be from excessive fluid in your abdomen or congestive heart failure with fluid retention. i think you should have your doctor check you out.
anyone who is afflicted with congestive heart failure & edema that has it go away with diet change?
diet can certainly make congestive heart failure worse. salt needs to be closely watched as it will precipitate fluid retention making the congestive failure even worse. although diet can improve symptoms of congestive heart failure the problem still exist so continued care needs to be applied. with time the heart can improve with regards to its function so make sure medications are continued.
according to the obesity paradox why is it healthy for people to be overweight?
patients with chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure copd chronic renal failure it appears that being overweight and mildly obese associated with improved longevity compared with normal weight patients. this phenomenon has been termed the “obesity paradox”. for everyone else obesity is still considered to be a major risk factor for cardiovascular and peripheral vascular disease.
does an overweight person usually have a higher heart rate than a normal weight person? 27yo 200lbs 5'3. heart rate between 90 and 120's.
many variables; easily changeable moment by moment under brain control. at same time do people with congestive heart failure commonly have? ed resting heart rates? yes. however heart rate by itself is a very unreliable predictor of heart health. at same time cvds typically begins later childhood yet is asymptomatic for decades. study my answers & focus on protecting your health before bad.
for someone with congestive heart failure due to high blood pressure and obesity (no plaque buildup) what's a healthy and safe rate to lose weight?
most weight loss in the first days after treatment of congestive heart failure is water weight and may result in several pounds per day. once your doctor determines you are at normal body water you can begin to lose fat weight and most recommendations limit this weight loss to 1-2 pounds per week to avoid vitamin and mineral deficiencies.
years ago lvh from adriamyacin. diagnosed with diastolic dysfunction. chest heaviness and shortness of breath now much worse is this heart failure?
this may be from congestive heart failure although the term does not mean that your heart is going to stop anytime soon. there are certainly ways to treat chf if that is what this is. you should be seeing your regular doctor and probably a cardiologist regularly at this point. good luck.
what are some of the risk factors for getting atrial fibrillation?
diabetes congestive heart failure valvular heart diseases coronary artery disease alcohol intoxication obesity abnormal heart rhythms high blood pressure overactive thyroid.
what to do if i have high heart rate congestive heart failure?
you need to be seen to determine why do you have fast heart rate. uncontrolled heart rate can tip you to heart failure exacerbation. make sure you go to your physician for an ekg.
what is the relationship between dilated cardiomyopathy and fibromyalgia?
dilated cardiomyopathy leads to decrease pumping of blood to the brain and rest of the body. pt. usually get short of breath from mild to moderate physical exertion. may lead to congestive heart failure with activity limitations. fibromyalgia is a condition in which there is generalized pain in most areas of the body. depression lack of sleep stress may increase the pain.
what are the uses of metoprolol?
metoprolol is a beta blocker class of medicine and used for a wide variety of condtions. here's just a few 1 : high blood pressure 2: congestive heart failure (reduces progression of disease) 3: suppress abnormal rhythms (eg. atrial fibrillation 4: prevent heart attacks. there's more! seeing how many indications there are bet a blockers are quite important in managing cardio vascular disease.
why do patients who are on chronic digoxin therapy have both hypokalemia and digoxin toxicity?
digoxin by itself doesn't lead to hypokalemia (low potassium). dig is used for congestive heart failure traditionally; however there are many problems with dig toxicity especially in the elderly and there have been many deaths related to dig toxicity expecially is associated with hypokalemia which will be caused by diuretics. today dig is rarely used we have better drugs for chf.
what patients need an implantable cardioverter defibrillator?
in addition to preventing dangerous ventricular arrhythmias (which can cause sudden cardiac death) in people who have had these in certain select cases cardioverter defibrillators have use for prevention of these heart rhythms in people who are at high risk for them. this can include certain cardiomyopathies also some cases of congestive heart failure (combined with a biventricular pacemaker).
what if you have congestive heart failure and a pacemaker?
ideally you have or will have a biventricular pacemaker. this type of pacemaker pm is designed for cardiac resynchronization therapy. it has 2 or 3 leads positioned to make the left ventricle contract at the same time - or in synchrony - as the right ventricle so that the heart beats in a more balanced way. this therapy has been known to reduce symptoms and improve quality of life for some pt.
what if you have congestive heart failure and a pacemaker?
certain types of pacemakers (called bi-ventricular or re-synchronization devices) are used to treat chf but a routine pacemaker (single lead or av sequential) neither causes nor treats chf.
i have idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and a biventricular icd. the problem i am having is there are days i can't seem to stay awake. normal?
you seem to have congestive heart failure and are probably on several medications your symptoms may be from the medications from variations in your congestive heart failure status or inadequate effectiveness of your biventricular icd's resynchronization (the special pacing it does to improve your heart's function. see you docrotr.
is it blood pressure or the medicine that is causing excessive amounts of fluid on my legs? currently taking carvedilol clonidine and furosemide.
swelling of the legs can occur for a variety of reasons. someone on clonidine likely has had blood pressure that has been very difficult to control. this can stiffen or enlarge the heart & fluid can back up into the lungs or rest of body settling in the legs. congestive heart failure can do the same. lung diseases (eg. copd) can cause leg swelling. bad veins can. carvedilol and clonidine can too.
is digitalis used to cure abnormal heart rhythms?
digitalis has a long history of treating congestive heart failure by stimulating the heart muscle. i believe it is used in patients with heart failure but with a normal sinus rhythm.
is there a difference between alcoholic cardiomyopathy and congestive cardiomyopathy?
there are 2 major kinds of cardiomyopathy which literally means disease of heart muscle. one is obstructive (asymmetric septal hypertrophy or ash) and the other is congestive where heart muscle is weakened and fluid backs up into the lungs and body (congestive heart failure). alcohol is one kind of congestive cardiomyopathy - others are viral post-pregnancy and toxin-related.
if someone has cardiomyopathy as a result of amyloidosis and is now palliative can this stage bring renal failure?
amyloid proteins that deposit in the heart also can form in kidneys. in advanced heart disease there's usually amyloid in the kidneys as well and renal function can deteriorate. advanced cardiac amyloid also leads to congestive heart failure with inefficient ejection of blood from heart leading to reduced blood flow to kidneys. like other forms of heart failure this can cause renal failure.
is a rapid heart rate a symptom of congestive heart failure?
though patients that have a rapid heart rate for an extended period of time(weeks to months) without having symptoms can develop congestive heart failure to a weakened heart.
is a rapid heart rate a symptom of congestive heart failure?
although the heart rate increases to compensate for inadequate pumping by the heart there are many more common reasons for a rapid heart rate. common symptoms of heart failure are fluid retention and difficulty breathing (particularly when lying flat).
is a rapid heart rate a symptom of congestive heart failure?
this can be a possible symptom of heart damage or heart failure. i would get evaluated right away.
i was recently put on coreg 3. 125mg about 2 weeks ago. almost immediately i began having swelling in my lower extremities. the swelling becomes much worse by the end of the day and i have numbness and pain in them. they did add hctz about week ago. should
i think you may be confusing the disease and the treatment. coreg (carvedilol) is treatment for congestive heart failure. the timing is coincidental. the way coreg (carvedilol) is used is to start at 3. 125 mg then go to 6. 25 then 12. 5 then 25 mg (all twice a day). the 3. 125 mg doesn't have any effect and wouldn't cause swelling. you didn't mention amlodipine but if you were put on that it typically causes swelling.
i have a pacemaker. but i am having trouble breathing when i lay down. what could it be?
it may mean that you have congestive heart failure i. e. extrafluid build u p in your body with leg swelling. when you sleep flat the fluid creeps up to the lungs making you short of breath. if you have edema you will need to control salt and water and take your water pills. other options are lung disease like asthma emphysema or pneumonia. it is imperative to check with doctor before emergency.
i have been experiencing swelling in my legs and feet. my feet are turning purple and i have no pulse in my right foot. i am a type 1 diabetic with a history of c. h. f. hypertention high colesterol i have been experiencing heart palpatations for the pa
congestive heart failure may be causing your feet to swell. however there are other causes including kidney and liver problems certain medications incompetent veins in your legs lymphatic problems and infections such as cellulitis. if you have poor arterial circulation in your lower legs you will experience cramps in your calf muscles when walking which are relieved by rest. the swelling in your lower extremities may be making it difficult to feel a pulse. a doppler examination (ultrasound) of the arteries in your lower extremities will tell you if your arteries are obstructed. heart palpitations may be a sign of a rapid heart rate or an irregular heart rate. you should see your doctor for this problem. he or she may need to do an ekg or other cardiac and blood testing to determine the cause of the palpitations.
i need a straight answer. what is restrictive cardiomyopathy?
restrictive cardiomyopathy is a disorder of cardiac muscle marked by impaired (diastolic) filling of the ventricle. cardiac output (the amount of blood pumped) falls. the syndrome of congestive heart failure marked by shortness of breath and fluid retention can result. the national library of medicine has a nice summary at: <link>
is a rapid heart rate one of the main symptoms of congestive heart failure?
rapid heart rate is definitely one of the constellation of symptoms of untreated heart failure. as the heart weakens the only mechanism for it to maintain its output is to increase the rate the feedback mechanisms in the body which dictate more cardiac output lead to the increased heart rate.
is a rapid heart rate one of the main symptoms of congestive heart failure?
a fast heart rate suggest decompensation and usually suggest either a low cardiac output ot high systemic resistance. a rapid heart rate can also signify high adrenergic state due to respiratory compromise.
is a rapid heart rate one of the main symptoms of congestive heart failure?
it may indicate the presence of congestive hert failure. however fast heart beat may lead to congestive heart failure itself by not giving heart eniugh time to pump sufficient blood and making heart muscles tired and weak by overworking them. fast heart beat must be evaluated by a physician to determine the cause and treatment if necessary.
is prinivil (lisinopril) a betablocker?
prinivial is an ace inhibitor which is another form of blood pressure medicine. ace inhibitors are felt to have protective effects in patient s with kidney disease particularly diabetics. it is also effective in the treatment of patients with congestive heart failure.
is coreg (carvedilol) used more for blood pessure or heart conditions?
carvediol (coreg) is a 'beta-blocker' with 2 indications. carvedilol is used to treat congestive heart failure (chf)= (condition in which the heart cannot pump enough blood to all parts of the body) and high blood pressure. it is used to treat people whose hearts cannot pump blood well as a result of a heart attack. carvedilol is most often prescibed for heart failure (chf) --answer your question.
is a sinus tachycardia the same thing as supraventricular tachycardia?
depends on how fast or how slow the cause for the abnormal rate and whether or not it is causing any symptoms. both abnormally slow and fast heart beats can cause congestive heart failure and syncope (fainting). persistent fast heart beats can cause weakness of heart muscle referred to as tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy.
is a rapid heart rate one of the symptoms of congestive heart failure or coronary disease?
congestive heart failure may be associated with rapid heart beat but this is not the primary symptom. rapid heart beat is not usually a sign of coronary artery disease. rapid heart beat can also occur in otherwise normal hearts.
is a rapid heart rate one of the symptoms of congestive heart failure or coronary disease?
not necessarily.
i had my son at age 39 and developed post partum cardiomyopathy bilat pneumonia and congestive heart failure and sepsis ef 15 in er 4 days after my son was born. could retained placenta have caused all this? baby 6 weeks early but perfect. i was pla
postpartum cardiomyopathy (ppcm) is heart failure secondary to left ventricular systolic dysfunction toward the end of pregnancy or in the months after delivery in the absence of any other cause of heart failure. ppcm is a diagnosis of exclusion. retained placenta is not a cause.
i had my son at age 39 and developed post partum cardiomyopathy bilat pneumonia and congestive heart failure and sepsis ef 15 in er 4 days after my son was born. could retained placenta have caused all this? baby 6 weeks early but perfect. i was pla
retained placenta is not the cause for peri- or post-partum cardiomyopathy. . it is believed to be an immune mediated process.
i have congestive heart failure and enlarged heart a pacemaker /defibrillator. i'm 26 years old. i was diagnosed six years ago. can i have another baby?
you need to discuss this with a cardiologist experienced with pregnancy issues as well as a high risk obstetrician. your answer is likely to be highly individualized.
i have congestive heart failure and enlarged heart a pacemaker /defibrillator. i'm 26 years old. i was diagnosed six years ago. can i have another baby?
important question that requires individualized attention from your cardiologist & high risk ob.
it feels like someone is standing on my chest short of breath + irregular heart beat with my history what do u think?
should get evaluated to r/o another episode of pulmonary embolism and possibly angina and congestive heart failure. are you taking your coumadin (warfarin)? are you therapeutic in your inr? do you have an inferior vena cava filter placed in the past?
is it normal with idiopathic dcm and a bi vent icd to have pain or pressure in your chest with walking? i stopped and rested took bp-normal hr-95.
it is never normal. however it can be expected during exacerbations of congestive heart failure when the pressure inside the heart rises one can feel difficulty with breathing or chest tightness.
what parts of the body does dilated cardiomyopathy affect?
dilated means enlarged or stretched out. cardio= relating to heart myo= muscle pathy= disease or weakening. so dilated cardiomyopathy is an enlarged heart with weak muscle. although only the heart muscle is weak it can affect every part of the body if the delivery of blood is diminished as in congestive heart failure.
what treatments are available for bundle branch block?
most bbb do not require any sort of treatment. rarely lbbb associated with low ejection fraction and congestive heart failure benefits from a special type of pacemaker a biventricular pacer.
what is the most common complication of early myocardial infarction?
the most common complication is arrhythmia which can occur very early in mi. if it's ventricular fibrillation as it tends to be in about 50% of cases the result is sudden death. heart block and atrial fibrillation also occur. other common complications are recurrent pain and congestive heart failure. less common is thromboembolism (systemic and pulmonary) causing stroke or pe and pericarditis.
what occurs when someone has a left bundle branch block?
may be nothing -- but it is known to relate to cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure.
what is atrial fibrillation a symptom of?
atrial fibrillation is an irregular rhythm in which the atria beat at nearly 400 beats/min. it is common in older patients as a reflection of aging of the conduction system. in younger patients it can be caused by alcohol and drug abuse. it can also occur when the heart dilates as in congestive heart failure. the abnormal contractions put patients at risk for blood clots which may cause strokes.
is it normal for a person with congestive heart failure to have a heart rate of 122?
in congestive heart failure there is activation of the sympathetic nervous system which is a contributor to tachycardia. the reflexes that lead to this are complex. simplistically though this is a sign that you need additional therapy. outcomes are best in people who are on beta-blockers typically carvedilol or metoprolol which have the additional affect of slowing heart rate.
is it normal for a person with congestive heart failure to have a heart rate of 122?
but not normal the heart is struggling.
i suffer from panic attacks. have been to er many times fearing heart attack only to be told i am fine. now suffering left arm pain. is this cardiac?
you probably have been worked up several times and found that even the risk of heart attack in you is low. an arm pain associated with heart attack will not last so long such as days or even hours without having completed a heart attack and the sequelae such as congestive heart failure would have occurred. still go to your pmd as reassurance is best if they can review you have been worked up.
what does an elevated bnp mean?
:blood natriuretic peptide. this is a substance hormone-like created in the heart that gets elevated in congestive heart failure and during heart attacks. it is used in conjunction with the clinical signs to monitor pts with congestive heart failure. higher-than-normal results suggest that a person is in heart failure and the level of bnp or nt-probnp in the blood is related to the severity.
what's difference between olmesartan and valsartan?
they both are arb s both are indicated for hypertension but valsartan is also indicated for congestive heart failure.
what are the symptoms of rheumatic heart disease?
rhd causes thickening and blockage (stenosis) of the mitral valve which can lead to congestive heart failure (shortness of breath swelling fatigue). in addition the left atrium enlarges which often interferes with conduction of electrical impulses resulting in atrial fibrillation. without treatment blood clots can form in the enlarged and stagnant left atrium leading to stroke.
i had 2 ekg & 2 blood & 1 xray work done 2 different times. im very short of breath when i lay down would those test show heart failure or enlargment?
an ekg can demonstrate heart rhythm and enlargement of the heart chambers but cannot detect congestive heart failure. an echocardiogram will show the status of the heart muscle strength or weakness as well as size of the chambers and status of the heart valves. a chest xray will show more advanced heart failure. your md has this information and can advise you best.
what is the life expectancy of person with pacemaker due to heart block?
pacers simply replace the electrical system in the heart but do not shorten life expectancy. other heart issues like significant coronary/valve disease or congestive heart failure are the main heart issues that affect life expectancy. if placed for slow heart rates (sick sinus syndrome) or heart block then no specific reduction in life expectancy is noted.
what are the risks of untreated bradycardia or tachycardia?
depends on how fast or how slow the cause for the abnormal rate and whether or not it is causing any symptoms. both abnormally slow and fast heart beats can cause congestive heart failure and syncope (fainting). persistent fast heart beats can cause weakness of heart muscle referred to as tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy.
i am 61 yrs. old. i've recently gone from irbbb to complete rbbb. how much greater is my risk of heart attack or failure?
rbbb is a common finding having no bearing on one's risk for developing a heart attack or congestive heart failure. the "block" refers to an electrical not a vascular block and the heart is in most cases easily able to reroute the electrical stimulus down another pathway.
what is the treatment for congenital dilated cardiomyopathy?
in mild cases treatment may not be needed. heart medicines are used to control symptoms of congestive heart failure and to preserve or improve heart function. blood thinners may be used to prevent clots from forming within the heart. rapid heart rhythms are treated by heart medicines and if life-threatening implanted cardioverter-defibrillator or pacemakers are used. transplant is last resort.
what can cause a rapid heart beat?
tachycardia can be physiological or pathological. exercise caffiene can increase heart rate. meanwhile diseases of the heart like atrial fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia congestive heart failure ventricular tachycardia can cause heart to speed up.
why do i get an occasional rapid heart beat when drinking?
alcohol is known to have vasodilator properties as a reflex the heart rate can go up transiently. but if you have been drinking for quite sometime it damages the heart muscle you will end up in congestive heart failure and that can also increase the heart rate.
what can i do if i suffer from extreme edema caused by congestive heart failure after mi?
should be enrolled in a heart failure program were they have access to ventricular assist devices as a bridge to transplant or as destination therapy.
i want to know about side effects of carvedilol and if it can produce gastritis.
carvedilol is reserved for congestive heart failure -- so it's probably not for you
what does breathlessness on lying down indicate in a known cardiac patient taking beta blockers and diuretics?
in pts with weak hearts and in congestive heart failure lying flat can cause shortness of breathe. this is called orthopnea. some pts wake up from the sleep short of breathe as well. this is called paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or pnd. you need to see your doctor for a chest xray and blood. check your weight to see if you have had a sudden unexpected jump in your weight. if so its probably water wt.
what is lanoxin (digoxin) used for?
there are two major indications for lanoxin (digoxin ) to regular heart beat and to treat congestion in congestive heart failure it is often an additive to other medications rather than a stand alone medication.
what are the causes of exercises induced arrythmia?
hypoxia cardiac ischemia (artery blockages) congenital and valvular heart disease prolonged qt syndrome congestive heart failure amyloidosis sarcoidosis among many others.
where would you send a 42 y o woman with long term chronic anemia diagnosed svt palpitations shortness of breath intermittent swelling of lower extremities and fatigue?
you would need to see cardiologist for your palpitation shortness of breath and swelling on your legs and make sure you dont have congestive heart failure or other heart problem. you also will need to see a hematologist to figure out why you have chronic anemia as there is a highy likelihood that your anemia is related to all of your symptoms ( fatigue shortness of breath palpitation etc).
is it ok to take metropolol if suffering from congestive heart failure and heart rate is 47-5. also have history of dialysis?
low-dose beta blockers are now an accepted adjunct therapy for individuals with heart failure.
is it ok to take metropolol if suffering from congestive heart failure and heart rate is 47-5. also have history of dialysis?
you should be carefully following with your nephrologist and your cardiologist due to your medical conditions and history. it is vital to know and they would know if your heart rate of 47 is new and/or how they have addressed it in the past. if you came to see me i would send you directly to the emergency room by ambulance. if you cannot reach your doctors for advice go to the er.
if a patient has congestive heart failure will there be elevated troponin levels?
troponin levels if they are elevated mean there is damage acute to the heart muscle. in heart failure that is not controlled this is more likely. please consult your cardiologist and talk about it
i have sarcoidosis of the lungs but i'm having heart palps already had mri my heart was fine but still having heart palps could mri miss cardiac sarc?
would miss it. sarcoidosis is a strange illness that can affect the heart and lungs. most common us congestive heart failure but atrial fibrillation is also a complication and could be felt as palpitations and would not show up on the mri. has your doctor checked for this with an event recorder or holter? just a thought. mri looks for structural things. i'm thinking more electrical.
is carzec better or metoprolol?
for the treatment of congestive heart failure carvedilol (branded as carzec in some countries) has better data and is preferred. metoprolol also has supportive data and is an acceptable substitute if carvedilol is not available. for arrhythmias metoprolol is preferred. for hypertension they're interchangeable in my opinion.
what is the difference between idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure? both terms have been used these past 9 years
idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy is a condition in which the heart muscle becomes weak without obvious cause. some cases are genetic some may have been triggered by a virus. congestive heart failure is the result of the weak heart's inability to circulate the blood adequately. this may result in symptoms such as fatigue and shortness of breath and signs such as chest congestion and swelling.
what is the difference between idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure? both terms have been used these past 9 years
ideopathic=unknown cause cardio=heart myo=muscle path=disease; meaning heart muscle is weak <negative_smiley>or stiff; usually also enlarged as a result. congestive refers to excess body water retention in the lungs ; body due to heart weakness. heart failure actually means weak not failed (one would be dead). the most common basis is arterial disease despite artery lumens on angiogram "looking normal".
what does lanoxin (digoxin) diuretics and vasodilators treat?
this combination is usually to treat congestive heart failure.
what antidepressant is safe in an 85 year old patient with a history of paroxysmal afib currently taking 0. 5mg ativan (lorazepam) qhs?
eliminating unnecessary medications or at least lowering the doses that will allow. wellbutrin (bupropion) can exacerbate cardiac arrhythmia so is not a panacea. my father developed congestive heart failure on it - almost immediately after starting it.
will coreg (carvedilol) 12. 5 mg twice a day cause erectile disfunction?
erections enabled by enough? blood flow into corpus cavernosum of penis to push vein flaps closed trap blood & distend the tissue. thus men with advanced arterial disease congestive heart failure etc. do not achieve erections easily. coreg (carvedilol) in combo acei or arb agents aggressive tx of lipoproteins/nmr particle test hba1c bp etc. ? chf overtime yet? too fast might? erection ability.
what are symptoms of cardiomyopathy?
shortness of breath with minimal activity. weakness congestive heart failure (fluid in the lungs) feeling like you will pass out going from sitting to standing. cardiac echo is the diagnostic test that confirms.
what are the symptoms of atrial flutter?
sometimes it can be asymptotic or regular palpitations until the heart rate is controlled. people with heart disease or poor exercise tolerance may develop symptoms such as dyspnea chest pains dizziness nausea or anxiety. prolonged fast flutter can lead to tacchycardia induced congestive heart failure!
what caused what? dm anemia htn hyperlipidemia peripheral vascular disease coronary art. disease pulm. htn copd chf afib kidney dis. andcva?
uncontrolled diabetes could lead to peripheral vascular disease kidney disease and failure as well as heart disease. patients with congestive heart failure are prone to develop a trial fibrillation which increase risk of cva (stroke). pulmonary hypertension has several causes and chf is one of them.
how lethal is a congestive heart failure? my hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has turned into congestive heart failure how dangerous is it and is it possible to keep it under control?
this is a very serious condition requiring close management from a skilled cardiologist and optimally you should establish care with a large referral center with expertise in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy such as a university hospital. hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is not a curable condition and when it progresses to the point that it causes congestive heart failure symptoms it is typically quite advanced and difficult to manage. there are medications that can help control the heart failure but you should also be evaluated for advanced therapies such as a defibrillator or even a heart transplant. your family members should also be screened for this genetic condition if they haven't already.
how lethal is a congestive heart failure? my hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has turned into congestive heart failure how dangerous is it and is it possible to keep it under control?
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy includes a wide spectrum of severities as does chf so it's impossible to comment on your specific case without much more data. in general both conditions are potentially serious and require life long treatment. usually people can lead normal lives with medication and/or implanted devices.
how would you explain dilated cardiomyopathy?
an enlarged heart leading to pump failure and congestive heart failure and arrhythmia.
how does digoxin help treat heart failure?
digoxin derived from the purple foxglove plant has been used to treat congestive heart failure for centuries-if not longer. digoxin works by helping the heart muscle contract more vigourously increasing the cardiac output with each beat. digoxin also works by affecting the way the nervous system affects the heart and its conduction system. a reason it is used to slow the heart rate in atrial fib.
how common is sudden cardiac arrest in children?
i don't have the exact statistics but sudden cardiac death is not a common thing across all age groups. children are the least affected one though given the lower prevalence of coronary artery disease congestive heart failure etc.
how long does it take high blood pressure to cause heart attack? hours years what?
the problem is most people don't know when their hbp began and have already been exposed for years when diagnosed. also hbp is only 1 of many risk factors. it is actually a more potent risk factor by far for stroke and congestive heart failure than for heart attack. (also kidney failure). treating it lowers the risk.
is there an alternative to digoxin for a male aged 79?
there are many alternatives to digoxin but this depends on the reason digoxin was being used. depending on the reason it was being used (eg. rate or rhythm control or congestive heart failure) appropriate meds can be used. this should be discussed with your doctor.
how to get a fast heart beat besides exercising and drinking caffeine?
fever anemia pain anxiety panic/fright asthma inhalers amphetamines cocaine hemorrhage excess thyroid hormone infection epinephrine dehydration congestive heart failure carbon monoxide poisoning - there are many more: i can't think of them all!
what actually happens to a person when they experience a heart attack?
to actually experience means they have symptoms. the classic symptoms are chest pressure or heaviness like an elephant on chest severe cold sweats shortness of breath there may be nausea dizziness radiation of discomfort to jaw or left arm. others feel nothing others have acute complications including sudden death. congestive heart failure but others none.
heart rate 153 how danger? can my heart stop if continue fast? also i'm asthma and most of the time i can't breath normal. plzzz help
the causes of a fast heart rhtyhm needs to be evaluated first some may be due to abnormal circuits in the heart or may actually be due to normal variants ie inappropriate sinus tachycardia. maintaining an elevated heart rate for a prolonged periodof time can put you at risk for a tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure. you must seek evluation for this.
how do they diognoise peripartum cardiomyopothy? what are the spacifics they follow
peripartum cardiomyopathy (ppcm) occurs during the final month to up to 5 months following delivery. it is a form of dilated cardiomyopathy that causes systolic dysfunction and congestive heart failure(chf). it is dx'd by cardiac ultrasound by excluding other causes and treated like chf. 98% survival rate 50% return to normal function w/in 1 year but 21%+ chance of recurrence w/ future pregnancy.
what are the dangers of of cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
sudden cardiac death can occur due to an arrhythmia if one has a weakened heart muscle. that is why evaluation for defibrillators are always done fo this patient population.
when can sinus tachycardia affect you?
sinus tachycardia always due to "something else". it's the "something else" that can affect you. examples of "something else": pain fever anxiety exercise thyroid excess deconditioning and congestive heart failure. there are many other causes as well.
how many masive heart attack can a man in his sixties have before death? male late sixties has had a previous heart attack.
massive is unclear some bad ekgs and high enzymes may not be accurate as to remaining muscle. when damage causes low function low ejection fraction and congestive heart failure then one may need left ventricular assist lvad or transplant if a candidate.
have idiopathic dcm & bi vent icd. ef was 38%. have a bad cold and heart feels strange short of breath but don't want to go to er due to cost. norma?
the cold can put increased stress on the heart leading to acute congestive heart failure. your cardiologist can adjust medications and order outpatient tests to determine the best course of therapy. i have given iv diuretics in the office to get someone through these events. if you are significantly in distress however you need to go to the er.
i've had a heart attack and i have congestive heart failure. my knees stay cold and sometimes my arms are cold. is this something to do with chf?
cold extremities are common in chf patients
what are the issues with cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
patients with congestive heart failure are at risk for several different abnormal heart rhythms including life threatening and more benign rhythms that can affect quality of life. the most common arrhythmia is called atrial fibrillation - it is treated with blood thinners medications to control the rhythm and sometimes procedures. an implanted defibrillator (icd) can protect from sudden death.
what are the issues with cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
some patients with congestive heart failure are prone to develop serious arrhythmias known as ventricular fibrillation. it is more common in patients who have low ejection fraction on echo (ultrasound of the heart).
what are the issues with cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
they hold close ties because if you develop uncontrollable arrhythmias it can weaken your heart and you may develop chf.
i had a heart attack and congestive heart failure and ever since then i stay cold all the time. feels like deep inside to the bone. any reason?
many reasons from anemia to med side effect to low cardiac output etc-needs detailed evaluation
hoping you can tell me is rapid heart rate one of the symptoms of congestive heart failure?
yes rapid heart rate goes with chf.
what are the dangers of cardio arrhythmia and congestive heart failure?
the most severe danger is death. let your cardiologist guide you down this rocky path to safety.
what are these in detail? ldl-p bnp & carotid imt. why are they ordered?
these tests are used to gain some crude understanding of what environment is affecting the vessels of the body. ldl-p is a protein that potentiates the buildup of plaque in the heart vessel wall. bnp is a protein that is found in excess either in acute bouts of congestive heart failure as well as in moments when a heart plaque is fracturing and about to cause a heart attack. imt is a measurement
how high does the troponin result be to signal a heart attack?
in the proper setting with chest pain & abnormal electrocardiogram an elevated troponin (highly sensitive version) can indicate heart damage. however there are other possible explanations for an elevated level. these include congestive heart failure pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lungs) or kidney failure. the pattern of the elevation over time is also useful.
why do i get daily attacks of shortness of breath when my peak flow oxygen saturation pulse temperature blood test and ekg results are all normal?
many things can cause you to feel short of breath. one of the most common is a panic attack. are you prone to them? other medical conditions such as congestive heart failure with volume overload are frequently seen in elderly patients. other heart conditions and pulmonary conditions can cause this as well. in a young healthy person such as yourself a panic attack seems more likely. see your dr
my friend has 6 stents a pacemaker defibulator and the back of his heart is dead. how can someone live with their heart half dead?
the heart is a muscle and uses electricity to generate the "squeeze" necessary to get blood to the whole body. stents keep blood flowing to the muscle and a pacer/defibrillator keeps the electricity on and timed right. when part of the heart is dead patients are less active. they also may develop congestive heart failure with fluid backing up into lungs. pills can help.
metoprolol tartrate what is it used for?
metoprolol is a beta blocker used to treat hypertension coronary artery disease during an acute heart attack or for treatment of angina and congestive heart failure.
how can i have chf if i have a defibrillator?
congestive heart failure is a dysfunction of the heart muscle. defibrillator is not a treatment for congestive heart failure. you need defibrillator in case if the heart goes out of rhytm. the device can help the heart at time by synchronizing heart function.
heart is enlarged tachycardia present b\p 18<negative_smiley>100. dr. is concerned about congestive heart failure can i take care of this at home? 3 blocked arter
you are actually in danger of a brain hemorrhage. you also have diabetes and sleep apnea. you need to be on medication and you need advice on diet and exercise. if you try to be your own doctor you'll be dead soon. get with the program take charge of your health with the guidance of a competent physician and you may have many more good years.
when does orthastatic hypotension stop after prolong bed rest for 3 months? will walking be dangerous? or would help?
drink plenty of fluids and gradually increase your activity (walking is a good activity since your leg muscles "pump" the blood in your veins towards your heart. some extra salt is helpful provided there are no other problems (like congestive heart failure) a health care provider should monitor this! hope this helps' dr z
my husband has perm a-fib. has had maze conversions hcm mitral repair pacemaker/defib tikosyn (dofetilide) (stopped). left atrium 6. 4 cm. will the afib lead to heart failure?
your husband has had several intervention. if his lv function is normal then the likelihood of congestive heart failure is low. as he does have hcm he may develop heart failure if his heart rate is not controlled. for hcm he needs medical therapy to prevent diastolic heart failure. to manage all his problems he needs to see a cardiologist on a regular basis. good luck!
what is benazripril hydrochloride?
benezapril is a medication that is often used to treat high blood pressure congestive heart failure. it also uses to prevent kidney disease in diabetic patients. it belongs to a class of medication called ace inhibitor because of the way it works.
my mom is 72 years old she has diabetes congestive heart failure her ekg came back with fluid and heart enlarged. how should we proceed?
she needs to be evaluated completely by a cardiologist with an echocardiogram as the first step and laboratory data and exam. depending upon the results of the above one can proceed with appropriate medical therapy.
my cardiologist prescribed a med for atrial flutter but not blood thinners. he said my echo is perfectly normal. should i be on blood thinners anyway?
anticoagulation (blood thinner) is prescribed to prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation and flutter. need for such treatment depends on risk vs. benefit. patients with diabetes hypertension prior stoke or tia congestive heart failure vascular disease and older would be at higher risk. if your doctor did not recommend anticoagulation for you it is possibly due to your risk profile.
would an ekg show congestive heart failure?
low voltage in an ekg suggest cardiomyopathy. which goes by the hand with heart failure. - in addition electrical alternans in the ekg is also suggestive of heart failure
would an ekg show congestive heart failure?
i would respectfully provide an alternate view from the previous respondents. while their answers were factually correct pls remember that heart failure is a clinical diagnosis and an ekg is an overall minor component of that assessment. eg: heart failure can be from ischemia and we can see that on an ekg but at least half of hf cases are with preserved ejection fraction & an ekg can't help that.
what causes my to smell dirt all the time? . i have had a heart attack and congestive heart failure. just wanted to know if it was related or not.
may be the side effect of some medications. hope you are doing better with your heart conditions. please take medicines regular exercise as prescribed by cardiologist restrict salt to prevent excerbation of chf maintain weight as close to ideal body weight and control the cholesterol
i'm 30 years old and my pulse rate when i got home from work was 113 is that too high?
a pulse of 113 is high if you have been at rest. however it may be normal if you were exerting yourself or rushing. some of the reasons the heart rate can be faster than normal: anxiety smoking(nicotine) alcohol medication side effect(including otc cough and cold medicines) fever pregnancy caffeine over active thyroid gland congestive heart failure
my resting heart rate is between 110 and 120. is this normal? i am 5'9" and 120 lbs. 34 female.
it is not normal. it can be a side effect of quetiapine. a search for other causes is reasonable: thyroid excess anemia fever infection emotional upset and pain are typical. more ominous causes include av fistula congestive heart failure or sepsis. a 24 hr heart recording would be helpful (to see your hr during sleep).
how should dosing of prazosin be increased? currently on 2mg/3x/day. is it one additional pill per day (1/6 increase) or 3 additional (1/3 increase)?
for congestive heart failure initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 mg daily given in divided doses. for hypertension initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 mg daily given in divided doses. for benign prostatic hyperplasia initial dose: 1 mg orally 2-3 times a day. maintenance dose: 6-15 m
my esr level is 2. i am concerned about congestive heart failure. i have had an ekg and chest x ray both okay. is heart failure still a possibility?
although people talk about congestive heart failure being associated with a low esr (sed rate) there typically is not really a sed rate that is abnormally low. a normal esr for a young woman in most labs is 0-20 mm/hr. the finding of an esr of 2 should not warrant a heart failure evaluation. if you have no symptoms of heart failure don't worry.
my esr level is 2. i am concerned about congestive heart failure. i have had an ekg and chest x ray both okay. is heart failure still a possibility?
this question does not provide sufficient info to exclude heart disease nor does it provide even a remote suggestion that a 27 year old woman would develop chf without some severe underlying clinical problem. you are overthinking this and need to find out why the level of concern. after discussing with you doctor you might consider seeing a clinical psychologist or psychiatrist. good luck.
my bnp level is 319. is this considered serious or some kind of trend later in life for chf?
a bnp greater than 500 is a positive predictor of congestive heart failure. between 100 and 500 we must consider left or right ventricular dysfunction or kidney insufficiency. it may also be elevated in lung disease including acute pulmonary embolism.
my relative just got an icd and they keep telling him to stop eating any salt is not eating salt permanent?
it is generally recommended for heart failure patients to consume less than 2000 mg of sodium (salt) per day. this helps prevent fluid accumulation in the lungs legs and abdomen which can lead to hospitalizations for congestive heart failure. the icd was probably implanted for severe heart failure in your relative.
my dad hd a heart attack 2 weeks ago and had was int. c. u and had stents. prior to hospital he had ankle edema but now his lower legs are bones causes?
when you say his lower legs are bones do you mean you can now see the normal bony landmarks of the ankle? ie it's become normal? he sounds like he had congestive heart failure with ankle edema and it's been properly treated in hospital. is this what you were asking?
what could cause fluid in and around the lungs and an erratic racing heartbeat?
congestive heart failure pneumonia protein deficiency are but three there are more possibilities
i have been told i have s3 and gallop heart. what is this and what can i do about it?
this is a clinical sign of congestive heart failure; a very serious condition with markedly reduced life expectancy. it is vital to determine the cause and take treatment as the prognosis can be considerably improved
is there a relationship between coq10 use and reduction of svt episodes (specifically focal atrial tachycardia) and if so what would be the recommend?
no clinical trials (sponsored by independent organizations) have ever shown any benefit for coq10 supplements including for people taking statins. only a single trial sponsored by marketers of coq10 supplements has been interpreted as showing slight benefit for people with advanced class 4 congestive heart failure. lots of marketing science support for eicosapentaenoic acid; not for coq10.
so my grandfather is 89 and diabetic and he dosent like to show pain what are signs he might be having a heart attack?
sometimes no symptoms may be present. more often exertional fatigue loss of energy shortness of breath heart burn nausea chest tightness may be signs. occassional congestive heart failure manifesting as swelling of legs sob and trouble laying flat may develop.
how is digitalis used in medicine?
the drug digitalis which in a refined form is digitalis is one of the oldest poisons used by man. the ancient egyptians called in 'bulls blood' and killed with it. it must be used properly in tightly controlled dosage and followed by the physician. it has been used for rate control and congestive heart failure predominantly. recent popularity has declined significantly
high blood pressure 150/85. and racing heart rate 125. blood work done everything came back normal ct scan is normal and urine was normal.
assuming those measurements are at complete rest and assuming the ekg shows that the heart rate is due to nl conduction (sinus tachycardia) then the abnormalities are considered "reactive" ie due to something else. some considerations include: fever anemia pain anxiety xs thyroid alcohol withdrawal. more ominous considerations: congestive heart failure sepsis dka. this list isn't all.
my friends mom just had a mi. her blood pressure was 9<negative_smiley>19. said the reason why it was so low is because some med they are giving her. true?
hi. in the post mi state there are a number of drugs on board that lower bp. also it it possible that if enough heart muscle has been damaged from the mi that pump function has been diminished (called congestive heart failure chf) bp can be low from that. her cardiologist can tell you if there appears to be any chf from her echo or her cath or other studies they may have done. good luck to her
seeing pulmonarologist tomorrow for sob. chest x-ray ekg and blood work all normal. could it be asthma copd or emphysema? gp said lungs sound clear
it could be anything asthma copd emphysema or congestive heart failure etc. good that you are going to a pulmonologist for thorough check up.
i'm apx 10 weeks pregnant and have congestive heart failure buergers disease and a pacemaker. is it possible to have a full term pregnancy?
due to these conditions yours will be seen as high risk and all your dr(s) - obgyn cardios etc need to work together. quit smoking if you still do! the rare disease you name is even more rare in females so risks will be unknown but w/ good care and your full compliance it's probably possible - but prepared to have lots of help for perhaps a few years. good luck! best wishes.
i have been on bp meds since age 25. now i'm always tired breathless and feel tightness in my chest. i take co micadis 80/12. 5 and atenolol 25mg?
now? these symptoms should be attended to asap! you may be having symptoms of early congestive heart failure or possible coronary insuffciency! see your cardiologist. . it's time for a stress test etc hope this helps! be well dr z
possible causes for shortness of breath and irregular heart rate 85 yo male has high bp and hiadle hernia? resting rate of 46 but was 85-130
afib is a likely cause. congestive heart failure heart block which might need a pacemaker and coronary artery blockages are also concerns. he needs to see a doctor and get an ekg and poss some other tests as well.
please describe the medication: coreg (carvedilol)?
it ia brand name for beta blocker carvediol used to treat hypertension and congestive heart failure. it is different from other beta blockers as it also has alpha blocker properties. so it is both beta blocker(b1 b2) and alpha blocker.
please describe the medication: digitek (digoxin)?
digitek is one of the generic versions of the drug digoxin. digoxin is one of the many compounds found in the foxglove plans. digoxin is used to improve the symptoms of congestive heart failure and is also used to treat atrial heart arrhythmias.
please describe the medication: lanoxin (digoxin)?
lanoxin is the brand name for digoxin which comes from the foxglove plant. it is most often used to treat congestive heart failure and atrial arrhythmias.
please describe the medication: digoxin?
digoxin is one of the compounds that is found in the foxglove plant. digoxin is used primarily for two reasons: for congestive heart failure where it can increase the force of the heart muscle to it can more efficiently pump blood to the vital organs of the body; secondly it can be used to slow down the heart in some instances when the atria beats too fast. digoxin must be dosed very carefully.
have chf. most recent bnp is 14. 1. is this a good result?
i'm going to assume this is picograms per ml. if so this is good and that your illness is at least controlled fairly well or going into remission. i hope that a treatable cause of your congestive heart failure is found. best wishes.
heart rate high 120 at rest. can't do any activity. when walk a little have to stop. sometimes chest pain and sweat. i take diltazem240 not help
for how long you had these symptoms. you are describing typical symptoms of congestive heart failure. a heart rate of 120 is very abnormal if is irregular you may have uncontrolled atrial fibrillation. you should see a cardiologist like today or go to an er now. do not waist time as other conditions may be present. you may require cardiac cardioversion. l
sir may i know the reason for fast heart rate swelling legs and feet breathing problem in my mom. she is suffering a lot. can u please suggest me?
these sx sound like a significant heart problem could be present such as congestive heart failure. this is more a finding than a dx so see your doc asap for dx of cause and appropriate rx. good luck.
what is atrial fibrillation a risk factor for?
congestive heart failure ischemic bowel disease sleep apnea transient ischemic attack stroke heart failure.
what does it mean if my heart rate was really high during exercise and stays at 110 over an hour and a half after exercise? is it anxiety?
=anxiety/fear/pain &/or congestive heart failure. heart rate controlled by brain. like rest of body heart follows orders from brain (many cycles/second). sensors from heart blood vessels rest of body provide extensive feedback to brain: a complex soul? mind? brain? body integrated system which allows life despite only partially understood. getting/studying an <link> could help.
my 33 yr old son had a heart attack 10-15. he now has dx of chronic combined systolic and diastolic congestive heart failure. ef of 40. how serious?
heart failure caused by a prior myocardial infarction (heart attack) is a very serious problem. fortunately there are well-defined treatments including medications and procedures. patients with this condition should be under the care of a cardiologist. it may also help to get a second opinion here on healthtap to review treatment options.
what is the most likely cause of high pulse pressure(not resting) 180/90 in 75 old recent onset after being stable for 7 years after bypass operation?
you have systolic hypertension and a wide pulse pressure. both can be caused by stiff blood vessels. the best treatment is chlorthalidone which lowers stroke and congestive heart failure risk quickly. thus high salt in diet also likely drives this. i specialized in hbp in the elderly. happy to do 2nd opinion.
i am experiencing rapid heart rate and i was wondering if muscle relaxers specifically flexiril lower heart rate?
do not use flexeril (cyclobenzaprine) to lower your heart rate. in fact the opposite may occur. do not use flexeril if you have a heart rhythm disorder or you have recently had a heart attack; congestive heart failure; heart block; or a thyroid disorder. obtain a list of all side effects from a pharmacist and consult/follow-up your physician about taking this medication.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
there is some evidence that ssris help with post stroke remodeling where the brain works on regrowing connections between brain areas that were not killed by the stroke. there is also evidence they help prevent post stroke depression that is very common. not much reason to think one ssri is better than another. see your prescriber for specific dosage recommendations.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
i'd start with an anti-depressant from the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor group that have shown to be beneficial in cases of vascular dementia. either zoloft (sertraline) (starting at 12. 5 or 25 mg wth increase to 25 or 50 mg eventually and even higher doses) or celexa starting at 10 mg and then increasing to 20-40 mg eventually may be a good start.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
one does not get mental health treatment on the internet. this is not how medicine works. treatment for these serious conditions must come from a physician who knows and is treating the patient. the health tap application clearly states that we cannot provide treatment advice.
was diagnosed in jan. w/ new lbbb. stress test & labs normal no further testing. now have sob and pounding heart when lying down. 39 yo fem smoker.
you need to see your doctor. may need further investigation. they need to find the cause for breathing issues wile lying down as could be a sign of congestive heart failure anxiety or obesity. will need rest x-rays and blood testing. you are a higher risk given that you are smoker. please consult your doctor.
what causes inflammation of the heart muscle? is it permanent or it can recur? how it can be treated? antibiotics? for how long?
inflammation of the heart muscle is most commonly caused by a viral infection and antibiotics are not effective for this. after the acute phase is over damage and weakness of the heart muscle may follow. recurrent myocarditis would be unusual except in autoimmune causes. rest is the main treatment unless congestive heart failure occurs. a cardiologist is best qualified to care for the patient
hi there mom has pacemaker for 6 days now her legs started swelling has developed a cough and last night battled to breathe also kept waking up in?
a person who has heart disease and then gets legs swelling shortness of breath and cough. . may have congestive heart failure. the usual care is to go see the doctor now at the doctor's office or at the er. the er can take care of such issues and consult a cardiologist as needed. if a person has a heart attack or kidney failure she can also have symptoms like these.
how can i safely use a fleet enema for constipation if i have chronically low potassium?
fleets enema: commonly used ~4 oz saline laxative; sodium phosphate-based; can cause adverse reactions in certain individuals (age >55) with certain pre-existing conditions (e. g. dehydration impaired kidney function congestive heart failure abnormal electrolytes) if used too often (>3 days or >1 dose/24 hrs). i recommend you ask your md about proper dosing and alternatives.
n-terminal pro b-type natriuretic peptide test value of my mother is 3670. what does it mean? last year she had a heart attack and stenting.
again this peptide is elevated in patients with volume overload and suggests the possibility of decompensated congestive heart failure in the appropriate clinical setting. . this number is elevated. your mother should be seen by a cardiologist
on antibiotics for sinus infection. better but cardiac cough is back. i have dcm. no swell in feet but i have trouble with swelling in stomach. norm?
cardiac cough implies congestive heart failure -- you need medical attention now!
suvival rate for 47 yr f with hx of stemi in lad 6 stents sss pacemaker (20% dependent) aortic valve replacement non-semi and occluded by pass?
much depends upon the status of her heart muscle health as determined by an echocardiogram or gated blood pool scan. . if her left ventricle has good strength (normal ejection fraction)and no evidence of past or present congestive heart failure i believe survival odds can be good barring any further heart attacks which will cause myocardial damage.
are beta blockers used to treat both stable and unstable angina?
beta blockers are commonly used to treat coronary disease and the weight of the evidence actually is for those patients who have already suffered a heart attack or have congestive heart failure. however by corollary and by some evidence actively ischemic heart disease patients (stable and unstable angina) do better with lower heart rates which result from beta blockers.
shortness of breath on mild activity and sleeping on chest side cxr echo pft normal thyroid cbp normal my weight is ideal wt to do now?
shortness of breath on mild exertion & sleeping on left side of chest may be caused by congestive heart failure copd cad cardiomyopathy hypertension thyroid disorder anxiety neurosis pleuritis pe anemia sleep apnea. diagnosed by physical exam x-ray chest echo pft stress echo ct of chest with pe protocol cvc sma24 tshtreat the cause.
sir i am suffering from diabities-2 and high bp taking medicine for both. i am suffocating particularly in aircraft. what could be the reason? please
must see cardiologist for? coronary artery disease congestive heart failure sleep apnea. . etc.
what can cause extreme difficulty breathing?
heart (congestive heart failure blockage of arteries) kidneys (fluid overload) lungs (copd/ emphysema bronchitis) hypertension anemia anxiety and panic attacks alcohol to excess and drugs of any kind. smoking! and also complete lack of physical fitness (being out of shape) and several more!
what is triazide and enalapril used for?
thiazide is a mild diuretics and a better hypertension medication enalapril is in the class of ace inhibitor good for hypertension to protect kidneys from diabetes and as part of the treatment of congestive heart failure (chf)
what does "ventricular hypertrophy with mitral valve endocardiosis" mean in simple terms?
we human cardiologists don't use the term endocardiosis. i found it in a veterinary ref. endocardiosis common cause of cardiac disease in the dog. characterized by chronic fibrosis and nodular thickening of the free edges of the atrioventicular valves. in the worst cases the valve cusps are distorted converting a minor leak into a massive incompetence. leads to congestive heart failure. there is no specific cause.
what are the treatments for congestive heart failure?
chf treatment depends on the cause of the chf. if its severe valve disease valve surgery may be indicated. if its muscle disease then a bunch of medications are used if its too much heart muscle and abnormal relaxation rather than contraction then other steps are used you have to have a cause to treat and then use what works with that kind of chf
what are examples of terminal heart diseases?
any heart disease if its caused enough damage to seriously impair the supply of blood at adequate pressure to the body can be 'terminal'. extensive myocardial infarction with resultant refractory congestive heart failure can be terminal likewise dilated cardiomyopathy causing similar refractory congestive failure and multiorgan failure. the answer is more complicated than the above tho'
which disease is more manageable coronary heart disease or congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is often one of the compications of cad. both are serious conditions that can be managed with proper medications diet exercise and always addressing the root cause of the problem.
which disease is more manageable coronary heart disease or congestive heart failure?
if both are present then both must be treated. coronary heart disease will lead to heart attacks which cause or worsen chf. chf if untreated will lead to worsening of symptoms more stress on the heart and may well lead to heart attacks itself.
what are the signs of aortic regurgitation/leakage?
do you mean symptoms? (signs are physical findings your doctor detects during an examination). ar causes no symptoms for many decades but when it finally does start to cause symptoms it's congestive heart failure - shortness of breath with minimal exertion or at rest. less common symptoms are: angina (chest pain) and syncope (passing out).
what does it mean if a patient with congestive heart failure has cyanosis coupled with liver and kidney failure?
this organs all are affecting each other. congestive heart failure affects liver and both cause kidney problem. it's possible to control heart liver and kidney failure by specific measures and medications in most of the cases.
was in a car accident 3yr ago seen 30 plus dr. s but no one can explain why does my body still hve water retention (edema) that happens after movement?
where is the edema? is it dependent (gravity related? ). is it unilateral (just affecting one side? ) does it improve during the night? what is your serum albumen? do you have kidney or liver dysfunction? history of congestive heart failure? did your accident involve your chest? (constrictive pericarditis) what medicines are you taking? is it lymphedema? (how extensive were your injuries? ).
why does congestive heart failure cause diuretics to be mal-absorbed?
swelling in the intestinal wall. some diuretics are better absorbed in this setting by mouth. if this fails then iv diuretics. hope this helps.
why does congestive heart failure cause diuretics to be mal-absorbed?
congestive heart failure can cause decreased efficacy from oral medicines in a couple of ways. 1) if the right atrial pressure is high then that pressure will be transmitted back into the systemic venous circulation and there will be increased water in the tissues of the body including the walls of the small intestine creating an absorption block. 2) also there can be relative gut ischemia.
what are the physcial symptoms of an enlarged heart please?
the cause of the enlarged heart and pleural effusion is what dictates the outcome from such a situation. if you have a very weak heart with congestive heart failure and both sides of the heart malfunctioning to cause this that is very serious. if you have some more benign situation which is also possible could be less serious. you need to discuss with your doctor.
what occurs when someone is diagnosed with congestive heart failure?
many variables. it depends on the type of chf cause degree of heart failure overall function of the heart etc. chf should be evaluated by cardiologist.
which is the best drugs used in the treatment of systolic hypertension?
acei = angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were first ; continue best track record to reduce mortality rates for congestive heart failure (1 result of htn ) but commonly do not improve heart function just slow decline. fat soluble ones e. g. perindopril best. adding on carvedilol with care (along with aggressively txing drivers of arterial disease) usually improves heart function over time.
wake up gasping for air & shortness of breath sometimes during the day. recently feels alone and nothing is right. heart failure or anxiety?
can't tell without examination so see a doctor. non-specific symptoms can be only sign of congestive heart failure and hypoxemia.
what are some food choices for a 60yr old congestive heart failure and diabetic person?
high potassium low saturated fat with 0. 8 gr/kg of protein will be good. calorie count with good complex carbs including vegetables and fresh fruits. i will advised you to consult a dietitian. exercise according to the cardiac rehabilitation program by your cardiology very important.
what are some food choices for a 60yr old congestive heart failure and diabetic person?
-- low salt low saturated fat modest lean meat portions (4 oz) only complex veggies only complex fruits whole grain foods -- eat minimal bread minimal pasta. complex fruit is fruit with low juice and high pulp (apple pear nectarine banana). complex veggie - are most. nuts are excellent.
what is chf and is it treatable?
chf=congestive heart failure. it usually means that a person has had injury to their heart muscle and the heart can no longer pump out blood in an efficient manner. blood pools in the heart and often backs up into the lungs. because less blood is pumped out kidneys see less blood and think the body needs more volume so it holds on to more fluid. symptoms are treatable stem cells may prove to be cure.
what is the first choice in managing congestive heart failure (chf): a venodilator an arteriolar dilator or a balanced vasodilator?
best data on acei as first line therapy which is a predominant arteriolar vasodilator though has some venous effects as well. second line agents such as isordil (isosorbide dinitrate) added to hydral also of proven benefit in aa population with balanced vasodilator effect.
will excercising and cardio help congestive heart failure?
we recommend cardio exercise for chf patients in moderation.
what can cause dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing) in patients who have congestive heart failure?
if the left atrium is enlarged this may cause dysphagia but this is not a common cause.
what can cause dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing) in patients who have congestive heart failure?
dysphagia is usually an esophageal problem but can be caused by external pressure on the esophagus. when the left atrium is enlarged and under increased pressure the esophagus may be compressed causing dysphagia. this can happen during chf.
what is the probability of stroke with both mitral valve regurgitation and stenosis of carotid artery?
the carotid disease if stenosed (>80%) warrants surgical consideration as risk of stroke is increased. the mr if miderate to severe poses a risk for congestive heart failure not stroke. if not allergic or have issues with platelet function daily aspirin 81mg is recommended for atherosclerosis.
when do you require a crtd for a congestive heart failure patient? what is differences between crtd crtp crt icd?
cardiac re synchronization therapy is a pacemaker that corrects the loss of synchronization of both ventricles in chf patients with marked intraventricular conduction delay. because it is used in patients with low ef we often use it with defibrillator capability. icd is a defibrillator device generally single chamber for patients who just need that function.
what is the standard treatment for someone with pfo tricuspid valve leaking severely congestive heart failure with high blood pressure & is nursing?
patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation may develop cyanosis and dyspnea because of the direction of tricuspid regurgitation across the pfo. device closure may be clinically beneficial.
what is the standard treatment for someone with pfo tricuspid valve leaking severely congestive heart failure with high blood pressure & is nursing?
looks like you are on a decent combination. diuretics generally do not get into breast milk. you do need to address a some point why you have tr and what needs to be done (probably surgically).
what causes congestive heart failure to produce heavy breathing?
heart failure causes elevated filling pressures in the heart which then reflect back in the lungs. the elevated pressures in thelungs causes fluid to extravasate into the parenchyma which causes shortness of breath and dyspnea.
what cardiac conditions will look similar to bronchitis on a chest xray? had cp but no cough or known illness. is it heart related problem?
a chest xray that is similar to bronchitis maybe congestive heart failure. hard to tell without more information if this is a cardiac condition. seems like you will need a complete work up including ekg echo and maybe stress test to iidentify heart disease.
what exactly does hypertension and congestive heart failure have to do with each other?
depending on the cause it can be low or high. weak heart chf usually has low blood pressure. strong heart chf or hefpef can have high blood pressure. the abbreviation stands for heart failure preserved ejection fraction. about half of chf is each type.
what is the very first signs of congestive heart failure. should i be taking imetoprolol tartrate & isosorbide monomitratate? if i have chf?
shortness of breath leg swelling fatigue are common. both meds are good. you may want to talk with your doctor regards to "ace inhibitors and water pills. depending on how bad your chf is these will add bebefit to meds you are already taking. if your ef is less than 35% you may need a defibrillator.
what is the very first signs of congestive heart failure. should i be taking imetoprolol tartrate & isosorbide monomitratate? if i have chf?
furst symptoms of heart failure include shortness of breath with activity and later shortness of breath while laying down or fluid retention. arrhythmias and chest pain might develop. meds like beta blockers (carvedilol in particular) and acei are important parts of treatment. if unable to tolerate acei/arb drugs isosorbide along with hydralazine might work.
what short and long term affects are associated with cardiovascular disease?
heart: angina heart attack congestive heart failure arrythmias carotid: tia stroke dementia legs: limited walking=claudication rest pain gangrene amputations veins: clots and pulmonary embolism and varicose veins disability and death prevention is worthwhile for dollars and life style .
why might i have the combined symptoms of congestive heart failure and ankle swelling?
lower extremity swelling and breathlessness are hallmark symptoms of congestive heart failure.
why might i have the combined symptoms of congestive heart failure and ankle swelling?
might be too weak. do you have a cardiologist?
what is congestive heart failure? symptoms.
with increased stiffness &/or weakness of heart pumping (muscle &/or valve problems) brain reflexes? thirst/water intake &? water output from kidneys; thus body water increases driving congestion (edema). if heart function not too sick the? water/blood volume improves pump function; but no limit to the reflex & the increased water (edema) can fill the lungs (can't breath) & legs/body swells.
what is congestive heart failure? symptoms.
failure of heart to pump blood forward to meet metabolic demands of the body hence the lungs and other organs get congested. symptoms: dyspnea fatigue bipedal edema etc!
wheezing when i cough and chest pain. what could this be?
wheezing cough and chest pain may suggest bronchial asthma chronic or acute bronchitis etc. need to see doc for office spirometry and chest radiograph or see a lung specialist to make sure that you do not have bronchial asthma. angina is less likely with cough and wheezing unless associated with congestive heart failure.
what are signs of congestive heart failure and is this always fatal?
shortness of breath initially with exercise and in more severe cases even at rest. this may be worse when lying flat and may cause awakening with shortness of breath. frequent nighttime awakening to pass urine may occur. swelling of the ankles may develop engorgement of veins in the neck may be seen. while life expectancy is shortened with treatment there can be a number of good years.
what other than asthma can cause trouble breathing?
including: pneumonia chronic lung disease bronchitis copd bronchiolitis cheat trauma epiglottis lung cancer pulmonary edema pleurisy pulmonary embolism throat trauma heart attack neuromuscular disorders anaphylaxis high altitude obesity organ failure sepsis shock severe ascites cardiac arrthymias pericarditis cardiomyopathy congestive heart failure etc.
what is cardiac insufficiency?
cardiac insufficiency is a very old term that is roughly synonomous with congestive heart failure. it hasn't been used for many years and so its use today is archaic.
what are the risks of becoming? pregnant with moderate congestive heart failure?
your heart condition could worsen particularly if you gain a lot of weight and your blood pressure becomes elevated. you therefore require more than the usual care and your obstetrician may require close consultation with your cardiologist.
what are some? things people can do at home to help with? congestive heart failure?
regular exercise low sodium diet and medication compliance are the best things you can do at home for your chf.
what is the cure for heart enlargement chest pain?
chest pain and heart enlargement is not a good combination. if your heart is enlarged you may have congestive heart failure already. but start hurting in the chest you need to be checked for any coronary artery disease.
what are the risks of congestive heart failure in pregnancy?
congestive heart failure is dangerous for anyone but particularly for pregnant women. it can lead to maternal death pregnancy complications (preterm labor cesarean section fetal distress) and need for intensive care. management with maternal-fetal medicine and cardiology specialists is warranted.
what is nipride (nitroprusside) used for?
in the us nipride (nitroprusside) is indicated for lowering blood pressure in cases of hypertensive crisis for acute congestive heart failure & for lowering blood pressure to decrease bleeding. in other countries it has additional indications for use.
what is the significance of congestive heart failure in the medical history?
congestive heart failure suggests either prior infection/inflammation valvular dysfunction or coronary artery disease (most common). regardless chf is associated with increase mortality compared to similar person w/o condition. it also has a profoundly negative impact on quality of life. check out <link>
what is the longest you know someone had survived with congestive heart failure?
due to varying degrees of chf & of adherence to treatment there are varying degrees of survival. a mild chf and excellent adherence to therapy in younger patients carries a relatively good prognosis. the opposite is certainly true too!
what is the longest you know someone had survived with congestive heart failure?
that is how long i have been a physician. i am certain there are a few people who have survived longer. depends on the cause of congestive heart failure.
what is right side heart failure vs. left sided?
fluid accumulates during congestive heart failure. when the right side of the heart fails fluid accumulates in the legs and abdomen. when the left side of the heart fails fluid accumulates in the lungs and makes the patient short of breath. not infrequently both sides of the heart fail at the same time.
what would cause my veins to always bulge with tight red & pounding hands/fingers everytime i get warm or exert myself. i also get short of breath. ?
one possible cause of your symptoms could be congestive heart failure. when you exert yourself with this condition the heart can't keep up with the demand and you get short of breath. you may notice signs of increased pressure in the veins if the right side of the heart is affected. if you have this problem you need medical treatment for it.
what would cause my right foot to swell? congestive heart failure has been ruled out. no injury to this foot.
if a deep venous thrombosis has been ruled out then you need to see a vascular surgeon as you may have lymphedema.
what would cause my right foot to swell? congestive heart failure has been ruled out. no injury to this foot.
other possibilities: chr. venous insufficiency lymphedema unlikely small clot below knee fluid in the ankle 2 to arthritic process (gout) urticariai allergic to shoe or 2nd to compression of footwear insect bites cellulitis ( infection) raynaud syndrome suggest to see a podiatrist.
what is ami? is it serious of desease?
heart is a pump. poor blood flow and/or blockage of blood flow leads to poor oxygen flow to muscle downstream from the blockage causes cell death (infarction) scarring of the area-muscle can't pump right if scarred can cause electrical disturbances (some benign some can be fatal) can lead to pump failure (congestive heart failure). varies with size location. a big deal. see your doc.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
symptoms & signs of chf are shortness of breath with minimal exertion or at rest getting tired or fatigued easily sleepin on more than one pillow getting up at night short of breath swelling of both legs retention of fluid in abdomen.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
low energy shortness of breath trouble laying flat elevated neck veins and central veinous pressures are som.
where are the chordae tendinae located?
the chordae are support structures for the mitral and tricuspid valves. when they are damaged valvar insufficiency results. this can be severe enough to cause congestive heart failure either acute or chronic.
what are the systems affected by congestive heart failure?
the lungs see increased pressure backing up causing fluid accumulation. chronically decreased forward flow from the heart often causes kidney damage. rarely if there are high enough pressures backing up to the lungs this transmits from the lungs to the right side of the heart and you can get back up from there to the liver causing passive congestion and sometimes even cirrhosis.
what are the systems affected by congestive heart failure?
chf is a symptom complex. many cardiac problems can cause chf. generally loss of exercise capacity shortness of breath fatigue and sometimes peripheral swelling we call edema is present. chf can be right sided left sided or biventricular. it can be caused by systolic diastolic or valvar problems. it affects the whole body and all its systems.
what would damage to the chordae tendinae in the left ventricle result in?
the chordae are support structures for the mitral and tricuspid valves. when they are damaged valvar insufficiency results. this can be severe enough to cause congestive heart failure either acute or chronic.
what is the use of a left ventricular assist device (lvad)?
typically and lvad has been used in the setting of a patient with advanced congestive heart failure (chf) where the patient is being listed for or is awaiting a heart transplantation. more recently lvad's have been approved as destination therapy. on occasion we see patients who recover from their chf through the use of an lvad but that is not very common. there are multiple lvad types now.
what types of patients gets congestive heart failure?
those with heart attack or coronary disease leaking valves hypertension primary heart muscle disease (cardiomyopathy) anemia overactive thyroid chemotherapy or itamin deficiency.
what types of patients gets congestive heart failure?
patients with heart attacks and chronic coronary artery disease; patients with severe chronic valvular heart disease; patients with structural heart disease like hypertrophic cardiomyopathies; renal failure patients with fluid overload; connective tissue disease like lupus just to say few.
what is diastolic heart failure and how is it different from congestive heart failure?
the heart has to squeeze effectively but also has to be able to relax inbetween squeezing to allow adequate filling. if it can't relax that is considered diastolic heart failure. congestive heart failure can be either systolic (the squeezing action) or diastolic (the relaxing function). impairment of either one or both can lead to congestive heart failure.
what is diastolic heart failure and how is it different from congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure can be divided into systolic and diastolic types. systolic heart failure means the heart doesn't pump well enough because the muscles are weak and squeeze very well. diastolic heart failure means the muscles of the heart are too stiff. as a result the heart can't fill with blood very easily which also means it can't function as well as a pump.
what is diastolic heart failure and how is it different from congestive heart failure?
diastolic heart failure is a subclass of congestive heart failure. chf can result from systolic heart failure (failure to contract properly) from diastolic heart failure (failure to relax the heart) or from valvular heart disease. volume overload from renal failure can also cause chf.
what is diastolic heart failure and how is it different from congestive heart failure?
chf can be diastolic or systolic or mixed. diastolic dysfunction is a problem with dilatation of heart whereas systolic dysfunction is a problem with contraction of the heart.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
because the heart doesn't pump blood well enough when it is "failing" fluid tends to back up in the legs and lungs. this can cause weight gain and difficulty breathing.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
it is called heart failure because the heart fails to pump the blood effectively. because the blood is not pumped out of the lungs effectively the fluid backs up in the lungs so the lungs become congested with this excess fluid build up. thus the name.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
when the heart isn't able to pump effectively pressure builds up behind the heart and causes fluid to build up in the lungs causing "congestion".
what is meant by congestive heart disease?
i am asumming you mean congestive heart failure. when the heart muscle is too weak to pump fluid gets accumulated in the lungs the legs and under the skin even intraabdominally and even in the scrotum. pts. get difficulty to breath and intolerance to physical effort that is progressive associated to general fatigue. has multiple causes.
what is meant by congestive heart disease?
congestive heart failure is a complex syndrome of inadequate heart function leading to retention of fluid which may be in the lungs and cause breathlessness or may be in the legs and cause swelling. there are many causes such as blocked arteries valve abnormalities weakened heart muscle abnormal stiffness with poor filling. high blood pressure is a common cause. most patients are fatigued.
what is the difference between coronary heart disease and chronic heart disease?
coronary heart disease specifically refers to disease in the blood vessels that supply your heart. blockages in these vessels can cause angina or heart attacks. chronic heart disease is a broader term. it can include coronary disease congestive heart failure valve problems and many more.
what is the difference between angina coronary artery disease and heart disease?
angina and angina equivalents are symptoms of cad: coronary artery disease - which is often pooled with other heart aliments and described as heart disease. heart disease could potentially encompass other conditions such as congestive heart failure chf atrial fibrillation or flutter af kinds of cardiomyopathy bundle branch block and valve disorders and potentially more.
what is constrictive pericarditis?
the heart is wrapped in a double layer of thick fibrous tissue called the pericardium. normally only a few drops of lubricating fluid is present in this potential space. following an infection or radiation or trauma (or a few other causes) the two surfaces scar down and don't allow the heart to fill with blood during diastole which "constricts" it and causes a form of congestive heart failure.
what are signs of high cardiac output?
you can't generally feel it. in extreme cases it can lead to congestive heart failure. if symptoms are present they are more likely to be due to the underlying condition which is precipitating the high cardiac output state (like sepsis fever infection trauma thyroid excess etc).
what is a vasodilatation drug for chf?
the word we used for vasoldilator drugs in congestive heart failure is afterload reduction. these medications make it easier for the heart to empty at the time of contraction. examples would be lisinopril enalapril losartan valsartan. these medicines are frequently used in conjunction with diuretics and beta blockers.
what should i do about shortness of breath? i am feeling short of breath but can breathe. should i go to the emergency room or just go see my doctor?
i will get into some specifics in a minute but will summarize first- shortness of breath can mean a lot of things many of which are quite dangerous. so yes you should go to an emergency room. now to answer your question in more detail. when i see a patient who is complaining of shortness of breath- i always think of certain disease processes and try to rule them out either with testing or by historical information and exam. asthma is common but unlikely to present in adulthood. pneumonia is common usually accompanied by fever and productive cough. pulmonary embolism (a "blood clot" in the lungs) is often (but not always) preceded by leg pain and swelling is more common in women the elderly people with cancer smokers and overweight people. congestive heart failure is usually preceded by heart problems or a history of high blood pressure and often the patient will also have leg swelling. certainly heart attacks can present with shortness of breath and no chest pain. as you can see all of these potential problems (and many more) would require a doctor's evaluation as soon as possible.
what should i do about congestion and trouble breathing in the mornings? every morning i wake up congested and short of breath. i don't have any pets and no known allergies. the congestion goes away as the day progresses. what could be causing this?
there are many different causes of feeling the sensation of shortness of breath the most serious of which are those arising from a heart or lung problem. some causes of feeling breathless manifest with subtle patterns e. g. with symptoms that change with the time of day. only a detailed history and examination from your doctor can help provide a clue what the cause of the symptoms could be. for example feeling shortness of breath due to congestive heart failure can result in feeling breathless when lying down flat (e. g. on a bed) or in the middle of the night. conversely symptoms of asthma are typically worse in the mornings and slowly dissipate through the day. this however is not specific for asthma as conditions such as hypersensitivity pneumonitis (inhaled lung allergies) for example can arise from something as simple as your down-comforter. this will result in feeling breathless in the morning when you are exposed to a down-comforter and go away during the day when you are away from your bed. this example illustrates the complexity of trying to determine the cause of feeling breathless as many people will not know if they can be allergic to something like a down-comforter unless they see a pulmonary specialist. coexisting symptoms such as congestion can also provide a clue with regards to the cause but again the type of congestion matters. chronic nasal congestion (blocked nose) suggests a problem such as allergy-related. feeling congested within the chest especially in association with wheezing suggests asthma.
what causes an enlarged heart? what causes an enlarged heart and why are people with enlarged heart more at risk with their health?
there are many causes of an enlarged heart and the heart can enlarge in different ways. in some conditions the heart chambers dilate and the heart muscle weakens. this dilation most often occurs as a consequence of prior heart attacks which is called ischemic cardiomyopathy. it can also be caused by toxins such as excessive alcohol genetic abnormalities metabolic derangements such as thyroid disease or sometimes occurs with no apparent cause (idiopathic cardiomyopathy). in some other conditions the heart muscle thickens excessively as opposed to dilating and this also leads to an enlarged heart. the most common cause of a thick heart is untreated hypertension but it can also be caused by a genetic condition called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or can also occur when substances infiltrate and replace heart muscle. people with an enlarged heart are at increased risk for a few different reasons. if the heart muscle weakens they can develop congestive heart failure which causes many symptoms and increases the risk of death. people with an enlarged heart are also at increased risk for arrhythmias which in certain circumstances can cause cardiac arrest.
what does the abbreviation chf mean?
congestive heart failure. as a simple explanation one can say this is a condition in which the heart has difficulty providing blood flow to the tissues and organs of the body. the heart muscle is usually weak too stiff or both.
what does the abbreviation chf mean?
chf = congestive heart failure = a condition where the heart muscle is weak and fluid backs up and leaks into the air spaces in the lungs causing shortness of breath.
what does the abbreviation chf mean?
"chf" stands for congestive heart failure.
what are some of the complications of congestive heart failure?
the immediate effect is back-up of pressure into the lungs causing congestion there. due to the poor forward flow out of the heart the kidneys often are affected and the need for diuretic medications to clear up the lungs can worsen kidney function even more. liver disease even cirrhosis can occur if back-up extends all the way through the right side of the heart.
what are some of the complications of congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath swelling of the feet and abdomen recurrent admissions to the hospital and at times sudden death from arrhythmias.
what does an elevated diastolic pressure indicate?
same as elevated systolic pressure: the risk of stroke congestive heart failure heart attack kidney disease and death are all elevated.
what are the effects of pericarditis?
most patients who suffere viral pericarditis have a limited disease that resolves in 2-3 weeks. occasionally some patients have a more protracted course and with more severe symptoms. some of these patiens go and develop chornic pericarditis with thickening of the prericardium and eventually symptoms of congestive heart failure.
what is the significance of mitral valve stenosis?
it means that you had (whether or not you know it) rheumatic fever with scarring of your valve. when severe it causes atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure. when it causes symptoms it requires surgical intervention with commissurotomy or valve replacement.
what happens in congestive heart failure?
when the heart is not functioning normally neurologic and endocrine signals are sent to the kidney to retain salt and water. fluid buildup in the body causing shortness of breath and swelling of the lower extremities.
what happens in congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath doing normal activities the need to sit up or get out of bed to catch your breath swelling of the legs and less commonly of the abdomen. fatigue and weakness.
what are the risks involved if you have high blood pressure?
heart attack stroke congestive heart failure if left untreated.
what are the effects of diphtheria have on the mitral valve?
diphtheria does not affect the mitral valve. (rheumatic fever can). diphtheria can cause a dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure.
what is a thickened pericardium?
the pericardium is the fibrous covering that surrounds the heart. on echo ct or mri it can appear to be thick and is read as such but there is no clinical significance unless it causes abnormal physiology called constrictive pericarditis. cp results in a syndrome which is similar to congestive heart failure.
what is the difference between heart failure and congestive heart failure?
these terms are used interchangeably.
what is the difference between heart failure and congestive heart failure?
they are frequently used interchangeably now but there is a rare type of heart failure that is not congestive but is high output caused by other things such as severe anemia.
what are possible cures of congestive heart failure?
it would probably be more corrrect to talk about things which control the congestive heart failure. there are many medications which control but really do not cure it. sometimes cardiomyopathies resolve and no longer require medicine so that would be considered a cure i think. if the heart failure is because of a valve problem which is corrected you might "cure" the heart failure(fix valve).
what are possible cures of congestive heart failure?
depends on the cause. talk to your cardiologist.
what are the consequences of ignoring coronary artery disease?
atherosclerosis known to start ~age 7 on average most commonly becomes obvious by reducing/stopping blood supply to portions of the heart muscle; heart attacks (most asymptomatic until large) resulting in congestive heart failure angina and/or premature death. stress testing all forms completely miss the problem until after the disease is quite advanced & after most smaller heart attacks.
what's so bad about high blood pressure? is it really that harmful?
pandora it is truly like opening pandora's box! it the leading cause of congestive heart failure stroke atrial fibrillation and kidney failure. it is a major risk factor for heart attack and eye disease. yes it's a very treatable and preventable factor and it's control has been instrumental in prolonging our life expectancy in the 20th century!
what are the interventions for congestive heart failure?
therapy for congestive heart failure can be divided into 3 categories: 1) medications which remove fluid (diuretics) making it easier for the heart pump (afterload reduction) or protect the heart (beta blocker) 2) devices such as biventricular pacemaker is which makes the heart work better and 3) surgery to repair structural heart problems such as a leaking valve or a blocked coronary.
what are the interventions for congestive heart failure?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
what are the risks involved in congestive heart failure and pregnancy?
if a person is predisposed to congestive heart failure pregnancy can be tricky. blood volume is increased in pregnancy and this may not be tolerated by those with underlying heart disease. during labor fluid shifts can occur with placental bleeding iv meds/fluids etc. and close observation is warranted. some of the standard chf meds can harm the fetus and may need to be stopped.
what are the risks involved in congestive heart failure and pregnancy?
peripartum cardiomyopathy is a rare condition but serious. avoid high blood pressure reduce salt intake ans see ur doctor regularly.
what are the consequences of coarctation of the aorta?
untreated it leads to congestive heart failure stroke and death. (luckily nowadays it can be treated).
what does it mean when i feel like i have butterflies in my heart? i cough a lot when it happens/ i can not sleep laying down i need to sit up or i can't breathe
if you are having shortness of breath laying down and need to sit up to breathe something is wrong. yoe should be evaluated first for congestive heart failure. step number one would be to get an echocardiogram. see a cardiologist as soon as possible!
what are some common symptoms of advanced congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath at rest inability to stand up from bed and walk ( ny class iv) accumulation of fluid starting with the legs up to the whole body and lungs causing crackle sounds in the chest lowering of blood pressure tahycardia ( unless taking beta blockers)and worsening of the kidney function and sometimes even worsening of the liver function ( because the congestion).
what are some common symptoms of advanced congestive heart failure?
advanced heart failure symptoms include difficulty breathing (particularly if lying flat) and swelling (usually of the legs). the difficulty breathing and swelling are both related to fluid that "backs up" into the lungs and legs because the heart is not pumping blood effectively.
what is involved in heart failure rehabilitation?
treatment of congestive heart failure in general involves medications proper diet and exercise to increase stamina. the diet generally should be salt restricted and with adequate nutritional value the exercise should be mostly aerobic and the medications are really dependent on the underlying disease leading to heart failure and the type of heart failure.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
in chf the heart cannot effectively pump blood from the lungs to the systemic circulation. so the fluid cannot move forward and it thus remains backed up in the lungs. the fluid stays in the lungs because the heart is unable to do its job of pumping that from the lungs to the rest of the body.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
when a pump like the heart is failing fluid backs up behind it. in the body that's where the lungs are. fluid cannot go through the heart fast enough and so blood accumulates in the lungs causing them to be congested with too much fluid. air spaces have fluid in them instead of air making the performance of the lungs impaired.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
the heart is actually 2 pumps. the right side pumps blood to the lungs. this is generally low pressure system so unless there are other reasons the right ventricle tends to function pretty effectively. the left side is the workhorse pump. the left ventricle is a muscle that can pump a large amount of resistance. when it fails the blood backs up into the lungs because the two pumps are in series.
why is heart disease one of the major killers of the world?
as countries become more "western" they exercise less and eat a high-fat diet. when a third world countries becomes more like the united states they exercise less drive around in cars and eat a fatty diet. subsequently they develop heart attacks congestive heart failure and heart disease becomes the leading cause of death.
what happens in the body with congestive heart failure?
in a healthy patient the heart and kidneys work together to maintain the appropriate amount of salt and water in the body. in the patient with congestive heart failure this equilibrium is upset. salt and water accumulate resulting in shortness of breath swollen legs and inability to exercise. this can be the result of problems with the kidney or the heart.
what happens in the body with congestive heart failure?
heart failure occurs with pump failure for whatevere reason. when the heart fails to pump enough blood out on the left side it is systolic dysfunction and the ejection fraction is less than 40%. when the heart muscle is stiff they call this diastolic dysfunction because it does not fill properly. with pump failure oncotic pressue increases in the vascular system forcing fluid out- lung/feet.
what is too much exercise for chf?
the appropriate amount of exercise for a patient with congestive heart failure is highly variable. some patients will be able to do regular treadmill exercise and other patients can barely walk across the room. an appropriate exercise prescription can be reached after a discussion with a cardiologist who is familiar with the case
what are some of the symptoms of heart failure?
fatigue and shortness of breath are common symptoms of congestive heart failure along with at times leg edema. unfortunately none of these symptoms are specific to heart failure and one has to have an evaluation by a cardiologist before the diagnosis is made.
what is the significance of stenosis of the mitral valve?
mitral stenosis is caused by rheumatic fever. if the valve becomes severely stenotic ("blocked") blood doesn't flow into the left ventricle adequately. this results in congestive heart failure and if untreated ultimatedly death. mitral commissurotomy or replacement fixes the problem.
where are congestive heart failure clinics located?
most are within a hospital or a hospital outpatient clinic. they could be in a private office as well.
where are congestive heart failure clinics located?
most cardiologists like myself treat patients with different types of heart failure both in the office and hospital settings. this is usually satisfactory for most patients. if you need more specialized care such as consideration for an assist device or transplant i would consider evaluation at a transplant center.
what does chf stand for?
congestive heart failure meaning fluid congestion in various organs such as lungs liver gut and limbs due to inadequate heart function.
what does chf stand for?
congestive heart failure is abbreviated as chf. this is a condition which results in congestion in the lungs due to poor pump power ( systolic dysfunction) due to heart damage like heart attack or weak heart muscle (cardiomyopathy). inability of the heart to accept the volume of blood returning to the heart due to heart stiffness (diastolic dysfunction) can also cause lung congestion.
what does chf stand for?
congestive heart failure.
what happens if someone's heart valve malfunctions?
everything depend on how fast(acute) the disease valve malfunction vs if malfunction slowly through a period of time. almost invariable you will have chest pain with shortness of breath from a congestive heart failure. also depend on the type of malfunction: stenosis vs regurgitation.
what heart disease can someone get?
the most common heart diseases are atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries and hypertrophy or thickening of the heart muscle leading to stiffness and abnormal muscle function. at their worst these both can lead to congestive heart failure or the inability of the heart to pumps the blood adequately with a resulting pressure buildup causing fluid to leak back into the lungs.
what are the typical signs and symptoms of mitral stenosis?
palpitations chest pain syncope shortness of breath respiratory failure arrythmias - inluding atrial fibrillation liver failure edema renal insufficiency congestive heart failure.
what are the causes of heart failure?
congestive heart failure or chf can be from many things. different types include systolic dysfxn wich means a weak heart. usually from a virus heart attack or post partum. diastolic dysfxn where the heart is stiff is usually due to hyer tension. high out put heart failure is when things such as hyperthyroidism or anemia. so your question is very broad and you need to narrow it down
what are congestive heart failure treatments?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
what are congestive heart failure treatments?
congestive heart failure (chf) unlike what we once thought is not one entity. as such and because there are multiple forms of congestive heart failure one can not devise a -one size fits all- treatment plan for "congestive heart failure". the specifics are too long and complicated for this forum your cardiologist should decide the proper course of treatment for the particular form of chf.
what is the harm of hypertension?
hypertension or high blood pressure is a major cause of stroke. it is also a major risk factor for development of coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure. usually the condition causes no symptoms until far advanced. hypertension can be controlled with medications. it is very important that patients take their medications consistently and have their pressure checked to assure control.
what does hypertension attack in the body?
the organs damaged by htn are the heart (congestive heart failure and heart attacks) brain (strokes) and the kidneys (kidney failure).
what kind of therapy is dobutamine?
dobutamine stimulates the beta receptors in the heart muscle. it makes it pump more efficiently and is often used in congestive heart failure pts thru an iv.
what is the longest a person could live with mild congestive heart failure?
with proper treatment people with mild heart failure can live a long time and even have a normal life span.
what is the longest a person could live with mild congestive heart failure?
it depends on the cause. there are unquestionably some people who are >100 years old who have mild chf.
what are some consequences of heart disease?
heart disease comes in many shapes and form there are many conditions that affect the heart and can have different consequences. for example heart attacks due to blocked heart arteries can cause death irreversible damage to the heart muscle causing congestive heart failure poor heart pumping function which in turns leads to fatigue shortness of breath leg swelling and reduced life span.
which symptoms occur with arteriosclerosis?
hardening of the arteries. when in the heart it can cause chest pain heat attack congestive heart failure arrhythmias and death. when in the brain it can cause stroke passing out multi infarct dementia. when i the kidnesy arteries it can cuase difficult hypertension and kidney failure. when in the legs it can cause weakness claudication ulcers and delayed wound healing and or gangrene.
will sodium bicarb cause hypotension?
any liquid with salt (sodium) will likely maintain or increase blood pressure. the only time that sodium bicarb would cause problems and lower blood pressure is in someone who has a weak heart and has already congestive heart failure which would be worsened and thus drop blood pressure.
what are some recommendations for food allowed on water restriction diets for chf patients?
salt restriction is more important than fluid restriction in most patients. fluid restriction might be appropriate in a patient with low sodium. salt restriction is important in all patients with congestive heart failure. a typical recommendation would be 2000 milligrams of sodium daily.
what is the significance of a sticky heart valve?
this depends on the degree of tightness (stenosis). in the us the aortic valve is the most common valve affected by this condition. if the valve is considered severely stenosed then over time it will lead to congestive heart failure and it has to be replaced.
what are the consequences of congestive heart failure?
fluid accumulation shortness of breath pulmonary edema arrythmia cardiomypathy sudden death.
what are the consequences of congestive heart failure?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
what causes of congestive heart failure?
some examples are heart attack anemia valve diseae hypertension infections disease of the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy) overactive thyroid.
what causes of congestive heart failure?
chf is the final common pathway when virtually any heart disease becomes severe enough. common causes are: heart attacks diseased valves hypertension viral infection of the heart muscle congenital abnormalities advanced aging. there are many other causes.
what are the symptoms of aortic valve insufficiency?
there are 2 flavors of ai: acute and chronic. either may be mild moderate or severe. severe acute ai can cause acute congestive heart failure and is a medical emergency. mild to moderate chronic ai may never cause symptoms and doesn't require treatment. severe chronic ai can after many decades eventually lead to breathlessness heart pounding chest pain fatigue and frank chf eventually.
what are treatments for congestive heart failure?
the categories of medicines used are called ace inhibitors arb's beta blockers diuretics and digoxin. other things can be done such as salt and/or fluid restriction. control of the underlying cause of the heart failure also needs to be considered. that might require repairing a valve removing a blockage in an artery or treating high blood pressure.
what are treatments for congestive heart failure?
1 improve heart function with medications such as beta blockers acei/ arb aldactone (spironolactone) good blood pressure and diabetes control correct valve problems blockages&arrhythmia 2. remove excess fluid or prevent accumulation by salt restriction and diuretics 3. improve the efficiency of the skeletal muscles as by exercise program 4. improve the capacity of blood to carry oxygen by treating anemia.
what are treatments for congestive heart failure?
medications: ace-i beta blocker and diuretic classes of medications are the main stay. other treatments could include lvad icd biv pacing and even cardiac transplant all depending on the severity of problems. this is a complex problem and needs to be discussed with your physician.
what is used to treat congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is treated by altering the environment in which the heart works and altering the function of the heart itself. changing the environment can include lowering blood pressure removing fluid from the body or fixing a hyperactive thyroid. fixing the heart itself can include controlling an arrhythmia fixing a valve or opening up a coronary artery.
what is used to treat congestive heart failure?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
what is the significance of hypertension?
hypertension is major risk factor for stroke. it can also lead to kidney failure and congestive heart failure. even severe hypertension may not cause any symptoms for years. treatment is very effective but the challenge is to convince patients to take their medicines consistently to maintain good control and to visit their physicians to ensure that blood pressure remains at optimum levels.
what are the consequences of heart failure?
the most common consequences of congestive heart failure or shortness of breath lethargy inability to exercise and a shortened lifespan.
what are classifications of congestive heart failure?
the form of heart failure can be divided into systolic (reduced "squeeze") and diastolic (impaired relaxation between beats. there is a classification of severity from the nyha: class i - no effect on activity class ii - comfortable at rest slight effect on activity class iii - marked limitations of activity class iv - symptoms at rest unable to carry out any physical activity w/o discomfort.
what are classifications of congestive heart failure?
systolic heart failure implies that the strength of the heart is reduced. diastolic heart failure implies that the strength of the heart is normal.
what is the result of damage to the chordae tendinae in the left ventricle?
the chordae are support structures for the mitral and tricuspid valves. when they are damaged valvar insufficiency results. this can be severe enough to cause congestive heart failure either acute or chronic.
what is the result of damage to the chordae tendinae in the left ventricle?
usually this leads to a leaking valve and if untreated eventually congestive heart failure. the duration which a person can tolerate a damaged chordae is dependent on the person's health otherwise the cause of the damage the amount of the resultant leakage and the size and function of the left ventricle prior to the damage.
what does aortic valve stenosis lead to?
aortic stenosis refers to the gradual destruction of the aortic valve. it is a progressive process that eventually leads to shortness of breath and lack of energy with exercise. untreated it will eventually cause congestive heart failure.
what are some congestive heart failure symptoms?
1. shortness of breath with activity 2. lower extremity edema / fluid retention 3. weight gain secondary to #2 4. sleeping on several pillows or upright due to shortness of breath laying flat 5. waking up in the middle of the night due to shortness of breath. 6. fatigue with exertional activity.
what are some congestive heart failure symptoms?
heart failure often leads to excessive fluid in the system causing shortness of breath swelling or increased abdominal girth. also patients may feel more short of breath lying down or wake up at night gasping for breath. people may also feel fatigued washed out lightheaded or without appetite.
what is the significance of nonfunctional or defective chordae tendinae?
the chordae are support structures for the mitral and tricuspid valves. when they are damaged valvar insufficiency results. this can be severe enough to cause congestive heart failure either acute or chronic.
what factors contribute to chf?
heart function kidney function and dietary salt intake can all contribute to congestive heart failure.
what is the difference between systolic and diastolic heart failure and congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is a general term referring to when the heart is no longer available to pump blood effectively enough to support the needs of the body. systolic failure is the more common situation where the heart pumps weakly while diastolic failure refers to inability of the heart to relax and expand normally as in the case of severe hypertrophy or muscular overgrowth.
what is the difference between systolic and diastolic heart failure and congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is the congestion that ensues when the heart can not keep up with the demands of the tissues and fails to deliver adequate blood and nurtrients. this can be a result of a weakness in the contraction (systolic) or a stiffness in filling (disatolic) both can lead to congestion and heart failure.
what does it mean if the doctor says that only 5% of my heart is working?
the percentage usually refers to the amount of blood ejected by the ventricle or pumping chamber of the heart with each beat. the normal amount is 50+%. 5% is quite low and would be consistent with congestive heart failure.
what is fluid around the heart? what can a valve complication be? is the fluid and valve problem life-threatening? my dad has fluid around his heart and there's a problem in one of his valves (not working properly). he won't tell the family exactly what t
valve problems often cause congestive heart failure and fluid collectin in and around lungs. an echocardiogram will ususlly provide the answer. fluid around the heart heart can produce excessive pressure on the heart and can have serious consequences. again an echocardiogram will diagnose the problem.
what is fluid around the heart? what can a valve complication be? is the fluid and valve problem life-threatening? my dad has fluid around his heart and there's a problem in one of his valves (not working properly). he won't tell the family exactly what t
valve problems often cause congestive heart failure and fluid collection in and around lungs. an echocardiogram will usuaslly provide the answer. fluid around the heart heart can produce excessive pressure on the heart and can have serious consequences. again an echocardiogram will diagnose the problem.
what can i do to relieve swollen legs it's due to my heart condition and is a little uncomfortable at times?
you have to determine if your swollen legs are due to blood clot congestive heart failure chf or venous insufficiency. the treatment is very different for each of these conditions.
what are some preventive health screening needed for a female 48 years old. i currently have high blood pressure diabetes anemia low hemoglobin heart mumor arthritis diagnosed a high risk of congestive heart failure high cholesterol morbid obessed
apart for the blood pressure diabetes control anemia and so forth you need to make sure that straight forward things like a pap smear and breast examination are also taken care of.
what are some preventive health screening needed for a female 48 years old. i currently have high blood pressure diabetes anemia low hemoglobin heart mumor arthritis diagnosed a high risk of congestive heart failure high cholesterol morbid obessed
based on your post you are dealing with quite a few major medical problems. my first piece of advice is to visit your primary care provider regularly for management of all your issues. also you need to adopt a healthy lifestyle to including diet and exercise. you may request to see a nutritionist for a detailed plan. also you need to inquire about a condtion called sleep apnea and possible sleep studies. as far a preventative health screening for your age you should have a yearly mammogram and pap smear. when you turn 50 you will need a colonoscopy and screening for osteoporosis. best of luck.
will patients with congestive heart failure die within 5 years?
with good healthcare and good lifestyle choices (limit salt weight loss no smoking etc) people can live long lives even with a history of chf. there are excellent medications to help the heart beat more efficiently decrease fluid and help people feel much better.
will patients with congestive heart failure die within 5 years?
modern treatment has changed the game completely but requires seeing a heart failure specialist. also strongly dependent of cause of heart failure e. g. coronary disease viral hypertensive drug induced valvular metabolic inflitrative etc. and whether there are reversible components. need to see a physician who manages heart failure; ask your doctor to whom he would send his mother.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is in many ways a generic term - it is more of a symptom than a diagnosis. someone suffering with chf typically has shortness of breath fatigue and fluid build up in the lung tissue. the root cause of chf will determine the prognosis. some causes of chf include inherited muscle diseases (cardiomyopathy) coronary artery disease (heart attacks) kidney faliure etc.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
i personally have many patients who have survived for many years with congestive failure. however this disease is very serious and must be treated and monitored very frequently. diet fluid and weight management and proper lifestyle make a huge difference for patients with this diagnosis.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
modern treatment has changed the game completely but requires seeing a heart failure specialist. also strongly dependent of cause of heart failure e. g. coronary disease viral hypertensive drug induced valvular metabolic inflitrative etc. and whether there are reversible components. need to see a physician who manages heart failure; ask your doctor to whom he would send his mother.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
four classes of heart failure - class i or extremely mild heart failure has very limited symptoms and if properly treated could have normal life expectancy. someone in class iv failure has severe symptoms and could have as high as 50% ) months mortality rate.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
13 years! well treated and closely monitored heart failure patients can lead reasonably active and healthy lifestyles.
why when i go to sleep i feel like i go into a deep sleep and wake up gasping for air feels like im gonna die?
the other entity to rule out is early congestive heart failure ("paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea"). blood backed up in your lungs produces a vicious cycle by pressing on the pulmonary veins as you sleep -- you break it only by sitting up. it feels horrible and many physicians don't know the real explanation. good luck.
what are sign & symptoms of pulmonary edema? and what is the treatment?
pulmonary edema usually manifestation exacerbation of congestive heart failure. symptoms: shortness of breath tachycardia hypoxemia edema of feet.
what does it mean when your hands and feet are always cold?
the body maintains temperature by limiting blood flow to skin of the extremities to avoid heat loss. when this reflex is exaggerated cold hands and cold feet may occur in otherwise healthy person. medication such as beta blockers can also cause cold hands and cold feet. poor circulation as can occur with congestive heart failure can also cause cold hands and cold feet.
what causes swollen feet?
there are many causes for swollen feet/edema which range from congestive heart failure blood clots (dvt) infection tight shoes trauma and other reasons. it is impossible to find the cause without a good history and physical. see your physician.
what is lisinapril for?
is generally used for high blood pressure but can also be used for conditions such as congestive heart failure for use after a heart attack or to prevent kidney problems in patients with diabetes.
what would make legs and feet swell even when you are taking a diuretic?
not enough diuretics suboptimally treated congestive heart failure too much salt incompetent veins low protein levels poor lymphatic drainage are among them.
what sort of disease is congestive heart failure (c. h. f. )?
heart failure has many causes and the prognosis varies with the particular cause and severity. concurrent diseases may coexist with heart failure and add to the seriousness. fortunately significant advances have been made that mitigate the disease and allow patients to have much improved quality and quantity of life. but one needs consultation with a heart failure specialist to sort it out.
what sort of disease is congestive heart failure (c. h. f. )?
weak heart muscle from injury or scarring which makes the patient build up with salt water and gets worse unless treated.
what are some preventative test you can take to prevent congestive heart failure? what are the signs? what is congestive heart failure and how is it caused and what is the result of the body after congestive heart failure?
that is a semester's worth of questions. the american heart association is a good place to start : <link>
what are some preventative test you can take to prevent congestive heart failure? what are the signs? what is congestive heart failure and how is it caused and what is the result of the body after congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is a condition in which the heart is unable to move blood efficiently and fluid builds up in the lungs and the tissues of the body (especially the legs). it is the common end result of a variety of problems including direct injury to the heart kidney failure and lung disease among others. the best way to prevent chf is to eat a healthy diet avoid tobacco exercise regularly and keep your cholesterol and blood pressure under control. if you already have problems with your heart kidneys etc then it's important that you take whatever medications your doctor has prescribed and try to control the other items mentioned as much as possible.
what would cause water retention in both legs? all blood work have been done its all good. did a urinalisis good. has high blood pr. & diabetes.
congestive heart failure needs to be ruled out. kidney failure is also possible with long standing diabetes. blood clots in the legs excessive salt intake poor blood pressure control low albumin levels need to be considered.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
the cornerstone of therapy is a diuretic ("fluid pill"). drugs that dilate the blood vessels (vasodilators ace inhibitors) and drugs that reduce the work load of the heart (beta blockers) should always be included unless there is a specific contraindication. a drug that blocks the hormone aldosterone (spironolactone or inspra) should also be used if possible. the underlying cause should be sought.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
if heartfailure is right sided or from a stiff heart rather than a weak heart then the treatment will be quite diffrent and could actually harm a pt. more info is needed.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
there are multiple kinds of heart failure. systolic which is due to a weak heart. diastolic which is more related to excess fluid and stiff heart walls or kidney failure. another way to break down is left sided which causes fluid in lungs vs right sided which engorges veins but not lungs. common meds used are diuretics ace inhibitors inotropes-drugs that help pump etc. and even dialysis.
what's the best treatment to get rid of difficulty breathing?
that depends entirely on the cause of the breathlessness. common causes include lack of fitness obesity asthma emphysema pneumonia congestive heart failure blood clots anemia thyroid disease acidosis from any cause hyperventilation broken rib tumors and on and on. this is the short list.
what causes heart conjested failer?
congestive heart failure or chf is a decreased ability of the heart to pump properly. symptoms can include shortness of breath decreased stamina or leg swelling. chf is typically due to an underlying condition such as lung disease or a previous heart attack.
what is the best treatment for foot swelling?
it really depends on the cause. if its both feet and legs it may be due to congestive heart failure low protein in the blood or chronic venous changes. you need a full evaluation by a doctor. the treatment depends on the cause. sometimes elevation helps other times medications are needed. usually cutting back on salt intake is helpful also.
what are the most effective home remedies for congestive heart failure?
patient with congestive heart failure can do certain thing to avoid worsening of symptoms by reducing the salt intake watching their weight and monitoring the blood pressure. they should also contain their fluid intake and most important take their medications regularly.
what are the most effective home remedies for congestive heart failure?
chf is a disease of salt and water overload. hence the use of diuretics to remove the excess salt and water. although you need to use your diuretic it will not be effective if you load yourself with salt and water.
what are the key symptoms of congestive heart failure?
leg swelling and shortness of breath with minor activity or when lying flat are signs of chf. however you need to know that other illnesses could present the same way making it hard for the lay person to differentiate. the solid diagnosis is done by ultrasound of the heart called echo which shows weak heart contractions. if you have these symptoms consult with your doc.
what are the key symptoms of congestive heart failure?
common symptoms include: shortness of breath when laying flat shortness of breath that wakes you up from sleeping shortness of breath during activity foot and ankle swelling. if you have any of these symptoms or other concerns please see a physician.
why don't men want to go to doctors? my husband has congestive heart failure and i feel i have to drag him in to be seen. what will happen to him without treatment?
without treatment of significant congestive heart failure you can expect worsening disability and hastening death. as to your question as to why men don't want to go to the doctor it is usually fear of having to deal with the unknown. reassure him tell him that you are with him all the way and perhaps he will listen.
why don't men want to go to doctors? my husband has congestive heart failure and i feel i have to drag him in to be seen. what will happen to him without treatment?
men tend to avoid drs out of fear loss of controll distrust etc. sadly most guys will treat their automobiles to better care and maintainence than their bodies. if his heart failure goes untreated he will have progressive and worsening symptoms. without the ace inhibitors and beta blockers he will have have a higher mortality rate. more frequent hospital admissions and poorer quality of life.
what are the consequences of coarctation of the aorta in a child?
untreated coarctation causes severe hypertension. left untreated severe hypertension can lead to stroke aortic aneurysm aortic dissection and congestive heart failure. luckily in the modern era coarctation is manageable.
what is the longest someone not treated lived with congestive heart failure?
you would need to know all of the people that have ever had heart failure and follow them until their death. as you can see this would be an impossible undertaking.
what is the longest someone not treated lived with congestive heart failure?
in the old days the oft quoted survival statistic for chf (since there was no treatment) was a 2 year 50% survival. obviously that takes all comers - some forms are very mild and this wouldn't apply. moreover modern treatment has completely changed all that.
what causes swollen feet and ankles after binge at bar?
binge denotes lots of fluid intake. if you have congestive heart failure this will happen. note dangling feet in the bar for hours will make the swelling more apparent since water runs downhill. history of alcohol intake could be associated with heart failure called alcoholic cardiomyopathy. other causes like liver disease for the same exact reasons are possible. kidneys also need checked.
whats going on? in hospital for pneumonia and was diagnosed with chf also have copd?
chf congestive heart failure occurs when the heart is unable to effectively pump blood out of the heart to the rest of the body. as a result fluid backs up into the lungs resulting in the "congestion. " chf is due to something else like disease in the heart itself but lung disease like copd can also result in heart failure especially when the pulmonary pressures elevate. there are treatments.
what is an s3 heart murmur? how serious is it? 38 year old woman asymptomatic. had a baby one year ago
s3 is the description used for a 3rd heart sound after the typical "lub dub" you hear when listening to the heart. young people athletes and pregnant women often have an s3 on exam and it is considered completely normal. it can also be an indicator of congestive heart failure but patients often have other symptoms such as shortness of breath with exercise or lying down fatigue swelling of extremeties weight gain and fluid retention and coughing up pink phlegm. since she is 38 asymptomatic and recently had a child it is likely benign. if she starts to notice any of the symptoms above she should call her doctor right away.
what happens to the pulse pressure when someone has atherosclerosis?
the pulse pressure is the systolic pressure minus the diastolic pressure. it often rises with aging. the problem is usually high systolic pressure which reflects decreased compliance and stiffening of the blood vessels (hardening of the arteries). this represents a risk for stroke heart attack and congestive heart failure. the risk can be decreased by lowering the blood pressure carefully.
which medications helped you with congestive heart failure?
"water pills" (diuretics) help eliminate extra fluid through the kidneys. digoxin has been used for many decades to "help the squeeze" of the heart (although its usefulness is in question nowadays). so called-after-load reducers help relax the tension on the walls of vessels and make it easier to help the heart empty. finally beta-blockers can be helpful as well. consult your doctor.
which medications helped you with congestive heart failure?
much depends on the underlying cause of heart failure. diuretics are the mainstay but ace inhibitors or arbs plus beta-blockers are core drugs. aldosterone antagonists like spironolactone in severe heart failure are very beneficial. in select cases digitalis preparations and antiarrhythmic agents may be helpful. it's too soon to know if stem-cell therapy will be useful but we are hopeful.
weak heart but otherwise healthy. why do i get swelling in my legs and bottom? 66
if you know that you have a "weak heart" i presume you mean that you have been diagnosed with congestive heart failure. swelling is one of the most common symptoms of this condition. it can usually be adequately treated by finding the proper dose of a potent diuretic like furosemide (lasix). consult your doctor. it would not be a good or safe idea to manage diuretics on your own.
why woukld a doctor choose one diuretic over another with a patient with kid ney problems? and what is the preferable one?
diuretics have different purposes. some are given to mobilize sodium and water to remove excess fluid from the body to reduce swellin or edema or treat congestive heart failure. some are given to treat high blood pressure and some are potassium sparing. depending on why it is being used the doctor may make a specific choice.
what causes pedal edema -- high blood pressure.?
blood pressure problems congestive heart failure kidney problems. have it checked out.
what can cause dyspnea and hypotension in a patient?
things such as congestive heart failure a heart attack or pulmonary embolism can cause these symptoms. also pneumonia or any serious infection can cause these symptoms.
what do hypertension and congestive heart failure have to do with each other?
hypertension is a leading cause of chf but not the opposite. people with chf may have high blood pressure normal blood pressure or low bp. the waters are muddied by the fact that nearly all meds used to treat chf incidentally lower bp as well.
what is the treatment for carditis?
myocarditis is due to inflammation of the heart muscle-infective or noninfective. again it mostly symptomatic treatment like pain control aspirin and antiinflammatories. if patient develops arrhythmias and congestive heart failure it should be treated appropriately.
who do you see for orthopnea?
orthopnea is breathlessness that occurs specifically when lying down. the two conditions that should be considered are congestive heart failure and and advanced lung disease. you should be seen by a family practice doctor or internist or cardiologist or pulmonary specialist. (since you're using the medical term "orthopnea" i assume you've already seen one?
what are the risks associated with congestive heart failure during pregnancy?
pregnancy demands increased cardiac output and a failing heart may not be up to the task. labor and delivery are physically stressful. blood loss commonly results in anemia - both hard for a failing heart. the risk is that someone who is marginally compensated will become worse during gestation with progressive symptoms. if you're contemplating pregnancy discuss it in advance with ob and cards.
what you expect bp and hr of a person with congestive heart failure to be at rest and with exercise?
just having chf doesn't predict what bp and hr will be. they could be anything. but what one would expect is that the functional capacity (exercise tolerance) would be impaired (maximum oxygen consumption index would be reduced) hr would rise more quickly than in a healthy person and especially the hr recovery (time it takes for the hr to slow again after exercise) would be seriously impaired.
what is the relationship between congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease?
a heartattack or chronic poor blood flow to heart muscle can make it weak so that it doesn't pump well anymore leading to heart failure or chf.
what is the relationship between congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease?
congestive heart failure occurs whenever the heart can't manage its job well enough for any reason. coronary artery disease is just one of many many reasons that may occur. the commonest reason in the usa is probably hypertension. cardiomyopathies valvular disorders arrhythmias and senescence are other broad categories.
which nursing diagnoses are most appropriate for a person with wheezes dyspnea and tachypnea?
but age and past history play important roles here. most adults know if they have asthma children may present with their first attack. on a nursing exam i'd choose asthma. beware the "zebras" like congestive heart failure pulmonary embolus or copd etc.
what is zestoretic (lisinopril and hydrocholorthiazide) used for?
combination drug consisting of zestril (lisinopril an ace inhibitor) & hydrochlorothiazide [hctz] a diuretic. it is used for treating hypertension & congestive heart failure that's not responding well to diuretics (or digoxin) alone. ace inhibitors also have a protective effect on the kidneys in diabetics.
why doesn't my lasix work? i take 60mg of lasix and i also take atenolol spironolactone and k-dur. i am always swollen in my legs ankles and top of feet. the water pills don't work every day like they should. i have hypertension hypertensive cardiovasc
diuretics like lasix (furosemide) may help decrease your leg swelling but better to look at the causes and treat them. venous disease (venous incompetence) cv disease especially congestive heart failure hypertension kidney failure poor nutrition inactivity and having legs in a dependent position for most of the day and obesity are all reasons to have swollen legs. suggestion: see a phlebologist who can evaluate you and advise best treatment.
what can be done for congestive heart failure?
today lots of thing can be done for the treatment of congestive heart failure starting from diuresis inotropic support control of blood pressure reducing pre-load and after load. finally you can augment the weak heart with a artificial heart or heart transplantation.
what can be done for congestive heart failure?
since the primary cause is atherosclerosis i. e. coronary artery disease (even if lumens look ok on angiography) driving? blood flow & heart muscle damage aggressively treat the factors driving atherosclerosis [lipoproteins (not cholesterol) blood sugar bp etc. to abnormally healthy levels] remove excess bodywater keep bp low nl treat with acei (aceon (perindopril) 1 of best) & carvedilol exercise etc.
what is the heart doing when a person has high blood pressure?
but it's pumping against a higher total peripheral resistance which in time can cause a reduction in the strength of contraction (ejection fraction) and eventually leads to congestive heart failure (over many years).
will a cardiac mri/mra show congested heart failure blocked arteries etc? what all will it show?
yes it will show the blood vessels and show the blockage but if seen on mra the blckage you will still need angiography for angioplasty or stent placement. it is not a good test for congestive heart failure. you need echocardiogram for that.
what's the difference between congestive heart failure and right heart failure?
congestive heart failure refers to the congestion (fluid buildup) which is seen in the lungs and the legs (swelling) and in the abdomen. (might be swollen). heart failure can involve both the right and left sides of the heart depending on the exact cause. the most common cause of right heart failure is left heart failure but certain things such as lung disease can cause just right heart failure.
what's the difference between congestive heart failure and right heart failure?
right heart failure is a type of congestive heart failure. congestive heart failure is characterized by fluid buildup. when the fluid builds up in the lungs causing shortness of breath that is left heart failure. when fluid builds up in the legs or abdomen that is right heart failure.
what are the best tests for congestive heart failure?
1. physical exam by a trained physician 2. echocardiogram 3. blood test called nt pro-bnp (done to assess elevated pressure in the ventricle only needed if exam and echocardiogram are not definitive).
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
signs include shortness of breath fatigue swelling of legs.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
the signs of congestive heart failure are1 edema(swelling) of feet and legs palpable liver engorged neck veins and rales at bases or all over the lungs on auscultation in some cases depending on the cause rapid heart beat. the signs are dependant on the severity of chf.
what are the common presenting symptoms of inflammation of lining of the heart?
if the pericardium (outer lining of the heart) is inflamed it could lead to congestive heart failure by constricting the heart muscle or causing arrhythmia. it could cause cardiac pain fever or shortness of breath. the physical & x-ray findings in pericarditis are stunning.
why does heart failure lead to edema in the ankles?
in the patient with congestive heart failure the body senses that the heart is not working correctly. it sends a message the kidneys to hold onto salt and water that the patient eats and drinks. this excess salt and water builds up and becomes apparent in the legs belly and lungs.
what causes chest pain and difficulty breathing after exercise?
most probably exercise induced asthma or coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. needs to be evaluated.
wakening up at night coughing can't beath now feet are swollen?
do you see a heart doctor? if not then have you seen your primary doctor about it. sounds like you may have congestive heart failure. it needs to be treated immediately.
what is the medicine zestoretic (lisinopril and hydrocholorthiazide) used to treat?
combination drug consisting of zestril (lisinopril an ace inhibitor) & hydrochlorothiazide [hctz] a diuretic. it is used for treating hypertension & congestive heart failure that's not responding well to diuretics (or digoxin) alone. ace inhibitors also have a protective effect on the kidneys in diabetics.
why would an endocrinologist not prescribe indapamide with my atenolol?
it's hard to answer the question without knowing what you're treating. if hyperthyroidism is the underlying problem then beta blocker therapy (i. e. atenolol) is often sufficient and diuretics (e. g. indapamide) are usually unnecessary. these types of meds are often prescribed together in congestive heart failure but they don't have to be. discuss your concerns with your doctor.
what is the difference between congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease or do you have both?
coronary artery disease is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the heart. (<link> congestive heart failure is a condition in which the heart can no longer pump enough blood to the rest of the body. (<link>
why does hydralazine work in treating congestive heart failure in african americans?
hydralazine dilates the blood vessels lowers the blood pressure and unloads the heart. this along with nitrates is particularly helpful if unable to take or have insufficient bp lowering from ace inhibitors/ arb.
why is the heart more vulnerable to atherosclerosis than other muscles?
interruption of blood flow to any muscle may result in cell death loss in function and scarring. if this occurs in the heart the results can be devastating resulting in death or disability due to arrhythmia and congestive heart failure.
what are the risks of anesthetics to a heart patient?
many anesthetics are what we call 'cardiac depressants" and therefore if a heart is already weak or compromised(congestive heart failure) then the anesthetics themselves can worsen that. most insult to the heart patient comes from the surgical stress response and anesthesia will often times attenuate this. each patient is different. depending on what is wrong with the heart we will tailor th.
what is done for congestive heart failure?
since the primary cause is atherosclerosis >> coronary artery disease (even if lumens look ok on angiography) >> reduced blood flow & heart muscle damage aggressively treat the factors driving atherosclerosis [lipoproteins (not cholesterol) blood sugar bp etc. to abnormally healthy levels] remove excess body water keep bp low nl treat with acei (aceon (perindopril) 1 of best) & carvedilol exercise etc.
what is done for congestive heart failure?
this depends on the cause of the heart failure. by and large medications weight and blood pressure control and restricted salt intake are the starting point. the cause of the heart failure has to be determined for more definitive therapy.
what are the signs of? a ventricular septal defect?
a vsd is a hole between the bottom two pumping chambers of the heart. symptoms are usually based on age and size. a young infant born with a large vsd can progressive to congestive heart failure. the right ventricle receives extra blood flow from the left and sends it to the lungs resulting in fluid overload. some medications used are lasix (furosemide) to manage medically as infant gains weight before surgery.
what can prevent someone that had heart surgery from getting fluid in the lungs?
fluid in the lungs after heart surgery is usually due to congestive heart failure. chf is not an uncommon complication depending on the condition before surgery and the type of operation but it can be managed efficiently and well by the surgical team. follow their advice take medicines as prescribed don't smoke and you'll have done all you can do.
what is the significance of congestive heart failure in the medical history if it has now resolved?
chf is a symptom. we treat possible causes that makes heart weak (htn diabetes atrial fibrillation irregular heart beats thyroid conditions anemai etc) so your medical history is all significant.
what's the longest someone could live with mild congestive heart failure (chf) diagnosed at 90?
every day is a blessing. you beat the odd of survival by almost 20 years. bless you.
what're the common causes of breathing problems?
there are many many causes of breathing problems. some are related to the respiratory system (asthma copd) others to the cardiac system (congestive heart failure). some problems are due to infection (pneumonia) and others related to trauma (quadriplegia). there are congenital causes (cystic fibrosis) and some causes where the etiology is not known. there are so many causes so see your doctor!
what breathing problems are associated with a shortness of breath in chest?
bronchial asthma copd congestive heart failure pulmonary embolism pulmonary fibrosis and other chronic diseases of lungs.
what does ccf mean?
this is an uncommon abbreviation for congestive cardiac failure or more often congestive heart failure. this is its only medical use that i know.
what could be causing both of my feet to swell up?
there are many causes of foot swelling in adults. all of them require a professional to check them out to see which is causing the problem. these could include high blood pressure retention of fluid from kidney problems congestive heart failure as well other metabolic conditions. get a good physical for your own protection. cong.
what are some treatments for chronic nausea due to congestive heart failure?
chf leads to poorly oxygenated organs causing shortness of breath less ability to do same activity as used to many systemic sx such as fatigue loss of appetite. nausea weakness. first. doc must establish that something else isn't causing nausea (side effect of med gastritis reflux of acid) and rx that. but key is optimizing rx (right combo meds low salt intake mild exercise) of the chf.
what sign would help distinguish if pneumonia v. congestive heart failure?
fever chills productive cough and chest pain with deep breaths maybe more consistent with pneumonia while shortness of breath that wakes you at night or shortness of breath when laying flat and swelling of the legs may be more consistent with heart failure. if you have any of these symptoms please see your doctor immediately.
what does it mean to have swollen ankles and low blood pressure?
hi: you need a history and physical by an md to rule out an arrhythmia or congestive heart failure.
what are the most common type of heart conditions?
arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation is most common. congestive heart failure is the most common admission to hte hospital heart attacks are the #1 killer.
what is congestive heart failure?
a normal heart will eject (ef) about 60% of blood from main chamber (left ventricle) out aorta and feeds entire body with oxygenated blood. when this muscle chamber size of fist develops weakness of some of it's walls (heart attack eg) or is constricted (pericarditis) etc then it starts failing ef decreases backup pressure develops fluid builds up in lungs or legs and chf has occurred.
what is congestive heart failure?
is exactly what is says it is. you usually have congestion in the chest caused by blood/fluid backing up in your lung. and that is because the patient has a failing heart - either because it has a very weak muscle like in systolic heart failure when the ejection fraction
what is congestive heart failure?
chf is when the heart is not pumping the blood adequately out of the heart into the aorta and the blood backs up causing the lungs to fill with fluid due to the increase in hydrostatic pressures. for class iii or class iv chf - eecp is recommended.
what could cause my feet to swell?
excessive sodium intake renal and heart disease esp congestive heart failure and venous stasis.
what can cause a deep vein thrombosis?
dvt occurs when virchow's triad is satisfied: hemodynamic abnormality (stasis turbulence) endothelial damage and hypercoagulability (abnormality in blood due to malignancy increased risk in clot formation). family history (thrombophilia) surgery trauma dehydration prolonged bed rest congestive heart failure kidney problems are risk factors.
what are the consequences of having an enlarged heart?
congestive heart failure would be consequence to be avoided. get an echocardiogram & see a cardiologist if this is a concern.
what is related to cardiovascular disease?
stroke and heart attack are the big two. hypertension arrythmias valve disease congestive heart failure peripheral vascular disease aneurysms are next on the list.
what are the effects of steroids on the heart?
steroids can cause high blood pressure. it can cause water retention and worsen congestive heart failure in moderate to high doses. rarely high dose steroids used for a extended length of time can cause weakening of the heart muscle and is known as steroid induced cardiomyopathy.
whats a cause of cardiogenic shock?
cardiogenic shock occurs because of a low output state causing significant low blood pressure. the decrease in cardiac output results from congestive heart failure and or an abrupt insult the cardiac muscle resulting in less cardiac function and this less output. the management involves mess lie dobutamine as well as bp raising rx such as dopamine or levophed (norepinephrine). balloon pump insertion may help.
what are the statistics of death rate of elderly people on lasix (furosemide)?
do you mean: how many people died due to the use of furosemide (lasix)? (due to toxic dose? side effects? ) how many people taking lasix (furosemide) died for any cause? lasix (furosemide) (diuretic) is usually given to patients for several reasons some of them are very severe such as congestive heart failure and chronic renal failure.
what is fluid in the heart chambers?
it seems like you have congestive heart failure. cut down fluid intake and take a diuretics get an heart echocardiogram done to check ejection fraction and leaky valve.
what is fluid in the heart chambers?
i suspect you mean congestive heart failure. this disease means the heart is not pumping effectively and less than 50% is being pumped out with each beat.
what is the purpose of spironolactone in congestive heart failure?
spironolactone lowers blood pressure and initiates diuresis while sparing magnesium & potassium. it's an older drug that has found new use now because it blocks aldersterone from injuring heart muscle & increases heart muscle norepinephrine. studies show it improves survival in left heart failure. see <link>
what is the purpose of spironolactone in congestive heart failure?
part of medical therapy for congestive heart failure is to decrease blood volume returning to the heart. this is achieved by diuretics (water pills). spironolactone (aldactone) is one such medication that has an added benefit of saving potassium which can be excreted with use of other diuretics. spironolactone is often combined with other heart failure medications for this benefit.
what is done for someone with congestive heart failure?
the underlying cause. medical therapy is extremely effective. however the underling cause as well as symptoms drive therapy. see your doctor or cardiologist to plan your treatment.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure in adults?
shortness of breath at rest or mild exertion which may worsen on lying down swelling of legs fatigue considerable weight gain in a short time.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure in adults?
include shortness of breath at rest and with exertion particularly when lying down swelling in the ankles and feet fatigue to name a few. see your doctor
what are the congestive heart failure signs and symptoms?
sob & edema are typical. . chest x-ray & echocardiogram are usually part of the initial evaluation.
what is congestive heart failure treatment for elderly?
treatment consists of a good dietary regimen with monitoring of salt intake about 2000 mg salt per day. second aspect pf therapy is pharmacologic therapy which will be individualised based on the type of heart faiure and other factors that your cardiologist will decide.
what is congestive heart failure treatment for elderly?
than for younger patients. talk to your cardiologist.
what are symptoms of congestive heart failure that are visible before a diagnostic test?
shortness of breath initially with exercise and in more severe cases even at rest. this may be worse when lying flat and may cause awakening with shortness of breath. frequent nighttime awakening to pass urine may occur. swelling of the ankles may develop engorgement of veins in the neck may be seen. in very severe cases there may even be swelling of the abdomen.
what are the symptoms of congestive heart failure?
chest pain cough crackles in lungs distended neck veins enlarged heart enlarged liver fever heart murmur nocturia pounding heartbeat pleural effusion difficulty breathing swelling wheezing difficulty breathing when lying down fatigue lethargy.
what are the symptoms of congestive heart failure?
include shortness of breath at rest and with exertion particularly when lying down swelling in the ankles and feet fatigue to name a few. see your doctor
what is the treatment for congestive heart failure in salt sensitive people?
salt restriction is obvious. medication classes that may help (usually a combination of several is best) include the ace-i's arb's beta blockers and aldosterone antagonists and diuretics. the choice of treatments will be determined by contributing factors such as valvular problems coronary disease rhythm disturbances kidney function etc. any remediable causes should be treated.
what is done for pregnancy induced congestive heart failure?
peripartum cardiomyopathy occurs rarely but can be very dangerous even fatal. treatment is the same as other forms of dilated cardiomyopathy namely beta blockers ace inhibitors and diuretics. in most cases heart function returns to normal within 6 months. unfortunately if you have it with one pregnancy you have better than a 50% chance of having it with subsequent pregnancies!
what are the signs and symptoms congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath initially with exercise and in more severe cases even at rest. this may be worse when lying flat and may cause awakening with shortness of breath. frequent nighttime awakening to pass urine may occur. swelling of the ankles may develop engorgement of veins in the neck may be seen. in very severe cases there may even be swelling of the abdomen.
what is the life expentancy for a 66 year old woman with stage 4 kidney failure and congestive heart failure and diabetes?
according to this website: <link> ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pubmed/22442392 men and women aged 40 years had a life expectancy of 30. 5 and 34. 6 years at egfr? 60 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) 24. 5 and 28. 7 years at egfr 45-59 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) 14. 5 and 16. 5 years at egfr 30-44 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) and 10. 4 and 9. 1 years at egfr 15-29 ml/min/1. 73 m(2) respectively. patients with diabetes and chf can live shorter.
what is the life expentancy for a 66 year old woman with stage 4 kidney failure and congestive heart failure and diabetes?
but it can be extended with dialysis. no one must die from kidney failure in the 21st century. removing fluid with dialysis will also help the chf.
what can cause swollen feet and calves in an old woman?
the biggest concern would be congestive heart failure although it could be something as simple as venous insufficiency she should be evaluated by her primary care physician sooner than later.
what can cause persistent fluid in the lungs and swollen ankles despite taking diuretics continuously?
pneumonia adult respiratory distress syndrome advanced malnutrition congestive heart failure hepatorenal syndrome uremia. the lack of response to diuretics implies that either the condition isn't responsive to diuresis or the dose needs to be adjusted. the condition appears to be complicated and should be further evaluated with consultants as needed.
what is the relationship of hypertension and risk for decrease cardiac output?
long-standing hypertension (or high blood pressure) leads to left ventricular hypertrophy and if untreated can eventually lead to congestive heart failure and decreased cardiac output. hypertension is also a risk factor for stroke and coronary artery disease (another potential etiology for decreased cardiac output).
what's furosemide and what is it used for?
lasix (furosemide) is a powerful diuretic meant to remove excess fluid and sodium from the body. it is used primarily to treat conditions such as congestive heart failure and kidney failure.
what is benazepril?
benazepril is an "ace-inhibitor" which is a fancy term for a medication primarily used for high blood pressure. it functions by inhibiting a step in the pathway used by the body to increase blood pressure and blood volume. the medication can be used for other things such as kidney protection and congestive heart failure.
what are killer diseases of the cardiovascular system?
the most certain answer to your question is atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) which can result in heart attacks and congestive heart failure both of which could result in death. there are also a number of inherited conditions which can result in fatal heart rhythms such as long qt syndrome hypertrophic cardiomyopathy brugada syndrome etc. ….
what heart conditions require a heart transplant?
the condition most commonly leading to heart transplantation is congestive heart failure. in the us the most common cause of congestive heart failure is of course coronary artery disease. however other causes of cardiomyopathy (weakness of the muscle of the heart) such as viral or post-partum cardiomyopathy etc. can lead to it as well.
what are the most common cardiovascular system diseases?
hypertension hyperlipidemia and coronary artery disease. then congestive heart failure. many would also classify diabetes as a cardiovascular disease.
what are common diuretics prescribed?
the two most commonly prescribed diuretics in the united states are furosemide (lasix) and hydrochlorothiazide. generally speaking hydrochlorothiazide is used more for blood pressure control and lasix (furosemide) is used more for treatment of congestive heart failure. chlorthalidone bumetanide and torsemide also have important roles to play in my practice.
what are the benefits and risks of taking salt pills?
people with low blood pressure might benefit from taking salt pills to help expand their plasma volume but people prone to congestive heart failure and high blood pressure might make those conditions worse.
what are diurese fluids for?
generally speaking the best use of diuretics is not in fact to remove fluid but rather to remove salt. in patients with conditions like congestive heart failure the body is unable to remove enough salt on its own. since water follows low-salt a buildup of fluid occurs. this is why it is generally also important to maintain a low salt diet in these conditions.
what causes my feet to swell my feet has een swelling for the last few days and i would like to know what could be causing it?
many things from simple dietary indiscretions such as an excess of salt to medical conditions including congestive heart failure blood clot kidney insufficiency or liver insufficiency can cause the feet to swell. could also be related to arthritis gout plantar fasciitis or even medications (calcium channel blockers or nsaids like naproxen). work-up is necessary.
what are common causes of ankle and leg swelling/water retention?
veinous insufficiency lymphedema congestive heart failure kidney disease are some.
whate is the causes of the chronic venuos congestion in lung?
when people use that term they usually mean passive lung congestion - left heart failure is the most common cause (there's usually a diagnosis of "congestive heart failure"). mitral stenosis and pulmonary veno-occlusive disease round out the list. most other lung constrictive processes occur at the arteriolar level or before so it's important to be very specific about the terminology here.
what is the definition or description of: mild shortness of breath?
shortness of breath (sob) could be mild moderate or severe. sob could be due to many things including anemia asthma congestive heart failure and infections like pneumonia and bronchitis. tests that may need to be considered include a chest x ray and ekg. the first step is to take a good history.
what will happen if cardiomegaly vascular conjestion& lungs filled with water are treated by a doctor of medicine? will patient survive? (after2attaks)
like congestive heart failure. this can definitely be treated and still can be worsening down the road especially if other health stressors.
what does a cardiac cough sound like?
assuming you are referring to the cough associated with heart failure (congestive heart failure) it is a persistent moist cough which is not relieved until the heart failure is adequately treated.
what cough medicine is best for patients that have chf congestive heart failure?
probably best to avoid combination medicines which contain pseudoephedrine which many do. this speeds up your heart. diphenhydramine (benedryl) can dry up secretions. however it is important to understand that the cough may be due to the chf. also medications commonly used to treat chf (ace inhibitors - often end with. pril) can sometimes cause a chronic dry cough. talk to your md.
what cough medicine is best for patients that have chf congestive heart failure?
coughing is related to having fluid in the lungs. it is not going to respond to a cough suppressant or expectorant. it responds to diuretics which help to remove the fluid from the lungs.
what are the chances of congestive heart failure for teenagers?
teenagers can develop congestive heart failure though it is fortunately not common. it can occur because of a congenital defect of the heart. also certain infections (usually viral) can lead to heart failure. and certain medications can result in heart failure. however the incidence of heart failure in teenagers is very very small.
why coarctation of aorta gets worsen with vsd?
because vsd causes increased pulmonary flow pulmonary hypertension and congestive heart failure so it is an added burden in coarctation of aorta as saturated blood goes to rv and pa.
why take low dosage of blood pressure medication 12. 5 mg of hydrochloride if my blood pressure jumped around but was never high.
if your average bp is >135/85 (either number) your risk of stroke heart attack congestive heart failure and kidney disease will be lowered by lowering your bp. 12. 5 mg of hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) has been shown to be effective reduce death from all causes and has virtually no side effects for the vast of majority of people who take it. it's also dirt cheap!
what are the possible negative outcomes for emergency iv fluid treatment for a patient with low blood pressure who also has end stage renal disease?
too aggressive iv fluids in a pt with esrd can cause fluid overload and bring to pulmonary edema congestive heart failure etc which can be letal. that is why one has to use extra caution managing low blood pressure with fluids.
what do you think about propranolol?
is a beta-blocker used to treat angina high bp heart rhythm problems migraines tremors & anxiety. caution if u have breathing disorder congestive heart failure diabetes liver/kidney/thyroid disease or depression.
what is congestive heart failure? how is it contracted what is the treatment how does it affect life expetancy?
failure of the heart muscles to pump blood effectively from the chambers to the body/lungs leading to back up of blood. caused by heart attacks (coronary artery disease) long standing hypertension/diabetes chemotherapy congenital heart defects intractable rhythm problems. life expectancy depends on underlying cause.
what are the effects of taking morphine for someone with congestive heart failure?
first was it prescribed to you? we know that morphine causes histamine release and subsequent hypotheses have been made concluding that this may increase catecholamine release. this may be the link to the poor outcomes. additionally there is a lack of evidence that morphine is related to any clinically significant preload reduction.
what should i do about regular hbp readings between 130-140/95-10 even on toporol extended release 50 mg?
you should get a real bp medication toprol (metoprolol) xl is in most cases the third or fourth drug added on for bp management. it is a terrible drug in the young and causes even more side effects in the old. unless you have another reason to be on it such as previous heart attack congestive heart failure or arrhythmias; you should be changed to another class of drug altogether.
what does it mean if you have recurrent blue lips?
bluish discoloration of the skin or lips is called cyanosis and is generally caused by a low oxygen level or vasoconstriction. typical causes are lung disorders or particular types of heart defects or congestive heart failure. extreme cold can cause vessel constriction leading to cyanosis. if the condition persists see your doctor.
what happens to a patient with a coronary artery disease if he is given 1 liter of intravenous fluids in just 2 hours?
if cardiac function is normal blood pressure is controlled and there are not symptoms of congestive heart failure 1 liter of iv fluid should not cause much symptoms.
what can you do to prevent congestive heart failure?
some factors that we know include coronary artery disease viruses genetic disorder pregnancy alcohol endocrine abnormalities (thyroid in particular) and many others. to prevent decompensation of the chf the biggest factor is salt. salt causes fluid retention which the weakened or stiff heart muscle can not work with. diuretics blood pressure control habitual exercise healthy wt. help.
which bad affects does salt have besides increasing blood pressure?
salt causes your body to retain fluid which may cause swelling. you will increase your risk of heart attack or stroke. salt may cause thickening of your heart muscle (hypertrophy) independent of it's effect on your blood pressure. untreated this can lead to congestive heart failure.
what risks are associated with congestive heart failure and pregnancy?
of chf and its complications such as kidney failure fetus blood supply issues sudden cardiac arrest heart attack. . <link>
which natural diuretic can i take instead of the furosemide prescribed.?
spironolactone an aldosterone inhibitor is better. low potassium is not a side-effect. it is an anti-hypertensive drug as well. furosemide is not and it increases aldosterone. studies show that the use of furosemide in congestive heart failure does not prolong life. spironolactone does!
what is the best treatment for a congested heart?
i am assuming you mean congestive heart failure. this can be caused by several things. treatment will depend on what is the cause of the heart failure. for ex. valve disease blocked arteries high blood pressure infections can all be a source. if the problem is treated it will often help. certain medications like diuretics blood pressure meds limiting salt in diet are often used too.
what can be done to diagnose congestive heart failure when also have bronchopneumonia?
it is iften difficult to determine how much of patient's shortness of breath is related to infection or pneumonia versus that of fluid and heart failure. a lot of times it is multifactorial and a combination of both. a bnp blood level can sometimes help differentiate both processes as well as a good clinical exam cxr and history.
what happens in the final days for a patient with congestive heart failure?
cardiac output failing short of breath weak sleepy everything slows down.
what are some of the medicines used to take care of rheumatic heart problem?
if acute rheumatic fever we use antistreptococcal antibiotics. once rheumatic heart disease is present we treat what the manifestation is. sometimes this is medication and sometimes it surgery. the medicines are the same as for congestive heart failure and arrhythmias.
what's congestive heart failure and anemia?
these are generally 2 independent problems. yes both anemia and congestive heart failure can occur at the same time.
which type of cardiac problems cause shortness of breathe pressure tightness and chest pain?
the cause of your symptoms range from stress to congestive heart failure( uncommon in a 34 years old). see a cardiologist.
which holistic and alternative medicine way to take care of congestive heart failureis considered the best?
no disrespect meant but the best holistic and alternative medicine way is to go to a competent doctor and not mess around with a life threatening disease process.
what is the most common age at which a congenital heart disease presents by heart failure?
the most common forms of chd which is ventricular septal defects if large enough and non-restrictive would cause congestive heart failure at 1-2 months of age. there are however forms of critical congenital heart disease that would present with chf cyanosis and/or shock within hours - few days after birth.
what's congestive heart failure and why do they call it congested?
treatment depends on what the cause of the chf is. could be surgical could be medical. systolic chf is different from diastolic chf and valvar stenosis chf is different from valvar insufficiency chf. virtually all kinds have diuretic as part of the treatment.
would it be typical for congestive heart failure to cause symptoms similar to a stroke?
not at all.
would it be typical for congestive heart failure to cause symptoms similar to a stroke?
congestive heart failure (chf) is a known risk factor for stroke. the theory is a poorly "squeezing" heart in chf (low ejection fraction a measure of how effective the heart is pumping blood) increases the risk of forming small blood clots (also called thrombi) which break free from the heart and cause embolic (ischemic loss of blood flow) strokes.
what risks are associated with getting pregnant with moderate congestive heart failure?
then normal physiologic changes that occur during pregnancy to prepare you for the delivery of your baby can worse your chf symptoms and you and your baby could be at risk. consult your ob for specifics.
what are congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease?
atherosclerosis develops in our coronaries and can cause damage to heart. some other diseases damage heart as well! viral rheumatic infections etc when enough muscle damage has happened then heart failure poor pumping and congestion will occur- called chf congestive heart failure.
what are typical signs of congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath during exertion during sleep if flat at bed requiring increase head of bed at rest; rapid heart beating cough dizziness ankle swelling fatigue and weakness. chf affects around 6 millions americans. severity depend on acuteness vs chronicity of the cause of chf. consult your physicians for diagnosis cause and treatment.
what risks are associated with low and high blood pressure?
low: dizziness loss of consciousness organ shut down eg acute kidney failure death. high: none in the short run unless extremely high. in the long run: stroke congestive heart failure chronic kidney failure heart attack aortic aneurysm death.
what cause generaluzed edema without renal problem?
excluding renal problems generalized edema can be caused by many conditions: congestive heart failure liver failure[ although that usually spares the arms] lymphedema [lymphema may effect only one to all 4 limbs and the torso] hypothyroidism and low protein states including protein malnutrition and finally venous insufficiency.
what cause generaluzed edema without renal problem?
congestive heart failure tricuspid valve leakage low albumin venous stasis for lower.
what effect does low hemoglobin have on congestive heart failure?
it can make symptoms of heart failure worse.
what effect does low hemoglobin have on congestive heart failure?
effect specially if less than 10. chronic severe anemia is a cause for chf (uncommon).
what can i do if my father is dying from congestive heart failure what is going to happen?
i am very sorry about your father condition. i don't know specifics and for that reason difficult to opinion. have they try biventricular pacemaker? are he a candidate for heart transplant? there are many advances for heart failure patients and surgeons specialized in the area. good luck. i'll pray for you and your family.
what is acceptable mean blood pressure? was given reading of 9<negative_smiley>80 in dr's office.
if the pulse pressure (upper #-lower #) is truly this narrow it may be indicate of low cardiac output (e. g. congestive heart failure shock aortic valve stenosis cardiac tamponade significant blood loss). re-check your bp and keep a log. bp is relative to the individual with 120/80 accepted as normal.
what exactly is the outcome for someone 39 with congestive heart failure?
the prognosis for a patient with chf depends on the cause and severity of the chf. with modern treatment patients do much better than in the past but if the chf is severe and has a cause with poor treatment options then the prognosis can be grim.
what happens if your heart fails?
what do you mean fails. if the heart arrests you are dead. if you mean congestive heart failure then the fluid backs up in the tissues the persons energy declines the tissues suffer from hypo perfusion. the lungs become wet with fluid and the legs swell up.
what are possible reasons that my dad has tiredness and breathlessness but doctors don't know what it is?
to see a cardiologist and have extensive evaluation for coronary disease valvular disease congestive heart failure intracardiac communication congenital defects and pulmonary problems.
water is spontaneously seeping from my 80yr old mother's leg. what could be the cause & is it dangerous? she had heart valve surgery 3 times.
congestive heart failure or venous stasis are potentials. infection can become a issue with skin leakage and breakdown. get attention.
why can't people who have controlled congestive heart failure give blood? i received blood during open heart surgury but can't donate now?
the fear is that donating blood might convert a controlled heart faliure patient into one who is not controlled.
with congestive heart failure or coronary ischemia would the oxygen saturation shown on the monitor at hospitals drop?
with severe or "decompensated" congestive heart failure the oxygen saturation is frequently low due to the pint of water in the lungs. as this condition is treated the oxygen level will improve. for ischemia it would be very unc.
what website where we could find journal about left sided congestive heart failure?
cardiosource. org.
what website where we could find journal about left sided congestive heart failure?
links. best wishes! <link> m. webmd. com/heart-disease/guide-heart-failure. <link>
what can we do to find out if my husband's heart is really that bad?
ok trhoppel you pique my curiosity! how bad is your husband's heart? why do you think it's bad? has he been tested? has he had a heart attack? has he had an echocardiogram? does have congestive heart failure? has he had a cardiac arrest? the answer to your question is to see your doctor - which i assume you've done?
what are the clinical findings of an adult with a partial avsd atrioventicular septal defect? if missed on echo would there at least be signs?
this is an endocardial cushion defect and the symptoms and signs would depend on the amount of shunting present. in severe cases there would congestive heart failure with shortness of breath and edema (fluid retention). that could take time to develop and present after a number of years. arrhythmias are common. rbbb and possibly right axis on ekg is common. cxr would show plethora.
what is the definition or description of: congestive heart failure?
basically it is a condition in which your heart becomes an inefficient pump. as a result fluid backs up into your lungs and also your lower extremities. there are numerous causes for this but ischemic heart disease is the most common cause. this can be diagnosed by laboratory test chest xray as well as an echo or ultrasound of your heart.
what is bilateral pulmonary edema?
this means that there is fluid in both lungs. congestive heart failure can lead to a fluid build up in both lungs but there are many other etiologies depending on the age of the patient as well as medical history. your doctor will have more clinical information to make a more precise diagnosis as well as treatment. good luck!
what is the name average life expectancy of a male 55 with congestive heart failure and end stage emphasema with aan fev of 27?
it's shorter than it ought to be. focus on the positive - take all your meds religiously. maintain good nutrition. exercise daily to the extent you're able even if it's very minimal. stay optimistic and engaged in interesting activities. no one knows (incl doctors) how long one's life will be and many people outlive what their doctors guess. concentrate on quality of life rather than longevity.
what is the name average life expectancy of a male 55 with congestive heart failure and end stage emphasema with aan fev of 27?
you can find several "life expectancy" calculators on the web. also speaking with your insurance agent. they have sophisticated mechanisms for making estimates of a person's life expectancy.
what is pitting edema and what causes it. is a bad heart?
increase in intravascular pressure like congestive heart failure decrease oncotic intravascular pressure like liver disease( cirrhosis) kidney disease( nephrotic syndrome renal failure) simple vascular venous insufficiency venous clot allergic reaction pregnancy drug induced like ibuprofen(mild). see your physician for a good history and physical exam.
why do people with congestive heart failure become cachectic?
cachexia is seen in more advanced and late stage heart failure and is related to neuro-endocrine inflammatory and metabolic changes associated with this disease. congestion of the gut can result in poor appetite ; poor absorption. also metabolism may be impaired due to liver congestion. tumor necrosis factor also called cachexin contributes to this process as well.
why do people with congestive heart failure become cachectic?
cache is is a late stage finding in severe chf. all patients with chf don't get cachectic.
what are symptoms of congestive heart failure if you had it would you be able to walk 3 miles in an hour in a mall. level. no incline no ankle swellin?
congestive heart failure patients often have shortness of breath/coughs swollen legs need more pillows at night and may notice heart palpitations. your doctor can run tests to determine if you have this condition. in the early stages you might be able to exert yourself more but as time goes on it becomes more difficult to do simple tasks like walking around a mall.
what are some new treatments and/or drugs for congestive heart failure?
your question is too broad and difficult to answer here. please refer to the following article: <link>
what medications helped you if you suffer from chf congestive heart failure and diabetes?
ace inhibitors and arb agents most helpful for weak heart muscle and renal protection in diabetics as well as cardiac remodeling. this is in addition to beta blockers and diurtics.
what are the causes and consequences of having an enlarged heart?
the cause of the enlarged heart and pleural effusion is what dictates the outcome from such a situation. if you have a very weak heart with congestive heart failure and both sides of the heart malfunctioning to cause this that is very serious. if you have some more benign situation which is also possible could be less serious. you need to discuss with your doctor.
what are the dangers of having surgery w/ high blood pressure?
with uncontrolled blood pressure there are increased risks for surgery these include post op myocardial infractions strokes or congestive heart failure. the risk is higher when blood pressure is not treated or well controlled.
why is it that hypoalbuminemia is present in congestive heart failure?
multiple reasons including protein loss poor synthesis dilution.
what are common causes for very mild dyspnea at my age(1-2 seconds long? ) physical causes? i have anxiety but am curious as to other causes? benign?
it is not physiologic to become short of breath for 1-2 seconds. common causes of breathlessness are: asthma copd pneumonia blood clots congestive heart failure heart attack collapsed lung tumors and rare causes but all of the above cause prolonged periods of breathlessness. hyperventilation due to anxiety can be very brief. try some relaxation techniques-check this out: <link>
what heart or vascular diseases could cause low bp 100-65; on a person with normally high bp controlled with diovan (valsartan) and metoprorol?
such as acute heart attack congestive heart failure cardiac valve problems medication overdose hemorrhage sepsis adrenal insufficiency. as you can see this person should see a doctor to sort it out.
what to do if i have trouble breathing at night does vaporub help?
what steps will help depend on why you're having trouble. if you have dry heat and are getting dry swollen nasal membranes or have some allergen in your sleep environment and are getting swollen membranes; that implies some specifics. if you have congestive heart failure when lying down that's a whole different story. vaporub helps what it helps but not all causes of breathing difficulties.
what's the age range and congestive heart failure?
there is no age range for heart failure. it depends on the cause.
what's the age range and congestive heart failure?
nearly 5 million americans are currently living with congestive heart failure (chf). approximately 550 000 new cases are diagnosed in the u. s. each year. congestive heart failure affects people of all ages from children and young adults to the middle-aged and the elderly. almost 1. 4 million persons with chf are under 60 years of age. chf is present in 2 percent of persons age 40 to 59. more than 5 percent of persons age 60 to 69 have chf. chf annual incidence approaches 10 per 1 000 population after 65 years of age.
with a ruptured chordae tendenineae from endocarditis and not having surgery will the mitral prolapse and regurgitation stop?
it will persist and if the mitral regurg is serious enough it will eventually cause major cardiac issues including congestive heart failure. do not avoid surgery if it is needed.
what is an infiltrated heart disease?
infiltrative heart disease refers to any condition in which materials produced by abnormal cell lines or abnormal metabolic processes lay down foreign material into the heart muscle itself resulting in stiffening of the heart and leading many times to congestive heart failure or less often conduction abnormalities of the heart electrical system. classic example is multiple myeloma.
will exercise help young people that have enlarged hearts?
en enlarged heart in a 16 year old is probably due to a congenital heart defect (you have it at birth) or possibly rheumatic heart. did you have untreated rheumatic fever is childhood? both of these conditions usually affect the valves causing congestive heart failure and 'enlarged heart. ' excercise is not likely to help and may even worsen it. u need an echocardiogram
what causes the feet to swell?
or incompetent valves injury infection gout hypertension congestive heart failure kidney disease there are many causes. .
what causes the feet to swell?
many things from simple dietary indiscretions such as an excess of salt to medical conditions including congestive heart failure kidney insufficiency or liver insufficiency can cause the feet to swell. could also be related to arthritis gout plantar fasciitis or even medications (calcium channel blockers or nsaids like naproxen). work-up is necessary.
what to do if i have been put on blood pressure tablets perindopril and although my blood pressure is going down my heart?
perindopril is good for your heart. in addition to lowering your bp it lowers your risk of heart attack and congestive heart failure.
what to do if i have slight discomfort in my head sometimes. will it be related to dropsy?
dropsy is an antiquated term for congestive heart failure. (you must be reading too many 19th century novels! ). chf does not cause headaches. you don't have vapors or neurasthenia either!
what to do if i have fda warns heart risk with high doses with celexa (citalopram)?
celexa (citalopram) should not be used if you have had a recent heart attack or congestive heart failure. but the real issue is qt prolongation - if you have a family hx of this or are known to have it you should not take celexa (citalopram). bottom line: an ekg should be done on your current dose. if your qt is okay you can use celexa (citalopram) safely. as with all meds you/your doc must balance the benefits with potential risks
what to do if i have severe congestive heart failure and can't afford meds. help?
depend on where you live you could access a beta blocker ace asa and statin (medications) on the $4 list.
what happens if you have high blood pressure and stop your meds could it cause feet swelling?
if your bp rises enough to cause congestive heart failure or kidney failure it could. stopping without supervision is not advised.
what are 3 types of heart problems?
angina arrhythmia and congestive heart failure
what do you suggest if my father's blood pressure is 187/108. i know that's very bad. what can happen to him?
stroke congestive heart failure kidney failure angina. he needs to have it gradually controlled.
what is the effect of percutaneous mitral vavuloplasty on pregnant mother and foetus a tertiary care hospital experience?
it will lower your risk of congestive heart failure at the time of delivery.
what happens if someone has congestive heart failure and takes medicine how long do they have to live?
death in the first year can vary from 10% to 25% depending on the cause of the heart failure the severity of the heart dysfunction the age of the patient and the presence of co morbidities such as kidney failure diabetes etc. the natural history of heart failure which is progressive can be altered by medications and intervention such as bi ventricular pacing or resynchronization
what do you suggest if my father takes sutent (sunitinib) for stage 4 kidney cancer & also has congestive heart failure. any meds he can take for it?
advanced cancer of the kidney is hard to deal with. there is little to do although the sutent (sunitinib) is sometimes helpful. it will not cure it but can slow it down. you however need to talk to the doctor who prescribed as this can exacerbate the heart failure. the pt may want to continue the drug despite the chf. this has to be decided by pt and physician weighing the benefits. diuretics and b blockers
what do you suggest if my father takes sutent (sunitinib) for stage 4 kidney cancer & also has congestive heart failure. any meds he can take for it?
this would best require a visit with a cardiologist to review all his meds. it seems that beta blockers and diuretics would be ok with this protein kinase inhibitor.
what happens if there is a hole in heart what wil happen?
depends on the size the age of the patient whether it's new and a result of heart attack or if it's been present since birth. in the worse cases it cause congestive heart failure and occasionally can be the cause of a stroke.
when person heart is biting fast feet capillaries are explosed and feet uper side are swelled and his face colour is yellow what does it means?
people with yellowing of skin may indicate jaundice which could occur in acute or chronic liver injuries. the swellings of body can occur in congestive heart failure liver or kidney failure nephrotic syndrome and other causes of hypoalbuminic states.
what to do if i have increasing the left atrial pressure would have what effect on pulmonary circulation?
left atrial pressure >18 mm of mercury is called "congestive heart failure". there are many many books written on the subject. the first question is "why do you have chf? " then treatment can be directed at the underlying problem.
what would cause excessive swelling in the feet who has heart disease and diabetes? had triple bypass over 10 yrs ago & then stints
hi. the condition you describe is volume overload and in the patient you describe either congestive heart failure and/or advanced kidney disease would be the most likely cause(s). that person should see his/her doctor for help with easing pump function and diuresis. good luck!
what would cause excessive swelling in the feet who has heart disease and diabetes? had triple bypass over 10 yrs ago & then stints
one of the possible causes for excessive swelling in the feet in someone with heart disease is a condition called congestive heart failure. other causes include peripheral vascular disease/leaky valves in the veins returning blood to your heart. whatever the cause see your doctor asap and if you are short of breath go to the er if you can't see your own md.
what causes a heart to get structurally damaged?
some structural heart conditions you are born with like abnormal vessels (tetralogy of fallot) or a patent foramen ovale. valves can be damaged by a bacterial infection like endocarditis. the heart muscle can enlarge due to congestive heart failure hypertension or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. viral infections (myocarditis) can alter the heart structure as well.
what will happen if pulse pressure is reduced to 20?
as in what the cause of a low/narrow pulse pressure is. extremely low pulse pressures like you mention can be related to congestive heart failure shock aortic stenosis(narrow of the major outlet valve of the heart) or other things like fluid around the heart affecting how the heart pumps(cardiac tamponade). in the end this can lead to poor blood flow of the organ systems of the body.
what to do if i have problems with water retention?
if you have water retention (wr) the treatment will be based upon its cause. common causes of wr are congestive heart failure chronic renal failure and varicose veins among others. see a physician for a physical examination to find out the cause of your wr. once a diagnosis is made a treatment plan can be formulated for you to treat the problem. good luck.
what is the difference between acetyl l-carnitine vs l-carnitine l tartrate? is one preferable over the other for chf?
l-carnitine is an amino acid and your body can make it from sources in your foods. neither form has been shown in reliable studies to be beneficial in congestive heart failure.
what happens to the body when you have hypertension?
short term: nothing long term: damage to the kidney heart and brain. it's the leading cause of stroke and a major cause of congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation & heart attack.
what is lisinopril?
the drug is an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. it is used for hypertension and also congestive heart failure
what is the typical life expectancy for someone who has an aortic valve regurgitation?
aortic regurgitation is well compensated for years usually. once congestive heart failure occurs due to aortic regurgitation survival is usually less than 5 years.
what are the symptoms of dropsy? what is the cure for it?
read this: in old times it was a term for tissue swelling often synonomous with congestive heart failure. <link>
what is vitamin k used for? how does it help a patient with congestive heart failure?
vitamin k helps reverse the anticoagulant effect of warfarin (coumadin) when the blood is too "thin" but does not have any effect on heart failure
what are the causes of diastolic heart failure? can it be functional or is it just structural? my neurologist did a tilt table test said my heart contraction phase is longer than my relaxation phase. i never had heart pain breathlessness before a
one of the most common causes of diastolic congestive heart failure is hypertension.
which medications treat chf (congestive heart failure) and diabetes?
regrettably this is not an uncommon combination. on the very positive side you doctors - endocrinologist and cardiologist - will take good care of you. of course you have a role in keeping your diabetes under control.
which drugs for psvt are safe for someone with congestive heart failure?
in general most of us treat the chf and hope that the psvt will improve as the chf improves. part of systolic dysfunction chf rx is beta blockade which we also use for psvt. if the chf is well controlled and psvt remains a problem there are several options available and these depend on the individual person. space here doesn't allow adequate discussion
sometimes i get pains in my lungs and have difficulty breathing in bed but am fine when up what could it be?
it is necessary for such symptoms to be evaluated in clinic; a full history and a physical exam and any testing as needed should provide an answer in your specific case. in general some of the most important reasons for shortness of breath while lying down at night include congestive heart failure and obstructive sleep apnea.
shortness of breath for couple months. just checked pulse it's 75. have been having headaches. also have history of anxiety so maybe i'm crazy. help?
it is important with concerning medical symptoms to rule out medical causes before attributing them to psychiatric cause. chronic sob is common with many medical conditions including congestive heart failure respiratory issues obesity pulmonary hypertension cardiac issues. see your pcp to have them work it up.
should a heart disease patient eat salted nuts?
nuts in moderation can be good for one's diet. excess salt is harmful if one has hypertension or congestive heart failure. if your heart disease includes orthostatic hypotension salted nuts would be perfect for you! it all depends.
what kind of diet should you be on after being diagnosed with congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure can be secondary to poor pumping function of the heart or poor relaxing function of the heart. - a diet that has low sodium
should you wear diabetes socks at nite while sleeping or just during the day? swollen feet. his doctor knows and recommended diabetes socks.
"diabetes" socks are often a lot of hype. there is no clear benefit to wearing them. the point is that your socks should not make your foot swelling worse. so less elastic at the top is good. more important is to protect your feet since you may have decreased feeling in them from neuropathy. you should wear a good soled shoe or slipper in the home when you walk about. the key question is why are your feet swollen there are many possible causes including: low protein in the blood from kidney disease congestive heart failure medication (like amlodipine or actos) and sleep apnea that is not adequately treated. so first find out why your feet are swollen and don't focus on the silly socks. you can wear them any time you wear a sock however. dan weiss md cde facp pns cpi.
what supplements are best for someone with congestive heart failure and hypertension?
supplements are of little or no help to treat congestive heart failure and hypertension. however there are many medications and diet interventions that are very effective in treating the symptoms and improving quality of life and survival. see your primary doctor and/or cardiologist to get on an optimum medical regimen.
what exactly is heart disease and why is it the leading cause of death in america?
heart disease includes: coronary artery disease congenital heart disease congestive heart failure cardiac rhythm abnormalities etc. more than half of heart deaths are due to coronary artery disease(cad). factors contributing to cad:family history smoking obesity cholesterol high bp diabetes lack of exercise the typical american diet. a plant based diet protects against developing cad.
can someone consume alcohol while taking flecainide?
alcohol can depress heart function (lead to congestive heart failure) and that combined with flecainide makes for a dangerous situation. in general as alcohol affects the liver and flecainide is cleared through the liver it is not a good idea to combine heavy alcohol use with flecainide. however combining low amounts of alcohol and flecainide may not be a problem.
shortness of breath tight discomfort left side of chest and back. now feel winded anytime i walk or anything like that?
symptoms of cp with shortwindedness on walking should be thoroughly evaluated. it is unlikely to have coronary artery disease in a 29 year old other conditions like congestive heart failure needs to be ruled out. or it may very well be something less sinister like musculoskeletal pain. get checked.
can you describe non-valvular atrial fibrillation?
non-valvular atrial fibrillation means that the underlying cause(s)of the atrial fibrillation is not related to rheumatic heart disease or valvular surgery rather factors such as high blood pressure diabetes congestive heart failure sleep apnea prior heart attack alcohol etc.
can you tell me the difference between heart failure from myocardial infarction?
heart failure is a condition where the heart does not function normally causing shortness of breath ankle swelling and a variety of other symptoms. there may be 100 or more heart conditions that can result in congestive heart failure. myocardial infarction occurs when a heart artery closes resulting in damage to the muscle of the heart. this may or may not result in congestive heart failure.
could i be having congestive heart failure i had a pacemaker put in last year because of atrial fib i take diltiazem which was just increased to 360 mg from 240 mg for the last few days and nights i am short of breath i wake up short of breath seems t
if you are experiencing shortness of breath and difficulty breathing when laying down these are signs of congestive heart failure and more specifically left heart failure. in left heart failure fluid builds up in the lungs causing shortness of breath and difficulty breathing when laying down. fatigue is also a sign that your heart may be working too hard. see a doctor sooner than your appointment. go to the emergency room to be assessed if you can not get in right away to see your cardiologist.
could i be having congestive heart failure i had a pacemaker put in last year because of atrial fib i take diltiazem which was just increased to 360 mg from 240 mg for the last few days and nights i am short of breath i wake up short of breath seems t
if these symptoms are new and you just increased your dose it could be related. call your doctor.
can beta blockers help with pulmonary edema?
they are of no benefit for pulmonary edema. if the pulmonary edema is caused by congestive heart failure beta blockers are used to improve the heart's performance and may indirectly improve pulmonary edema.
can a child have congestive heart failure and then have a heart attack?
if you mean mi with heart attack it is a rare combination but if you mean sudden arrhythmias leading to sudden death with congestive heart failure it is more common then mi.
can a child have congestive heart failure and then have a heart attack?
there are rare illnesses like kawasaki disease that can produce coronary aneurysms & a heart attack in a kid. for most that would go into heart failure it would be from a congenital heart defect or myocarditis. in both instances those patients would have a heart fail & develop a fatal rhythm disturbance. that has some similarities to an adult heart attack but i wouldn't use the terms that way.
can a child have congestive heart failure and then have a heart attack?
it's the other way around (such as with kawasaki disease) but yes it's possible.
can an abnormal ekg and elevated troponins indicate a possible mi event. also can pain in the arms legs hands and feet be tell tell signs of a slow but pending cardiac event about to happen? the pain value is between 7-9 thank you in advance for your t
yes very definitely. the troponin test is used to help diagnose a heart attack to detect mild to severe heart injury and to distinguish chest pain that may be due to other causes. an elevation in combination with certain changes in the electrocardiogram can be very specific for a heart attack. troponin values can remain high for 1â€”2 weeks after a heart attack. troponin may rise following strenuous exercise although without signs and symptoms of heart disease it is usually of no significance. troponin levels may also be elevated with acute or chronic conditions such as myocarditis (inflammation of heart muscle) congestive heart failure severe infections kidney disease and certain chronic inflammatory conditions of muscles and skin. some pains in the arms and less likely in the legs may be indicative of a cardiac problem. best to have this checked by your doctor as soon as you can.
can rheumatic fever be cured?
you treat the strep infection which caused it; you give ant-iinflammatory agents (aspirin steroids etc. ) and you then give symptomatic treatment to control the complications (such as congestive heart failure etc. ). all these may modulate the disease but not necessarily cure it.
when i breathe in my chest feels cold and it makes me cough. is this something to do with my congestive heart failure?
more likely to be a sign of bronchospastic airways (or asthma). get a chest x-ray for starters.
would like some info on congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is a condition in which the heart can not pump the blood normally (called systolic) or can not relax well ( diastolic ). both conditions cause similar symptoms such as shortness of breath swelling fatigue etc. heart attacks high blood pressure and/ or infections are associated with these conditions.
