my daughter recently had acquired periorbital cellulutus while in her daycare setting. is there any way to detrrmine what the specific cause was?
periorbital cellulitis is an infection of the tissues around the eye and can start with a break in the skin (even a bug bite) or spread from infection of nearby tissues (impetigo stye conjunctivitis) from a sinus infection or even through the bloodstream. a wide variety of bacteria can cause this and antibiotic treatment is needed sometimes by iv. i hope she feels better soon!
my little one has had a red swollen eye for the last few days only on the one side it is tearing quite frequently there is no puss is this possibly conjunctivitis or is it possible that there is a foreign body in the eye? thankyou x
if it is confined to one eye it is most likely an infection even in the absence of pus. check with your doctor.
diagnosed chronic giant papillary conjunctivitis. have enzymatic cleaned contacts/not worn them. eyes still closed w/pus in am. bacterial?
conjunctivitis usually require anti-inflammatory treatment to settle down the inflammatory response. once this is neutralized then removing the inciting factor in your case contact lens or contact lens solution intolerance should prevent recurrence.
please comment on the findings/association of papillary conjunctivitis/floppy lid syndrome with sleep apnea. what would i see on exam?
people who have fes may experience all or several of the following symptoms: droopy eyelids; dry red or swollen eyes; mucous discharge (worse in the morning); frequent infections; easily inverted eyelids; eyelashes that point downward and poke the eye; and sleep disturbances and morning headaches. www. ehow. com/about_5047597_floppy-eyelid-syndrome. html.
my left eye has been hurting and red for about 3 days now and i have put reg eye drops but not helping iam on medication for my heart does this means i could be have another heart attack or stroke
hello there are a number of possible reasons that you left eye could be red & painful. conjunctivitis is an inflammation of the surface of the eyeball and is commonly known as "pink eye. " it might just be from irritation to the eye or allergies. if it is caused by a virus or bacteria it could be quite contagious. your eyes could be bloodshot because they are irritated by a variety of things like wind dry air cold exposure dust etc. the fact that your eye is red and painful by itself does not mean that you are having a stroke or a heart attack. what would be of particular concern would be eye pain with a change to your vision. if that occurs i would recommend being seen right away. because you have a complicated medical history if this does not resolve fairly quickly i would notify your doctor.
whats olopatadine effect?
is an antihistamine/anticholinergic eye drops used to treat allergic conjunctivitis. it is also available as nasal spray & in japan as tablets. it can cause headaches burning stinging dry eyes lid edema symptoms of flu & taste perversion.
whats the diffrence between patanol and zaditor (ketotifen)? my 4yrold son has problems with eyes matting shut and his dr said allergies. what can i do or buy
regarding patanol vs. zaditor (ketotifen) look at: <link> under the care of an ophthalmologist steroid drops may be effective though an ophthalmologist should verify the diagnosis in a toddler since a "shield ulcer" can interfere with visual function. another consideration is a low-grade bacterial conjunctivitis so visit an ophthalmologist trusted by your pediatrician.
which eye drop is stronger n more effective for conjunctivitis lestacaft or patanol (olopatadine)?
both are ocular antihistamine eye drops: i would go with patanol- through my experience with it.
can robaxacet cause heart palpitations?
lightheadedness dizziness drowsiness nausea urticaria pruritus rash conjunctivitis nasal congestion blurred vision headache fever seizures syncope flushing are known side effects.
