zinc deficiency (69 mg) for adult male and diarrheal disease. a zinc tablet daily helps. two causes constipation. is there anything else to consider?
why take 2 in unneeded.
i have an open wound that doesn't heal. what should i do? i had anal sex with my boyfriend. after several times i noticed i was bleeding and i had a cut in my anus. it has been a month now and the cut (wound) has not heel and it hurts when i have to go t
you should see your doctor and have an exam to make sure it is just a small tear and not something more concerning such as an infected tear or an std like warts or herpes. in the meantime make sure you are well-hydrated and eating plenty of fiber because constipation with hard stool can cause the tear to continue reopening.
pink anus skin itch gone now by 6 days rectal little laceration duue to fungus eccema psoriasis or diper rash?
little fissure or cut from a big poop passing through or from an inflamed hemorrhoid from constipation. keep using your cream till it heals up. glad it feels better! '.
aftercare for anal tag removal?
your surgeon should give careful instructions. . those over ride mine as they know extent of the wound. they center around maintance of skin hygiene and avoidance of mechanical re injury (avoid constipation) for 10 to 14 days post procedure.
what are some remedies for constipation caused by a long-term liquid diet?
there are a lot of options for including fiber in a liquid diet. metamucil and similar additions. or for that matter including vegetable matter into the liquid diet that has fiber (smoothies etc. ).
my belly is a bowling ball. big round and hard. doesnt seem to be fatty no love handels the rest of me is inshape. i eat sensible.
if this is something new and uncomfortable you need to b seen by your regular doc. have your bowel movements changed recently? is it tender to push on your belly? there are a number of things that this could be from constipation to all sorts of abdominal issues.
why does lyrica (pregabalin) cause weight gain?
drowsiness dry mouth constipation difficulty concentrating swollen arms/legs and weight gain are some common side effects. the weight gain mechanism is idiopathic and may occur related to dose and duration of exposure. your doctor has prescribed lyrica (pregabalin) because he/she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. hope it helps.
will decreasing mirtazipine result in side effects recurring? i. e. at 15mg sleep and eating too much was an issue. im currently on 45mg
mtz (adrenergic receptor antagonist w/ indirect serotonin activation) is generally well-tolerated. it has a quick onset of action. se’s = drowsiness constipation wt. gain dry mouth ; rarely suicidal ideation. sudden stopping can cause anxiety dizziness irritability diarrhea decreased appetite ; flu-like symptoms. slow dose reduction reduces se's. speak w/ provider before changing dose.
what are the side effects of phentermine?
some of the possible side effects of phentermine include: rapid heart rate increased blood pressure restlessness trouble sleeping palpitations dizziness tremor headache feeling up or down dry mouth constipation loose stools & bad taste in mouth. less common sxs include: hallucinations aggression fever seizures panic or mania.
what causes weight fluncuates? when i try to lose weight?
generally when losing weight one wants to lose fat. part of weight is fluid retention which can come from stress too much salt and lack of b-6 or other nutrients to combat stress. a poor diet can cause stress. constipation can also increase weight from retained stool. stress and alcohol can increase free cadmium which increases fat production. reassess your life style to promote health.
i have been having stomach problems ever since i started a low carb almost no carb diet. and was wondering if this was normal?
if you were used to eating vegetables with fiber and then went to a diet that cuts these out almost completely constipation could result. this can happen in people who go on high protein/low carb diets. i agree with dr. caplin this may not be a healthy diet for you at least not for an extended period. if you plan to continue you may need some supplemental fiber and plenty of water.
i have insomnia constipation and weight gain i've tried everything- prune healthy diet lots of exercise and my blood test came normal for thyroids
insomnia can have substantial affect on weight. you will need to check with your private m. d. as to the reasons for insomnia as sleep deprivation can lead to weight gain.
i have insomnia constipation and weight gain i've tried everything- prune healthy diet lots of exercise and my blood test came normal for thyroids
constipation is frequently a sx of other things. dehydration hypercalcemia primary diseases of colon. thyroid excluded as cause needs further evaluation. may additionaly be caused by medication opioid analgesics notorious.
i have ibs with constipation. i've tried miralax (polyethylene glycol) but it didn't help. i occasionally take stimulant laxatives as a last resort. what can i do relieve the symptoms? i eat a healthy diet and drink plenty of water.
a magnesium deficiency can contribute to constipation and is a very common mineral deficiency. magnesium has many functions in your body one of which is to stimulate the parasympatheric nervous system. low magnesium can therefore increase sympathetic tone and contribute to constipation. there are many forms of magnesium available otc including magnesium citrate magnesium sulfate and aspartate.
i have ibs with constipation. i've tried miralax (polyethylene glycol) but it didn't help. i occasionally take stimulant laxatives as a last resort. what can i do relieve the symptoms? i eat a healthy diet and drink plenty of water.
you can try to increase the dose of miralax and take it on a regular basis rather than when needed. this medication is frequently used as the purgative for colonoscopy so if you take enough of it it will clean you out. if you are still not satisfied with it ask your doctor for a prescription for amitiza (lubiprostone). new prokinetic drugs will soon be available as alternative options.
i was prescribed phentermine? what are effects
dry mouth unpleasant taste diarrhea constipation vomiting some side effects can be serious. if you experience any of the following symptoms call your doctor immediately: increased blood pressure heart palpitations restlessness dizziness tremor insomnia shortness of breath chest pain dizziness swelling of the legs and ankles.
i'm experiencing severe painful constipation. what diet changes are needed?
if you simply cannot pass stool and feel very uncomfortable a rectal suppository may induce a bowel movement. if that does not work opt for a fleet enema. that's a first aid treatment. a high fiber and high fluis diet should be instituted immediately. further evacuation problems need you to take laxatives; miralax (polyethylene glycol) is one. persistent problems needs evaluation by your doctor.
is juice of bitter gourd helfpful for weight reduction?
bitter melon stimulates easy digestion and peristalsis of food through the bowel until it is excreted from the body. thus helps in relieving indigestion and constipation problems. in addition the vegetable is an also good source of niacin (vitamin b-3) pantothenic acid (vitamin b-5) pyridoxine (vitamin b-6) and minerals such as iron zinc potassium manganese and magnesium.
if i give my child vegetables first will he develop a sweet tooth?
not at all. i think the most important thing about introducing new foods to babies is to take your time and offer a large variety of foods. in addition it is important for you to consume a wide variety of healthy foods such that your baby will mimic that eating behavior in the future. certainly stay away from juice though (unless your doctor has advised it for constipation reasons).
i am struggling with my weight at the moment but every time i go on a diet i suffer from constipation. what can i do?
fiber can help your intestines hold on to enough fluid to keep your stool soft. fiber also helps people feel full and since it isn't absorbed adds no calories. many fresh fruits & veggies and whole grains are high in fiber. drinking plenty of water will also help - aim for 2 liters per day while you're dieting. finally exercise helps stimulate the bowels to keep things moving on the inside.
i am struggling with my weight at the moment but every time i go on a diet i suffer from constipation. what can i do?
simple sugars and processed carbs should be avoided or limited. this includes any flour product. the fine grind makes absorption quick and spikes your blood sugar which increases insulin and promotes weight gain. good fats such as olive oil and coconut oil are fine in sensible amounts. eat a rainbow of organic vegetables and 3-4 oz protein with each meal 5 hours apart. take extra magnesium.
is it normal to feel bloated after a tummy tuck and a liposuction?
a number of feelings may accompany a tummy tuck with or without liposuction. most people feel tight and have incisional soreness. the tightness is both in the skin and the muscle-let latter usually produces more discomfort. plus most patients are using narcotics for the discomfort which can cause constipation and result in a bloated feeling. best to stay hydrated and use stool softenenrs.
is it normal to feel bloated after a tummy tuck and a liposuction?
there are multiple reasons for bloating after an abdominoplasty. narcotic pain medications can cause constipation and bloating. also there is a significant amount of swelling of the abdomen that occurs after a tummy tuck and takes months to go away. however if you have any nausea or vomiting after a tummy tuck you should see your plastic surgeon.
is it normal to feel bloated after a tummy tuck and a liposuction?
in addition bloating can simply be a side effect of undergoing anesthesia or medication. it is recommended to walk frequently after surgery to promote circulation and prevent complications. should bloating or constipation persist after a few days make sure you keep your surgeon informed.
i'm trying to lose weight but i'm afraid that i might permanently damage my digestive system. any thoughts?
there is not any significant risk to your digestive system from weight loss. starvation or rapid weight loss can cause fatty liver. many weight loss supplements in addition to being ineffective have compounds in them which can occasionally cause liver damage. low carb diets can cause constipation and other health problems.
i tried to lose weight but my weight didn't go down at all and i'm constipated! any tips on losing weight without constipation?
constipation is separate issue: add fiber and water. light exercise and less intake. muscle does weigh more than fat.
i tried to lose weight but my weight didn't go down at all and i'm constipated! any tips on losing weight without constipation?
a low calorie high fiber diet in association with exercise and plenty of water consumption is your best bet. in general diets are ineffective because they have an end!
is it safe to pour hydrogen peroxide in my ear to remove earwax?
agree with dr a. you can mix hydrogen peroxide with warm water (our special office mix! ). generic colace (docusate sodium) (docusate) drops are over the counter now (where the constipation products for kids are).
i am on diet and taking a pill named "adipex retard". may i know is it any side effect for my body? will it spoil my kidney? how long should i stop?
phentermine can have many side effects including tachycardia insomnia dizziness constipation etc. it is metabolized by the liver so your kidneys won't be directly affected. most treatment courses last no more than 6 wks; this drug can be habit forming and dangerous side effects can occur if it is stopped abruptly. please be sure you are seeing a physician while taking this drug.
is it possible to be weaned off the effexor and get my body back to normal? i have been taking effexor for years. a doctor recently increased my dosage to 300mg from 75mg. i have major digestive issues (constipation) i can't loose weight no matter what i
serotonin discontinuation symptoms associated with abrupt discontinuation of effexor (venlafaxine) could be related to it's short half life. in most cases this may be minimized by slowly tapering the dosage. another strategy would be using a low dosage of a long acting ssri like fluoxetine. the physical symptoms include problems with balance gastrointestinal and flu-like symptoms and sensory and sleep disturbances. psychological symptoms include anxiety and/or agitation crying spells irritability and aggressiveness.
is it possible to be weaned off the effexor and get my body back to normal? i have been taking effexor for years. a doctor recently increased my dosage to 300mg from 75mg. i have major digestive issues (constipation) i can't loose weight no matter what i
my patients seem to have a lot of problems with weight gain and increased blood pressure when their dose of effexor (venlafaxine) gets into the range that it can impact more than one neurotransmitter. weight gain is a frequent side effect of effexor (venlafaxine). yes effexor (venlafaxine) can be weaned back down.
i am having bloated stomach sometimes bloody. my diet is low carb high protien low fat. i exercise twice a day. also constipated.
chronic constipation is a common malady. diet of high protein can aggravate this problem and bloating may come from excess bowel contents. increase oral liquid intake and fiber intake with more fruits and vegetables may help. some people take extra fiber supplements such as metamucil or citrucel 1 up 3 times a day. you do not say your age and whether there would be an indication for evaluation such as colonoscopy. it would be a good idea to review your concerns with your doctor at your next visit.
i am having bloated stomach sometimes bloody. my diet is low carb high protien low fat. i exercise twice a day. also constipated.
hello. bloody bowel movements should be medically evaluated. you did not indicate how much water you drink per day or if you get fiber through the food you eat. recommend eating at least 5 servings of vegetables and 4 servings of fruit per day. recommend at least 8 - 8 ounces glasses of water per day. this may help with the constipation. recommend that you get checked out by your doctor as one can't automatically assume that constipation is the source of your bloody stools. take care.
i am having constipation issues and need help i have also had a gastric bypass in 2006 and have never been regular i drink coffee every day tea oj and crystal light. i take 325 mg of iron daily tylenol 3 3 calcium citrate daily and 2 vitamins daily.
try switching to a less constipating form of iron (e. g. ferrous bisglycinate) and try to moderate consumption of diuretic drinks like coffee/oj. magnesium and vitamin c supplementation can also help with constipation (although mg+ can interfere with calcium absorption if you're low). for vit c start with buffered powder add a heaping 1/2 tsp to water/juice & increase by 1/2 tsp/day until ok.
i am having constipation issues and need help i have also had a gastric bypass in 2006 and have never been regular i drink coffee every day tea oj and crystal light. i take 325 mg of iron daily tylenol 3 3 calcium citrate daily and 2 vitamins daily.
one of the easiest things to do is make sure you are getting adequate fluids during the day. you may benefit from drinking some mineral oil to help get you regular. miralax (polyethylene glycol) is also a reasonable option. remember that this is a website to get general questions answered you really should meet with your bariatric surgeon or a gastroenterologist to help you get regular.
i am having constipation issues and need help i have also had a gastric bypass in 2006 and have never been regular i drink coffee every day tea oj and crystal light. i take 325 mg of iron daily tylenol 3 3 calcium citrate daily and 2 vitamins daily.
how old are you? iron can cause constipation but this is some thing you really need. no contraindication to use some laxatives if needed. high fiber diet fiber supplements stay well hydrated colonoscopy if you are above 50 yrs of age.
is it normal to have less frequent bowel movements when dieting?
depends on what kind of diet you are on like low carb diet like atkins you may be constipated or scanty bowel movements. hcg diet causes constipation. reduce calory diet liquid diet etc all cause fewer bowel movements or constipation due to less bulk in the diet. so yes you have fewer bowel movements while dieting.
is it common to have loose stool or diarrhea when i go on a diet?
yes often as the body adjusts to a new diet diarrhea constipation or increase in flatus.
is there a diet for autistic adults with violent behavior problems which will help them feel more at ease? he is only 18 and goes through very dramatic ups and downs we think it might be hormones.
needs thorough medical & dental exams eeg baer vision exam. may require sedation. blood tests: genetic microarray dna probe for fragile x celiac panel food allergy panel etc gi eval for esophagitis constipation foreign bodies. functional behavioral assessment for environmental precipitants. psychiatric eval for mood/anxiety disorders. may need psychopharmacologic meds + behavioral therapy.
i have sporadic stomach cramping that is severe. i had a gastric sleeve surgery 2 yrs ago?
stomach cramping is mostly due to constipation. adhesions ulcers irritable bowel are other possible reasons. of course your symptom does warrant a trip to your surgeon. xrays will likely be needed to figure things out.
i have a prolapsed internal hemorrhoid it is not painful anymore i have no blood in my stools. with the right diet and water intake how long do they normally take to shrink. in my third week now. the pain stopped after a week or so so i do not think
most of the time hemorrhoids do not need surgery can be controlled with diet fluids avoiding constipation and local treatments. you need to see your doctor any rectal bleeding is not a hemorrhoid till confirmed by a physcian as tumors could be missed( rare in your age).
i have a slipped disc diabetes hbp and hc and pcos. i'm 18 need to lose weight but cannot exercise due to so much pain. what to do about painmeds?
i know this may be difficult for you but pain meds particularly at age 18 is definitely not the answer. i know this from working in this field for 20 years. the pain medication will work for a short time but comes with the risks of dependence gradual lack of effect constipation and maybe even long term immune effects. work with a nutritionist to loseweight and learn healthy eating habits. walk.
is inulin (metamucil) safe during pregnancy? i'm 28 weeks & have tried everything diet related to avoid constipation and this type of metamucil is the only thing that seems to work.
metamucil is composed of psyllium which is a non-digestible fiber supplement that is safe to use in pregnancy. fiber supplements in general are safe. it's best to avoid constipation and the discomfort that comes with it particularly hemorrhoids.
is inulin (metamucil) safe during pregnancy? i'm 28 weeks & have tried everything diet related to avoid constipation and this type of metamucil is the only thing that seems to work.
metamucil is fine in pregnancy.
if i take 15-30mgs of oxycodone every 4hrs for severe pain from herniated discs what should i expect the long term side effects to be?
opiates in general are not designed for use as long-term medications. your doctor will constantly be on the look ourt for other methods of pain control. opiates are know for habituation. you'll eventually need ever larger doses. constipation itching thought disruption can also occur. keep your doctor notified.
is it serious or not really? back pain- mid lumbar left side. bowel movements maybe twice/ week. excessive weight gain. 10p time periord 1 1/2 months
it is worth getting checked out. thyroid issues can cause weight gain and constipation which can cause back pain. just having all those changes something isn't right and you shouldn't ignore it.
is colon blockage a problem after gastric sleeve?
this is not something specifically associated with a sleeve gastrectomy but constipation could be a sign of dehydration.
is colon blockage a problem after gastric sleeve?
constipation is possible (if not eating fiber). not true obstruction though.
i think i have hypothyroidism my symptoms are insomnia weight gain and constipation. please tell me how i can relieve my constipation.?
insomnia isn't typically a sign of hypothyroidism but clearly something is going on to give you all these symptoms. certainly you should see your doctor for an evaluation. that should help you and your doctor to figure this out. feel better!
i think i have hypothyroidism my symptoms are insomnia weight gain and constipation. please tell me how i can relieve my constipation.?
i agree with my colleagues about the need for a full medical evaluation of your concerns. if you do have hypothyroidism there are helpful treatments -- but selecting the best path requires investigation. in the meantime you can try some basic things. check any med side effects. make sure you're drinking enough liquids and eating enough roughage/fiber (veggies fruits etc). prunes may help.
i think i have hypothyroidism my symptoms are insomnia weight gain and constipation. please tell me how i can relieve my constipation.?
treating the thyroid problem can help.
i think i have hypothyroidism my symptoms are insomnia weight gain and constipation. please tell me how i can relieve my constipation.?
if you have hypothyroidism see your physician for needed exams. also there are effective treatments.
i am a survivor of breast cancer and my mother died of ovarian cancer. i have been experiencing a lot of bloating constipation and weight gain. what should i do?
the obvious concern is to first rule out an ovarian cancer- with a good gyn and abdominal exam ct and ca-125 tumor marker. with personal history of breast cancer before 38 and mother with ovarian brca testing should be done. treatments options will follow from there and may include removal of ovaries and uterus prophylactic mastectomy and/or close surveillance.
i am a survivor of breast cancer and my mother died of ovarian cancer. i have been experiencing a lot of bloating constipation and weight gain. what should i do?
based on your personal & family history you certainly qualify for brca testing a simple blood test to determine if you have a mutation associated w/breast & ovarian ca. if so consideration should be given for having "prophylactic" ovary removal (oophorectomy) & mastectomy to prevent ovarian or (another) breast ca. please discuss w/your oncologist or a genetic counselor.
i am a survivor of breast cancer and my mother died of ovarian cancer. i have been experiencing a lot of bloating constipation and weight gain. what should i do?
you should be seen by a gyn oncologist to have a prophylactic tah-bso at your age and with your personal/family history unless you are not done having children.
i am a survivor of breast cancer and my mother died of ovarian cancer. i have been experiencing a lot of bloating constipation and weight gain. what should i do?
with your history family history and persistent symptoms you need to be worked up for ovarian or metastatic breast cancer. see a good gyn and start with a pelvic exam (including rectovaginal) ca 125 and pelvic ultrasound. if all of this is normal then a ct of abdomen/pelvis should be done. if these symptoms are solved the you should be counseled regarding prophylactic surgery.
is taking constipation pills every day to lose weight bad? why is it or why is it not? (a friend did and lost 25 lbs & is in good health)
do not do that. it is dangerous. first the only weight you will lose is stool and water weight - not fat. second you will lose lots of electrolytes and nutrients as well as good gut bacteria. this all can lead to heart nerve and brain problems as well as kidney damage. that is not the way to lose weight.
i have a kidney stone and i want to know if i can take oxycodone while taking nortriptyline?
the combination of the two can increase constipation cns depression hypotension and psychomotor impairment. speak with provider; may have to reduce the oxycodone dose. i also have kidney stones and know how painful they can be. sometimes an anti-emetic can help if the oxycodone causes nausea. nothing worse than being nauseated while having a kidney stone attack.
i have a kidney stone and i want to know if i can take oxycodone while taking nortriptyline?
they can together cause my arias of symptoms like central nervous system depression constipation and other bad things. i suggest talking to your doctor for other options or proper dosage.
i have what i believe is known as hematochezia i was recently taking hcg drops for weight loss but as of dec 9 2012 i stoppd for maintenance phase and my stools hardened and became harder to pass and when i do have a bowel movement there is dark red blood
first off the drops are worthless and do not work. you need to have the diet administered by a qualified physician injectable hcg and strict 500 calorie diet. when on the proper diet it is typical to have a bm every 3-4 days you must drink plenty of water. when you do the wrong diet and take bogus drops you will get constipation which will irritate rectum/anus and cause blood in stools.
i never used to go to the bathroom regularly maybe once every 3 days but now i am going 5 or more times a day and i only eat once to twice a day. what could be wrong? i do have a hiatal hernia.
what you are describing could be irritable bowel syndrome which can be either constipation-dominant or diarrhea-dominant. in ibs the bowel is irritated for unknown reasons causing pain and problems stooling. this can involve chronic constipation or (most commonly) chronic diarrhea. any sudden change in bowel habits warrants a trip to the doc to have it investigated.
i have sharp stomach pains in the pit of my stomach i had gastric bypass about a month and a half ago what could be causing my pain?
pain in the middle of your stomach could be an ulcer or stomach irritation. of course many other things are possible like simple healing pains constipation gallstones. best to contact your surgeon.
i'm on a low carb diet (<30 g/day) and i haven't had a good poop in 5 days. what should i do to alleviate my constipation and not break my diet?
consider adding probiotics increasing your water and see what low carb fibers may be avalible.
i feel constant nausea and tiredness past few weeks plus weight loss and constipation. doc doesn't think it's cancer but i do. what elsecould it be?
you probably have helicobactor pylori. get your doc to test you for that. you may need a egd/ barium swallow. your liver has to be tested ( cmp ) also along with cbc. if colon cancer runs in family colonoscopy cea blood test will help.
what do i do with repeated constipation? i have been to a gastrointestinal specialist and he prescribed polyethylene glycol 3350 nf powder to be taken twice daily. i see some difference but every time i eat some fast food i get back to the constipation.
fluids. eat a high fiber diet between 20-25 grams per day regular meal times and drink 80-100 oz of caffeine free alcohol free fluids daily. if you exercise and should add 20 oz per 30 minutes of strenuous exercise. some meds contribute to constipation so take the meds with full glass of fluid instead of a sip in addition to the above recommended fluids.
what do i do with repeated constipation? i have been to a gastrointestinal specialist and he prescribed polyethylene glycol 3350 nf powder to be taken twice daily. i see some difference but every time i eat some fast food i get back to the constipation.
it is very important to keep track of the foods that are constipating for you so that you can avoid them. many people have difficulty eating highly processed foods which are unhealthy for the colon. they don't just cause constipation but red meat and processed foods have also been implicated in colon cancer. unless directed otherwise by your gi doctor you should be eating plenty of fruits and vegetables and drinking lots of water along with your polyethylene glycol. if you become constipated with fast food - avoid it or order healthier options such as a salad with lots of healthy veggies.
i go days without having a bowel movement. what kind of diet should i have? it's harder for me to lose weight?
constipation can lead to all sorts of troubling problems like hemorrhoids diverticulitis anal fissures etc. increase your fiber (through ruffage or by pills/supplements like metamucil) drinks lots of water add a stool softener (like colace) to your diet and if you need a push to get things moving try a gentle laxative (milk of magnesia prune juice). avoid straining for your stools.
what kind of helpful diet should a fibromyalgia patient have?
i recommend to people that they utilze a low inflammatory diet. the major inflammatory foods are those containing wheat corn dairy soy and eggs. try removing 1-2 of these for 8 weeks. if helpful look at excluding the others. add a probiotic if you are experiencing constipation or have a history of yeast infection. it should contain 15-20 billion units 1/day and 2 if you do not have cramping.
what are the side affects of phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
is it ok to mix amitriptyline and nifiedipine with phentermine 37. 2 mg slimming pills?
amitriptyline can cause dry mouth constipation and weight gain and dry mouth which would probably not help the weight loss effect of phentermine which can also cause dry mouth and constipation.
im dieting my 4yrs old with dairy products due to severe constipation backpain. is almond milk gluten free ok and safe to use as alternative?
not all almond milk is gluten free. check the label. almond milk is very low in protein and fat which growing children may need. it can be high in sugar too. the almonds need to have been soaked/dehydrated first to rid phytic acid which blocks mineral absorption and causes tummy distress. positives: iron riboflavin and vitamin e extra calcium.
i was on a liquid diet for 2 months never lost a pound. i was put on it because of gastroparesis on linzess now i can have a bm why?
it is possible that your "gastroparesis" or delayed gastric emptying was part of your underlying irritable bowel/constipation syndrome in which your bowels are sluggish. linzess is a new drug to treat this. seems to really help about 1/2 of patients with this problem. glad it helped you.
what are the symptoms of constipation if you are obese?
infrequent stools which are difficult to pass.
what are the symptoms of constipation if you are obese?
obesity is a disease in itself related most particularly to sugar pop etc. the constipation follows from that and is a reflectfion of your poor diet.
what are the usual side effects of phentermine?
side effects: insomnia dry mouth euphoria jitteriness palpitations rapid heart rate constipation etc.
what side effects of oxycodone are common?
all narcotics can cause sleepiness decreases concentration nausea and constipation. in excess they can slow or stop breathing and cause very low blood pressure. they are also addictive.
what are the side effects of taking phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
if an overweight person has injured their colon due to heavy constipation what is the best treatment possible if one wishes to avoid a surgery?
hello. start with 4 to 6 glasses a day of water. also add daily fiber to your diet in the form of something like metamucil. if no response add prunes or prune juice. thereafter you may add colace (docusate sodium) 200 mg twice a day. if still not regular see your primary physician and he can continue to maximize medications. also you need to evaluate your diet and consider other dx.
is phentramine safe for weight loss?
considered fda approved(for whatever that's worth). it has real adverse effects including increased heart rate blood pressure insomnia dry mouth constipation and nervousness. many stimulants have either failed to receive fda approval or been removed from the market after initial approval related to safety concerns. it should only be used if absolutely necessary.
what do i do if i'm still constipated after improving my diet and trying laxatives?
consider constipation a packaging & delivery issue. if the stool stays inside too long water is extracted & the remainder dries more. many slow movers suffer chronically & aggravate their problem by delaying or skipping a signaled emptying. try emptying on a schedule that works with your lifestyle. go thru the motions 2-4x daily to draw the stool down &out. daily miralax (polyethylene glycol) softens & helps.
what's the best food to avoid constipation?
high fiber foods like multigrains and fruit/veggies are great for preventing constipation. remember though without properly hydrating with water that fiber will also eventually slow down the gut. so make sure you take fiber and proper hydration daily. now fiber supplements like chicory root (fiberone bars) metamucil etc. can also be helpful if regular diet does not work.
what's the best food to avoid constipation?
fresh fruits (with ) and vegetables and a diet high in fiber. also drink at least an ounce of water per pound of body weight per day.
what is the use for phentermine 37. 5 mg?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
why is it so hard to lose weight with digestive issues like ibs?
the gi tract has a very limited # of symptoms to signal its distress--nausea/vomiting diarrhea/constipation bloating pain fullness bleeding etc. as you know many of these characterize ibs but are also seen with inflammatory infectious ischemic malabsorptive and functional disorders. directed lab work imaging biopsies stool studies are appropriate in excluding non-ibs pathology.
i m obese. have extreme pain in calf region in both legs everydy and night. easliy fatigued walk constipation. insulin raised. thyroid glucse normal?
gently squeezing your calves. if they are a little tender you may have vitamin b1 deficiency. this is particularly true if sugar is high in your diet.
weight gain from taking ditropan (oxybutynin)?
although this class of meds often causes dry mouth and constipation weight gain is an unusual side effect.
what is the best way to avoid constipation on high carb diet?
drink plenty of water at least one ounce per pound of body wt. also incl plenty of fresh fruits and veggies and fiber from cereals.
what is the best diet plan for a vegetarian with ibs?
try a high fiber diet lots of fluids and regular exercise. this is the most natural way to fight constipation.
what type of diet is recommended for someone with ibs with constipation?
try a high fiber diet lots of fluids and regular exercise. this is the most natural way to fight constipation.
what are side effects of oxycodone and how long can they last?
typically nausea vomiting sedation constipation difficulty concentrating - the first three usually last about 4-6 hours. however there is variability between people.
i have dieting issues and constipation problems what to do?
simple sugars and processed carbs should be avoided or limited. this includes any flour product. the fine grind makes absorption quick and spikes your blood sugar which increases insulin and promotes weight gain. good fats such as olive oil and coconut oil are fine in sensible amounts. eat a rainbow of organic vegetables and just enough protein.
i have some abdominal pain and sometimes nausea. how common is pancreatic cancer at age 20? no diabetes not overweight no smoking or alcohol.
uncommon in that age group. pancreatic cancer is usually very aggressive. you need evaluation for etiology of your abd pain. things like constipation and ulcers if present should be treated.
what are the signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism and can it prevent weight loss?
mild hypothyroidism may be asymptomatic. common signs are sensitivty to cold weakness constipation dry skin etc. for more information on signs and symptoms see the site listed below. hypothyroidism will not help weight loss if any thing it will make it harder to lose weight. <link>
what were the common sides effects seen in the qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) study? were there any uncommon but serious side effects?
phentermine+topiramate: numbness dry mouth constipation colds/bronchitis acidosis headaches insomnia dizziness nausea backpain blurred vision fatigue high potassium depression anxiety hair loss reflux and man many more. . and rare but serious ones: allergic reaction high blood pressure heart valve disorders tremors psychosis pancreatitis liver failures. consult doc. good luck.
i had a gastric sleeve surgery 4 months ago i only have bowel movement maybe once a week. i think i now have hemorrhoids is this all related?
are you still taking prescription meds for pain? narcotics can worsen constipation. either way you want to avoid constipating high-fat foods and increase the fiber in your diet. make sure you are well hydrated or the fiber won't work as well. talk with your bariatric surgeon about diet modifications that may help.
i had a gastric sleeve surgery 4 months ago i only have bowel movement maybe once a week. i think i now have hemorrhoids is this all related?
the hemorrhoidal plexus is a collection of small vessels around the anus. these san expand with increase of intra-abdominal pressure. constipation is a common cause. talk to your physician who may increase your dietary fiber.
i have diverticulitis and gallstones. i need help with a diet plan!
gallstones cause symptoms when they block the function of the gallbladder after eating fatty foods. thus avoiding fatty foods like fried and high fat foods may be helpful. for diverticulitis the blockage of diverticular sac openings is the root cause for inflammation. avoiding constipation by eating more fiber and drinking more water and to exercise more frequently.
what are the common side effects of phentermine?
1allergic reaction in some 2 increse in blood pressure 3shotness of breath on exertion 4 chest pain and swelling of feet&ankle 5rapid heart beat or palpitation 6confusion or irritability 7 headache and blurred vision 8dizziness and tremors 9dry mouth and unpleasant taste in your mouth 10diarrhea or constipation and upset stomach 11 increased or decreased interest in sex 12 irregular heart rhythm.
why does duromine cause a weird taste in your mouth?
generally phentermine appears to be relatively well tolerated it can produce side effects consistent with its catecholamine-releasing properties. tachycardia and elevated bp but incidence and magnitude of these appear to be less than with the amphetamines. its gastrointestinal effects include dryness of the mouth unpleasant taste diarrhea constipation and other gastrointestinal effects.
what are the side effects of phentermine 37. 5 mg?
1allergic reaction in some 2 increse in blood pressure 3shotness of breath on exertion 4 chest pain and swelling of feet&ankle 5rapid heart beat or palpitation 6confusion or irritability 7 headache and blurred vision 8dizziness and tremors 9dry mouth and unpleasant taste in your mouth 10diarrhea or constipation and upset stomach 11 increased or decreased interest in sex 12 irregular heart rhythm.
i was in a low carb diet for 6 years year ago i stopped the diet 2 months ago i started the low carb diet and when i eat pizza and pasta i throw up?
food allergies often present with bloating and gas or loose stools vomiting yet some have constipation skin rashes joint pain etc. as a result so can vary. testing for food allergens is different as it requires digestion and absorption till ill effects are noted. look for a functional medicine doc that can help you with igg food allergen testing thru genova lab to diagnose it. my guess gluten.
is banana good to eat everyday?
bananas can benefit our health in many ways- they are a good source of potassium help reduce risk of heart disease ; kidney cancer improve calcium absorption soothe our stomachs treat constipation etc. - see <link> but they're relatively starchy ; high in sugars. they may be ok every day but i think it's be healthier to have other fruits too.
what are the side effects of using diet pills if your under 18? im under 18 and i would like to use diet pills. will it harm my health to use them?
is your bmi 30 or above and if you've been unsuccessful with diet and exercise alone it would be reasonable to add appetite suppressants to a physician supervised program of proper nutrition and adequate exercise. it also depends on other health conditions you have and medications you may be on. side effects include increased heart rate insomnia dry mouth constipation. talk to your doctor!
i have been so nauseous the last 3 hours and my stomach hurts. my stomach is all bubbly but its painful. i have not vomited. i have had fast food alot?
abdominal pain has many etiologies. diet affects gall bladder and bowel. fatty foods can cause pain and nausea related to gall bladder function. irritable bowel syndrome usually has pain with alternating constipation and diarrhea. gastroesophageal reflux can cause nausea and usually right upper quadrant abdominal pain. if symptoms continue should consult physician for exam and possible diagnosis.
what is the definition or description of: side effects of oxycodone?
in general the adverse effects that occur with oxycodone are similar with the immediate- and controlled-release products. adverse effects may be dose-related in opioid naive patients. patients who are tolerant to the analgesic effect of oxycodone may be tolerant to the dose-related side effects except constipation.
what do you think about the dukan diet?
low-carb high-protein so it can cause halitosis ( bad breath) constipation & fatigue. france's favorite diet i don't know how sustainable it is. it's difficult to find protein without fat sometimes.
i am currenty on the dukan diet but i feel really constipated? what can i do to ease it?
i don't know the specifics of the dukan diet but most constipation will be relieved by an increase in fluids and fiber. you can get fiber through vegetables and fruit but also through products like metamucil and benefiber. don't forget to exercise; that helps too. lgromkomd.
i am currenty on the dukan diet but i feel really constipated? what can i do to ease it?
dukan diet is low carb- and hence low fiber- it is constipating by nature. try not to stay on this diet too long and get back to a healthier balanced diet that includes vegetables. if you can have vegetables on this diet- i would recommend it- as they are low carb and help with constipation. you also need to take adequate fluids- 45-60 ounces of water a day to help the vegetables and fiber.
i am 1 year out from my gastric bypass. i am extremely constipated. i have tried stool softners milk of magnesia (magnesium hydroxide). suppositories enema. help.
none of those will help unless you are drinking enough liquids. constipation is very common among people who have had weight loss surgery. you need to make sure you are drinking at least 64 ounces of liquid (water is fine) a day. if that doesn't help try taking miralax (polyethylene glycol) daily as well. the key is liquid intake.
what should i do with right lower quadrant pain that has been diagnosed as constipation with an x-ray. made changes to diet but symptoms worse?
is not appendicitis then you need to be aggressive with managing your constipation. changing diet is not going to give you a quick fix for long standing constipation! you need to take dulcolax or the like. see a gastroenterologist for management. you may need bowel cleansing initially for being impacted!
what can cause offensive/fecael smelling belching? i have had it on+off for 18months. it has no pattern with my bowels. i am 3stone overweight+ diabet
gas comes from gas-forming bacteria in the colon. usually the bacteria feed on the complex carbs like bread pasta rice and sugars. also some on fats. constipation markedly worsens the gas. best approach is to first clean yourself out with 1/2 gallon of miralax (polyethylene glycol) (polyethylene glycol) then repopulate your colonic bacteria with probiotics then avoid excess carbs. stay on fiber or miralax (polyethylene glycol).
what are the risks of taking adipex?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
why am i always having constipation during my diet? (trying to lose weight). i am eating a lot of fiber. its annoying cuz im always bloated.
foods with inadequate fluids or excessive caffeine or alcohol will cause your symptoms. drink 80-100 ounces of caffeine free/alcohol free fluid daily more if you exercise.
why am i always having constipation during my diet? (trying to lose weight). i am eating a lot of fiber. its annoying cuz im always bloated.
too little or too much of anything is bad. fiber is not necessarily the answer. try giving up sugar and sweeteners and eat only god made food.
i have chronic constipation problem & my body mass is very less so i want a perfect diet plan for myself?
high fiber and fluids will help with constipation- to gain weight- add healthy oils to your diet such as olive oil and polyunsaturated oils. eat a serving of fruits and or vegetables with each meal. aim for at least 20 grams of serving a day. you need about a gallon of water as well. eat lean meats chicken fish try whole grains- legumes- nuts stay away from junk and processed foods-.
i am suffering from cronic constipation and i also want to gain weight so do i need to cut down protein diet and need to focus on fiber diet?
you need to emphasize fresh fruit and green vegetables limit dairy and add whole grains and nuts daily. also need to drink plenty of water. if constipation persists you may need to add a motility agent like senna. discuss this with your doctor.
is it normal not to have bowel movement every day after the gastric bypass. i got it 4 years ago and i stay constipated and i drink plenty of water.
constipation is also seen in patients following bariatric surgery. this occurs more commonly after lagb and rnygbp and is less likely with ds although it may occur in rare cases with ds. it is usually due to insufficient intake of water and may be corrected by diligent attention to water ingestion and the addition of fiber products like metamucil or fibercon.
is a product call purer colon cleanse is it safe to us if you want to diet?
the vehicle we drive for a lifetime constantly performs very selective absorption & cleaning body wide 24/7 via a huge number of mechanisms. many laxative agents are on the market some of which can be helpful for constipation or colon examinations but colon cleanse products are zero value for dieting just laxative concoctions sold to those looking for easy/magic. rec: my answers for wt loss.
why am i constipated even though i eat daily fiber and 2. 5 liters of water each day. i also have a equal diet plan. protein carbs veggies and fruit.
the population is fixated on there bowels. generally speaking a bowel movement up to every four days is normal if not painful. there are other causes for constipation because it sounds like you have a healthy diet. hypothyroidism electrolyte imbalances such as low potassium and high calcium. pain medication including opioid analgesics. may be idiopathic and medication may be beneficial. would see m.
i have been on different antipsychotics gained weight when off it i lose weight. i will be getting lapband to reduce intake what are side effects?
the most common are nausea vomiting acid reflux constipation and abdominal pain but there are many others that are related to malfunction of the hardware(either the band or the attached port) or known complications of any laparoscopic surgery. your best bet is to review your concerns with your respective surgeon.
will a gastric bypass help ibs?
gastric bypass is a surgical treatment indicated for severe obesity causing secondary health complications. irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) is characterised by abdominal pain / bloating with bouts of constipation or diarrhoea. it is probably caused by the interaction of certain foodstuffs on somewhat sensitive and overactive intestines. bypass surgery is not indicated for ibs and will not help.
i'm overweight and have a lot of belly fat. so when i have pains in my abdomen how do i know where the pain is coming from if i feel pain in the fat?
one does not feel pain in "fat" because it does not have nerve endings. constipation and menstrual cramps are probably the commonest reason for pain in your age group. wy are you on clindamycin? please do not get pregnant while on it or with prestiq.
which the common effects of the medication phentermine?
is a stimulant and can be addictive. common side effects include dizziness dry mouth difficulty sleeping irritability nausea vomiting diarrhea or constipation. there are a wide variety of less common effects as well.
which effects of phentermine are most common?
is a stimulant and can be addictive. common side effects include dizziness dry mouth difficulty sleeping irritability nausea vomiting diarrhea or constipation. there are a wide variety of less common effects as well.
i want to take glucomannan but will that interfere with my thyroxine and vitamin d tablets? i've had thyroid cancer in the past
glucomannan is a sugar made from the root of the konjac plant. glucommanan powder capsules and tablets are used as medicine to treat constipation. it may also slow the absorption of sugar and cholesterol from the gut helping to control sugar levels in diabetes and reducing cholesterol levels. do not know if it will result in interference with medications. why do you want to take it?
i'm 20yrs old 89kg & 170cm prescribed 40mg duromine will this make me anxious? is it dangerous? is there a high probability of side effects?
phentermine also marketed with the brand name duromine is an appetite suppressant which has a good track record of safety and usefulness. the most common side effects are similar to caffeine- nervousness palpitations insomnia and many people also get dry mouth and constipation. because like all drugs there are occasional more severe side effects it should be used only if really necessary
i had gastric bypass surgery rny and i'm having constipation problems my surgeon told me i could use stool softener i don't know witch one is good?
a commonly used stool softener is docussate sodium or dss (brand name colace). its a gel- capsule and it softens and lubricates your stools. increasing soluble fiber and drinking plenty of fluid is an even better and more healthy way to soften your stools. add at least 2 tablespoons of soluble fiber (metamucil citrucel etc. ) to a glass of juice or on cereal each day is usually enough.
i had gastric bypass surgery rny and i'm having constipation problems my surgeon told me i could use stool softener i don't know witch one is good?
docusate sodium or calcium. over the counter. ask your pharmacist.
is boost liquid diet constipating for everyone?
probably not for everyone however the cows milk protein which is predominantly casein curdles in the stomach empties slowly and is a contributing factor to constipation. boost is also low in fiber further leading to constipation. the casein in milk is also converted to alpha caseo morphine- a by product similar in constipating properties to morphine.
what is causing my post gastric bypass problems?
hard to answer without knowing your problems. constipation would be from not drinking enough. abdominal cramps smelly stools/gas may be from bacterial overgrowth. upper abdominal pain may be from an ulcer in your pouch. left upper abd pain may be from an internal hernia. you should see your surgeon.
if there are pill to help with controlling eating and felling full?
overeating causes abdominal fullness. also chronic constipation. generally initial approach will be reducing total calories exercise increased fiber in diet and drinking plenty of liquid. if symptoms persist seeing a bariatrician will be helpful
i eat healthy diet like vegies in dinner consume husk for fiber daily at night eat fruits and do lityle workout sometimes constipation and drink wate?
you may want to try a tea called smooth move it is a natural stimulant. if you are taking any narcotics that could also be a cause
white mucus in poop could it be from constipation or dieters tea?
mucus in the stool is normal but usually invisible. if you're seeing a lot of mucus and if there is associated diarrhea blood marked change in bowel habits it is recommended that you be evaluated by your physician. it can be due to irritable bowel inflammatory bowel disorders fissure etc.
is qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) safe for weight loss?
the most common adverse effects being headache dry mouth constipation numbness/tingling increased heart rate and increased anxiety/depression. remember it's not a cure all and you'll still be best served by optimizing your lifestyle(how and what your eat and your activity levels. )
i got rectal bleeding last 2 times i passed stool. i normally have constipation (if it is related) it's very hot here and 1000 people have died in last 3 days. i drink alot of water and juice and eat healthy. i'm a 21 year old female. does it heat or i ne
condition is likely to be due to irregular bowel habits and hemorrhoid. still see your family physician to be safe
what is it like to take the weight lost pill adipex 37. 5 (phentermine 37. 5)?
phendimetrazine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
what is phendimetrazine diet pill?
phendimetrazine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
will zendo dieters tea decrease the effectiveness of my birth control? i am taking mononessa birth control.
your pills are absorbed in the small gut and the tea whose main ingredient is senna which stimulates the large bowel. the only value the tea has is to remedy constipation and can be a problem if used chronically as you might use as a supposed method to lose weight as it is advertised but not substantiated in anything i could find.
my girlfriend takes pgx daily * to loose weight can there be side effects? is it recommended to take these
pgx is polygliciplx it is a polysaccharide or plant fiber. it is manufactured in canada and is sold in us as an agent for weight loss. they have done studies with this compound and are available on their web site they do not list the individual ingredients for copy right reasons it is relatively safe. side effects are minor like blotiness gas loose stools or constipation. it works if used properly.
what r the best food"s to eat for your liver?
for liver health or when you have liver problems? your profile notes constipation and painful stools and your medication list has two narcotics. it may be helpful to know that narcotics cause constipation and can lead to painful stools.
my body doesn't tolerate iron pills. do intravenous do the same things to my body as the pills do? i had gastric bypass surgery 3 yrs ago.
oral iron causes some constipation. some companies make a chewable chocolate version that is quite tolerable (bariatric advantage). when the iron is quite low the intravenous route is the best way to recover. however you should then start an oral regimen. in bypass patients a low copper level could inhibit absorption of iron. you might take a copper supplement also.
my son has had tummy pains since infancy and he is nine now his stomach hurts severely when pooping he has not had constipation but now does not have regular bowel movements i think bc he doesn t want to eat to much and hurt again so he eats very little w
if he has been having tummy aches and has been constipated since infancy he should be evaluated for hirschsprung s disease or a megacolon.
my son has had tummy pains since infancy and he is nine now his stomach hurts severely when pooping he has not had constipation but now does not have regular bowel movements i think bc he doesn t want to eat to much and hurt again so he eats very little w
he may have food intolerance or not be digesting well. he could have irritable bowel functional abdominal pain or other issues. we can have regular bowel movements and still be backed up. see your doctor for a thorough evaluation. probiotics may help. cod liver oil might help. he may need diet changes. many people improve off dairy. a nine year old who does not want to eat is a concern.
what are the side effects of belviq (lorcaserin)?
headache dizziness fatigue nausea dry mouth constipation cough low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) in patients with diabetes back pain. personally i do not use it because it's too expensive and i get better results with the medications that i've been using for the last 11 years. i wish you the best.
what can i do for constant bloating? no pain just bloated all the time. i eat healthy and i try to stay away from fatty foods and minimize sodium.
bloating and constipation usually occur together. i always advise to first increase the amount of water and fiber in your diet. it is also a good idea to see your doctor for consideration of blood work. alternatively over the counter medicines such as colace (docusate sodium) and simethicone may help with a bloating sensation.
i've been having quite bad constipation which has an oily texture this is also accompanied by weight-loss which i cannot explain. could it be cancer?
get checked. colonoscopy may be in order.
what are the dangers of low bmi?
indicates low weight & can cause anemia low bone density hormonal imbalance low functioning immune system cardiac problems low energy insomnia constipation frequent illnesses malnutrition.
i usually strain during bowl movements and i have a small hiatus hernia which causes me no problems. will it enlarge if i keep straining?
but probably not. but straining at stool can cause other problems such as hemorrhoids inguinal hernias etc. and chronic constipation can lead to colon problems such as diverticulosis volvulus and even cancer. you should consult with your doctor to increase your fiber intake and other measures.
what would cause loss of appetite? not on any diet pills or anything.
loss of appetite if accompanied by weight loss is anorexia nervosa. it can lead to malnutrition. medical complications of anorexia include: cardiovascular e. g prolonged qt interval low heart rate low blood pressure. abnormal or no menstrual cycle severe bone loss constipation etc. if you have loss of appetite and weight loss you need to see doctor asap. it can lead to these serious problems
i'm taking garcinia torch diet pills but since starting them i'm very constipated and laxatives won't help. what's going on?
stop the diet pill and see if constipation rsesolves. if not see a doctor.
is it good to use aristozyme and lacsyp syrup s for constipation? will these have any side effects?
lacsyp is a laxative like lactulose aristozyme is a digestive enzyme not a laxative. occasional laxative use may be ok but it's far better to increase natural fiber in your diet or add soluble fiber to maintain normal and regular bowel movements.
is phentermine a good option for weight loss?
it can help weight loss by decreasing your hunger or making you feel full longer. phentermine is also available in a combination medication for weight loss (qsymia). like other prescription weight-loss drugs phentermine is intended to be used as part of an overall weight-loss plan. it is indicated for people who are obese and who have failed to lose enough weight with diet and exercise alone — not for people who want to lose just a few pounds phentermine is a schedule iv drug a classification given to drugs that have a potential for abuse although the actual potential appears to be low. although phentermine is one of the most commonly prescribed weight-loss medications it has some potentially serious drawbacks. common side effects include: increased blood pressure dizziness dry mouth sleeplessness nervousness constipation. phentermine isn't a good option if you have heart disease high blood pressure an overactive thyroid gland or glaucoma. it also isn't for women who are pregnant may become pregnant or are breast-feeding.
phentermine side effects bleeding rectum?
this drug causes constipation among other side-effects.
side effects of phentermine (the weight loss drug)?
side effects: insomnia palpitations dry mouth fast heart rate headaches weight loss constipation etc.
why does overeating create constipation in ibs?
ibs-c will worsen with high fiber intake in excess. suggest a trial of miralax (polyethylene glycol) for 10 days and evaluate response after 10 days. if still symptomatic i would suggest a consult to evaluate for changes in medicines and diet evaluation
i am on phentermine and cannot sleep due to the numerous bug bites i have. i took one benadryl (diphenhydramine) allergy. anything i need to watch using both these meds?
increased drying of mucus glands in eyes nose throat may occur. internal eye pressure may increase and you may experience difficulty with urination or constipation
i am diabetic and on a low carb diet what vitamins should i take and what vitamins are good to take for constipation.
to get a high degree of consensus from medical professionals on this question. many of us believe that if you eat according to dietary guidelines with lots of vegetables fruits and whole grains you should be fine. some have advised chromium for diabetes but evidence of benefit is weak. you do need some fiber from whole grains even with a low carb diet to avoid constipation/get all you need<positive_smiley>
i often get yellow mucus in stool. bm reg. after 1-2 bm rarely seen l'il deep blood mxd wth mucus. no abd pain/vomit. hb 14+. cbc/lipid/panc/hep/usg- ok. mild fatty liv & elev bili. on a diet frm april(low oil/fat/pro nojunk) & lost 16(219-203)lbs. is it ca?
constipation? may be hemorrhoids or food intolerances or polyp or proctitis ileitis. is it blood in stool or food residuals? would f/u/ w/ gi for colonoscopy have you had elevated bili before? that is not usual unless lifelong ( disease like gilbert's g6pd thalasemia). could be hemolysis did they check pancreas? bile duct? on meds like gemfibrizol? alcohol? f/u w/ gi
m58 could glucophage/metmormin 500mg kill your appetite to the extent that you feel like eating nothing and your weight go down five pounds in 2 day?
wonderful drug with some serious side effects! nausea vomiting =6-25 % diarrhea = 10-50 % flatulence=12 % abdominal discomfort = 6% abdominal distension abnormal stools constipation dyspepsia heartburn & taste disorder. liver & kidney functions have to be repeated. see your doctor.
my doctor prescribed victoza (liraglutide) for my type 2 diabetes is this medication safe?
victoza (liraglutide) is an excellent and safe drug for type 2 diabetes. the drug results in lowered a1c and weight loss. side effects include nausea diarrhea and constipation. the vast majority of patients do very well on victoza (liraglutide). i did many clinical trials on the drug and found it to be very safe and effective. victoza (liraglutide) is one of my favorite diabetes drugs.
physician told me to put on as much weight as i can asap; have hiatal hernia diverticulosis acid reflux & ibs - and constipation. what foods are ok?
ask again and/ or consider a second opinion.
symptoms: chronic bloat fatigue panic attacks constipation inactivity and weight loss. my life revolves around the bathroom. please help me. ?
hard to give you an answer without exam and possible testing. the weight loss and panic attacks may be related and in fact all of this could be related to anxiety/depression and stress. however please make an appointment with a doctor so these important issues can be resolved.
should i be fine to eat a lot of bananas in a day if i'm not on a diet?
if you consume a large amount of bananas it may cause constipation.
why am i bloating so badly and gaining weight while on adipex?
gastrointestinal adverse reactions for phentermine include : constipation diarrhea unpleasant taste xerostomia.
i was on a low carb diet for 4 weeks. i just started eating normal. ive been getting frequent constipation ever since and now i'm getting worried?
i was on a low carb diet for 4 weeks. i just started eating normal. ive been getting frequent constipation ever since and now i'm getting worried? ans: likely related 2 low fiber n diet. it is not nice to fool with mother nature. loosen up & don't worry. i recommend the dash diet 4 best all around diet. here is kindle book id. get read and use. kindle book-13: 978-1-43914-059-8 it will all pass.
pink spotting little headaches constipation feel bloated hairy belly lumb on the side of belly tired food cravings is this pregnancy symptoms?
we do not live in a world where we use ambiguous symptoms to diagnose pregnancy. if you have missed your period then please get a pregnancy test.
severe constipation is due to moderate hiatal hernia?
not related must be something else.
started very low carb hi protein diet monday. today thurs noticed bloody stool. could my extreme diet change cause this? thanx 4 information!
low carb diets are notorious for causing a slowed down bowel process leading even to harder stool and/or constipation. this can lead to straining and tearing or hemorrhoids. one often needs to have a fiber supplement and lots of good hydration while eating low carb diets.
talked to doctor and she said i need to exercise to lose weight but i am bmi 17. 71 and 100lbs. she knows i am bloated and have ibs. i am fed up.
your question is unclear. are you trying to lose weight? with a bmi of 18 you certainly should not be trying to lose weight. ibs is associated with abdominal bloating as well as episodes of diarrhea and constipation. usually more fiber is of benefit.
no matter what i eat or how much i eat i get nauseated. i had gastric bypass surgery 18 months ago. what could be causing my nausea?
nausea after gastric bypass is not normal. most common is small stones or sludge in gallbladder. also consider ulcer (must avoid aspirins and tobacco). less common might include bowel obstruction medication-related and constipation. of course you will need to see your doctor about this. good luck.
please tell me what are some good remedies for constipation caused by a long-term liquid diet?
i recommend fiber magnesium walking or other exercise and getting your thyroid function checked.
please tell me what phentermine is used for?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
severe burning in lower belly with constipation and throwing up. my dr. is stumped. happens with stress or certain foods. rapid weight gain as well.
with your doc being stumped it may be time to see the gi specialist and get some testing too. good luck.
severe burning in lower belly with constipation and throwing up. my dr. is stumped. happens with stress or certain foods. rapid weight gain as well.
see a gi expert and get upper and lower endoscopy.
sugary foods make throat feel like a lump fecal retention in the colon laxatives no help gluten bloats me lactose makes me sick what could it be?
there seams to be an intolerance go the food groups referred by the patient. the patient has constipation and signs of allergies in his throat.
took miralax (polyethylene glycol) had bm next day and the stool was about the length from my finger tips almost to my elbows could that mean i'm eating too much?
eating heavy food may result in bulky stool. chronic constipation can result in bulky food after laxative.
took three ducolax pills they worked but now i feel bloated how can i relieve this also is it possible that eating too much oatmeal constipated me?
in regards to the bloating the best thing to help is ambulation. walking will help the intestines pass the gas that has built up. i would avoid any additional medications for the bloating at this point. it is unlikely for the oatmeal to cause constipation unless you had an extremely unusual amount. if symptoms continue you should f/u with your md.
i've been constipated cause of low carb diet took dulcolax today and still haven't gone and have pain in hip groin back is it cancer worried?
get examined -pain may be bone or retroperitoneal: use scheduled soluble fiber scheduled 1-4 times daily to soften stool & alleviate recurrent constipation after alleviating current constipation with gentle laxation: try miralax or generic equivalents
i have a hiatal hernia and in addition to upper abdominal pain burning burping etc my lower abdomen is very bloated. is that common with a hernia?
the gi tract has a very limited # of symptoms to signal its distress--nausea/vomiting diarrhea/constipation bloating pain fullness bleeding etc. as you know many of these characterize ibs but are also seen with inflammatory infectious ischemic malabsorptive and functional disorders. directed lab work imaging biopsies stool studies are appropriate in excluding non-ibs pathology.
luq pain over a year. mri us and xray is clean. lipase is 223. hurts worse in the morning & when deep breathing. low fat diet helped a little. next?
you probably have irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) a common disorder that affects the large intestine. ibs commonly causes cramping abdominal pain bloating gas diarrhea and constipation. try to avoid foods that trigger your symptoms. also try to get enough exercise drink plenty of fluids and get enough fiber and sleep. if symptoms continue see your doctor.
lg fever. mid left ab pain. constipation. burping. weight loss back pain. blood mri &ct normal. goes away and comes back. drink plenty of water&fiber?
fiber and water are good for most people's bowel health. it seems to me that you actually need a gi eval with colonoscopy. good luck!
on implanon obese 7negative pregnancy tests bottom and top of stomach is hard movement in stomach. no pregnancy symptoms bloated. what could be wrong?
could be related to constipation reflux gallbladder or ovarian pathology. a sonogram could check for pregnancy and ovarian/uterine pathology a plain abdominal film would assess constipation. consider a trial of milk of magnesia (magnesium hydroxide) for 3 days and see if there is result and change. follow up with a doctor/urgent care this week
on implanon for 8months obese 8neg hpt n neg blood test feeling movement in stomach hard n bloated. help i need real answers?
if you are on the implanon you are not pregnant. the stomach symptoms are most likely related to the bowels. if you have bloating i would recommend trying a probiotic and a low-calorie diet. if you have constipation then you want to increase your water intake exercise and eat plenty of fiber.
on day 73 of my menstural cycle usually a 25 day cycle. my bmi is 17. 0 i have constipation dry/thinning hair distended stomach and burp a lot.
your low weight may be a contributing factor - especially if you work out excessively. this can't be diagnosed with the information that is available. a history physical examination & other studies may be needed to determine cause/causes. once accurately assessed a treatment plan can be developed.
on day 73 of my menstural cycle usually a 25 day cycle. bmi is 17. 0 i have constipation dry/thinning hair insomnia distended stomach and burp a lot.
a bmi or 17 and ammenorrhea suggest metabolic issues that are not discernible without taking additional history physical examination and may be some tests. it is imperative that you see your doctor for an in-person evaluation. the reason for your excessively low weight needs to be determined.
respected sir i want to know why my stool comes tight daily whereas my dieting is not bad.
doctors define constipation as stools less frequently than once every 3-4 days. patients feel they are "constipated" when passing hard or small volume stool or they feel full ; bloated. had an x-ray to show you're not blocked? we don't know if your gut is sluggish or your rectum works correctly or if there is something extrinsic to the gut causing problems. your answer comes from medical eval.
recent attempt at ketogenic diet. constipation yellow hard stool ensued with some relief from miralax. gb issue? giardia?
if you have not gone back to a normal diet please do. more vegetables and most importantly plenty of water. if you have ruq abdominal pain gall bladder may be in play.
to avoid constipation what is the best way to trans from liquid diet to full liquid diet to foods with least irritation after diverticulits attack?
no seeds nuts kernels corns or popcorn.
upper stomach with hardness but no pain or anything just hard and i have belly fat what could it be?
depending on other symptoms it could be bloating or constipation. if its pretty hard mass you should see your pcp and have it evaluated.
what are the complications of a low carb diet?
though some people have problems with problems with constipation during a 1st month if rapidly convert. including lots of healthy saturated fats of natural origin (e. g. lard high fat meats coconut palm olive oils) typically prevents this complication & adds additional benefits:? . appetite ? triglycerides improve lipoproteins (ldl? & large-hdl? ). suggest study my many answers on topics.
what would be the cause of gaining sudden belly fat (no weight gain tho) bloating stomach tightness constipation stomach gurgling and abd twitch?
these symptoms are expected when someone eats too much unhealthy fast food.
how common are side effects (weight gain/loss trouble digesting etc) after gallbladder removal?
one of the more common side effects are loose stools from loss of the gallbladder. not to worry this usually resolves in a few weeks. otoh many patients have a period of constipation related to narcotics used for pain control.
how do i lose belly fat within a week i just got off the depo-provera shot in lost 4. 5 pounds with the help of wii fit for a hour twice a day but im not losing any stomach i also have not had a bm in like 2 weeks and also haven't had a cycle in 5 years du
the only one thing that makes people loose belly fat so fast is liposuction. the symptoms of obesity constipation and no period could be a coinsedence and from the deot hormone but also could be another thing like hypothyroid for example. i suggest you visit your doctor asap and have him/her take a look at you.
have headache and burping a lot with bloated stomach. what should i do? does it have to do with a low carb diet?
most people who burp are seeking relief of an uncomfortable feeling in their stomach. they swallow air & bring it right back up. to stop burping stop burping! you are describing symptoms of dyspepsia which can be caused by many problems (medications infection food intolerance gastroparesis constipation). you should review with your doctor in more detail. eliminate soda and eat slowly.
how can i get constipation relieved when on a low calorie diet?
low calorie diet should include high fiber meals and you need to drink 80-100 ounces of noncafeinated non alcoholic fluid daily. calories have nothing to do with constipation.
how can i treat constipation and bloating after a weight loss diet?
lots of fiber and more water.
had apendex taken out 2years ago. having blood in stools n in tissue paper. cramps lower abdamen. weight loss 12-15pds. constipation diarea. vomiting?
the weight loss is bothersome unless it has been intentional. otherwise you desperately need a consultation with a gastroenterologist.
having upper r quadrant pain under rib cage occasionally radiates to r flank. have had this off and on for the past year but worsening. gallbladder was removed 8 years ago. now also having constipation with occas nausea. mri only shows 2 small cysts on
i assume you were saying that you have two small cysts in the liver but those usually don't cause pain. difficult question to answer in this format. i would definitely see your doctor and see if he/she has any other ideas or treatment options to get to the bottom of your pain. you may need a colonoscopy.
having upper r quadrant pain under rib cage occasionally radiates to r flank. have had this off and on for the past year but worsening. gallbladder was removed 8 years ago. now also having constipation with occas nausea. mri only shows 2 small cysts on
really need more history.
could i have a hiatal hernia? i had my appendix out in april. ever since i've been dealing with constipation. only going 1 time per week. feels like something is stuck in the center of my abdomen between xiphoid process and umbilical area. there's a cons
the type of pain you are describing is not very typical for a hiatal hernia. you may be having problems due to uncoordinated motility of your g. i. tract. this however usually resolved within a couple of weeks at most. if the pain is near an area where there was an incision there could be a hernia. you should follow up with your primary care doctor for a physical exam and potentially with the surgeon that did the appendectomy for an exam as well.
could i have a hiatal hernia? i had my appendix out in april. ever since i've been dealing with constipation. only going 1 time per week. feels like something is stuck in the center of my abdomen between xiphoid process and umbilical area. there's a cons
you should research low or no cost clinics in your area. also call your local county hospital for assistance. you could very well have a hiatal hernia and/or gastritis ulcers reflux disease esophagitis etc. the only way to know is by having an appropriate work up and diagnostic tests. in the meantime start taking daily over the counter prilosec. in addition avoid ibuprofen advil spicy foods caffeine acidic foods and chocolate. best of luck.
how long can side effects from oxycodone last?
this drug taken by mouth has a "duration of action" of 3-6 hours has its "peak effect" from 0. 5-1. 0 hours and its concentration in the body will still be at 50% at the 5 hour mark. considerably longer if your ability to metabolize it is impaired (say with liver problems). so itching nausea constipation and drowsiness may last for many hours! please ask your personal physician about this!
can metamucil help you lose weight?
not really metamucil has no role as a weight loss agent. it is prescribed to make a bulk in the stool so you dont get constipation.
can adderral make you lose weight? how well does it work?
although common side effects of adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) are a loss of appetite and weight loss the medication also has many other potential side effects some of which are quite serious. insomnia rapid or uneven heartbeats lightheadedness increased blood pressure tremors hallucinations muscle twitches headaches dizziness diarrhea or constipation sexual dysfunction and changes in mental state.
can i tale alli weight loss pills (orlistat) if i have crohnes and possibly cronic constipation also?
one of the potential side effects of orlistat is intestinal cramping bloating and fatty stools. with your history of inflammatory bowel disease (crohn's) you might already be experiencing these symptoms and the use of alli or prescription orlistat can make them worst.
could cellulite cream cause constipation?
never heard of something like that causing constipation.
could cellulite cream cause constipation?
there is an excellent page on cellulite cream on line.
help for constapation during weight loss?
using adhs (vasopressin) by biotics which resets adrenals and works as adaptogen for body helps with both constipation and weight loss.
what are the side effects of tamoxifen?
the common ones are bone pain; constipation; coughing; hot flashes; muscle pain; nausea; tiredness; vaginal discharge; weight loss. severe ones are even a more comprehensive list - allergic reactions vaginal bleeding chest pain coughing up blood dark urine decreased libido and so. on.
what are some complications of paget's disease?
the abnormally rapid process of bone remodelling that is associated with paget’s disease can sometimes lead to a build-up of calcium in the blood. the medical term for this is hypercalcaemia - leasds to extreme tiredness depression drowsiness constipation bone pain heart failure sarcoma is a type of cancer that starts in the bone cells. very rarely it can occur as a complication of paget’s.
constipation gas little weight loss tired. had double contrast chest stomach pelvis ct scan which showed ivc blockage and a lung nodule? whatnow im25
lung nodules can be anything from cancer to the little calcified spots that many maybe most of my fellow kansans have from old histoplasmosis. blockage of the ivc can be due to anything from compression by an abnormal structure nearby to a tumor of thrombus in it. nobody here will be much help; your physician must and wants to explain exactly what's happening to you. good luck.
constipation gas little weight loss tired. had double contrast chest stomach pelvis ct scan which showed ivc blockage and a lung nodule? whatnow im25
you need a diagnosis. was the ivc blocked by adjacent lymph nodes or something else? your differential varies from cancer through lymphoma to infection which are all treated very differently. biopsy the lung nodule or anything more accessible. follow up with your doctors. good luck!
can a decrease of fast food consumption cause constipation?
if your definition of constipation is infrequent stools then the less one eats the less frequent one's bowel movements. if you eat more or put in mort you will get more out.
could external and internal hemorrhoids be cured with diet and exercise?
a good diet and exercise are helpful for many conditions. hemorrhoid symptoms are often related to bad bowel habits associated with poor fiber intake and inactivity. foods causing constipation and diarrhea do not help the situation. itching and irritation are often related to diet. protrusion can be decreased by less straining. bleeding must always be evaluated for other causes.
could my stomach ulcer be the cause of my weight gain (and inability to loose it) bloating burning upper stomach constipation and dhiarria?
ulcers don't cause weight gain although they can certainly cause burning in the stomach area. bloating constipation and diarrhea are likely separate from the ulcer. any time i hear this many abdominal complaints what comes to mind is the probable need for dietary change at the very least. you could have irritably bowel syndrome or several other problems as well. see your doctor.
can i have insomnia constipation and weight gain due to low magnesium?
magnesium (mg) is involved in over 300 necessary enzymatic reactions in the body. blood level could be "normal" but tissue level (where mg is active) low. eating a highly processed food diet predisposes many of us to mg deficiency. it could be worth a try to see if supplementing helps you -- can begin w/mag citrate or glycinate 150-200 mg per day w/meals. if loose stools go more slowly.
can i have insomnia constipation and weight gain due to low magnesium?
magnesium levels as well as othe lr electrolytes can cause all kind of issues mostly with muscle or heart and constipation question is what makes you think your magnesium is low?
what should i do for extreme bloating and discomfort 3 weeks following a mastectomy? i had a mastectomy on jan. 10 and came home from the hospital on jan. 11. in the hospital on the 11th i had nausea and vomiting. i was given anti-nausea medicine which
it is very important that you tell these symtpoms to your surgeon so that they can re-evaluate you. you have tried standard treatment with stool softeners/fiber pills and are having bowel movements so i don't think constipation is likely especially as you are having bowel movements. please call your doctor. if you have pain fever or vomiting then you must be seen as an emergency.
what should i do for extreme bloating and discomfort 3 weeks following a mastectomy? i had a mastectomy on jan. 10 and came home from the hospital on jan. 11. in the hospital on the 11th i had nausea and vomiting. i was given anti-nausea medicine which
the surgery itself wouldn't directly cause bloating and discomfort but if have been taking pain medication you might be constipated from that. i would suggest milk of magnesia (magnesium hydroxide) because multiple doses in a day are safe to alleviate constipation. if you feel like you need to go but you can't this may be what you are dealing with
chronic contipation. i changed to a better diet. i am little overweight. dr says everything wrong w/ me is cause im fat. what are? s i need 2 ask dr.
you should definitely consider seeing a gi doctor to help you get a normal bowel regimen. make sure you get enough fluids. you being overweight may indicate that the foods that you eat may contribute to the constipation but that is certainly not the simplistic answer.
constipation and diarrhea bloating rapid unexpected weight loss unable to stay hydrated feeling full even after bm occasional abdom pain. help?
while there are lots of benign reasons you may have this it may represent a more serious condition such as inflammatory bowel disease. you should schedule an appointment with your doctor.
how to increase my weight i am 27 male weight 50kg suferring from frequent constipation what i should do help me?
eat only god made food and leave all the "junk" alone.
how much weight will i lose on senna (not as a diet pill for constipation)?
it only helps if you take the sign that you feel full and eat less calories. if you take three large milkshakes each day because you are stressed you will still gain weight. like all diet aids it is only an "aid" you need to make an effort to eat less and walk exercise more. in this way it can help by making you feel full so that you will hopefully be able to eat less more healthy food.
can a gastric bypass patient take correctol laxitive?
constipation is fairly common after gastric bypass. correctal laxative is ok for a short course. long term constipation is best managed with fiber or miralax (polyethylene glycol).
can a ketogenic diet cause blood in stool? would this be because of all the protein one eats?
it could lead to constipation which this may lead to bloody stool kidney stones and in adults common side effects include weight loss constipation raised cholesterol levels and in women menstrual irregularities including amenorrhoea.
how do diet pills negatively affect your body?
i have used appetite suppressants for my 35 years in practice. used in the proper way they are safe and effective. the most common negatives would be possibly elevating your bp and pulse (you should be monitored by a physician while on them) dryness of the mouth and constipation.
can constipation cause weight loss?
it won't cause weight loss but it will deplete water electrolytes and increase risk of infection and intestinal damage.
can constipation cause weight loss?
the two reflect underlying health problems that result in both. they are not cause and effect.
how come doctors put you on a clear liquid diet after surgery?
regular diet after surgery can lead to vomiting. vomiting is dangerous and can lead to aspiration pneumonia. the anesthetic agents impact the intestines slow them down. post surgical diet promotes hydration little fat few calories and easy to digest. constipation after surgery is a related problem. stay on the diet and have a safe recovery.
can you suggest how to get constipation relief when on a low calorie diet?
has little to do with constipation. your fluid intake is critical. drink 80-100 oz of caffeine free/alcohol free fluid daily more if you exercise or fly in planes.
can you please describe the health consequences of an instant mashed potato diet?
this would be an inheretenly unbalanced diet that is full of starch and void of many required nutrients. anticipate possible constipation & sluggishness.
does phentermine cause rectal bleeding?
can cause constipation which could lead to hemorrhoids or fissure but does not directly cause bleeding. all rectal bleeding should be evaluated.
does constipation cause weight gain?
constipation by itself can increase one's weight by the amount of poop (stool) that is staying inside the intestines. hormonal imbalances such as low thyroid hormone can cause both constipation and weight gain. if one tries to treat constipation by eating more fruits or drinking more juice the large amount of fruit sugar will lead to weight gain. persistent constipation needs a doctor's exam.
does constipation cause weight gain?
you can hold up to 18 lbs of stool. . but does stool make you gain fat no. the weight of stool is a factor in just weight! use a stool softener.
had constipation and that pressure to go 24/7 and i was on a all meat diet the (atkins) diet could that have made me like this?
the atkins diet is not a balanced diet. you left out all the fiber the intestine uses for effective motility of the stool. you can still eat some vegetables with this diet and lose weight.
how do you know if its from overeating or a virus? vomiting often
bulimia potential effects include significant damage to physical emotional mental and life. risks: protein insufficiency electrolyte imbalance fatigue heart attack stomach ulcers tears in the esophagus from stomach acid acid damaged teeth severe constipation slowed thinking depression loss of freedom in life isolation and shame. it is an addiction. seek help! you can get well!
how common is rectal prolapse? can it be caused by diarrhea? can it come and go? can it be related to obesity?
rectal prolapse is not common. according to uptodate literature reviews the incidence is 0. 25 to 0. 42% in the adult population and prevalence is estimated at 1% in adults over age 65. i agree with dr. jacobson that chronic diarrhea is a risk factor. other risk factors include female gender multiparity with vaginal delivery prior pelvic surgery chronc constipation & straining etc.
how common is rectal prolapse? can it be caused by diarrhea? can it come and go? can it be related to obesity?
the literature doers not contain an incidence. it is more common in children under 6 and people over 60 as well as in women. people with a autism psychiatric disorders and whip worms have it more commonly. it is more common with constipation or with straining. there are 3-5 different types depending upon which classification system is used. small prolapse can go back inside and appear to go away.
can eating too much yogurt with beneficial bacterial aggravate hems or make them worse?
inflamed or painful memorrhoids are believed (inconclusive) to typically form because of too much straining either from constipation weight lifting sitting too much too little fiber too little exercise etc the probiotics in yogurt are not known to harm. they may even help but the evidence is inconclusive.
can a hiatal hernia cause constipation?
hiatal hernias cause heartburn and regurgitation and other swallowing issues but not constipation.
can you get constipated from eating too much fruit?
most fruit has lots of sugar and fiber each of which generally act against constipation. however some fruits like bananas constipate some patients especially if eaten with inadequate fluids.
chronic constipation. what to do? i eat normal fibrous food like all others. still the problem persists. i have average physical activity. normal bmi
reflection of poor diet usually because of lack off naturally occurring fresh fruit and vegetables.
does phentermine provide benefits other than reduced appetite?
phenteramine is a stimulant and can give more energy during the daytime. the price for this is insomnia palpitations and possible constipation as well as dry mouth.
does bisacodyl 5mg have any effects to your weight loss?
bisacodyl is a stimulant type of laxative meant to be used for short term constipation and/or part of a prep for a procedure such as colonoscopy. in no way is this medication or similar laxatives part of a weight loss program. unfortunately some patients use laxatives and cause physical and emotional harm to themselves. you will not lose body fat by the use of laxatives; please consult your doc.
do i really have to eat a diet high in fibre if i suffer from diverticular disease?
you don't have to do anything you don't want to do but it would help. constipation is something to be avoided if you have diverticulosis.
having colon cancer resection in 4-5 weeks. is it ok and/or beneficial to add flax seed to diet while waiting. (ins. not effective until feb. )?
there would be no positive or negative benefit from using flax now unless you are using it to treat a problem such as constipation. your surgeon will likely prescribe laxatives and bowel prep to be used to cleanse the colon the day before surgery.
could lipodren diet pill really works?
to contain hoodia yohimbine theobromine l-5- hydroxytryptophan caffeine n-methyl-b-phenylethylamine green tea extract methyl synephrine citrus aurantium ; many other compounds. side effects can include dehydration nausea constipation problems w sleep ^ heart rate ; ^ blood pressure. frankly i don't encourage patients to take these type of pills – for sustained loss – recommend portion.
could constipation cause weight gain?
the retained fecal matter can increase the weight of the body.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
sleep apnea can cause many of the symptoms you described although it's unlikely to cause all of them. if you have sleep apnea treat it to see which symptoms will improve.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
obstructive sleep apnea or osa causes less oxygen to your brain. the body tries to make up for the lack of oxygen with hypertension diabetes kidney problems acid reflux etc. daytime fatigue causes yo to overeat gain weight and the weight gain makes osa worse. which adds to depression and anxiety. simply sleeping on your side and avoiding gerd may work. see www. grossaninstitute. com.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
sleep disturbances can cause all the issues. get sleep apnea addressed.
are unexpected weight loss and lower left abdomenal pain and latharic behaviors symptoms to colon cancer? othe symptoms:-blood on toilet paper constipation tiredness small caliber stools pelvic pain
the most concerning is the narrow stools and blood. this could be rectal cancer. you need a colonoscopy.
are unexpected weight loss and lower left abdomenal pain and latharic behaviors symptoms to colon cancer? othe symptoms:-blood on toilet paper constipation tiredness small caliber stools pelvic pain
you have listed many symptoms that are suspicious for colorectal cancer especially when they are found together. a person experiencing these symptoms needs to see his or her primary doctor or a gastroenterologist for evaluation promptly to obtain a diagnosis and get proper care.
are unexpected weight loss and lower left abdomenal pain and latharic behaviors symptoms to colon cancer? othe symptoms:-blood on toilet paper constipation tiredness small caliber stools pelvic pain
those symptoms could all reflect a colon cancer and that is what needs to be ruled out by a physician. it could possilby be other causes diverticular disease ibs malabsorption syndromes but the most worrisome possible cause (colon cancer) still remains pretty high on the list of possibilities. seek medical attention please!
could diet pills dehydrate your body and lead to tooth decay?
side effects of the prescription diet pills include dizziness insomnia dry mouth headache and constipation. when dry mouth without saliva tooth decay and gum disease are more likely to occur. your health care provider or your dentist can recommend appropriate treatment. take care.
does water help with weight loss?
drinking lots of water will help keep you full and mitigate your appetite. it will also help prevent constipation if you are on a low calorie program. in fact if you drink ice water you can burn an extra 70 calories per day which translates into a 7 pound weight loss over a year!
how can k25 phentermine medicine works in the body and reduces weight?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
hi im having constipation since i was little im overweight and i did all kind of diets but cant loose weight do you think this is the reason?
constipation is not a cause for being overweight but one of the best treatments for constipation also helps with weight loss. this treatment is regular exercise particularly aerobic exercise- the kind that makes you breathe hard and sweat. other treatments include water vegetables and fruit and over- the-counter fiber supplements stool softeners or non-absorbable agents. talk to your doctor
are laxatives good for weight loss?
laxatives should not be used as a means of weight loss. they are intended to resolve constipation. the inappropriate use of laxatives may lead to dehydration electrolyte imbalance and other health problems. if you need to lose weight you should consult a healthcare professional to help guide you toward a healthy lifestyle.
are laxatives good for weight loss?
laxatives are not designed for weight loss. there are many different types some are osmotic like mom some are stimulant like cascara or castor oil. they can be effective for constipation when used properly but they are not effective for weight loss. they can cause problems such as rectal bleeding electrolyte imbalance and dehydration which can end up in renal failure.
constipation loose stools white specks in stool. i am always hungry. could i have a tapeworm? i don't remember eating anything uncooked.
can sometimes present as white specks in stool. possible causes can be increased mucus in the stool because of irritation of the gastrointestinal tract or infections. some foods can cause this. a gallstone when passed could have this coloration. stool ova ; parasite through your doctor can determine if there are broken off segments of tapeworms.
can somebody tell me how can k25 phentermine medicine works in the body and reduces weight?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
can you tell me about phentermine or adipex?
phentermine is in the amphetamine class of drugs and is used to suppress the appetite. it works in the bran to decrease hunger and it may also increase metabolism. it is indicated for short term use for treatment of obesity when combined with exercise and behavioral modification. common side effects include insomnia dry mouth constipation elevated heart rate and agitation.
can anyone tell me what can i do to avoid constipation on a diet?
increasing fiber intake combined with adequate free water is the basis of constipation prevention furthered by avoiding binding foods including dairy bananas starches etc.
can anyone tell me what can i do to avoid constipation on a diet?
it is essential you get enough water. you want to be drinking 80-100 ounces of water each and every day! if that is too boring you can use no calorie flavor enhancers like crystal lite or the squirt in types. then make sure you are consuming lots of fresh and raw vegetables and low calorie fruits like apples pears. popcorn is also good on a diet and a good source of fiber. also eat whole grains!
can anyone tell me what can i do to avoid constipation on a diet?
one must consume adequate amounts of fluids consume fruits and vegetables high in fiber content limit "white" carbohydrates (white bread rice potatoes etc. ) limit alcohol and exercise regularly to avoid constipation. bulk laxatives (citrocel metamucil etc. ) may sometimes be helpful. if you continue to experience constipation you should contact your physician who may suggest colonoscopy
any bad side effects of phentermine?
side effects: insomnia dry mouth constipation fast heart rate tremulousness euphoria headaches etc.
could i use phentermine without any health problems?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
can you tell me is adipex a bad option?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
anal fissure diet?
fissure is a tear in the lining of your anal canal. you need to minimize mechanical stress/ trauma of defecation to heal. any food known to give you constipation or loose bm should be avoided. many find adjusting the amt of fiber supplement helpful in achieving the bm consistency that don't hurt as much. sitz bath and otc meds can promote healing too. if nothing helps see your doc.
anal fissure diet?
the goal is to avoid straining. this is only one option but its inexpensive and easy. just be careful to drink enough fluids otherwise the fiber can cause constipation an make things worse.
what things should not be taken while being prostatitis infection and microcalcification in testes?
when being treated for a prostate infection (bacterial prostatitis) or inflammation (non-bacterial prostatitis) best to avoid citrus foood and drinks hot/spicy foods caffeine (coffee tea pop energy drinks) tobacco alcohol or possibly fried foods all of which are potential prostate irritants. also should avoid prolonged sitting or riding (bicycle motorcycle horses) and avoid constipation.
currently on 5th month of depo. breasts are sore nipples erect food cravings heartburn constipation fatigue and mood swings. am i okay?
these can be side effects of depo. you are fine but you might well do better with a different method of contraception. talk to your doctor about other options which might be better for you such as nexplanon an iud or the nuvaring. good luck.
does phentermine cause constipation?
yes phentermine can cause constipation.
does vicodin cause weight gain?
vicodin does not cause weight gain. moreover some of the side effects are loss of appetite and constipation. check the list of your other drugs with your doctor. for example tricyclic antidepressant or antiseizure could increase appetite especially for carbohydrates.
can i take magnesium citrate along with prilosec and phentermine? not at the same time but in the same day?
hi. mag citrate should be a very rare treat for you! don't use it regularly. use it one or two times for bad constipation but don't use it regularly. for regularity use fiber laxitives. safe and non-habit forming. and stay well hydrated. psyllium husk is one of the oldest and best around and works like a well oiled clock! that's the straight poop! <positive_smiley>
do daily bananas cause belly fat and constipation?
daily banana consumption is not a major contributor to belly fat and constipation.
do daily bananas cause belly fat and constipation?
eating bananas that are green/ unripe can contribute to constipation. eating ripe bananas can decrease constipation. but if you eat a ton of bananas it can block you up (cause constipation). a medium sized banana has 105 calories with 3. 1 grams of fiber and 422 mg of potassium. a daily banana or two shouldn't make you fat.
do daily bananas cause belly fat and constipation?
yes they can cause belly fat and constipation. <link>
how do i prevent constipation and bloating while dieting?
foods up. activity: walking/running etc. most effective. also very effective is? ed quantities of high fiber/low nutritional value vegetable based foods e. g. lettuce cauliflower broccoli celery etc. ; raw potentially more effective than cooked. fiber supplements a back up option. study: <link>#user_questions/6660531 other answers wikipedia etc. for more understanding.
hi doc! my has hypertension & diabetes she's taking her meds for hypertension&diabetes. can she take a slimming tea that contains senna leaves &pods?
senna sometimes used as a laxative but when it is used on a chronic basis can cause a condition called melanosis coli. if constipation is an issue it is better to increase the amount of fiber in the diet and even consider a fiber supplement. you should increase fluid intake if you increase fiber intake. this would be better than chronic senna usage. good luck.
can i take a diuretic if im on phentermine? i feel extremely bloated in my abdomen. thank you
in my experience constipation and diarrhea are more common side effects from phentermine than water retention. instead of adding another drug my first advice would be to increase your water intake to see if that helps. but if your bloat is only in your abdomen (no swollen extremities) i think the culprit is more likely to be constipation/gas.
hello i have been experiencing constipation for the past two years. symptoms started after dieting and weight loss. stool is sticky and fatty w/mucus?
best way to combat constipation is plenty of fiber fluids & exercise. avoid iron & other constipating meds. if that's not enough time to go see your family doc for evaluation. you may need stool studies possibly referral to gastroenterologist. if you lost weight unlikely that you would have hypothyroidism which can cause constipation. we don't typically start worrying about colon cancer til 50
how addictive is phentermine and is it safe for me to take metformin while taking it?
patients on phetermine do not develop addiction even after prolonged used as shown in studies. my experince most patients who combine phetermine with life style modification actual see a decrease in their blood pressure. common concern will be dehydration constipation initial jitteriness that wears away after a few days insomnia. hence take early in the morning increase fiber increase water
help with sibo. constipation horrible breath.! and reflux( has improved since hiatal hernia surgery). my breath is so foul no one can talk to me.
in addition to focusing on the care for sibo don't forget working on oral hygiene with regular visit to dentist to mak sure of no tooth-related disorders daily toothbrush flossing all the spaces among teeth and rinsing the month with oral antiseptic solution especially after sweet consumption. these are primary and essential for breath improvement besides systemic care for possible sibo.
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
primrose oil otc for fibrocystic breasts and supportive bras ice packs. tylenol extra strength 650mg for headache rest ice pack massage. deep breathing relaxation biofeedback techniques. loperimide (immodium) for diarrhea. miralax (polyethylene glycol) for constipation. benadryl for sleep
are there pills or supplements i can take for either leptin or magnesium?
for magnesium supplements there sure are pills to take at natural food stores. also any over the counter pharmacy carries magnesium oxide tablets. long term magnesium intake is not advisable if you have kidney disease unless your blood levels of magnesium are low. high doses of magnesium also causes diarrhea. that's why we use milk of magnesia (magnesium hydroxide) for constipation bec it has magnesium.
after eating mcdonalds i have severe lower abdominal pain. i figured it was gas and i have had a bowel movement but it hurts to stand/move. help!
could be several things in your age group. it's possibly unrelated to the mcdonalds food specifically. appendicitis ovarian cyst irritable bowel syndrome constipation viral colitis are among a few. difficult to tell with short history. if you develop fevers chills and persistent pain you should go to the er. health tip: don't eat mcdonalds. ever! <positive_smiley>.
can you tell me what to expect with someone who has taken lipozene and lost weight?
lipozene contains glucomannan that is a water soluble polysaccharide and considered to be a dietary fiber. i do not use it in my clinic the ingredient glucomannan found in many over the counter supplements for treating health ailments - from constipation to diabetes products containing glucomannan have not been approved by the fda in their effectiveness for treating these health ailments including lipozene
hi my tsh 3rd generation result is 100. i have always been overweight and have recently gained a little bit of weight. have irregular periods and recently there has been issue of constipation. it seems i would fall into the category of hypo-thyroidism. am
units are being used to measure your tsh level but 100? in the usa the standard value that labs use to measure tsh is microunits/ml and normal values range from 0. 4 to 4. 0 microunits/ml. if you're tsh is 100 mcu/ml then definitely something's wrong with your thyroid or the hormones regulating it. this test result requires follow up and either clarification or treatment.
atkins vs nutrisystem vs weight watchers. i'm 21 5^2 &aweigh about 200. what's the best way to lose 50-80 pounds within 2-4 months?
atkins (0 carbs) is the way to go--but it's a tough diet to follow. it's virtually fiber-free and can cause constipation. i recommend adding several tablespoons of psyllium husks every day (konsyl from the grocery store) plus lots of water to keep you regular. also perhaps 500-1 000 mg of magnesium. metformin 500 mg 3 times daily will also help with wt loss. walk at least 15 minutes/day.
bad constipation for ~4wks. tried high fiber (3x rda! ) more h2o & stim. laxatives (mildly helpful). can lumbar ddd/torn disc at l5/s1 cause this?
the disc does not cause this but the immobility (not moving because of the pain) and the medications you take for the pain sure can. getting up and move around helps mix some raw oatmeal with prune juice in a blender and make a milkshake/smoothie out of it avoid any codones/narcotics will usually help.
dairy causes bright red bleeding with painful and hard to push out stools! does this mean no dairy for my life!? ! i don't do grains and try low carb!
it sounds like dairy allergy. dairy can cause constipation and as well as bloody stool. if you avoid all dairy products for a few to several months you are very likely to develop tolerance and then you can have it no more than twice a week if you want to avoid desensitization
does digestive enzymes help digestion when you are on a high protein diet? i'm having problems with constipation
one who has constipation on high meat diet would do well to eat an apple a day + 1/2 portion of oatmeal with fruit and nuts at breakfast. if problem persists see gastroenterologist. fiber-roughage is what is needed.
ever since i have been on a diet i have had problems with bowel movements. is it safe to take laxatives once a week? also my husband has kidney failure. he is doing peritoneal dialysis at home. how long can he live on dialysis before he has to have a
weight loss and new onset of constipation are possibly the result of dietary changes however excluding problems in your colon is important. if you have undergone a recent colonoscopy then occasional laxative use is ok. i am not a dialysis expert therefore cannot answer that question to your satisfaction.
for 8 months i am dealing with constipation/heartburn/belching sometime. my problem started with sudden constipation/weight loss/weakness/body ache.?
this is a problem that requires a face-to-face real-time visit with your doctor. this allows a thorough evaluation of you as well as an effective treatment plan. this will give you the opportunuty to discuss quality of life issues.
gi issues that stay for weeks go & return: bloating gas after food nausea after drinking h2o slow weight gain alternating constipation/ thin poo?
your symptoms are nonspecific & may be due to gi-related inflammation infection motility disorders or even extra-intestinal pathology. however irritable bowel syndrome should be strongly considered & appropriately evaluated given your age duration of distress alternating stool pattern & associated functional-sounding complaints. i recommend you see a gastroenterologist (gi specialist).
grandmother has hashimoto's. i have 35 lb weight loss in 8 weeks. also constipation & fatigue. and pain in spine. could this be symptoms?
get it checked locally.
read a side effect of cymbalta is breast growth caused by hormone imbalance. does hormone imbalance (gh) from cymbalta also cause growth in height?
top 5 ae of cymbalta (duloxetine) nausea dry mouth headache somnolence fatigue. not seen as much are constipation dizziness anorexia (weight loss)insomnia diarrhea. cymb may sometimes makes people feel well enough that they may have an increase in suicidal thoughts! this is an awesome med not only for depression but also neuropathic pain. may take 10 d + to overcome ae (max 60mg 2xd)
amylase 109 lipase 120 alt 54. ct shows no inflammation of the pancreas. was on victoza (liraglutide) for a few months. what does this mean? freq constipation/pain
victoza (liraglutide) can cause a pancreatitis which is diagnosed by elevation of lipase amylase. any gallstones on ct? if no consider hida scan to see if biliary dyskinesia. consider gastrparesis if dm and constipated. keep hydrated eat fiber. consider another drug ( talk to doc) and when off victoza (liraglutide) f/u w levels in 2-3 months avoid alcohol high triglycerides during this time f/u w/doc/gi
are high-protein diets safe for weight loss?
such diets may help with weight loss by making you feel fuller. however the risks of using a high-protein diet with carbohydrate restriction for the long term are still being studied. several health problems may result if a high-protein diet is followed for an extended time: some high-protein diets restrict carbohydrate intake so much that they can result in nutritional deficiencies or insufficient fiber which can cause problems such as bad breath headache and constipation. some high-protein diets include foods such as red meat and full-fat dairy products which may increase your risk of heart disease. a high-protein diet may worsen kidney function in people with kidney disease because your body may have trouble eliminating all the waste products of protein metabolism. . if you want to follow a high-protein diet choose your protein wisely. good choices include soy protein beans nuts fish skinless poultry lean beef pork and low-fat dairy products. avoid processed meats. the quality of the carbohydrates (carbs) you eat is important too. cut processed carbs from your diet and choose carbs that are high in fiber and nutrient-dense such as whole grains and vegetables and fruit. it's always a good idea to talk with your doctor before starting a weight-loss diet. and that's especially important in this case if you have kidney disease diabetes or other chronic health condition. finally keep in mind that weight loss may be temporary especially if you return to your previous way of eating. the best eating plan is one that you can stick to long-term.
brown discharge one week before period due. low back ache nausea cramps constipation headaches tired/weak strong food cravings sore throat?
check urine /blood hcg. or may be variation in period or vaginal infection / pid. consider ultrasound to rule out ectopic/. fibroids/ovarian issue. the sore throat may be incidental or can be from reflux due to abdominal/pelvic dysfunction( try maalox or ranitidine or prevecid). .
been on victoza (liraglutide). having constipation abdominal pain etc. lipase atl and amylase wbc are high. mchc/mcg are low. is it pancreatitis?
we usually define pancreatitis by elevated lipase with high or even with normal amylase. so yes it is pancreatitis. pancreatitis can occur with victoza (liraglutide). call you doctor immediately this am best before you take another dose but you must call today.
could constipation cause pain in hip and side of waist i've started new low carb diet and been constipated and now in pain.
there are many causes of low back pain and hip pain. often they are related. a bad hip can cause buttock groin and/or thigh pain. sometimes a pinched nerve in the back can cause back buttock and thigh pain depending on which nerve is involved. if your pain does not improve or gets worse you should contact your physician to help identify the cause.
even though i eat healthy now i am still experience right flank pain. it throbs for hours at a time. goes and comes. waiting for ins to pass. pleasehelp!
ruq maybe due to gb problems especially if it happens after meals. try to eat as low fat as possible. it may also be related to ibs. some people may develop constipation with both conditions. increase fiber intake in your diet and add psyllium fiber supp such as sugar free metamucil twice a day. push water intake to 74 oz per day. see your pcp to order ruq us to r/o gb stones.
eating too much tums (calcium carbonate) does what?
can lead to nausea vomiting abdominal pain/ cramping decreased appetite constipation diarrhea confusion delirium coma depression involuntary muscle twitching & cardiac arrhythmia.
fourth day taking diet pill adipex experiencing queasiness weak feeling in my stomach constipation sleepless blurred vision. what's could this be?
these are side effects from adipex. reduce your dose or stop taking it. the tablets are scored try 1/2 tablet. these medicines are not perfect and most people have side effects the first 7-14 days.
fourth day taking diet pill adipex experiencing queasiness weak feeling in my stomach constipation sleepless blurred vision. what's could this be?
please stop taking this dangerous and ineffective drug. these are toxic side effects and represent you are reacting negatively. this toxicity is made worse by the fact that this drug is never going to lead you to real or lasting weight loss and should be avoided from now on.
fourth day taking diet pill adipex experiencing queasiness weak feeling in my stomach constipation sleepless blurred vision. what's could this be?
those symptoms are side-effects of adipex. please try another way of losing weight the safer way. see if you could find a functional nutritionist who can help you do a body cleanse then start you on a good sensible diet to a permanent weight loss. regular exercise with a balance diet also helps.
could i be pregnant amd further along than i thought? about 3 months ago i started waking up feeling sick indegestion constipation sore breast and wieghed about 97 lbs then i also started too notice that i have too go potty often and im craving penu
there are other conditions which may cause similar symptoms as early pregnancy. once the pregnancy is ruled out one should look in to other issues giving similar symtoms as early pregnancy. please see a physician to get further evaluation. raksha trivedi md facog www. avaniwoman. com.
if i have fibrocystic breast changes could that increase my risk for getting breast cancer?
fibrocystic breasts are often a sign of estrogen dominance. you may have too much or potent kinds of estrogen. your ovaries produce estrogen but so do fat cells. inflammation from sugar/trans fats make fat cells produce more. foods that are not organic contain pesticides which act like estrogen. your liver may not be breaking estrogen down properly. constipation prevents the release of estrogen.
i had my tubes tied almost two years ago i haven't had regular periods since. i am having pregnancy symptoms cramps constipation breast tenderness.
when the fallopian tubes are tied nearby blood vessels feeding the ovaries can be constricted thus causing hormonal imbalance. it sounds like your progesterone may be low. need to measure your hormones in the blood and seek a competent physician to balance with bioidentical hormones. no synthetic non- bioidenticals please.
i had my tubes tied almost two years ago i haven't had regular periods since. i am having pregnancy symptoms cramps constipation breast tenderness.
if i had a nickel for every time i've heard this i'd be a wealthy guy! go to a4m. com and use physician directory to find a local anti-aging doc who can help you evaluate your hormones your gut function and get you feeling back to normal!
is there a single condition that could be characterized by severe cramps breast tenderness headaches and backache bloating and constipation?
all of those symptoms can occur with pms. if they are persisting longer than 1 to 2 weeks they may be due to a ovarian cyst which is continuing to make extra progesterone. see your doctor for an exam and ultrasound.
i m trying 2 conceive hd nausea sore breast. constipation bodyache chills bt gt periods wid big clots nw m having darker aerolas can i b pregnant?
you should also be examined by your obstetrian.
i m trying 2 conceive hd nausea sore breast. constipation bodyache chills bt gt periods wid big clots nw m having darker aerolas can i b pregnant?
get an outpatient pregnancy test kit at your pharmacy and test yourself. good luck. if it positive have a great baby.
i have constant abdominal discomfort in my uterus area where my ovaries are. i have sore breasts. on birth control. am i pregnant or have ovarian cyst?
well first do a pregnancy test. it could be an ovarian cyst but bcp's are generally used to prevent ovarian cysts from forming-btw that pain would be left or right lower quadrant. any gi complaints like nausea diarrhea or constipation? any burning on urination or difficulty urinating? could be uti. sore breasts may be from bcp's if they've recently changed. should make appt with physician.
i'm taking zantac (ranitidine) still feel bloated after i eat do i change my diet don't kn what to do i am on tamoxifen i'm very constapated help?
i would discuss your problem with your doctor. your constipation may be a side effect of tamoxifen. perhaps he can suggest another medicstion.
could i be pregnant? i can't really remember the date of my last period. i know it was sometime around the middle of august. i don't have any symptoms. no sore breast no constipation nothing like that. i have been super stressed lately with house huntin
if you are a health woman and having unprotected sex then you may be pregnant. a missed period is one of the early signs of pregnancy. however stress and an increase in activity levels can also cause abonormality in your menstral cycle. my advice is to go ahead and take a pregancy test as pregnacy hormones can be detected in the urine after 14 days of conception.
could i be pregnant? i can't really remember the date of my last period. i know it was sometime around the middle of august. i don't have any symptoms. no sore breast no constipation nothing like that. i have been super stressed lately with house huntin
you could be pregnant but you also could have skipped periods due to stress. check a home pregnancy tet and if it is negative make an appointment with a gynecologist to discuss your concerns.
have the iud but recently have backache abdominal pain sore breasts missed period headaches heavy discharge and constipation pregnant?
if you're sexually active then no method of birth control is 100% effective. an otc pregnancy test will help to figure this out. if this is a brand new mirena (levonorgestrel) then pregnancy would've been ruled out before placement. new mirena (levonorgestrel) can cause some pregnancy-like symptoms but then the pregnancy test will be negative.
i had breast reduction & implants put in it's been 2 1/2 weeks and i feel a cramping feeling when i walk or sit in the same position. is this normal?
where is this cramping feeling? leg or abdomen? sitting in the same position for a long time can lead to blood clots in your leg. do you have any leg swelling? if you have abdominal cramping it may be due to constipation associated with pain meds.
breast cancer and uterine cancer in my family. i have back/leg with ovarian volume at 49ml 19mmthicken endomet wall. constipation and pelvic pain?
i can't tell you what your doctor should do but i would be aggressive with you. you didn't give enough info to say much. how old are you? you have a family history of breast &/or ovarian cancer: who are they? one side of the family or both. have you had genetic testing? talk to your doctor about these issues.
breast cancer and uterine cancer in my family. i have back/leg with ovarian volume at 49ml 19mmthicken endomet wall. constipation and pelvic pain?
there are many causes of pelvic pain and constipation. pain in the pelvis does not point to a specific cause. if it is persistent see your doctor.
mam's iron levels could be higher. however she has a sore back just off morphine patches. iron tablets have previously results in constipation.
take the iron pill with a glass of benefiber or metamucil. morphine is constipating too
following breast surgery does the body bloat and gain weight?
funny you should mention it. many of my patients describe this. this may be due to a variety of factors which include normal swelling and inflammation following any surgical trauma as well as constipation that occurs with dehydration or narcotic analgesic use. activity decreased narcotics and ly pharos massage may help.
have severe back pain in the mid interscapular region of my back radiating to my right arm. analgesics causes tachycardia. please suggest?
follow up with doctor/urgent care today. maybe gallbladder reflux esophageal spasm pancreas rarely constipation or vascular/ cardiac issues. may consider maalox as the magnesium may relax spasm and it is an antacid. but follow up with doctor today.
what causes low potassium? what are the symptoms of low potassium?
barrter's/gittleman's/liddle's vomiting/diarrhea/sweating medications (diuretics antibiotics) low magnesium levels s. a. m. e and natural licorice (not the red american kind) etc. are causes with mediations and vomiting/diarrhea being the most common. common symptoms are muscle cramping constipation fatigue and rhabdomyolysis (muscle breakdown).
i have chronically low potassium i was perscribed miralax (polyethylene glycol) for chronic constipation. will muralax cause electrolyte imblances?
yes if causing diarrhea.
i have chronic gastritis constipation palpitation and unrefreshing sleep. any solutions?
your body is obviously under a lot of stress (emotional and/or physical). i strongly recommend supplementing with magnesium (particularly effective is peter gillham's natural vitality calm) which helps specifically with musculoskeletal tension constipation cardiac arrhythmias & palpitations insomnia and anxiety. consider digestive enzymes and probiotics to aid digestion & melatonin for sleep.
i have chronic gastritis constipation palpitation and unrefreshing sleep. any solutions?
many medications can cause the symptoms you describe so review what you are on and follow the chronolgy of introduction. what was introduced at about the time you developed your symptoms? some of the symptoms - maybe all can be caused by anxiety so cognitive-behavior therapy biofeedback or anti-anxiety medicines (buspirone) may be indicated. nonrestorative sleep can be apnea rls meds depress.
is miralax (polyethylene glycol) safe for long term use? i have chronic constipation and doc wants me to take miralax (polyethylene glycol) everyday. i also have chronically low potassium
fluids. eat a high fiber diet between 20-25 grams per day regular meal times and drink 80-100 oz of caffeine free alcohol free fluids daily. if you exercise and should add 20 oz per 30 minutes of strenuous exercise. some meds contribute to constipation so take the meds with full glass of fluid instead of a sip in addition to the above recommended fluids.
i get weak and sleepy after bowel movement for 2-3 hrs. specially if i have some constipation on prev day. what else cud it be instead of vasovagal?
a vasovagal reaction would not cause this. there is some other cause. you need a careful look over. is there something you eat take or do that is both constipating and making you tired? dehydration comes to mind. are you on a diuretic? are you diabetic and poorly controlled? clearly it's complicated and you need a full evaluation.
is there a vascular disorder that causes severe raynauds w/ digital ischemic partial adrenal insuff and multi-wk episodes of ovarian failure carb intol bradycardia & sev. constip (sibo etc. )?
these systemic issues would seem to hint of more than a vascular disorder. would look into your endocrine system (hormones) as features of adrenal insufficiency and thyroid insufficiency (bradycardia and constipation) seem to be at play (pituitary might be the common denominator). raynauds canoccurfora for primary or secondary reasons. in absence of a known ctd shd rule out hormone issues.
i suffer from heart palpitations every now and then have chronic constipation. are they related? what can i do to get rid of heart palpitations?
the two problems are probably not related. in young healthy people heart palpitations are most often caused by early heartbeats or premature ventricular contractions which are often brought on by stress or caffeine. if they continue for several minutes or happen more frequently though you should see a doctor to have a heart tracing or ekg done to be sure it is nothing more serious.
i'm hypothyroid with a tsh of 0. 01 and t4 in mid range i have a slow heart rate i suffer constipation i do have anxiety am i over medicated?
tsh it's to low. normal levels are between 0. 4 -4. 0 may vary between labs. low tsh mean overactive thyroid. if you have anxiety you may be using to much thyroid medication. consult your physician.
i'm hypothyroid with a tsh of 0. 01 and t4 in mid range i have a slow heart rate i suffer constipation i do have anxiety am i over medicated?
your symptoms sound hypothyroid but your tsh indicates that your t4 is normal. however we do not know what your t3 (liothyronine) is especially your free t3 (liothyronine) which could be high causing your tsh to drop. go back to your doctor to have this sorted out with more bloodwork. good luck to you. if necessary see an endocrinologist who treaty's thyroid disease.
i get very scared when heart palpitations occurr and when i feel them it feels like something is going to happen is it normal? have constipation too
palpitations are an awareness of extra heartbeats which most of us have. the sensation can be single or multiple and can sometimes last minutes. different people may feel other symptoms along with them such as dizzy lightheaded or short of breath. the palpitations are almost always atrial or ventricular premature beats. usually benign but they are also found with abnormal hearts.
i get very scared when heart palpitations occurr and when i feel them it feels like something is going to happen is it normal? have constipation too
although heart palpitations are common they should not be considered "normal. " the best approach to finding out about your palpitations is to see your doctor and get an ekg preferably during a time when you are having them. if your palpitations occur every day a 24 hour (holter) monitor would be useful. if they occur less frequently a more prolonged (2-3 week) monitoring period may be helpful.
i gaind weight recntly i had shortnes of breath irregular heartrate which wake me up burping and constipation what's this? doc sed i wasok
i would see a doctor asap whether it is as an appointment or possibly emergency to rule out heart attack or ailment.
what are the effects of very low potassium in pregnancy
mild hypokalemia has no symptoms. moderate hypokalemia with serum potassium concentrations of 2. 5-3 meq/l can cause muscle cramps and weakness constipation etc. severe hypokalemia there is flaccid paralysis. heart rhythm problems may occur at different levels.
why do i have stomach ache and heart palpitations with tylenol (acetaminophen) with codeine 3?
tylenol (acetaminophen) with codiene can have side effects. codiene is usually the culpret the codiene can cause nausea and constipation. theres no stimulant in the rxso the palps may be anxiety over the other side effects. stop taking it. try alternative pain med. theres plenty of others out there.
what are possible symptoms of low potassium?
most hypokalemia (low potassium) is not associated with any symptoms but may have abnormal heart rhythms constipation fatigue muscle weakness or spasms and at very low levels paralysis and death.
what are hypokalemia symptoms?
abnormal heart rhythms (dysrhythmias) especially in people with heart disease constipation fatigue muscle damage (rhabdomyolysis) muscle weakness or spasms paralysis (which can include the lungs).
what to if i am on a low potassium diet will that cause severe constipation?
low potassium levels can cause muscle weakness cramps irregularities in heart rhythm and slowing of bowel movemnt resulting in constipation.
i have constipation sometimes diarhea and random nausea once in a while. is there somewhere i can go for quality/affordable testing with bcbs in mi?
if u have a doctor with bcbs they should be able to order testing for u which can be performed in many lab centers across michigan. most of the time the charge is nominal (if at all) because these symptoms can be disabling & potentially serious. ask ur doctor to order the test or consider using healthtap prime to find a provider in mi if u don't have 1. good luck & thanks for asking healthtap.
have chronic gastritis constipation palpitation and unrefreshing sleep. what could be the solution?
these symptoms could be due to stress anxiety and possibly reflux. without a full physical you also need to consider a cardiac issue and a gi issue. consider and evaluation by a cardiologist gastoenterologist and your family physician.
i had blood work and my pth intact was 85. 7 can this cause palpitations lightheaded and fatigue that is what i been feeling?
high parathyroid can cause weakness and fatigue depression or aches and pains. with more severe disease a person may have a loss of appetite nausea vomiting constipation confusion
i have a calcium deposite on my occipital bone. i have blurred vision confusion vertigo heart palpitations horrible joint pain constipation plz help?
this can be caused by multiple issues but you should have this looked at by a physician to rule out more worrisome processes like multiple myeloma or to just let you know it is simply anxiety. these symptoms together can be a multitude of different things and you should be worked up and examined.
hospital staff have stated that grandmother has low potassium levels. what would the effect be on someone in their 80's?
hypokalemia=low potassium. it depends how low. mild: usually nothing rarely mild arrhythmias. moderate(potassium 2. 5-3 meq/l (normal 3. 5-5. 0)): arrhythmias; muscle weakness pain and cramps; constipation. with more severe hypokalemia: paralysis reduced reflexes.
i've consistently had low k levels (around 3. 2). could that level be causing fatigue heart palpitations and severe constipation?
yes. low potassium may cause many of the symptoms. the more important question is why do you have persistently low potassium levels? this needs to be evaluated.
heavy heart palpitations after eating generally healthly but severely consitpated. is there any link between eating and feel palpitations?
constipation can cause discomfort which can cause tachycardia and anxiety which could be perceived as palpitating. get your constipation treated.
i have not had a full bowel movement in weeks. 2 weeks ago i woke up in the middle of the night with vasovagal symptoms that ended with a diarrhea?
can be a symptom of constipation when you are blocked and only liquids can pass through. you seriously need to clean out. i usually recommend a regime of oral the night before follies by a fast acting oral then enemas in the morning but for you i would see a doc first to make sure it is safe a find out the root cause of your problem. feel better!
hyperparathyroidism with low vit. d and slightly elevated potassium. what does this mean to you? could high potassium cause headaches? dizziness?
high potassium does not cause these symptoms. high serum calcium (associated with hyperparathyroidism) can cause weakness fatigue nausea and constipation among other symptoms (possibly to include dizziness) but generally not headaches.
i have pain in left side of neck trouble swallowing i fainted - palpitations with constipation irregular heart is this my vagal nerve inflamed?
would like to give you some meaningful advice but it would be impossible for a physician to do so on the basis of such limited information. generally people don't get inflammation of their vagal nerve. your symptoms require in in office visit to a good internist for proper diagnosis and treatment. please don't waste your time trying to self-diagnose on the internet. you will just confuse yourself
have been on benicar (olmesartan) 5mg since april 2014 now having adb distention bloating and constipation can his be cause by benicar (olmesartan)?
look for another cause
my doctor says i might have low magnesium. palpitations daily up to 2 hours at a time feel very cold too. how dangerous is this?
magnesium is a essential for the function of over 300 enzymes & needed for muscle nerve & heart function. low magnesium can cause or aggravate muscle spasms anxiety insomnia migraine headaches hypertension fatigue palpitations constipation asthma osteoporosis etc. the best magnesium supplements are magnesium taurate glycinate citrate & aspartate. see <link>
i have a sour stomach acid that shoots up into the back of my throat chest pain and constipation. i have gerd and irritable bowel should i call dr?
if the chest pain is particularly severe especially if it is radiating to your arms or jaw you feel sick feel sweaty or become breathless you should call 911 in the u. s. for information on chest pain:> <link> for gerd :> <link> and <link> for information on constipation:> <link> consult your physician if you need further advice.
my potassium is 3. 9 could my potassium be low? tachycardia and dizzy. period is late and have constipation. would it be smart to do a blood test?
potassium of 3. 9 is within typical normal range. would consider other causes. maybe ensure thyroid is in appropriate range. also would get ecg.
what are symptoms ans dysfunction/failure? tachycardia? dizziness?
ans failure can be just about anything your little heart (kidney liver or stomach) desires. take whichever organ system you want in the body. take out the autonomic controls and what do you have? arrhythmias? incontinence? nausea/vomiting? constipation feelings of fullness sensitivity to light and sound? lack of normal sweating? want more info: www. healthtap. com/drsaghafi
my 17 teen y/o symptoms: less bm upper left soft abdominal lump constipation white tongue/mild coated tongue heart palpitations slightly bloated!?
nobody here can do a thing with this mix of symptoms / signs. plenty of teens are constipated -- most often it's from not drinking enough water. plenty of teens have crud on their tongues -- dental floss may be all that's needed to remove it and it usually means nothing. a majority of teens have some palpitations. if junior has an abdominal mass a physician needs to evaluate it.
how safe is barium sulfate suspension for ct scan? i have svt high blood press chronic constipation & idiopathic hives. any precautions to take?
and of those issues only constipation would seem to be of concern. barium itself can be constipating; it even can solidify stool. yeah. so be consistent with the treatment you've been prescribed - (don't overdo tho) preferably fiber psyllium peg (miralax) etc. rather than stimulant laxatives. keep it moving till the barium's outta there.
i suffer from chronic headaches constipation bloating and muscle cramps that often disturb my sleep. my serum sodium /pottasium is 133. 3/3. 38. ?
your symptoms are nonspecific. sodium level is borderline low. if a repeat test shows definite hyponatremia it could explain some symptoms. the potassium level is normal but recurrent muscle cramps may be caused by calcium and magnesium deficiencies as well as low sodium. i recommend an evaluation by an endocrinologist for diagnosis and if needed further testing and treatment.
what are the extraintestinal symptoms of ibs-c? can patients experience fatigue poor sleep headaches back pain and heart palpitations?
technically speaking ibs-c (constipation predominant) shd only affect the bowels. ibs isn't a systemic disease like ibd (inflammatory bowel disease - crohn's or ulcerative colitis). that being said ibs can certainly cause anxiety / panic disorder (it has a way of affecting the mind sleep & there4 personality) which can then explain the symptoms u describe. ttyd & perhaps a counselor regarding
what can cause a brief episode of v tach in a 24yo adult? structurally normal heart (by echo) & no arrhythmias (by 30day event monitor). k lvl was 3. 2
24 is young to have heart problems unless it runs in your family. cocaine amphetamines and some medications can cause vtach. a strong disalva reflex from straining due to constipation or getting hit in the solo plexus can cause arrthymias. vtach often requires medical attention and shocking the heart back to a normal rhythm. electrolyte imbalances can cause arrthymias
hello i have the following symptoms which even an ecg and x-ray cannot detect. pain on my left lower obdomen with it is neckpain and chest discomfort?
the symptoms you give are difficult to put together as stemming from one entity. considering your age the most likely cause of all three of your symptoms having the same origin is you overstrained your body's muscles and ligaments with some activity. neck problems can refer to the chest and lower abdominal pain can be because of constipation or colon inflammation. see mds again if persists.
hi i've been feeling a lot of pain in my body and i think i'm having constipation and i feel bloated and abdominal pain and rapid heartbeat and shortness of breath and chest tightness and pain and pain and numbness in my left arm and body popping and head
you talk of such vague overall complaints all over your body that it suggests to me that you might be having issues of a psychological rather than a physiological disruption in your health. you may indeed have constipation. that might cause you pain and a feeling of fullness in the left lower quadrant of your abdomen. it would not explain the rest. see your pcp.
i am 16 i am not pregnant but towards the bottom of my stomach on the right side it feeels like a heart beat or something. what does it mean?
constipation/gas. if concerned or pain or emesis or fever see a physician.
my hr is normal but i feel like it is racing. what does this mean. anxiety? i have mvp w/ regurg. please help. i cant get into cardio drtil end oct
i feel empathy for your distress. i understand your anxiety about mitral valve prolapse with regurgitation and need to see cardiologist. omeprazole may cause anxiety increased heart rate and constipation. “my hr is normal but i feel like it is racing” indicates anxiety. go to urgent care or e. r. for diagnosis and treatment. see a psychiatrist for therapy. relaxation visual imagery meditation
how can i determine if i have chronic "chaga's" disease?
chana's disease itself is a chronic dz. secondary to a parasitic infestation called trypnasoma cruzei a parasite. once the chaga's disease sets in with the signs and symptoms it is diagnosed. conduction disorders - heart dilated intestines from destruction-nerve fibers of intestines are few features. it leads to chr. constipation. blood tests biopsy of the affected organ may be helpful sometime
ths level is 0. 79 and free t4 is 18. 2. symptoms include: palpitations constipation migraines pins and needles and lethargy. is my thyroid to blame?
the free t4 doesn't sound correct. i would check or repeat this but also add ft3 (liothyronine) and reverse t3 (liothyronine). your symptoms currently don't necessary go all with thyroid. there could be many other reasons for your symptoms so other blood testing will be needed to rule out other causes.
ths level is 0. 79 and free t4 is 18. 2. symptoms include: palpitations constipation migraines pins and needles and lethargy. is my thyroid to blame?
if your tsh is low - suppressed that is because your thyroid is "over"-functioning which is hyperthyroidism. the symptoms you describe can all be related to an abnormally functioning thyroid gland. see an endocrinologist for further workup to determine the cause of the overactive thyroid.
had viral inf 12 days ago coughing chest pain. constipation & chest pain (reflux) since then. took whole bottle of mag citrate yesterday-nothing?
try an antacid: it helps with constipation (take bid two times per day); and it helps with acid reflux.
low potassium symptoms?
many-depending on severity including muscle weakness/cramping tingling or numbness nausea or vomiting abdominal cramping bloating constipation palpitations (feeling your heart beat irregularly) passing large amounts of urine or feeling very thirsty most of the time fainting due to low blood pressure abnormal psychological behavior: depression psychosis delirium confusion or hallucinations.
recently i've been in and out of the er heart palpitations and have had ct dye scan. xrays. stress test. all normal. what can be the cause?
i agree with the other answer. . one more thing to be aware of is increased bloating and constipation. often if your small bowel is full and you have increased bloating that can push up the diaphragm which can push up against the pericardial sac inducing palpitations.
i have permanent af is it ok to take codeine as a painkiller? i see that it can cause a fast heart rate. thanks
codeine is a dangerous drug with many side effects not a casual drug for all pain. in high doses it can cause respiratory depression constipation and inability to reason or drive a vehicle. identify your cause of pain and see a heart specialist for better safer alternatives with less side effects.
my lower back pained and my heartbeat so fast?
the elevated heart beat may be from pain especially if severe i. e. pain causes heart rate to increase. but it can also be related to the cause of pain if the pain is due to infection in intestine (crohns proctitis ileitis) or kidneys or ovaries uterus tubes. may als ojust be sciatica constipation would follow up with doctor today
nortriptyline safe? doc said will help headaches. i looked up side effects. fast heart rate. low blood pressure. hepatitis. these common side effects?
as long as the dose is started low and gradually increased until you have pain control there should be no problem with lightheadedness or dizziness. it is a safe medication and in fact was the most commonly prescribed antidepressant up until about 1985. i have treated hundreds of patients with it and have done research with it as well. the most common side effects in the long run are dry mouth constipation difficulty urinating if the doses too high especially andblurred vision only close up reading. an occasional patient will also have g. i. upset. lightheadedness and dizziness is a function of dose and can be regulated by checking a blood level if necessary. if you find yourself being lightheaded or dizzy make sure that you get up slowly from a lying or sitting position and dangling legs over the side of the bed especially the middle of the night for about 30 seconds will allow the blood to move up up towards your head so you won't get lightheaded or dizzy standing. anoccasional craving for sweets can occur with this medication and is to some degree dose dependent. best wishes.
how can i safely use a fleet enema for constipation if i have chronically low potassium?
fleets enema: commonly used ~4 oz saline laxative; sodium phosphate-based; can cause adverse reactions in certain individuals (age >55) with certain pre-existing conditions (e. g. dehydration impaired kidney function congestive heart failure abnormal electrolytes) if used too often (>3 days or >1 dose/24 hrs). i recommend you ask your md about proper dosing and alternatives.
kristalose 20 grams 2 x daily for constipation. is this safe and a good dose? any side effects? i have svt/wpw syndrome.
constipation in an otherwise healthy person is usually due to inadequate fiber and fluid intake and is especially prevalent in western society due to the widespread use of processed foods combined with a high intake of non-vegetarian foods. adding fiber supplements e. g. benefiber metamucil konsyl and aloe vera helps. lactulose also helps by fighting the colon's effort to dehydrate the stool.
occasional chest pains (usually after meal) but after farting they're gone. what could possibly cause this so i can avoid it from happening again?
which in turn could be caused by dyspepsia food allergy/reaction or rarely a more serious cause. try things such as adding lactase supplements/beano enzymes with papaya gas-x (although watch out here because too much of this could harm your electrolyte balance). try eliminating certain foods in your diet to see if your symptoms resolve. take a walk daily generally avoid constipation.
pseudohypoparathyroidism? i have "archibald's sign " chronic skin rash constipation heart flutter. come home asap from vet school abroad for dx/tx?
you present a number of medical complaints all of which need attention. please start with a visit to your primary doctor. your medical history will be taken you will be examined by the doctor and laboratory studies will be ordered. once the information is collected your doctor will decide where you might go for further care. please let me know what develops.
stomach pain headache excessive gas constipation and visible heartbeat in stomach had ultrasound and dr. not concerned about aaa. whats wrong?
prominent abdominal aortic pulsation may be seen in slender people or with hypertension even without aaa. your abdominal complaints may be due to irritable bowel syndrome gluten or lactose intolerance. a consultation with a gastroenterologist would be helpful for diagnosis and treatment.
when i'm constipated i get chest pain weird stomach cramps and pelvic pain. is that due to constipation or something else?
stomach and pelvic pain most likely constipation. chest pain may be something altogether different.
sharp stabbing chestpain on hiccup cough. somewhat body postional but cause inconsistent. eating might provoke. bowel movement makes it easier?
may be musculoskeletal gas or colonic from constipation or other process since provoked by eating an relieved by bowel movement. you could try simethicone but follow up with gi and consider colonoscopy/ct abdomen/pelvis to insure not missing lesion polyp tumor diverticula or rare hernia.
what are the effects of amiodarone on stomach?
amiodarone is associated with multiple side effects including nausea vomiting constipation even pancreatitis. see your doctor if you have any persistent unpleasant symptoms while taking this medicine.
what are possible mental side effects to taking prazosin? i've heard they can make you feel numb.
headache drowsiness tiredness weakness blurred vision nausea vomiting diarrhea or constipation may occur as your body adjusts to the medication. if any of these effects persist or worsen tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. lightheadedness or dizziness upon standing may also occur especially after the first dose and shortly after taking a dose of the drug.
what would be the best diet for a person who has cholestrol stomach ulcer constipation heart burn and blood pressure. he is 60 yrs old.
low in cholesterol & sodium.
what are the side effects of taking tricor (fenofibrate)?
the most common reactions are constipation headaches alt ast elevations abominal pain back pain muscle pain nusea. they are more serious complications such as hepatitis pancreatitis myositis myopathy cholelithiasis rhabdomyolysis and stevens-johnson sydrome.
what are the side effects of lopid (gemfibrozil)?
potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation.
what are the side affects of verapamil (verelan )?
the most common side effects of verapamil relate to an excess of what it is prescribed for: a too-slow pulse and/or too-low blood pressure. many people also experience some degree of constipation.
will diverticulitis aggravate an aortic aneurysm?
diverticulitis is not related to aortic aneurysm. however if there is constipation would suggest a good bowel regimen to avoid excessive straining.
what serious back conditions do not show up on mri? my daughter 25 can no longer work mainly due to extreme back pain. she has episodes of nosebleeds extreme low blood pressure no menstrual cycle and extreme constipation. her insurance runs out in 2 w
let me say that i understand your frustration and concern. you want answers and you want your daughter's pain relieved. based on your post it sounds like your daughter has some major issues going on and her doctors are trying to help but are currently unsuccessful at finding a diagnosis. however tests are being done so be reassured by this. i know you mentioned her insurance runs out in two weeks. i suggest you speak with a social worker and see if there is state or county insurance available to her. once this is resolved i recommend getting your daughter in to see a pain specialist. there are many treatment options available to help alleviate her pain. as far as mri's go they can show: disc problems tumors arthritis infection nerve damage congenital spine problems now you also need to take into consideration the quality of the test and even the positon of the patient during the test which can affect the findings. also the doctor interpreting the mri may have missed something simply human error. you can always request a second reading by a different radiologist. give your daughter hope and encouragement always and continue to seek care and push for a diagnosis and appropriate treatment. good luck.
what serious back conditions do not show up on mri? my daughter 25 can no longer work mainly due to extreme back pain. she has episodes of nosebleeds extreme low blood pressure no menstrual cycle and extreme constipation. her insurance runs out in 2 w
mri accurately portrays injuries and structural abnormalities in your vertebrae disks spinal cord and nerve roots and it is a good way to detect injuries to the soft tissues surrounding your spinal column. in addition mri can usually detect inflammation or infection in any of these tissues. what mri cannot depict is the "gating" that often occurs in chronic pain syndromes. that is it does not show nervous impulses that arise as the result of painful conditions (and many of these impulses continue to travel through your nervous system even when injured or inflamed tissues have healed). if the mri does not show any serious abnormalities your daughter's symptoms could be due to changes in the way her nervous system relays messages and alterations in brain centers that are responsible for pain perception. if she hasn't already done so consultation with a pain management specialist could prove useful in this respect. i hope she finds relief soon.
what r the signs of fibermyalga swollen feet muscle cramps stumbling slow moving headache jaws hurt skins is feeling like its a hotdog about to burst
signs of fibromyalgia are: muscle pain muscle spasms or tightness weakness in the arms and legs leg cramps fatigue difficulty sleeping stiffness once you wake up waking stiffness after staying in one position for too long problems remembering and concentrating abdominal pain bloating nausea constipation diarrhea headaches jaw and face pain anxiety depression numbness or tingling in the face arms hands legs or feet urinary changes a feeling of swelling in the hands and feet painful menstrual periods dizziness sensitivity to odors noise bright lights medications certain foods and cold (may not be to all things listed) as you see this is a pretty extensive list and a difficult diagnosis to make at times. please see a medical professional for an evaluation. good luck.
will this medication hurt my mother? my mother is in a nursing home and had been prescribed hydrocodone for pain. she started having low blood pressure/heart beat/diziness/bizarre behavior. she's been sent to the emergency room three times in the last t
narcotics such as hydrocodone often create sedation confusion and constipation. it is safer to use high-dose tylenol (two 500mg acetaminophen) every 6-8 hours to control pain provided one avoids alcohol and has ones liver function checked periodically. regarding blood pressure pulse and dizziness blood pressure should be checked sitting and standing and doctor examine the patient.
what would make me feel like im freezing in 70 degree weather could it be another dvt i had 2 dvt in 2 and a half years
the symptoms of always feeling cold especially if accompanied by dry itchy skin brittle hair and feelings of sluggishness constipation and fatigue are characteristics of a low thyroid metabolism. these symptoms are best evaluated with a total t4 free t4 total t3 and free t3 and reverse t3 as well as a thyroid antiglobulin study ultrasound of the thyroid and a competent examination by a thyroid specialist or endocrinologist. what is more troubling from the venous point of view is your history of two episodes of dvt in 2 years. this is a very serious condition which can lead to long term disability from chronic venous insufficiency and or obstruction of the common femoral and or popliteal vein and may result in chronic leg swelling darkening of the skin at the ankle and chronic ulceration. this also also has the potential to travel up into the pelvic veins and even break off and be carried to the heart and lungs as a pulmonary embolus. i strongly suggest that you should see a phlebologist or another physician with special knowledge of dvt and clotting abnormalities and determine if you have a congential or acquired hyper coagulable state (thromobphilia condition) which predisposes to recurrent dvts. a series of blood tests (coagulopathy panel) can determine if you have inherited one or more of these genetic risk factors that might explain your problem: factor v leidin protein c protein s prothrombin g20210a mutation elevated factor viii antiphospholipid antibodies apc resistance antithrombin activity. lupus anticoagulant and hyperhomocyteinemia {mthr abonrmality}. other acquired predisposing factors include oral contraceptive and estrogen containing products undiagnosed occult malignancies and prior history of trauma to your veins or even chronic varicose veins. this is a complex problem and you should try to see a specialist either through your insurance plan or through a free clinic at a teaching hospital where duplex ultrasound and other resources can be used to assess the gravity of your condition. in the meantime if your leg is swollen and you do not have any arterial disease you may want to consider wearing a graduated elastic compression stocking (preferably thigh high) with a 20 to 30 or even a 30 to 30 mm hg gradient may give you some relief from the symptoms of swelling and this may help to prevent another episode of dvt. compression stockings stronger than 20 mm hg gradient should only be dispensed through a licensed professional. aspirin is not a sufficient preventative medicine and your specialist can advise you whether you may be better off considering life long anticoagulation or whether you condition doesn't merit these additional risks.
why does my body always have the urge for a bm 3-5min after taking lortab7. 5/500?
lortab contains hydrocodone - an opioid narcotic that notoriously causes constipation. look for some other cause of your colonic urgency!
what is the reason for bulging veins in the booty?
i wonder if you are asking about hemorrhoids which are most often caused by straining to pass stool. avoiding constipation and over excessive straining on the toilet.
what is the treatment for raynaud's phenomenon?
keeping hands warm and dry is the thing everyone should do. i think in terms of drug prophylaxis or for diminution in severity of the raynaud's calcium channel blockers are the best therapeutic option. i favor diltiazem over verapamil (less constipation and slowing of heart rate) and over nifedipine and amlodipine (less edema). however all are fine and work. others may use nitroglycerine paste.
what all can be the side effects of lasix (furosemide)?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium >
what are the effects of catapres (clonidine)?
potential side eff ects include: dry mouth fatigue constipation headche agitation and sexual dysfunction.
what are the most common side effects to diltiazem?
it lowers bp but lowers heart rate. it can constipate. it is used for arrythymias bp migraine prophylaxis and other things. i think the most bothersome for patients is constipation especially those with this problem already.
what are the side effects of catapres (clonidine)?
clonidine stimulates? 2 receptors which causes the heart to beat less forcefully and blood vessels to dilate (increase in diameter) which lowers blood pressure hence its classification as an anti-hypertensive (though it has many other clinical uses). side effects include hypotension (too low blood pressure) dry mouth fatigue weakness nausea constipation and many more.
was prescribed caduet. am experiencing terrible abdominal pain.?
the amlodipine part of caduet can cause constipation and this might be part of the problem but it is hard to be sure. almost any medicine can cause stomach upset but there might be something else going on too. i would get this checked out by your primary healthcare provider.
what are the side effects of adalat (nifedipine) retard can it raise psa level?
ankles skin flushing lassitude constipation. less commonly fainting dizziness indigestion rapid heart rate/palpitations anxiety urinary frequency erectile dysfunction insomnia swollen joints and visual disturbances. should not have any effect on psa.
what are the side effects of amiodarone cordarone?
all meds have potential side effects. a few of the side effects that cordarone (amiodarone) can cause include causing the thyroid to be overactive or underactive. it can also lead to pulmonary fibrosis a potentially serious lung disease that can lead to permanent scarring of the lung. cordarone (amiodarone) can cause severe slowing of the heart rate and rhythm and it can also cause constipation.
what are the side effects of a drug called lopid (gemfibrozil)?
potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation.
what are the best tolerated blood pressure medications without side effects? what about diltia xt (diltiazem)?
all blood pressure medications have some side effects. some of the perceived symptoms are drug specifics while many symptoms are related to blood pressure lowering (ie dizziness fatigue). in general diuretics ace inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are well tolerated. common symptoms of diltia xr are constipation; dizziness; facial flushing; headache; lightheadedness; tiredness.
what is effect of questran (cholestyramine)?
gas bloating and constipation.
what is the treatment for shy-drager syndrome?
there is no cure for msa and there is no known way to prevent the disease from getting worse. the goal of treatment is to control symptoms. anticholinergic medications may be used to reduce early or mild tremors. levodopa may improve movement and balance. meds can be used to treat low blood pressure constipation too. some need pacemakers for their low heart rate.
what are side affects of gemfibrozil?
gemfibrozil (lopid) potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation. side effects (
what are some possible side effects of catapres (clonidine)?
dry mouth constipation and feeling sleepy or lethargic are some of the common side effects i have encountered in my patients.
what are the side affects of verapamil (verelan)?
the most common adverse effect is constipation. other adverse effects may be hypotension fluid retention drowsiness and cardiac dysfunction.
what are the side effects of simvastatin does it really help lower cholesterol?
the commonest side effects are muscle pain and damage. rarely rhabdomyolysis lysis if muscle cells may occur and is a serious issue. other side effects include liver damage. gastro-intestinal disorders like constipation diarrhea skin rashes precipitation of diabetes mellitus and neurologic problems like memory loss. yes it does help in lowering cholesterol.
what are the possible side effects of topiramate or topamax?
constipation; decreased sweating; diarrhea; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth; flu-like symptoms; headache; loss of appetite; nausea; nervousness; numbness or tingling of the skin; runny nose; sore throat; stomach pain or upset; taste changes; tiredness; trouble sleeping; weight loss.
which are side effects of simvastatin for the cholesterol?
the commonest side effects are muscle pain and damage. rarely rhabdomyolysis lysis if muscle cells may occur and is a serious issue. other side effects include liver damage. gastro-intestinal disorders like constipation diarrhea skin rashes precipitation of diabetes mellitus and neurologic problems like memory loss.
would there be any side effects from sandostatin (octreotide)?
constipation diarrhea foul smelling stools gases heartburn headache dizziness nausea muscle pain nose bleed hair loss pain at site of injection rash shortness of breath depression.
why would my legs sometimes ache immediately when using a saline enema for consitpation? i do not have high blood pressure?
how often do you use enemas or laxatives for constipation? too frequent use can lower potassium levels which can cause leg cramps. magnesium may similarly be lost & cause cramps. increasing dietary fiber (& using fiber supplements) with plenty of fluids should keep bms regular. for potassium eat bananas kiwi strawberries; for both minerals: cilantro beans sun-dried tomatoes nuts etc.
what are the symptoms of shy-drager syndrome?
•postural hypotension •orthostatic hypotension •autonomic failure •chronic constipation •impotence •urinary incontinence •impaired speech •breathing difficulties •swallowing difficulties •inability to sweat.
what are some of the possible side-effects of a doubled lasix (furosemide) prescription?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium >
what are the side effects of taking verapamil for migraines and high blood pressure?
low heart rates constipation and edema are some of the more common side effects.
what are the side effects of taking verapamil for migraines and high blood pressure?
constipation and swollen feet are common side effects.
what can be done for chronic constipation due due calcium channel blockers?
to a different drug if the constipation cannot be treated by increasing fiber and or periodic laxatives.
what are the side effects of clonidine?
commonly include: dry mouth fatigue constipation headache bradycardia. a more worrisome side effect is rebound hypertension since it is a short acting drug. speak with your doctor.
what are the side effects of verapamil?
include: low blood pressure slow heart rate constipation headache nausea fatigue to name a few.
which calcium channel blocker will lead to lessor (or no) perfipheral edema.?
all calcium channel blockers do to some extent. it depends on the dosage. as dosage goes up probability also increases. but in my experience verapamil does less but it may cause constipation. i prefer to use combinations.
will taking lasix (furosemide) lead to dehydration?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium
will methodone interfere with high blood pressure and does it have anything to do with constipation also tiredness sometimes i get really tired afte?
merhadone can cause constipation and fatigue. if anything it will lower your blood pressure. if you have concerns about this med talk to your precribing physician.
what can i drink to help with my constipation if i have diabetes high blood pressure and gastritis?
most common cause of constipation in diabetes are high sugars causing excess fluid loss; dehydration even modest leads to constipation. so keep sugars controlled drink lots of fluids to keep urine dilute!
what can i drink to help with my constipation if i have diabetes high blood pressure and gastritis?
high in fiber fruits and vegetables.
what can go wrong during a quadruple heart bypass?
the most concerning complications are stroke kidney failure pneumonia bleeding and infection. these are rare. the most common complications are irregular heart rhythm constipation and fluid retention. the vast majority of patients (98%) have minimal self limiting complications go home in three days and are driving and back to work (not strenuous) in 3-4 weeks.
what are symptoms of ovarian cancer also compacted bowel and very short of breath?
but those symptoms occur with ibs constipation diverticulosis and a million other diseases. i would see a md.
when eating gluten products i develop bloating constipation and water retention. could i have gluten sensitivity or celiac's disease?
wheat or gluten sensitivities include a wide spectrum of presentations from well-defined celiac disease to other vaguely defined conditions like ibs-like symptoms and problems outside of the gut like gluten ataxia or peripheral neuropathy. since it is complicated a good history taken by your physician with supporting tests might me helpful to tell if you have sensitivities or allergy to wheat.
will docusate sodiym usp stool softner infer with any of my medication? on klonopin inderal (propranolol) and remeron
it could be that the propranolol mirtazapine or the clonazepam could actually be causing the constipation. another thought is that it could be their additive effects. now granted these medications may be doing a lot to stabilize you so the constipation may be just a nuisance compared to the alternative! i would talk to your prescribing physician about this and see what the next step is best!
what causes spotting bloating constipation and shortness of breath after a period? i took a home pregnancy test & it was negative. what is going on?
your symptoms may be unrelalted to menstrual bleeding. if you are having excessive menstrual bleeding you may be anemic that may explain shortness of breath. if the symptoms recur at the next cycle you should consult your doctor.
which is good medicine to control bp and less side effects amlodepine or talmisartan. i m 37 years a boy.
amlodipine may cause edema and or constipation. the arbs (tolemesartan is one) can cause high potassium and elevated creatinine. both of course can cause low blood pressure. you need to discuss these choices with your doctor. both of these medications work better with a diuretic.
would taking potassium spearing diuretic such as spironolactone in addition to hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) aggravate or slow the healing of anal fissure?
diuretics has no effect what so ever on anal fissure better or worst saying that if the diuretics will end up causing dehydration bad enough to cause constipation then yes that could cause the anal fissure to be worst saying that we do treat the anal fissure with vasodilaters a medication that is used to treat hypertension and that have been very helpful.
what do you suggest if my dr. put me on. 3 mg of clonidine and 50mg of trazadone for sleep what could the side affects be?
i would worry about low blood pressure dizziness dry mouth headache fatigue feeling faint feeling slowed heart rate too slow and constipation. might be difficult to wake up.
what's the place ofenalapril 5 mg as a drug for bp compared to norvasc (amlodipine) 5mg? can one take the two at the same time?
cannot be compared. can be taken together. both have unique properties. if associated with diabetes. enalapril can be better. but can cause cough and angioedema. amloidopin ( norvasc) is good it can cause ankle edema constipation. kidney heart conditions guide the choice also.
what are some long term negative side effects of calcium channel blockers?
ther are 3 major types of calcium channel blockers and each has unique effects and side effects. the common thing about them is that by its molecular action they relax smooth muscles otherwise they are completely different from each other and sometimes have opposite effects. one lowers the heart beat the other increases it. constipation is common in one but not in others. gum swelling in one etc
what are the risks associated with taking nifedipine for preterm labor?
nifedipine has been shown in small trials to be useful as a tocolytic (stop uterine contractions and thus labor) and is used when traditinal medications fail. the side effects can range from mild dizzyness to hypotension and near fainting. it can also cause swelling constipation headaches and reflex tachycardia(fast heart rates). as always discuss options with your doctor.
side effects on 120mg of verapamil?
verapamil is usually used for blood pressure and/or heart rate control it belongs to the family of drugs known as "calcium channel blockers". its major side effect is constipation but i doubt it at this relatively low dose.
side effects of verapamil?
the most common adverse effect is constipation. other adverse effects may be hypotension fluid retention drowsiness and cardiac dysfunction.
side effects of verapamil?
blood pressure medication which can slow the heart rate and cause constipation.
side effects of topamax (topiramate) for my migraines?
all medicines may cause side effects but many people have no or minor side effects. constipation; decreased sweating; diarrhea; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth; flu-like symptoms; headache; loss of appetite; nausea; nervousness; numbness or tingling of the skin; runny nose; sore throat; stomach pain or upset; taste changes; tiredness; trouble sleeping; weight loss.
side effects of simvastatin to look for?
the commonest side effects are muscle pain and damage. rarely rhabdomyolysis lysis if muscle cells may occur and is a serious issue. other side effects include liver damage. gastro-intestinal disorders like constipation diarrhea skin rashes precipitation of diabetes mellitus and neurologic problems like memory loss.
since i have taking cholesterol medication i have chronic constipation that i spent several minutes and more often to bathroom visit. causing overwt?
can cause constipation. in addition to diet be sure you are drinking 80-100 oz of caffeine free/alcohol free fluid daily and drink an extra glass with each dose of the cholesterol med.
since i have taking cholesterol medication i have chronic constipation that i spent several minutes and more often to bathroom visit. causing overwt?
constipation may make your weight appear to be higher on a scale but it doesn't cause you to be fat. if you have constipation from your cholesterol medication you can counteract it by eating a high fiber cereal with non-fat milk such as raisin bran all bran fiber one or any other cereal that contains > 5 grams of fiber per serving. eat 1-2 servings every day. initially it may take 2-3 days.
stomach pains after taking baby asprin and bystolic (nebivolol) for several months. now causing constipation anything i can do?
take aspirin on full stomach. constipation is an unusual side effect for the medications listed. see your physician to discuss further.
