what is metabolic syndrome?
metabolic syndrome a. k. a insulin resistance syndrome or syndrome x refers to a syndrome of associated metabolic and vascular risks that cluster in a person or family members: high glucose high bp low hdl/high triglycerides high inflammation and increased weight --- which can lead to type 2 dm gestational dm coronary heart disease/stroke pcos fatty liver. lifestyle changes are key.
i'm 37 about 100lbs overweight 5'11 and fairly active. these are my recent cholesterol levels: 189total 127ldl 42hdl & 99tri. are these ok?
in the abscence of coronary heart disease and no risk factors for cad and no diabetes your ldl is acceptible. your hdl should be 45. aerobic exercise weight reduction and diet is advised.
what's the best proactive preventive treatments aside from exercise & diet for coronary heart disease. i'm 38 with a family history of heart disease.?
chances are u have hyperlipidemia we all do. statins have revolutionized atherosclerosis like sodium pump inhibitors changed peptic ulcer disease.
what's the best proactive preventive treatments aside from exercise & diet for coronary heart disease. i'm 38 with a family history of heart disease.?
in addition to the mentioned treatments you need good bp control glucose control and evaluation of lipids. consult your doctor for exam possible blood tests and consultation.
i have hbp triple coronary artery disease sleep apnea diabetes as well as arthritis and psoriasis what are my chances of a heart attack?
given your medical history of triple vessel coronary heart disease diabetes and high blood pressure your risk of having a heart attack is significantly higher compared to someone that does not have any of these conditions. the addition of sleep apnea increases your risk even greater as having sleep apnea alone can increase your risk of a heart attack by 1. 5 -3. 5 times.
i am 5'6 and 192 lbs-am i overweight?
your body mass index (bmi) is 31. 0 kg/m2. this means your weight is within the obese range. your current bmi is greater than the recommended range of 18. 5 to 24. 9. to be within the right range for your height your ideal weight should be between 115 lbs and 154 lbs. being overweight increases your risk of developing coronary heart disease as well as other health conditions such as diabetes.
can someone tell me if smoking is bad for someone with insulin resistance?
insulin resistance is highly related to the development of diabetes and diabetes is itself a risk factor for development of coronary heart disease and myocardial infarction (heart attack) the number one cause of death in the us. smoking is the second most common risk factor for heart attack. combining them makes heart disease highly likely. plus various cancers bronchitis and emphysema.
can a-fib be caused by sleep apnea or laying on left side had 3 occasions were a-fib started by simply laying on left side? if so why?
sleep apnea does elevate a person's risk of sleep apnea but the following things do: other risk factors: high blood pressure. coronary heart disease (chd) heart failure. rheumatic (ru-mat-ik) heart disease. structural heart defects such as mitral valve prolapse. pericarditis (per-i-kar-di-tis; a condition in which the membrane or sac around your heart is inflamed)
would ecg pick up coronary heart disease?
yes it may but often times when it's quiescent it may not be evident on plain ecg and requires stress ecg commonly known as cardiac stress test.
would ecg pick up coronary heart disease?
depends on the severity of the disease. see cardiologist if you are concerned.
i am a 29 year old female. i am healthy and work outregularly. i get a mild jaw pain that comes and goes. i haveno arm or chest pain. could it be heart attack?
jaw discomfort can be an atypical presentation of coronary heart disease but further testing should be done before concluding that. a stress test perhaps with echo or nuclear imaging should be considered. would be best to run this by your primary care physician.
i have a high cholesterol reading. i am fit in that i exercise 4 times a week. in december my brother had a heart attack. do i need a statin.?
most likely unless there are reasons that you are unable to take a statin. these medications have been demonstrated to lower the risk for heart attacks. an elevated cholesterol and a family history of coronary heart disease suggest you would benefit from a statin. keep up the exercise! follow a proper diet.
i have angina due to to having coronary artery spasms. how serious is this condition and can i have a heart attack through it.?
yes it is so important for your doctors (pcp & cardio) to get to know you. coronary heart disease not always has typical symptoms of angina radiating to neck/left arm nausea or vomiting. it could be manifested as fatigue indigestion leg swelling or no symptom.
if my echocardigram ecg and ekg are normal should i be worried about my heart? i'm 33 have low bp and am in good shape.
ekg and echo are normal. but a 'cardiac stress test" would be another option to see if the person is at risk for having coronary heart disease. but the test is recommended for those who have risk factors and symptoms of heart disease.
i'm 21; i have been very sick since a flu four months ago. i suffer from postural tachycardia palpitations dizziness chest pain sweating terrible heartburn and vomiting. the cardiologist cleared me but did not get a stress test done. do i have pots
i agree with your cardiologist. your symptoms are not suggestive of coronary heart disease which is what a stress test is for. are you staying well hydrated?
what's causes atrial tachycardia i'm 30 f started noticing fast heart in july hosp first thought was cardiomyopathy according to my ecgs?
the list of causes is long including hypertension cardiomyopathy valve problems coronary heart disease thyroid disease and electrical problems of the heart. tests used to assess the problem include blood tests electrocardiogram echocardiogram and holter monitor test among others.
what are the three major causes of heart attack?
there are modifiable and nonmodifiable risk factors for coronary heart disease (cad). diabetes smoking and high cholesterol are probably the highest predictors.
i have minimal coronary heart disease in one vessel or two. what is my risk for a heart attack and how high is it?
factors than just a diagnoses of "minimal ca. " to calculate your risk of a heart attack you should see a cardiologist at least once every 2 years since your young. but if you exercise regularly (45 mins 5 days a week) watch your calories normalize your weight for your height and eat a healthy diet you will decrease your chances significantly no matter what your risk is at this time.
i have minimal coronary heart disease in one vessel or two. what is my risk for a heart attack and how high is it?
at your age of 36 it is young to have cad but it depends on the test used to diagnose it - ct scan or coronary ct etc. cad is a progressive disease unless significant lifestyle modifications are made at an early age. i would recommend lifestyle changes in diet and exercise and also regular evaluation for this to consider a statin or aspirin sooner rather than later.
how high does blood pressure get before a heart attack?
although high blood pressure is a risk factor for coronary heart disease there is no evidence that there is an acute rise in blood pressure prior to a heart attack.
how does coronary heart disease affect pulse rate?
some folks may have palpitations arrhythmia s including atrial fibrillation pvcs and slow- bradycardias or complete heart block. with an acute event ventricular tachycardia. and/ or ventricular fibrillation may occur and cause death. many persons with cad do not have pulse symptoms.
how does coronary heart disease affect pulse rate?
a separate issue.
if i'm burping a lot and i'm taking prilosec is that really acid reflux or a heart attack?
symptoms from coronary heart disease are rare under the age of 40. those over 40 can sometimes mistake the symptoms of heart for gerd: severe pressure discomfort in center of chest sometimes radiating to left arm or jaw or between shoulder blades. the pain is often described with a clenched fist: squeezing or "like an elephant sitting on my chest". often associated with sweating>>go to er!
since two days i have irregular heartbeat now i started to have pain in my heart specially get more intense when i move or lift since two days i have irregular heartbeat now i started to have pain in my heart specially get more intense when i move or li
this could be symptom of coronary heart disease. you should see a cardiologist for evaluation which could include a stress test. pain at rest is very worrying and if this occurs you should go directly to a hospital emergency room.
should i be concerned with coronary heart disease/sca at age 28? ekgs echo stress test blood test. chest xray all normal? no family history at all?
work on the exercize and weight and monitor cholesterol.
should i be concerned with coronary heart disease/sca at age 28? ekgs echo stress test blood test. chest xray all normal? no family history at all?
known >7 decades that atherosclerosis typically begins in later childhood yet not symptomatic for decades. at age 28 should still be low risk. stress tests ; x-ray miss problems (because ds is in artery walls which expand at plaque locations) ; only detect advanced complications. cholesterol not correct focus; optimal focus: lipoproteins (nmr particle test) glucose (hba1c) bp ; food: go hflc.
what happens when you suddenly stop taking blood pressure meds such as beta blockers for two weeks? i have heart palpitations and severe nausea now
beta blockers usually completely out of body by 2-3 days. question is why do you take the beta blocker? if you take because of palpitations they may return. if you take them for heart failure that may get worse. if you take them because of coronary heart disease that may become symptomatic. nausea can be a sign of coronary disease you are only 34 still possible. never just stop must taper
tell me heart attack risk factors and coronary heart disease symptoms?
rf: smoking obesity hypertension high cholesterol diabetes family history etc. symptoms: chest pain shortness of breath palpitations etc. you really will get much more on the internet than i can give you in this box this is a huge topic!
normal sinus rhythm. possible lt atrial enlargement. cannot rule out ant infarct age undetermined. abnormal ecg. had pain in left chest and arm.
you have to see your doctor for further evaluation. echocardiogram and stress test are most likely indicated to rule out coronary heart disease. you are young there fore it is not very likely unless you smoke have family history of coronary heart disease at relatively young age have high cholesterol. check with your doctor whether your levothyroxine dose is not high for you.
heart disease runs in my family i'm on zocor 20mg and i heard statins are bad for your heart but i have to be on one should i be worried? tyvm
lowering bad cholesterol and triglycerides is a mainstay in treatment and secondary prevention in patients with coronary heart diseases kindly keep the follow up with your doctor / cardiologist for routine assessment and listen only to doctors for your health best wishes
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing) (severity: severe) (better by: rest) (time frame: sudden) (side: rig.
regardless of your young age any thing from coronary heart disease to esophageal or another gi problem could be causing your complaint. please see your family physician asap.
taken to er for squeezing in chest. ekg was normal so i was sent home. is that enough to rule out heart attack? had echo and stress norm 6 months ago
i think that at age 29 any chance for significant coronary heart disease has been ruled out! hope this helps! dr z
please explain why docs recommend increase exercise to prevent coronary heart disease?
virtually every study of effects of interventions shows that people who exercise regularly do better with respect to coronary artery disease. exercise helps with arterial health. it doesn't absolutely prevent coronary disease but certainly decreases your chances of an untoward event.
what causes plaque in arteries that could form a clot. can smoking alone do it or needs to be multiple reasons and usually what age?
genetic factor high cholesterol in the form of oxidized ldl triglyceridemia & inflammatory process. cigarette smoking is considered the most important risk factor for coronary heart disease. tobacco smoke contains more than 4000 chemicals of which more than 50 have been identified as carcinogens. these chemicals are extremely damaging to the heart. common above 50 any age depending on risk facto
what causes pain in chest above breasts? feels like someone is pushing down on a small area of the rib with their thumb.
at your age it is unlikely the chest pain you described is related to a cardiac disease except if you a strong family history or coronary heart disease or multiple risk factor for developing heart disease. however the only way to know is to visit a physician to confirm that is a non cardiac chest pain.
which disease is more manageable coronary heart disease or congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is often one of the compications of cad. both are serious conditions that can be managed with proper medications diet exercise and always addressing the root cause of the problem.
which disease is more manageable coronary heart disease or congestive heart failure?
if both are present then both must be treated. coronary heart disease will lead to heart attacks which cause or worsen chf. chf if untreated will lead to worsening of symptoms more stress on the heart and may well lead to heart attacks itself.
what are the half-lives of isosorbide mn and nifedipine?
5 hours for isosorbide mononitrate used for prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary heart disease htn and mi. it is a vasodilatory agent that dilates the blood vessels. it lowers blood pressure and reduces the left ventricular preload and after load reducing the hearts oxygen requirement. nifedipine 1/2 life 2 hours. calcium channel blocker. go to medscape or drugbank for more info.
what could colesterol have to do with coronary heart disease?
cholesterol from die or family genetics failing to discard bad cholesterol may deposits over the years through your vasculature. that attracts some immune cell to attempt to clear it but more damage occurs till the point blood flow is compromised around the heart and other beds. .
what are the facts with regards to cholesterol and heart disease? is it truth or pharmaceutical company propaganda i. e statins?
the question is whether you need them. 90% or more of mix hyperlipidemia is secondary but if you were one of the 10% with familial hypercholesterolemia or if you had high risk coronary heart disease such as having diabetes or evidence of coronary or vascular disease -- then you would likely need a statin to lower and improve your cholesterol profile.
what would be the best tips to live with coronary heart disease and hypertension?
no smoking regular exercise and healthy diet. medicines such as beta blockers and bp meds.
what would be the best tips to live with coronary heart disease and hypertension?
take your meds as prescribed by your dr. the best advice i can give you is to eat healthy and stay active. avoid processed foods anything with high fructose corn syrup like soft drinks juices and pastries avoid trans and saturated fats instead eat whole food and a diet rich in fruits vegetables and fiber. exercise on a regular basis.
what would be the best tips to live with coronary heart disease and hypertension?
never smoke learn to take your bp regularly. treat well and take your meds. cardiac rehab and exercize and weight control will help both.
which type of heart conditions/diseases are caused due to high blood pressure?
enlarged heary heart attack coronary heart disease stroke and many other diseases of the heart kidney and brain.
what causes coronary heart disease?
depends on one's personal risks smoking obesity hypertension hyperlipemia diabetes family history. simply one blocks the feeding coronary artery to part of the heart muscle and low flow or no flow causes ischemia which cause death of the heart cells which is a heart attack! myocardial infarction is the medical term. ekg and lab tests show the damage.
what are the risk factors of coronary heart disease in women?
genetics age cholesterol smoking diabetes htn.
what are the risk factors for coronary heart disease at 50?
high blood pressure smoking diabetes high cholesterol family history.
what are the causes of coronary heart disease related to job?
is being increasingly acknowledged as a risk factor.
what are the symptoms of coronary heart disease and how do you get it in the first place?
coronary artery disease occurs as a result of progressive obstruction of the lumen by atherosclerotic process. sometimes it may end up in an acute myocardial infarction if the obstruction is more than 70% with death of heart muscle.
what's the difference between coronary and chronic heart disease?
coronary heart disease is the arteriosclorotic process afecting the coronary arteries. chronic heart disease the word chronic denotes long term.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
coronary artery disease is mainly diagnosed by assessing one's. cardiovascular risk as well as sorting out various symptoms. lab tests to help here would be a full lipid panel as well as a crp which is a marker of inflammation. these do not detect plaque but do help i risk analysis. d-dimmer is used for venous disease ie blood clots in legs or lungs.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
an exercise stress test with ecg monitoring is a great initrial test to check for symptoms like chest pain and signs like st segment changes. the definitive test is coronary arteriography which can visualize the inside of the arteries and detect atherosclerosis. a d-dimer test shows the presence of fibrin degradation products indicative of a deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
the sad reality is that there's no blood test for atherosclerosis. the d-dimer test most assuredly will not. an ultra sensitive c-reactive protein will address the probability of developing buildup but will not tell you if you have it. electron beam ct which provides calcium score gets you closer but is not a blood test. please read my comment:.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
an early test would be a stress test with an electrocardiogram or ecg. this is done until there are symptoms and/or st segment changes on ecg and/or target heart rate is achieved. thallium 201 imaging makes it more sensitive and specific. the definiitive test is coronary arteriography to see the arteries. a d-dimer test checks for fibrin degradation products for deep vein/lung (pe)thrombosis.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
lab tests do not detect impending heart disease. the risk factors for atherosclerosis and vascular disease could serve as markers of risk for cardiac disease. elevated cholesterol and ldl low hdl increases triglycrides are usual risk factors. other risk factors that are not lab tests are hypertension smoking excessive alcohol intake lack of physical activity. d-dimer will not help.
what blood tests will detect coronary heart disease/ heart artery build up? any tests? would the d dimer test show?
there are no blood tests that specifically show cad. there are many tests however that act as markers for cad - e. g. cholesterol crp. the d dimer is not used for cad at all. it is a marker for inflammation including possible thromboembolism.
what's the safest way to treat right-sided heart failure?
usually therapy is with medications li similar to left heart failure. diuretics beta blockers ace inhibitors. if a specific cause can be identified that should be treated as well. that could coronary heart disease affecting the right ventricle or a lung process that may be causing the right ventricle to work eccessively.
what are some of the symptoms of coronary heart disease?
coronary disease can manifest as chest pain arm pain epigastric (upper abdominal) pain pain between the shoulder blades shortness of breath sweating nausea or sudden death.
what are some of the symptoms of coronary heart disease?
chest pain on exertion shortness of breath fatigue leg swelling lack of energy. other symptoms would be related to the severity of disease.
what can cause coronary heart disease?
caused by bad cholesterol and inflammation. both can clog the pipes to your heart. how to keep your heart (and elsewhere) happy: eat well (whole grains fruits and veggies). get moving 30-60 minutes every day. don't smoke. make friends. smile.
what can cause coronary heart disease?
but commonly associated with high cholesterol high lipids hypertension diabetes and genetic predisposition.
what is meant by coronary heart disease?
coronaries are the arteries that irrigate the muscle of the heart. an obstruction by a clot or plaque of cholesterol in them will lead to a hear attack. the hear may have other diseases like "valvular disease" ( diseases of the valves) "cardiomyopathy"( disease of the heart muscle). so coronary disease is not the only thing that can affect the heart.
what is meant by coronary heart disease?
disease of the coronaries whether congenital or acquired. in the usual parlance it refers to blockage of the coronaries that developed in time although has genetic overtones.
what is the difference between coronary heart disease and chronic heart disease?
heart disease refers to any problem primarily involving the heart. this can be acute (comes on suddenly and/or short duration) or chronic (long time coming lasts a long time). coronary artery disease is where the arteries that feed your heart become diseased and cause the heart to be starved for blood. this chronic problem can have acute elements like a heart attack.
what is the difference between coronary heart disease and chronic heart disease?
coronary heart disease specifically refers to disease in the blood vessels that supply your heart. blockages in these vessels can cause angina or heart attacks. chronic heart disease is a broader term. it can include coronary disease congestive heart failure valve problems and many more.
what can someone do to prevent coronary heart disease?
exercise don't smoke maintain ideal body weight & get appropriate screening from your physician.
what can someone do to prevent coronary heart disease?
although exercise and getting good sleep are good for your heart and health making wise choices about what you put in your mouth may have the greatest impact. i've become more convinced that a whole-foods diet high in fruits and vegetables is best. animal protein is ok but not in the american portion sizes. avoid the things we all know are bad. this will have the greatest preventive impact.
what are other names for coronary artery disease?
heart disease ischemic heart disease coronary heart disease atherosclerotic heart disease(ashd).
what can someone eat if he or she had coronary heart disease?
you can eat anything but in reality your best bet is to switch to a more healthful diet which is what i call "flexeterian" -- mostly plant based products (vegetables and fruits and only 100% whole grains) and avoidance of most animal products dairy etc. when you do eat meat limit yourself to small portions of poultry or fish that is steamed or grilled.
what can someone eat if he or she had coronary heart disease?
stay away from fatty foods fried foods eat more whole grains protein etc.
what are the dietary requirements for coronary heart disease?
low cholesterol diet.
what are the dietary requirements for coronary heart disease?
preferably low fat low cholesterol.
what influences the development of coronary heart disease?
smoking cholesterol (ldl hdl triglycerides) genetics diet (for cholesterol) daily exercise/good fitness level diabetes (know and control your blood sugar) medications - these are the main factors influencing the development of cad other than other diseases that could have a tremendous impact on the progress of cad.
what influences the development of coronary heart disease?
smoking diabetes hypertension high ldl cholesterol and low hdl cholesterol are the major ones. age and family history of premature chd are also important risk factors but are not modifiable.
what are common factors that cause coronary heart disease?
besides inheriting bad genes the following 'self inflicted' factors can lead to coronary heart disease: obesity high blood pressure diabetes smoking and high cholesterol.
what are common factors that cause coronary heart disease?
the 5 major risk factors for coronary artery disease are cigarettes family history hypertension elevated cholesterol and diabetes mellitus. the greater number of risk factors the greater the risk of coronary disease. the absence of risk factors however does not completely protect you from coronary artery disease.
what are the treatments for coronary heart disease?
treatment depends on the extent of the problem. exercise and a low cholesterol diet may have a role in prevention of cad. if cad is present low dose aspirin (81 mg daily) can reduce risk of heart attack 50%. cholesterol meds (statins) also lower risk 20-30%. if it is symptomatic (angina) medicines such as nitroglycerin beta-blockers and sometimes calcium channel blockers can be used.
what are the treatments for coronary heart disease?
include aspirin cholesterol reducing medications called statins bblockers a class that reduce blood pressure and pulse ace inhibitors a class used to reduce blood pressure and prevent damage to the ventricle plavix (clopidogrel) if a stent was placed in the coronaries. more important than these are weight loss tobacco cessation exercise an immaculate diet. good luck. dr. b.
what are some of the risks of coronary heart disease?
atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries is a progressive disease if it is allowed to continue without any remediation the arteries will become blocked and in the heart this will cause ischemia -becoming irreversible -and ultimately muscle death. in the interim one could be sidelined from preferred activities due to angina or equivalent. but you can partner with your doctor to slow/stop it.
what are some of the risks of coronary heart disease?
smoking poor diet diabetes renal disease african american armenian decent obesity hypertension genetics.
what can lead to coronary heart disease?
among the more preventable causes of heart disease are smoking being overweight type 2 diabetes poor exercise and eating habits high cholesterol and excessive alcohol intake. if you have a family history of heart disease then you need to be especially careful to manage these risk factors. the american heart association has some great resources at www. heart. org.
what can lead to coronary heart disease?
smoking diabetes hypertension improper diet stress inherited factors lack of exercise lipid abnormalities. these are all risk factors for getting coronary disease. modifying them can prevent you from getting the disease.
what are the causes of coronary heart disease?
many things contribute; some modifiable others not. things you can't change include family history gender genetics (although you can test for the latter). things you can change or at least affect: smoking (stop! ) exercise diet cholesterol & other biomarkers diabetes/prediabetes/insulin resistance blood pressure. remember that often the 1st sign of chd is sudden death-so don't wait!
where could someone find out more information about coronary heart disease?
i recommend www. heart. org and <link>. there are many good websites.
where could someone find out more information about coronary heart disease?
what specifically are you looking for? the internet is available this site is available your physician etc. .
what is the difference between coronary heart disease and heart disease?
coronary disease refers to the blood vessels specifically supplying the heart. narrowing of these vessels can lead to what we call angina. rupture of plaques in these vessels can cause "heart attacks. " heart disease is a more generic term. it can be many different things affecting the many different parts of the heart.
what is the difference between coronary heart disease and heart disease?
coronary disese that is disease involving the arteries that supply the heart is one type of heart disease. others are valve disease and disease directly involving the heart muscle hypertension infections disease caused by trauma etc.
what can someone do to avoid coronary heart disease?
the most important thing you can do is stop smoking if you currently smoke. other interventions include: maintain normal weight lose weight if you are overweight establish good nutritional practice and exercise routine. keep your blood pressure and cholesterol under control. stress avoidance or control is also very helpful for cardiovascular health.
what can someone do to avoid coronary heart disease?
another important risk factor to consider is your sleep habits. obstructive sleep apnea is a condition where a person stops breathing for a short time while they're sleeping and is often associated with loud snoring. it also can significantly increase your risk of heart disease. if you have been told that you "rattle the windows" then you might get a sleep study to rule out sleep apnea.
what does coronary heart disease do to the body?
it blocks the coronary arteries leading to chest pain or heart attack. if you get a heart attack it can damage the muscle causing heart failure with shortness of breath and swelling of the feet.
what does coronary heart disease do to the body?
coronary artery disease can cause decreased function of the heart which causes dysfunction of other organs such as the lungs liver kidneys etc.
what are some signs of coronary heart disease?
understood by the medical community mean objective findings. as such signs may not be present. symptoms on the other hand are subjective viz. pain pressure discomfort at the front part of chest sometimes radiating to arm jaw stomach area and commonly during physical exertion. it can also happen while resting. about 40-50% of cad do nit have symptoms until heart attack actually occurs.
what are some signs of coronary heart disease?
many symptoms. the most common are chest pain shortness of breath jaw pain arm pain sweating fatigue abdominal pain leg pain dizziness and also back pain. sometimes heart disease is a stealth disease and there are no symptoms.
what patients get coronary heart disease?
many different risk factors can lead to cad-some changeable others not. examples you can do something about include: smoking/tobacco diabetes high blood pressure cholesterol (& related) abnormalities lack of exercise obesity. risks you can't change: family history genetics gender. many people can get it-even those who don't "look" like they should so get regular thorough proactive evals.
what patients get coronary heart disease?
elderly diabetics hypertensives smokers those at genetic risk hyperlipidemia sedentary life style african americans armenians.
what is the primary prevention of coronary heart disease?
there are risk factors you can't control like family history and diseases you've had that put you at risk. most of the risk factors are within your control such as diet and exercise to keep you ldl low and your hdl high. discuss preventive measures with your doctor as everyone can benefit from this get regular checkups and blood tests to help plan prevention. do not smoke or take drugs.
what is the primary prevention of coronary heart disease?
primary prevention implies preventing the disease from ever happening. secondary prevention implies preventing a second complication after having a first complication. primary prevention would include healthy diet exercise avoiding cigarettes weight loss and lowering cholesterol.
what is the primary prevention of coronary heart disease?
primary prevention of coronary heart disease is the act/task of preventing the first problem: heart attack stent bypass surgery etc. secondary prevention is preventing an event after on has already occurred. so preventing a second heart attack or preventing a heart attack after bypass surgery etc. primary prevention is great because heart disease fatalities are very common.
what is the primary prevention of coronary heart disease?
primary prevention is the prevention of disease in this case coronary artery disease through actions such as exercise and diet. secondary prevention is early detection e. g. by treadmill testing. tertiary prevention is the prevention of complications after an event e. g. cardiac rehab after a heart attack.
what age do people get coronary heart disease?
the development of coronary artery disease is related to patient factors including diabetes cholesterol high blood pressure and smoking among others. if these are severe or poorly controlled cad can develop at an early age.
what age do people get coronary heart disease?
unfortunately we are finding coronary artery disease in younger and younger patients everyday. this used to be a disease of the older population but now we see it in people who are no older than 30 years old at times especially if they are diabetic or if they smoke heavily. however it is still more commonly encountered in people older than 50 overall.
why does coronary heart disease occur in the body?
classical risk factors for atherosclerotic disease: 1. genetics (chose your parents wisely! ) 2. high blood pressure diabetes high cholesterol/triglycerides 3. smoking obesity no exercise high fat diet 4. poor dental health take care of yourself <positive_smiley>.
why does coronary heart disease occur in the body?
hardening of the arteries occurs in three principal locations: heart brain and legs. symptoms usually occur where the blockage is greater than 70% of the artery lumen. family history diabetes obesity high cholesterol and smoking all contribute to this.
why is adrenaline not the medication for heart failure?
adrenalin increases heart pumping strength but also increases the frequency i. e. runs too fast. both of these issues increase demand for oxygen by a heart that is usually deprived of adequate oxygen due to coronary heart disease. this leads to arrhythmias and possible heart attack. in short like beating a tired horse.
what are coronary heart disease exercises?
anything aerobic. anything that gets you to move elevate your heart rate and circulate blood.
what are coronary heart disease exercises?
any exercise that involves moderately increasing your heart rate without causing excessive shortness of breath. depending on whether you have coronary disease or not the degree to which you push yourself. if you do have cad consult your cardiologist.
what is the relationship between coronary artery disease coronary heart disease and ischemic heart disease?
ischemic heart disease is caused by coronary artery disease. some people call coronary artery disease coronary heart disease. when a coronary artery closes up the heart tissie it supplied may die and that is called a heart attack. the dead heart tissue scars down when there is a lot of damaged tissue the heart may start failing and that is called ischemic heart disease.
what is the relationship between coronary artery disease coronary heart disease and ischemic heart disease?
these are three names for the same disorder.
what is the cause of coronary heart disease?
build up of fatty plaques in artery wall is associated with smoking high cholesterol diabetes obesity high blood pressure and family history.
what is the cause of coronary heart disease?
in coronary artery disease cholesterol builds up in the walls of the arteries. as the walls thicken the inside (the lumen) becomes narrowed creating an obstacle for the blood trying to get to the heart. the process begins in the teenage years but only becomes symptomatic later in life.
what are the consequences of coronary heart disease?
blocked coronary arteries affect the blood flow to the heart. this causes chest discomfort when inadequate circulation is present. when blocked arteries close completely this causes heart attack and heart damage which can lead to heart failure or death.
what are the consequences of coronary heart disease?
coronary heart disease can result in chest tightness or pain on exertion (called "angina") exertional shortness of breath ("dyspnea") heart attack (coronary occlusion) heart failure cardiac rhythm irregularities ("arrhythmias") cardiac arrest ("sudden death") and a shortened life expectancy.
what are common symptoms of coronary heart disease and how do you get it?
chest pain dyspnea (shortness of breath) shoulder and arm pain throat or neck pain back pain chest tightness and weakness or fatigue are common symptoms of coronary heart disease. coronary disease can be caused by genetic factors (ie familial) or acquired factors such as smoking or obesity-related diseases (diabetes cholesterol abnormalities sedentary lifestyle hypertension etc. ).
what are common symptoms of coronary heart disease and how do you get it?
coronary disease is plaque (cholesterol) build up in the blood vessels that deliver bood to the heart muscle. the factors that increase the likelihood for blockage are age high blood pressure diabetes smoking high cholesterol homocysteine family history sedentary life style type a personality. the symptoms range from none to classic chest pain with activity associated with activity.
why does high blood pressure increase my risk for coronary heart disease?
the arterial walls start to thicken and harden in response to elevated blood pressures. this is part of the process that leads to atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. high blood pressure is considered one of the primary risk factors for coronary heart disease. blood pressure is the force. years of high blood pressure can damage your arteries causing them to harden and narrow.
why does high blood pressure increase my risk for coronary heart disease?
if your heart is pumping harder like any muscle it will get bigger. we tend to think that big muscles are good but this is not necessarily so with the heart. as the heart muscle gets bigger the demand for oxygen increases. the coronary arteries which supply the heart are likely already harboring some plaque and have narrowing. essentially the arteries cannot meet the demand of the heart.
what causes coronary heart disease?
cholesterol builds up in the wall of the arteries resulting in progressive narrowing. this process is accelerated by smoking diabetes high cholesterol high blood pressure inflammation (high c-reactive protein) and oxidative damage through aging.
what causes coronary heart disease?
why is cardiologist asking this question.
what is good ldl and hdl?
the target ldl for preventing coronary heart disease is less than 100. the target hdl is greater than 40.
what is the treatment for high c-reactive protein?
hs-c-reactive protein is a marker associated with vascular inflammation and is a risk factor for coronary heart disease. proof of causality though is a bit more problematic though intriguing: google "jupiter trial". all statins lower hs-crp to some degree but also independently reduce cardiovascular risk so separating out the impact of lowering crp alone is difficult & remains controversial.
what is the significance of an hs-crp of 15+?
it's even more significant when present with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease or in pts. with established cad.
why do doctors advise a patient to try balloon angioplasty in preference to having sugery?
reason foe this advice is the initial treatment of choice for occluding coronary heart disease is balloon angioplasty with or with out stent surgery is reserved if this fails.
what is the number one method for coronary heart disease prevention?
i recommend preventing major health problems by engaging in two activities over which most of us have control nearly every day.
what is the number one method for coronary heart disease prevention?
staying active through either a regular exercise program or regular participation in an active hobby has consistently been shown to reduce risk. diets come and go and even weight isn't 100% predictive (the "obesity paradox"). control blood pressure have a healthy cholesterol don't smoke and don't over-eat.
what is the number one method for coronary heart disease prevention?
undestand your risk factors & modify them. . when you are men over 40 or women over get a coronary calcium screening. it is believed that 80% of adverse cardiovascular events are preventable. establish a partnership with a physician who understands and communication about primary prevention.
what is the relationship between coronary artery disease coronary heart disease and ischemic heart disease?
basically similar names for the same problem. each discribes a problem with the circulation of the heart the cornary arteries.
what are the causes of coronary thrombosis and what affects the risk of coronary heart disease?
coronary thrombus is a clot in an artery that feeds the heart. anything that damages or roughens the lining of the blood vessels could result in clot formation such as elevated cholesterol and hypertension. risk factors include family history of heart disease being male increasing age elevated cholesterol or ldl obesity smoking and being sedentary.
what is the difference in coronary heart disease in men and women?
men and women get the same heart disease at the same frequency. the symptoms may be different but the disease is the same. women often complain of fatigue or atypical chest discomfort or shortness breath whereas men often complain of chest tightness or pressure along with shortness of breath.
what are the dietary requirments for reversing coronary heart disease?
it is not possible to comletely reverse heart disease by diet alone. low fat high fibre diet helps.
what does it mean to have a positive treadmill test?
stress testing is an important modality for evaluating patients with known or suspected coronary heart disease (chd). when you take a treadmill (or exercise tolerance) test data is collected (duration of exercise any anginal symptoms and changes on ekg). this data is used to come up with a score from which you are categorized as low intermediate or high risk for coronary artery disease.
why do i get chest pain while doing physical activity followed by burping?
it could be coronary heart disease (chd) -- blockages in the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle. the chest pain and burping could also be something else such as acid reflux. i recommend discussing this with a physician soon. if it is chd medications can be used to relieve the symptoms and to prevent a heart attack. a stress test can help to determine if the condition is severe.
what is chelation therapy for coronary heart disease?
chelation is a hypothesis that there are heavy metals present that initiate and perpetuate certain disease states. by the use of certain compounds that bind up these heavy metals and allow the body to excrete them the conditions can be stopped or even reversed. a large nih trial some years back concluded that chelation therapy was not effecacious in the treatment of coronary disease.
what is chelation therapy for coronary heart disease?
dont think it has any medical use for this diagnosis.
what is chelation therapy for coronary heart disease?
the tact nih study on iv chelation is one of the few large clinical trials that showed some benefit. see links below: 1) <link> 2) <link>
what are symptoms of coronary heart disease?
there are many symptoms including chest pain neck and shoulder pain shortness of breath numbness dizziness and nausea with exercise. or there may be no symptoms which is why we try to limit or treat your risk factors such as high cholesterol low hdl high blood pressure obesity diabetes etc.
what are symptoms of coronary heart disease?
chest pain either with activity or even at rest is a big sign of coronary disease. shortness of breath is the presenting sign of some people. other symptoms can include heartburn type pain sweating and a racing heartbeat.
what is good cholesterol? mine is at 36
hdl is the "good" cholesterol. high levels of hdl may be protective against coronary heart disease. an optimal level of hdl-cholesterol is >40 for a man and >50 for a woman. best of luck!
what's the difference between cardiac ischemia and coronary heart disease?
synonyms.
why are japanese-americans more susceptible to coronary heart diseases than japanese in japan?
diet.
what is the best way to prevent coronary heart disease?
adhere to a healthy low fat diet avoid smoking get plenty of exercise treat high blood pressure high cholesterol and diabetes if appropriate. know your risk factors and family history.
what are risk factors for coronary heart disease?
the most common riak factors are : family history. hypertension diabetes high cholesterol smoking. age>45 in men >55 in women.
what is done for mircovascular coronary heart disease?
medical therapy. nitratesand a drug called ranolazine can be effective. speak with your cardiologist.
what is done for mircovascular coronary heart disease?
treat cholesterol bp & other risk factors.
what is the cause of coronary heart disease in elderly?
risk factor. also high cholesterol htn diabetes & smoking.
what are the highest incidences of heart disease with average cholesterol levels of 186 - 201?
that is an average cholesterol range -- unless one has a known coronary heart disease or diabetes.
what could cause an otherwise healthy 27 year old male to have 100% blockage in the lad artery?
•age (older than 40 years for men 45 years for women) •male sex •family history of coronary heart disease •smoking •hypertension (high blood pressure) •diabetes •obesity •unhealthy cholesterol levels—high total cholesterol low hdl cholesterol high ldl cholesterol high triglycerides •low physical activity •accumulation of abdominal fat ("apple" body shape).
what causes sweating in coronary heart disease?
sweating occurs due to activation of the symptomatic nervous system with a "fight or flight" response. researchers have discovered that sweating appears to be the symptom that prompts more people suffering a heart attack to get to the hospital.
what causes sweating in coronary heart disease?
pain fear of death fight or flight response.
what distinguishes coronary heart disease in men from its presentation in women?
anterior crushing pressure with arm extension- radiation. angina= neck pain or "feeling" impending doom! anxiety shortness of breath diaphoresis ='sweaty clammy nothing- ladies dismiss any symptoms.
what distinguishes coronary heart disease in men from its presentation in women?
women's coronaries are a bit smaller otherwise the pathophysiology is the same.
what is the most effective treatment for coronary heart disease?
coronary heart disease is heart disease caused and associated with abnormalities of the coronary arteries. the treatments are diet exercise not smoking polypharmacy with aspirin statin beta blocker and ace inhibitor and sometimes other medicines interventional procedures or surgery may also be recommended as appropriate for the individual patient.
what is the most effective treatment for coronary heart disease?
angina may be medication alone. if unstable progressive severe then studies and cardiac catheterization to identify specific blockages is needed. then intervention with stents / and or surgery. surgery coronary bypass particularly with left internal thoracic artery has incredible durability. best is prevention !
what risk factors are associated with lung diseases and coronary heart disease?
smoking smoking obesity family history asthma hypertension diabetes.
why does vitamen e prevent coronary heart disease?
it doesn't.
what risk factors are associated with coronary heart disease?
depends on one's personal risks smoking obesity hypertension hyperlipemia diabetes family history. simply one blocks the feeding artery to part of the heart muscle and low flow or no flow causes ischemia which cause death of the heart cells which is a heart attack! myocardial infarction is the medical term. ekg and lab tests show the damage.
what would be the most common causes and the effects of coronary heart disease?
depends on one's personal risks smoking obesity hypertension hyperlipemia diabetes family history. simply one blocks the feeding artery to part of the heart muscle and low flow or no flow causes ischemia which cause death of the heart cells which is a heart attack! myocardial infarction is the medical term. ekg and lab tests show the damage.
what are the purpose or uses of small size particle ldl cholesterol in the body of a healthy human being that has no inflammation?
there's been many different theories to why cholesterol is related to coronary heart disease. ldl in general is utilized in our body to transport fat from diet. unfortunately some are left in the blood vessels and engulfed by macrophages forming plaques. small particle ldl unfortunately is known to cause this more.
what are the symptoms of coronary heart disease.
pain left chest pain shoulder pain in jaw pain in back or stomach. shortness of breath indigestion choking heart burn nausea vomiting palpitation irregular heart rate. dizziness extreme weakness and anxiety.
what are the symptoms of coronary heart disease.
the are very similar to heart attack symptoms just more mild and they resolve. shortness of breath and chest pain on exertion are big ones.
what are the long and short term effects of coronary heart disease?
with spectrum being full longevity to death. . talk to treating cardiologist.
what are the long and short term effects of coronary heart disease?
devil in the details. depends on whether the degree of obstruction is low limiting enough to cause ischemia (mismatch between oxygen demand exceeding ability of the coronary vessels to supply) and which and how many coronary vessels are affected. signs and symptoms range from none to death.
which is safer in an average dose -klonopin or ativan-for a patient with cardiac disease -that is 2 stents in lad?
both drugs are safe for coronary heart disease. but they have somewhat different indications. you should use the one that best suits your needs. let your provider help guide you.
what is the gold standard to diagnosis coronary heart disease?
100% answer is cardiac cath and angiography cta and cardiac mri also helpful functional assessment is with stress test and per fusion scan.
why does diabetes result in heart kidney failures and blindness?
diabetes has become exceedingly common and so have its complications which include coronary heart disease (chd) stroke peripheral arterial disease nephropathy retinopathy and possibly neuropathy and cardiomyopathy. exact mechanisms are not clearly understood but has to do with long term effects of consistently high blood sugar levels leading to various tissue damage in certain organs.
what are cardiac mris sensitive in diagnosing or showing?
cardiac mri is a common test. it's used to diagnose and assess many diseases and conditions including: coronary heart disease damage caused by a heart attack heart failure heart valve problems congenital (kon-jen-ih-tal) heart defects (heart defects present at birth) pericarditis (a condition in which the membrane or sac around your heart is inflamed) cardiac tumors
what is the difference between premature coronary heart disease and coronary heart disease?
premature basically refers to manifestation of coronary disease and/ or it's diagnosis before age 55 in men and pre-menopausal women.
what is the difference between obstructive and non obstructive coronary heart disease?
the degree of blockage and symptoms determines whether coronary artery disease is obstructive or not. generally obstructive coronary artery disease my be associated with chest pain shortness of breath etc. this is a true emergency. non-obstructive may or may not have symptoms and may be treated medically.
what are the differences between atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and coronary heart disease?
coronary heart disease is specific to the coronary arteries. ascvd refers to plaques in arteries throughout the body.
what age does heart problems occur more?
on what heart problems you speak of! as we age our bodies are predisposed to more medical problems including the heart. coronary heart disease rarely affects anyone under the ago of 30. as we age risk factors such as smoking diabetes obesity and genetics increase the incidence of heart problems.
what age does coronary heart disease happen most commonly especially with family history metabolic syndrome?
hi. the risk goes up as you age and at any age populations with positive family history and metabolic syndrome have higher risk of chd than otherwise matched populations without those characteristics. you can use the framingham risk score (online) but still it assigns risk based on population studies. you the individual have genetics and environmental characteristics not taken into account.
why do you have to increase fiber intake to prevent coronary heart disease?
as fiber is not absorbed in the gut it may prevent up to 10% of cholesterol and a few calories to be absorbed and feeling of fullness may prevent more calories to be ingested. nothing magical.
what is the medical difference between cardiovascular disease (cvd) and coronary heart disease (chd)?
cardiovascular disease is disease of the heart and blood vessels. coronary artery disease is disease of the heart arteries. cad is a cvd cvd includes cad but not all cvd is cad.
what do cardiovascular exercises help you with health wise?
including reduction in coronary heart disease risk factors like improved blood pressure control increased hdl cholesterol(good cholesterol) decreased triglycerides reduced body fat and intra-abdominal fat and improved glucose tolerance. it improves your heart and blood vessel function. it also can help with mood and anxiety issues. and it can improve your sleep.
should everyone have a stress test and how long are test like stress echocardiograms and angiograms good for? i had this complete work-up in 2008 and the impression was no visible coronary heart disease. yet said the patient does have diastolic dysfunc
stress test echocardiograms and angiograms give a lot of information but do not predict everybody who goes on to have disease. not everyone has a gradual reduction in vessel size. some people will form a clot that can occurr in minutes leading to heart attack. keep cholesterol's under control blood pressure monitored diabetes treated don't smoke and keep your weight down and should be ok.
should everyone have a stress test and how long are test like stress echocardiograms and angiograms good for? i had this complete work-up in 2008 and the impression was no visible coronary heart disease. yet said the patient does have diastolic dysfunc
stress test. generally only people with symptoms need stress tests except in certain situations such as pre-operatively. most people benefit from risk factor modification such as diet exercise smoking cessation.
can i have heart attack of the cholesterol level is over 200?
lipid profile is only a factor in the overall risk profile that we consider in the matter coronary heart disease -- on the other hand a heart attack is an accident in the cardiovascular place -- so even after making the best of the risk profile of an individual he/she can still have a heart attack -.
