what’s the difference between all the vaccines containing tetanus toxoid?
there are currently 4 tetanus containing vaccines. dtap and tdap protect against tetanus pertussis (whooping cough) and diptheria. dt and td do not protect against pertussis.
is it safe to get a tetanus shot during pregnancy?
you should actually receive a tdap which will also provide a pertussis booster. pertussis causes whooping cough and there has been a recurrence of whooping cough which can cause problems in an infected infant.
is it required for pregnant women to have tetanus toxoid?
tetanus vaccine is recommended every 10 years. currently the incidence of whooping has been increasing so if you need a tetanus booster the current recommendation is to get tdap - tetanus combined with dipththeria and wooping cough (pertussis) vaccines. all pregnant women who have not had a tetanus booster in the last 10 years are recommended to receive the tdap as well.
i was cut by a soup can today and had the wound bandaged by an emt. he suggested that i get a tetanus shot within the week. just want to know if it's ok to wait over the weekend. i don't want to use the emergency room. thank you
you should have a tetanus shot within 72 hours ideally. however it is very unlikely that you will get tetanus from a soup can. it is a good idea to get it updated though as this will last you from 5-10 years. also the new tetanus shot also has the pertussis (whooping cough) vaccine and we are having a whooping cough outbreak in this country.
i am 36 and stepped on a rusty tack that went as far as it could into my foot do i need a tetanus shot? <negative_smiley>
tetanus shots are good for 10 years but if the injury is 'dirty' then >5 years is the norm. however the adult tdap is recommended now to cover tetanus and whooping cough. the other worry with a puncture wound is the risk of infection. i hope you could clean the wound with soap and water. if any redness/pain/swelling you should get seen because of risk of bone infection (osteomyelitis).
i ve been bitten by my friend when she was seizing during an epileptic fit do i need to get a tetanus shot?
human bites can be as dangerous as or even more dangerous than animal bites because of the types of bacteria in the human mouth. first aid is: wash the wound thoroughly with soap and water. apply a clean bandage. cover the affected area with a nonstick bandage. seek emergency medical care. if last tetanus > 5 years get one (get whooping cough with it). prevent infection.
it's been more than 10 years since my last tetanus shot. shall i take it as a precaution? or wait for when i need it (e. g. in case of injury? )
tetanus spores are everywhere in the environment & need only a break in the skin to set up and begin the low grade infection that creates tetanus toxin. waiting until you have in injury that you believe may be a problem may be too late. at 38 the best booster for you covers tetanus diphtheria & pertussis which helps protect you & prevents you from giving whooping cough to a vulnerable young infant.
i have m tetanus shot in june 2006 i want to know how long it is good for i mean how many years its work?
tetanus shots last at least 10 years the newer shot called tdap (diphtheria tetanus and pertussis)became available for adults in 2005-2006 it protects against pertussis (whooping cough) it should be given once to any one who wishes protection against pertussis and replaces the old dt for most patients. questions need to be addressed to md or knowledgeable rn.
it has been 6. 5 years since my last tetanus shot and i just cut myslef with the serrated edge of some cling wrap - it isn't very deep but it bled. am i at risk?
you are okay with a "clean" (non-rusty indoor cut) on tetanus shot for 10 years but if you are around any babies you may want to update you tetanus to include pertussis or whooping cough with tdap now available for teens and adults so not to catch or transmit whooping cough to others.
i cut my finger today with a kitchen knife that had been recently been professionally sharpened. i have not had a tetanus shot. will it be ok?
if you have not had a tetanus shot in the last 5-10 years you should get the dtap vaccine which is a booster shot for tetanus whooping cough (pertussis) and diphtheria.
if you get scratched by a rusty nail do u need a tetanus shot?
tetanus shots are recommended every 10yrs. however i usually recommend getting one with an injury if it's been more than 5yrs. with the new recommendations to get a tdap (tetanus diphtheria and pertussis) it might be the perfect opportunity to protect you and unimmunized infants from whooping cough. this replaces the old td.
i have a small scratched wound caused by a rusted needle. the wound is healing. do i need to take tetanus shot?
because it is a rustic nail. according to cdc if there a chance of contaminated wound with tetanus as rustic nail is. you should get a booster if your last booster was more than 5 years ago. in your case at age 22 you should get tdap to protect you against diptheria and more important whooping cough(pertussis) if your last booster was more than 5 years ago
how badly do i have to bleed from a wound to need another tetanus shot?
if a wound is dirty (contaminated with dirt/wood/metal etc. ) and your last tetanus shot was >5 years ago then you may need a tetanus shot. with whooping cough epidemics all over the country it is best to get a tdap shot (tetanus+whooping cough) anyway. generally you need a tetanus shot every 10 years no matter the situation.
how often should you get a tetanus shot?
after an initial series boosters are given every ten years unless one has a dirty wound in which case the interval may be shortened. there is very little harm in getting an early dose. tetanus vaccine is often combined with diphtheria and activated pertussis (whooping cough) vaccines. dtap and tdap.
where can i get a tetanus shot with no thimerosal?
there is no thimerosal in current vaccines in the us. a booster should be available at any vaccine provider. at your age a combination vaccine the tdap is recommended & will boost your protection from tetanus diphtheria and whooping cough (preventing you from giving it to babies).
when should you get a tetanus toxoid vaccine?
after the initial childhood series a td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster is recommended every 10 yrs. if there is a significant wound a booster is recommended if it has been 5 or more years since the last one. also one of the boosters is recommended in the form of a tdap (with an "acellular pertussis" or whooping cough component). a prevention iphone app with more info: my health checklist 2012.
when should i take tetanus toxoid shot?
tetanus vaccine is recommended every 10 years. currently the incidence of whooping has been increasing so if you need a tetanus booster the current recommendation is to get tdap - tetanus combined with dipththeria and wooping cough (pertussis) vaccines.
he much would it cost me for anti tetanus shot?
cost of the vaccine dt or tdap varies and can be abour 100 dollars with office visit but it is covered by most insurance as preventive care. we do not use simple tetanus shot any more and tdap is recommended as it also protects you against whooping cough as we see resurgence of it lately
he much would it cost me for anti tetanus shot?
regular tetanus-diphtheria(td) vaccine is inexpensive. instead of td i recommend you get immunized with tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-pertussis) if you are frequently around infants. tdap will increase your immunity to pertussis or whooping cough which has been on the rise this year. both vaccines are covered by insurance.
i have been diagnosed with floating knee caps after a car accident where i toe some muscles around my knee. it was recommended that i get surgery at 14 and that i'd never run jump or do anything fun. i'm now 31 but my knee locks sometimes. i'm usually ap
it looks like your injury cought up with you the locking mechanism mean there is a structural dmage mostly could be a tear in the cartilage. see a knee doctor between a good examination mri or arthroscopy they will find what is wrong and how to fix it.
i just received a booster tetanus shot yesterday morning. tonight i am running a 101 degree fever. is that a normal reaction?
probably from shot. but look for other causes like for sore throat cough flu like symptoms urinary symptoms that may signify another infection. if fever last more than 24 hours check with your pcp
what is the definition or description of: tetanus shot?
tetanus toxoid the inactivated form of the disease causing toxin which stimulates the production of antitoxin which prevents the disease. the vaccine does not affect the bacterium itself. vaccination for tetanus is almost always combined the vaccine for diphtheria and sometimes with the one for pertussis (whooping cough)
i am a previous victim of a car accident which caused me to have a broken jaw and ankle. my jaw still bothers me a lot and sometimes swells. i recently got prescribed promethazine with codiene for a cough and i noticed that it helped relieve my jaw pain a
certainly the cough syrup helped your pain as it is a narcotic which is a pain reliever as well. wether or not narcotic pain medication is appropriate for use for your jaw pain should be discussed with your physician or a pain specialist. there are many modalities that can be used for chronic pain not just narcotics.
i am a previous victim of a car accident which caused me to have a broken jaw and ankle. my jaw still bothers me a lot and sometimes swells. i recently got prescribed promethazine with codiene for a cough and i noticed that it helped relieve my jaw pain a
consider re-asking and clarifying the question.
i am a previous victim of a car accident which caused me to have a broken jaw and ankle. my jaw still bothers me a lot and sometimes swells. i recently got prescribed promethazine with codiene for a cough and i noticed that it helped relieve my jaw pain a
it's a narcotic and narcotics will relieve pain. problem is you can't take them forever and they are addictive. have you been evaluated by an oral surgeon for your injury? that's the place you should start.
i am a previous victim of a car accident which caused me to have a broken jaw and ankle. my jaw still bothers me a lot and sometimes swells. i recently got prescribed promethazine with codiene for a cough and i noticed that it helped relieve my jaw pain a
promethazine also used to treat nausea and vomiting or pain after surgery. it is also used as a sedative or sleep aid. ask your doctor for more information.
i am a previous victim of a car accident which caused me to have a broken jaw and ankle. my jaw still bothers me a lot and sometimes swells. i recently got prescribed promethazine with codiene for a cough and i noticed that it helped relieve my jaw pain a
sounds like a tmj problem. see an oral surgeon. if tmj consider seeing a tmj expert.
i had a tetanus shot almost four weeks ago. it had the whooping cough booster i still have arm pain intense it i lay on it?
although the tetanus vaccine does cause more muscle irritation and discomfort than other vaccines it is unusual for you you to still have pain in your arm. in most cases the soreness resolves in 5-7 days at the latest. you definitely should see your doctor about your symptoms.
i am worried about getting sars when i travel from china on a plane any precautions?
s(severe) a(acute) r(respiratory s(syndrome) started in hong kong and is a corona virus. try not to sit near someone who is coughing a lot and use a mask if available.
in a real life epidemic does it really matter if my facemask is an n95 or any mask is better than none?
yes it does matter most respiratory epidemics are due to viruses and only an n95 mask is sufficient to filter out viruses. a non n95 mask may prevent some body fluids from splashing onto your face (i. e. saliva or blood) so it does offer a little protection but it won't prevent you from inhaling an airborne virus if someone happened to sneeze or cough into the air.
i can't stop coughing from all the smoke i inhaled after an explosion. what should i do?
probably have bronchial burns and need medical treatment after diagnostic bronkoscopy
i can't stop coughing from all the smoke i inhaled after an explosion. what should i do?
since you had significant inhalation of smoke and are still coughing a lot you may have significant inflammation of the trachea bronchial tubes or lungs. you should be examined by a physician who will decide whether a chest xray or other assessments of respiratory tract status are indicated and of course determine the type of treatment needed. if advisable referral to a pulmonologist will be made
i can't stop coughing from all the smoke i inhaled after an explosion. what should i do?
seek medical care asap
what would cause me to start running a low grade temp. like its been 8. 9 then 99. 3.? i had surgery give days back. its feels warm over the site.
if i understand your question the tiny elevation in your temperature is likely from your body just turning up the metabolism rate a little as a response to surgery. if you'd had a general anaesthetic for the case it is also a possibility that a small amount of the lung has closed in on itself and this could cause temps as well. if it is the lung good deep breaths and coughing should clear it.
six year old nine had tonsils and adenoids out 9 days ago. last night coughed about a tsp of mucus tinged with bright blood. scab coming off?
at 9 days there should be adequate healing that one would not expect significant bleeding but mucous with tinge of blood sounds does not sound worrisome. if this continues to recur do a follow up exam with his surgeon.
can you get a tetanus shot while pregnant?
currently tdap vaccine is recommended for all pregnant women after 20 weeks gestation if they have not received this vaccine previously. in addition to tetanus and diphtheria this vaccine contains whooping cough (pertussis) vaccine as well and there is an epidemic going on at this time. it is important to get this vaccine.
can cellulitis cause flu like symptoms?
cellulitis is defined as a localized skin infection which should be diagnosed by warmth redness tenderness and possible swelling. flu like symptoms would include generalized body aches fever fatigue and possible cough or congestion. flu (influenza) is a virus while cellulitis is typically bacterial. however if cellulitis spreads to the blood then some flu like symptoms could be possible.
can lower back pain be caused by tetanus shot or could it be tetanus itself?
just having lower back pain and no other symptoms is uncommon for the tetanus shot and the combined tetanus/whooping cough booster. if it is from the shot it'll go away on its own.
after punctured sinus during rt canal does puncture wound ever heal? 3 mnths since. still cough up green phlegm & sore cheek. how to rid infection?
you may have an oral-antral fistula (communication between the oral cavity and the maxillary sinus). you refer to a 3 month period with associated signs of infection. this may indicate a need for antibiotic therapy such as oral administration of penicillin-like antibiotics. the quiescence of infection may help the communication to heal and close. if it still persists you may need surgical closure.
weight gain swollen ankles more left cough more then 2 months head aches chest pain when eating irregular periods enlarged lymnodes in lungs ?
2 months of systemic symptoms and enlarged lung lymph nodes could be caused by a chronic infection of some types of blood or lymph cancer. sometimes these things are hard to sort out but you should be working closely with your regular doctor or a pulmonary (lung) specialist.
what are the main symptoms of cancer==weight loss anemia?
early cancer may be asymptomtic. depending on the site of cancer there may be pain change in bowel habits cough and expectoration palpable mass blood in urine vaginal discharge etc. weight loss and anemia ususally come later.
its been a week i had a fever running nose coughing sneezing and i can't hear from my left ear and i don't know if its of a cold or wax in my ear?
very likely that the difficulty hearing is related to the cold. wax usually would not cause sudden difficulty hearing. please contact a primary care doctor if it does not improve in few days.
its been a week i had a fever running nose coughing sneezing and i can't hear from my left ear and i don't know if its of a cold or wax in my ear?
you should get it checked for cerumen. how ever you probably have an eustachion tube dysfunction from your viral infection. it may get swelling around it and plug it up.
what makes incontinence more likely--being overweight or having menopause?
pressure from abdominal obesity will distort the angle between the bladder and the urethra. with age any previous sagging from childbirth chronic coughs etc will get exaggerated due to weakening of the supporting muscles. urgency incontinence also increases in the menopause due to atrophy of the bladder mucosa and nerves.
what are the health problems and symptoms of living in a home with black mold? my aunt lives in a house with black mold growing on her garage ceiling. she's recently had unexplained weight gain tremors in her hands and complains of bumps on her neck and
black mold can cause a variety of health issues and it should be removed by a professional right away. the most common symptoms are breathing problems (cough shortness of breath) muscle aches allergy symptoms(i. e. sneezing hives) nausea and rash. there have been some cases where mold can cause tremors. you aunt should be seen by her primary care provider who will likely perform diagnostic testing and provide the necessary referals. don't forget the house should be inspected and the mold removed as soon as possible.
will getting a nissen surgery for gerd help me to sleep better at night?
reflux occurs commonly at night. if you wake up with severe heartburn or coughing then antireflux surgery will likely alleviate these symptoms and help you sleep better at night.
is splenda (sucralose) dangerous? i'm using a meal replacement shake with sucralose in it. i'll also use it as a sweetener in coffee or in baking. since i'm trying to lose weight i thought this might be better than regular sugar. i've noticed many peopl
hello. possible side effects from use of sucralose can include: headaches to include triggering migraines; agitation; anxiety; moodiness; runny nose cough and breathing problems as well as tingling of lips tongue and mouth with chronic use.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
a new change on the cxr may be or may not be a "scar". expert consultation is indicated.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
you want to discuss this with your doctor.
i'm asthmatic w/ sleep apnea. i had rib pain after sinus/bronchitis (coughing). xray showed new lung scarring. can this cause me trouble in future?
it most likely will not cause a problem but it depends on the extent and location of the scarring. long term scars of the lung may be associated with an increased risk of developing into carcinoma particulary with a history of smoking but this is relatively low incidence.
is there a difference between gerd and a hiatus hernia?
a hiatus hernia is the stomach protruding up in to the chest above the bottom of the lungs. this is a common contributing factor to gerd. gerd is the presence of stomach acid for extended periods of time in the esophagus (swallowing tube) leading to symptoms such as heartburn coughing or a sensation of fullness in the throat.
i'm a little over weight. i keep having chest pains. feels like someone is taking a razor to my heart. ?
chest pain is nothing to ignore! the potential origin of your symptoms includes: heart lungs mediastinum esophagus musculoskeletal pericardium (sac around the heart) pleuritis bronchiitis or referred pain from a remote site. your doctor will be concerned about accompanying fever blood with coughing vomiting shortness or breath difficulty reclining tenderness. get checked please asap.
i am 36/f i have type 2 diabetes on the pills i'm a smoker bout half pack a day i know i have this cough that i've been having for 4 or 5 mo is it se?
you have type 2 diabetes and on meds are you on ace inhibiters which are used for high blood pressure in diabetics for renal protection and can cause cough. smokind iyself can cause chronic cough and chronic bronchitis but you should see your doctor as its been for 5 months and you want to know the cause and get treated. you should seriously stop smoking.
i am 36/f i have type 2 diabetes on the pills i'm a smoker bout half pack a day i know i have this cough that i've been having for 4 or 5 mo is it se?
a chronic cough could be something benign like allergies serious like emphysema or deadly like cancer. you need to be seen and examined.
i always wears supporter while doing bodybuilding but still i got inguinal hernia?
inguinal hernia can be associated with many factors some of which are related to genetics (collagen make-up anatomy of abdominal wall) and acquired conditions (heavy lifting coughing surgery etc. ). no way to know which cause is present every time. certainly if you know heavy lifting caused the hernia the support garment would not have prevented it. nor will it keep it from getting worse.
i have a cough accompanied with a rash memory issues confusion mood swings and rapid weight loss( 10-15lbs in a short span with no change in excercise
see your primary care doctor. the symptoms you're describing need to be talked about face-to-face. good luck!
i'm getting gastric bypass jan 7 th and i'm taking the shakes to prepare for surgery but i have a bad night cough can i take cough medicine?
morbid obesity often leads to both sleep anea and refux. try sleeping with you head upright until the surgery and see if that helps.
i'm getting gastric bypass jan 7 th and i'm taking the shakes to prepare for surgery but i have a bad night cough can i take cough medicine?
notify your surgeon immediately about cough or see primary care physician. if not treated your cough can cause delay in doing surgery unless it was addressed before.
i have a sore throat and it hurts really bad to swallow or talk it's hurting in my ear too and cough drops aren't help want else can i try?
it is common to have a sore throat and ear pain when there is an infection. you should see your doctor about this.
i have a sore throat and it hurts really bad to swallow or talk it's hurting in my ear too and cough drops aren't help want else can i try?
you probably need antibiotics steroids or both. cough drops are not going to help either a viral or bacterial cause of a severe sore throat. referred ear pain is common with sore throats. you also need a prescription for antibiotics and steroids. i would start with a visit to a doctor.
will weight loss or diet changes help improve urinary incontinence?
embarrassed about uncontrollable urine leakage when you cough sneeze or exercise? there is a solution if kegel exercises or weight loss fail called a urethral sling. in less than 10 minutes a synthetic tape is inserted through a 1/2 inch incision in the roof of the vagina under the urethra to restore support to the pubic bone. normal activity in days. imagine freedom from pads.
i have a chronic cough over weight acid reflux sleep apnea i just started nexium (esomeprazole) will that help cough? i am on a healthy eating program
a 'cough' is the body's way of clearing something out of the tracheobronchial tree (the windpipe). it may be just mucous. if you have hyperacidity and irritation of the esophagus from it you may be inhaling a small amount of mucous during episodes of sleep apnea. causing you to cough. see about treatment for sleep apnea as well. see your md about a sleep study.
i have a chronic cough over weight acid reflux sleep apnea i just started nexium (esomeprazole) will that help cough? i am on a healthy eating program
it will help your reflux issues.
i'm overweight 21 stone and feel sharp pain on right chest under my arm when i'm breathing or coughing. should i be worried?
not typical angina type pain. but infections inflamation muscle strains etc can be cause. get a work up from ur dr.
i had fundoplication surgery dec 2011 for my chronic cough. it turns out i had at best(before the surgery) mild acid reflux. my cough was caused by a?
a nissan fundoplication is a surgery that's been done for years to treat acid reflux; now however it's often done laparoscopically. reflux can cause cough hoarseness wheezing heartburn etc. if your symptoms are better know that even mild reflux can cause symptoms. if the cough persists it's back to the drawing board. asthma sinus infections and/or allergies are frequent reasons. lgromko.
i have hiatal hernia and gerd but only symptom is throat itch. no other pain in chest or stomach. is that really gerd? my hernia found tru gatroscopy.
yup sometimes a hoarse voice or cough can be the only symptom of gerd. try meds to see if it resolves.
will something other than sleep apnea cause me to wake up at night gasping for air?
stomach juice can come up into your throat while you lie down and sleep. gravity is not your friend when you lay down and in certain people stomach juice can come into the throat leading to coughing choking gasping and even temporary inability to breath. if this is happening to you please see an ent doctor to have your lower throat area looked at.
weight loss terrible coughing numbs on right face right eye sight decreased pain in right scapular muscle. what's wrong with daddy?
pancoast tumor? get an xray.
weight loss terrible coughing numbs on right face right eye sight decreased pain in right scapular muscle. what's wrong with daddy?
if symptoms are on one side with weight loss - need immediate evaluation to rule out growth either i'n lungs or neck area. better to make sure this is not cancerous.
what are the most common symptoms of fat embolism?
shortness of breath chest pain and cough are some of the most common symptoms of fat embolism.
i am showing signs of easy bruising night sweats some discomfort in my left side and some weight loss. these symptoms are showing me leukemia?
don't jump to conclusions kangaroo. that is a hard diagnosis to make without a significant work up. some important questions to keep in mind are: 1. how much weight have you lost how fast? 2. how long have you been having symptoms? 3. do you have a family history of cancer? 4. have you been exposed to tuberculosis? have you been coughing? see your doctor for further evaluation. hope this helps.
i've a problem of snoring during sleep i can't breadth properly whts wrong with me i can't breath from nose im 50 yearz old?
as we get older most things most things do not have the elasticity we had when we were young. your tongue can drop back into your throat when you sleep and block your airway causing snoring -often it may be related to sleep apnea-get a sleep test. the difficulty breathing and cough need to be evaluated by a physician.
what is the best airline for obese/overweight people? seat size matters
none. the better question is what seat is the best. you have to cough up the money to buy a first class or business class seat. these seats are wider and you have more leg room.
why might i be getting a sharp pain in my ear everytime i cough or burp?
it is possible that you have a problem with your eustachean tube not draining appropriately. this is the tube that runs from the ear to the throat and causes a feeling of clogged ears. coughing and burping can increase the pressure in your body and cause pain in the ear. this should be looked into further by your healthcare professional.
i suffer from gord and hiatus hernia for almost 6 months now could this cause head pressure?
reflux can literally "go to your head" and cause sinus disease which may be your head pressure. also reflux may cause you to cough - even during sleep- after which you may be left with head pressure. gord can also be associated with asthma symptoms such as wheezing or shortness of breath so get it checked out.
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
a hiatal hernia associated with gerd reflux of stomach contents up your esophagus can cause cough aspiration pneumonia asthma like pulmonary problems. you have choice about next step in care. you may benefit from medical care further testing egd. surgery only after good medical care. start with your regular doc. be well.
will the sugar alcohol found in sugar free gums sodas sugar substitutes produce a false positive on an etg test?
there isn't anything in sugar substitutes that will cause the etg (ethyl glucuronide) test to show positive. however because etg test measures products of metabolism of ethyl alcohol from any source it is sensitive to small amounts of alcohol. it will detect ingestion or exposure to alcohol in mouthwash cough syrup and other medicated syrups and possibly even hand sanitizers.
im 16 and have a sore throat with pain in my ears and cough. i cough mucus. do i have throat cancer?
with these symptoms the most likely diagnoses are respiratory infections. call yourdoctor / primary care practitioner to schedule an appointment for an evaluation. until then reassure yourself that what you are experiencing is something that almost certainly will pass. your doctor likely will determine if you have a viral or bacterial infection.
im 16 and have a sore throat with pain in my ears and cough. i cough mucus. do i have throat cancer?
anything is possible and more unlikely causes like cancer should be considered eventually if your condition does not respond to typical treatment. however your symptoms sound much much much more suspicious for infection. at your age a viral throat infection is probably a million times more likely if not more.
im 16 and have a sore throat with pain in my ears and cough. i cough mucus. do i have throat cancer?
throat cancer in a teen is exceedingly rare. iow you don't have cancer most likely. also you wouldn't expect excess mucous from throat cancer. you most likely have a bad cold or possibly a sinus/ear infection. if you are still concerned see your doctor. feel better!
weight gain of 2lbs in a day lost over night. feeling very cold at rest with chest pain and cough. could this be worsening chf?
if you have a history of chf and if it's been recently uncontrolled then yes it's conceivable that your symptoms represent decompensation. but feeling cold and chest pain are not sx of chf and cough and weight gain have many causes other than your heart. a chest xray and simple blood sample could easily resolve this uncertainty.
i get morning migraines heada%e7he from lack of oxygen due to sleep apnea induce asthma attack at night. cpap triger asthma attacks with coughing spel?
one of the chief complaints of cpap is dryness which may contribute to your asthma. humidification can be added to your cpap device and another comment would be about the proper cleaning of the unit.
i get morning migraines heada%e7he from lack of oxygen due to sleep apnea induce asthma attack at night. cpap triger asthma attacks with coughing spel?
most likely thing that is happening is that either cpap causing central events that is complex sleep apnea to cpap pressure is incorrect. you may need a cpap retitration in lab with attendant if it is done more than 1-2 years ago or never done. asthma fa less likely but not impossible.
i get morning migraines heada%e7he from lack of oxygen due to sleep apnea induce asthma attack at night. cpap triger asthma attacks with coughing spel?
osa frequently triggers asthma and migraines the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young &cpap can be difficult to tolerate. see ent for upp eval vs hyoid suspension. focus on weight loss stay gf wholeapproach. com. provigil&nuvigil help with fatigue.
what would make it sound bubbly when breathing and feel like rubbing at sternum? 31/f overweight but healthy
we need to have more informations such as history of smoking do you cough a lot do you have any pain when you breathe a bubble sound may be an indication of air passing through a fluid chronic bromchitis or fistula between trachea and esophagus; you probably need to see a doctor for further evaluation.
i am on a 1200 calorie diet via my doctors orders. would cold remedies/cough drops come out of my calories for the day?
every calorie counts- cough drops containing sugar- taken in excess certainly add up. the sugar and possible alcohol in cold remedies would also add up depending on how much you took. i think it would be negligible calories if you took less than 5 cough drops a day.
i'm suffering from cough for so many years. earlier it was said as "hiatus hernia". recently after doing endoscopy again the result "stomach ulcers".
cough could be an atypical symptom of the reflux from the hiatal hernia. consider getting an operation to repair it. the stomach ulcer usually not caused by the hiatal hernia unless you have a cameron ulcer which is associated with it.
i'm suffering from cough for so many years. earlier it was said as "hiatus hernia". recently after doing endoscopy again the result "stomach ulcers".
tzhis appears multifactorial and may need stress management in addition to medical help.
i am 23 year old getting bitter cough neck pain acanthosis and pain in hand and foot. stomach upset i have tested for hiv and vdrl both are negative?
you need to consult a gastroenterologist to find out the cause for your symptoms. i would certainly consider including a workup for gluten intolerance as well.
i was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes 2 years ago now. im fighting a lot of issues with it. but now i cough up phlegm after eating anything! help?
the problem you are having has several possibilities depending on how long after eating this occurs position you are in and the color/consistency of the phlegm. food increases acid reflux which with/or without diabetes can lead to the pipe from mouth to stomach getting scarred and uncoordinated which can lead to your problem. do not lay down after eating eat small portions bland food. see md.
i was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes 2 years ago now. im fighting a lot of issues with it. but now i cough up phlegm after eating anything! help?
coughing up phlegm could be due to sinusitis or bronchitis or both. a full history and physical ex by a doc can help get to the bottom of this. good luck!
what would cause a sudden sharp pain in pubis/ ischial tuberosity region when walking or moving legs? no trauma and not over weight.
is you pulled a muscle attaching to ischial tuberosity during exercise at gym or home stretches but if hurts when you cough hernia also possible.
i have been having lower right stomach pains. which happens normally when i stretch or cough really hard. i have been going to gym & dieting. ?
it sounds like musculoskeletal pain which may be from something you are doing in the gym. make sure exercise is light and fun.
i saw a gi doc that said a gagging feeling in lower throat when bending over is not a symptom of a hiatal hernia (which i have). would you agree?
agreed. of the 70 million americans with reflux about half have symptoms without esophageal inflammation. some may have gagging cough hoarseness. perhaps behavior ; diet modification (answered previously on healthtap) may help if gerd is present but my best recommendation is to follow your gi doc's advice. afterall he knows you best ; what your tests have shown. if questions ask him please.
i have chronic phlegm. i have also hiatal hernia and frecuente sore throat. what condition do you think i have? and what woul be the best treatment?
it is hard to tell without being able to evaluate you in person but acid reflux can occur all the way up to the back of the throat. a hiatal hernia can make acid reflux easier and more severe. acid can irritate the throat and lead to a sore throat. it can also spill over into the lungs and cause coughing and choking. the acid irritation can lead to excess mucous as well. see your doctor for eval.
what causes coughing up blood and weight loss?
tuberculosis sarcoidosis and cancer of the lung throat or upper gi tract are three main causes. there are other rarer ones but they aren't good either. do not delay! have it evaluated this week.
i went to arena foot ball game and i was walking up the flight very long stairs and i got short of breath with a bit of coughing i am over weight?
sound normal a scale will tell you if you're overweight
when my stomach swollen & heavyness then my breast also swollen & become heavy why it happenes. i have small hiatus hernia + gerd.
the symptoms you describe may be 2 differnt problems. the abdominal bloating and breast heaviness may be related to changing hormones specifically the estrogen and progesterone levels. you should see your gynecologist for an exam and to have your hormones checked. a hiatal hernia and gerd will give you symptoms of reflux-heartburn chest pain chronic cough. it does not cause breast swelling.
when to take 5m old to the dr? productive coughx5 days watery/red eyes and snoring. no fever- acting eating fine. bottle fed breastmilk formula.
if your baby has a cough but is eating and sleeping well doesn't have a fever over 101 and doesn't have other symptoms you can usually watch him for a few days. give him extra fluids clean his nose with saline and a suction bulb and run a cool mist humidifier. if he is running fever acting sicker or you are concerned have him checked by your doctor.
when to take 5m old to the dr? productive coughx5 days watery/red eyes and snoring. no fever- acting eating fine. bottle fed breastmilk formula.
if your baby has any of this symptoms i would go esp since it is over 5 days.
when to take 5m old to the dr? productive coughx5 days watery/red eyes and snoring. no fever- acting eating fine. bottle fed breastmilk formula.
now. but my wife thinks i am an alarmist.
i have a hiatal hernia. the pain under my rib sometimes is a 10 and times like these only when i cough. im overweight and getting lap band in a month.
you have no specific questions but if i guess you wonder what is causing your pain maybe several things but may be related to what you eat the hiatal hernia is worsened by being overweight or wearing tight clothes. reduce any caffeine tobacco and alcohol. ask you doctor if you need any meds. best wishes.
i'm diagnosed with tourettes & hiatal hernia. both cause dry cough. can it be known what's causing my dry cough. coughing since 8 y. o .
will help the cough caused by reflux associated with hiatal hernia. it will have no effect on a cough tic.
what are signs of sleep apnea in children?
sleep apnea in children is a pause in breathing while asleep. many children who have sleep apnea will snore too. babies with sleep apnea don't usually snore but may have other developmental problems or may have an illness (like whooping cough or respiratory syncytial virus -rsv) that causes them to become stop breathing. a pause of 20seconds or more is too much - talk to your doctor.
i cough & clear my throat all the time. been scoped&doc can't find anything but a small hiatal hernia should i see another doc?
your coughing and clearing your throat must bother you enough to write about it here so a second opinion would be warranted for piece of mind. bring your records so as to get best advice. hope it gets better.
why would i cough after eating even though i've had the nissen procedure and off all my meds?
hello this procedure is performed at the junction of the lower esophagus and the stomach in hopes that reflux of food and liquid back into the esophagus is eliminated. the surgical field is right adjacent to the diaphragm. with swallowing the diaphragm is stimulated which can trigger a cough. this should resolve soon after healing is complete. if it persists follow up with your surgeon.
i have chronic excess throat clearing excess burping no heartburn. gastroscopy showed sliding hiatus hernia is laryngopharyngeal reflux likely?
laryngopharygeal reflux is when a small amount of acid comes up into the throat and irritates it. it is a common cause of dry tickle cough chronic sore throat lump in the the throat post nasal drip phlegm in the throat and throat clearing. many studies show it responds best to proton pump inhibitor rx. it is possible you may have this. see an ent for evaluation.
if i had mild copd and gave up cigaretts which i did 8 months ago would that halt my copd? i am not sure if sleep apnea or copd
the single most important thing a smoker can do to halt copd is to stop smoking. that said there is often a temporary paradoxical worsening of breathing after quitting because smoke is irritating and induces one to cough out phlegm that obstructs airways. over time secretions return to normal airways inflammation subsides cilia may return and overall lung function improves. congrats!
whenever i'm about to fall asleep i wake up gasping feeling as though my breathing has stopped. eliminated anxiety and sleep apnea. anything else?
do your symptoms happen only at night? do you have associated runny nose or heartburn? rarely asthma post-nasal drip and heartburn can cause you to cough or gasp for air while sleeping.
male 45 overweight has subconjunctival hemorrhages both eyes no coughing no vomiting - for over 1 week now. what's with that?
see your doctor or a specialist to determine what to do. for diagnoses such as leptospirosis blood work needs to be done. any exposures to animal waste? adventure trips to hawaii?
male 45 overweight has subconjunctival hemorrhages both eyes no coughing no vomiting - for over 1 week now. what's with that?
you may have hypertensive episodes that rupture the capillaries in the conjunctiva -- so please check your bp every morning.
what can cause pain under left rib pain in stomache through to back already have a hiatus hernia and type 2 diabetes chronic cough with choking?
you could have pain from a pulled peri coastal muscle from coughing. the pain could be from esophagitis from reflux. if it does not respond with tincture of time with antacids and nonsteroidals you should see your physician.
i have a chronic cough sometimes clear mucus comes our i do have a hiatal hernia and occasionally some acid reflux. this normal? do i have cancer?
can be triggered by acid reflux. or allergy symptoms. or smoking cigarettes or inhaling drugs. or taking a blood pressure medicine (the ace inhibitor class is especially guilty). or cancer. but the first 3 are more common in your age group. and no that is not normal.
i have a chronic cough sometimes clear mucus comes our i do have a hiatal hernia and occasionally some acid reflux. this normal? do i have cancer?
greetings. personally i am very suspicious for he reflux or gerd to be causing irritation of the area around your vocal cords to be irritated. cancer is possible but not my #1 thought. see your ent doctor who can perform a npl which will assess your vocal cords.
what are the side effects of belviq (lorcaserin)?
headache dizziness fatigue nausea dry mouth constipation cough low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) in patients with diabetes back pain. personally i do not use it because it's too expensive and i get better results with the medications that i've been using for the last 11 years. i wish you the best.
my son is 1 m. old. 6 days ago diagnosed with cold and thrush. now decreased appetite very irritable coughing then crying i'm unable to lie him down?
take him to his doctor.
my son is 1 m. old. 6 days ago diagnosed with cold and thrush. now decreased appetite very irritable coughing then crying i'm unable to lie him down?
in order to achieve a specific and correct doagnosis with symptoms like this you'll need to visit his doctor. only after a face-to-face evaluation will he/she be able to properly diagnose and treat him.
my 15 yr old son was just dignosed with hiatal hernia he has a lot of other health issues due to being born at 24 weeks would his chronic cough cause it?
chronic coughing would cause increased abdominal pressures. that increase can contribute to a hiatal hernia.
my 15 yr old son was just dignosed with hiatal hernia he has a lot of other health issues due to being born at 24 weeks would his chronic cough cause it?
chronic cough will not cause a hernia but it will worsen it. from your question it seems that your son have multiple pulmonary problems that he was born with at 24 wks and hiatal hernia was one of them. it did show up now because it was exacerbated by the cough. i hope this answered your question.
what cold and cough medicine can i take with phentermine?
cold tips: for sore throat – gargle with warm salt water (1/2 tsp salt in 8 oz of water). * for congestion – saline nose drops or a neti pot. *for anti-inflammatory effect & mobilizing mucus- homemade chicken noodle soup. **for hydration- lots of water. try clear broth. * add honey & a small amt. of lemon juice to chamomile tea.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
phlegm in the back of the throat that occurs during sleep can be caused by post nasal drip or acid reflux and may be related to sleep apnea. a sleep study would be helpful to sort this out.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
possibility as well as acid reflux post nasal drip anxiety/panic attack etc. get examined. god bless you!
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
nocturnal awakening with cough and post-nasal drip should be reviewed at a medical visit. gerd asthma sinusitis and sleep apnea are all possibilities that can be serious issues affecting respiration. tests physical exam and a thorough history are indicated.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
i would get to a dr. asap to give them a history and let them exam and run tests. hard to determine any type of source from your many symptoms. i would do this soon.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
waking up coughing and gagging with "stuff" in your throat suggests gastroesophageal reflux. after food enters your stomach certain muscles (the les or lower esophageal sphincter) contract to prevent stomach contents from regurgitating back into your esophagus. -sleep with body elevated using a wedge -no food or drink after dinner read about reflux just type: bit. ly/zquhbk in search box
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
your cough may be due to post nasal drip. use saline nose drops or an antihistamine like claritin before bedtime. use a vaporizer and sleep with several pillows or your head in an elevated position
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
gi reflux etc. given description mucous would? any sleep apnea issues with tongue falling back into pharynx enough to close airway or asthma. internalized grief/revulsion could drive the secretions issues most docs ignore. trail prilosec etc? sleep on side/prone avoid back to minimize sleep apnea. get a home 3 night or more sleep study for clues that you are closing off airway after asleep.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
you may have reflux esophagitis and also could be sleep apnea. you need to see your physician for a workup. please see your physician for your complaints. it's important that it be evaluated thoroughly.
whenever i cough the incision from my recent gastric bypass surgery hurts. is this serious?
what you describe is not unusual. you should check with your surgeon however
i'm 26 female overweight non-smoker. i have been having dull achy left chest pain w some burning. burning throat sore cough blocked sinuses and frequent bm's. no heartburn. ekg blood x-ray and stress test normal. vit. d mag and iron low.
these are combined symptoms and suggestive of about two things. the first is viral and may last a little longer than usual. the chest pain may well be pleurisy or related to the viral illness. the low vit d mag and fe may be related to diet. have the doc comment on weight loss and how to treat the other problems in the long run you should be fine.
if i have had a cough for the past month is it ok that i am taking topamax (topiramate) prescribed for weight loss?
hi topamax (topiramate) should not cause any change to your immunity. however can cause dry mouth and nervousness that may exacerbate an underlying vocal tic (cough). i would look for other causes of the cough but the only way to be sure would be to come off the topamax (topiramate).
whenever i cough the incision from my recent gastric bypass surgery hurts. is this normal?
when you cough the changes in thoracic and abdominal pressure will pull on the suture site and pain will result
i have a cough that's not as bad as it used to be. i'm finding blood in my nose and weight loss.
loss indicates the need to see your doc as does the blood in your nose. glad to hear that your cough situation is improving. peace and good health.
i'm loosing weight finding dried up blood in my nose and i have a cough which is getting better. i don't smoke so it can't be lung cancer can it?
the risk of lung cancer is minimal. you may try applying a small amount of an emollient in the nares. do apply only small amount as you do not want the emollient to be inhaled. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex.
my 1 month child is snoring when she sleeping and even if she awake is it normal how to treat that snoring?
this could be from nasal congestion which can occur in infants more easily because their nasal passages are so small. is she coughing? does she have a fever? is she nursing well or bottle feeding well? this could also be from a problem lower down in the respiratory tract such as her trachea. you should have her pediatrician examine her to determine the cause.
mucinex (guaifenesin) not helping chest congestion sounds like i'm snoring when i breath clears with deep coughs then comes back after few min.
you need to get a chest xray and an office vist to differentiate between pneumonia and bronchitis. your doctor also may want to put you on antibiotics for a short course.
what is the likelihood of having shortness of breath and cough from hiatal hernia?
cough and shortness of breath can be caused by many things but a hiatal hernia can cause them by allowing stomach fluids to reflux into the esophagus and upper airway. however if you are severe shortness of breath you should seek medical attention right away.
what is the likelihood of having shortness of breath and cough from hiatal hernia?
in general a hiatal hernia would not cause these symptoms but if you have a large hiatal hernia and you are refluxing from it and aspirating chronically it could definitely cause shortness of breath and cough. this can eventually lead to serious pulmonary problems. get checked out by your local health care provider. it is treatable.
if you have urinary incontinence when sneezing or coughing is that from being overweight or too much caffeine? i am only 24 and have for long time.
you should at your young age of 24 see a gynecologist or urologist to check that the valves that normally seal off leakage are normal. meanwhile try to lose weight cut down on caffeine (which is a diuretic) and try doing kegel exercises to increase the strength of those muscles.
my 3 year old coughs only at night for almost a week now but not during the day also started snoring what could this be?
good morning. may be allergic with a postnasal drip but could also be viral with enlarged adenoids and tonsils. you should check it out today with your pediatrician
why would my gastro doc discourage nissen procedure when i have chronic gerd? i do not have barrett's but am concerned about that progression. i reflux constantly. is aciphex (rabeprazole) enough to keep esophagus healed?
your doctor is right. surgery should never be taking lightly. medication can take care of gerd 90-95% of the cases yes aciphex (rabeprazole) can do the job. surgery for gerd is indicated if there is a risk of cancer failure of medical treatment. potential life time use of medication. complication associated with reflux like aspiration that can cause pneumonia chronic cough.
i have had a dry cough that comes and goes lately. i lost 12 lbs the past two weeks unintentionally. could these be related? is it a concern?
loss indicates the need for you to see your doctor. the cough suggest that also. please do so. it may be minor or it may be more important but either way you will have peace of mind and know what is going on. peace and good health.
my daughter 9years old snores loud pitch and then suddenly starts to cough. is it sleep apnea for her?
associated with childhood obstructive sleep apnea (osa) include allergies asthma gastroesophageal reflux palatal muscle weakness & obesity. history physical exam & a video of her snoring will help her pediatrician determine if she needs an overnight sleep study & subspecialty referrals. osa can cause learning & behavior problems & symptoms of mild -moderate adhd in children.
my daughter 9years old snores loud pitch and then suddenly starts to cough. is it sleep apnea for her?
i would suggest observing her sleeping pattern if there are pauses this may be consistent sleep disordered breathing. if she snores four times per week or more it is more likely that she has a sleep disorder but the pitch of the snoring sound is not necessarily related to severity. a virtual appt: healthtap. com/dosanjhmd code: ncyhpz
palpable pulse suprasternal notch. 21f overweight. could this be the cause of my unresolved gerd and recurring barking cough that no one can seem fix?
you are feeling aortic pulsations transmitted thru the tracheal wall. this does not explain your symptoms.
should i use cough drops as appetite suppressants?
cough drops are not a healthy way to suppress your appetite. to manage your appetite in a healthy way check out this list of the top 10 natural appetite suppressants:<link> good luck!
toddler with severely blocked nose for 3 days slight temperature snoring tired no coughing. what could it be?
it sounds like your toddler most likely has an upper respiratory infection most likely caused by a virus. there are numerous rhinoviruses that can cause these symptoms. most will go away on their own. if the symptoms persist longer than 10 days or the fever last longer than 72 hours speak with your pediatrician.
toddler with severely blocked nose for 3 days slight temperature snoring tired no coughing. what could it be?
possibly just a cold or flu with the resultant effects from their being in discomfort. if it lasts more than another day or two call your md.
my 9 yr. old brother has tonsillitis. he spitted out like a red/white meaty phlegmy discharge. he's been on a liquid diet no solids. what is this?
this sounds like some of the pus in the tonsils dislodged and patient coughed it up
started with bloating. then gas. now my belly button hurts when i bend certain ways. i was on a diet and immediately stopped it all b/c i got sick?
most likely it is not serious. . 'bloating' and 'gas' are experienced by millions daily. the "belly button hurts" when you bend may (or may not) be serious. the navel is the site for umbilical hernias which can hurt when people bend or cough and compress the intestine in the hernia. please have a doctor check you. if it's only gas - try your diet again and see what happens. peter wilk md.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
your symptom of acid reflux for 10 years is not causing your symptoms but it is in your interest to get that treated to prevent esophagitis and other complications. your sode throat and cough are probably due to an acute viral or bacterial infection and you should see your doctor to find if you need antibiotics or not. aand also discuss you weight loss and acid reflux and treatment.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
with gastric reflux could be barretts esophagus. see an md asap.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
you have a lot going on. you should be evaluated for tonsillitis for the throat issue.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
see a physician for a physical exam. may have tonsillitis strep throat etc. regarding acid reflux try over the counter antacids like omeprazole daily. see you physician.
what are the symptoms of hiatal hernia?
chest pain chills confusion cough difficulty swallowing fever heartburn pain when swallowing regurgitation difficulty breathing vomiting vomiting blood wheezing.
just got a post nasal drip does that mean i'm also getting a cold? only other symptom is coughing from the drip. wat to take i have hbp and diabetes 2
i would try some claritin (loratadine) (loratidine) or benedryl (diphenhydramine) to see if that helps. a cold will resolve on its own in 5-10 days. allergy symptoms can come and go with pollen or other environmental changes.
left supclavical lymph node is swollen. 25 y/o female. 50lbs weightloss. last nov found reactive enlarged subhilar lymph node in my chest. nightsweats?
weight loss and swollen mediastianal-supraclavicular lymph nodes will require a biopsy. enlarged lymph nodes inside the chest are usually suspected and diagnosed when tests such as a chest-ray or a ct scan are carried out during an illness such as fever for which no obvious cause is found (pyrexia of unknown origin). the patient may also have symptoms such as cough diminished appetite or weight loss. in addition the doctor may order certain blood tests to find out the cause of the enlarged lymph nodes. if along with enalarged lymph nodes in the chest there are lymph nodes in easily accessible areas such as the neck under the armpits or groin doctors often get a needle sample from these (called fine needle aspiration cytology or fnac) and send it to a pathologist. for diagnosis of certain diseases lung ca tb aspergilosis lymphoma the pathologist requires a large piece of the lymph node (biopsy). the biopsy may be carried out under local or general anaesthesia depending on the site of the enlarged nodes and patient and surgeon preference. in patients who only have enlarged lymph nodes in the chest but no nodes elsewhere that can be easily biopsied the situation is slightly different. it may be possible to biopsy lymph nodes at some locations inside the chest under the guidance of a ct scan. the doctor pass a fine needle to the area of the enlarged lymph nodes under local anaesthesia as the area is being monitored on a ct scanner. what are the advantages of a thoracoscopic lymph node biopsy? • ability to obtain adequate sample from lymph nodes under the magnified view • ability to remove even a single small lymph node identified on the ct scan which may be difficult to biopsy under ct-guidance • less pain from the incisions after surgery • shorter hospital stay • shorter recovery time • faster return to work or normal activity • better cosmetic healing
my 3 year old is suffering with 103 fever with cough and cold. she had same condition in march & given clarithromycin. 1 kg weight loss.
children can have a number of colds in the course of one year but the weight loss is excessive. children at this age should gain weight steadily. your physician may recommend a diet to include more calories and protein. in the meantime if there is any respiratory difficulty such as air hunger shortness of breath or wheezing please see your ed at the hospital. watch for prolonged fever.
night cough no allergies no uri symptoms no allergies. nonsmoker. adult 63 module ratels obese. cause?
if your cough occurs while lying down it could be either cardiac or gastrointestinal in origin instead of just pulmonary. if it is associated with shortness of breath and chest or back pain you need to see your doctor right away. if it is associated ever with a sour taste in the mouth almost vomiting and heartburn it may be gastrointestinal reflux of stomach acid into the esophagus.
night cough no allergies no uri symptoms no allergies. nonsmoker. adult 63 module ratels obese. cause?
the most common causes of cough in ambulatory patients are asthma post-nasal drip and gastroesophageal reflux disease. reflux occurs more often in the overweight and obese and frequently occurs at night particularly after a large meal. medications including ace-inhibitors are common causes of cough as well.
night cough no allergies no uri symptoms no allergies. nonsmoker. adult 63 module ratels obese. cause?
post nasal drip (pnd ) can cause night time cough and so does reflux esphagitis in supine position. try taking claritin like drug at night. do you have pet?
she has type 2 diabetes needs an otc medicine for nasal congestion and common cough. it's worse at night time. what should she take?
the simplest thing to do would be to go to your pharmacy and have the team advise you regarding the best over-the -counter drug.
small hiatus hernia. no gerd heartburn. what are the chances of this gettin bigger with time and give me symptoms? anything to do to prevent hh? ty
many people have hiatal hernias without ever having problems. anything that increases your intraabdominal pressure a lot such as doing strenuous activity or coughing a lot or obesity can cause the hernia to get bigger. decreasing those activities will reduce your risk of symptoms. once you have the hernia you can't prevent it. it won't resolve on its own.
sometimes after eating junk food /having beer when i lie down i get a heart flutter that my heart races for aboutt 10 seconds. goes away when i cough?
this is likely a fast heart rate that resolves with a canal manoeuvre or cough. see your doctor for an ekg and a monitor study. note foods/drums that trigger it and try to avoid them. all the best.
sore throat and pharynx for half a year phlegm at pharynx -> hem/cough. more burping but reflux diet/pill didnt help.
the issues to be addressed would be whether there is post nasal drip from a nasal or sinus condition sore throat due to chronic tonsillitis or if reflux is playing a role. you mentioned being treated for reflux but may not have been optimal dosing and duration of treatment. you need a good ent exam fiber-optic nasophryngoscopy and then treatment can be properly initiated.
sore throat and pharynx for half a year phlegm at pharynx -> hem/cough. more burping but reflux diet/pill didnt help.
obviously this needs more clarification. it sounds like you're on the right track. could be reflux or could be an allergic reaction. you can discuss this with your physician
have had 2 positive d dimer tests mild cough (though probably asthma) am obese. ct (head and chest) and ultrasound negative. ankles swollen. next?
if the ct chest and us of legs are negative you don't have dvt/pe. there must be another reason for the d-dimer to be +. is your kidney function ok? have you had a recent injury surgery or something else that involves blood-clotting? how + is the test? you can consult a hematologist or just watch it and treat the asthma. talk to your doctor. good luck!
have had 2 positive d dimer tests mild cough (though probably asthma) am obese. ct (head and chest) and ultrasound negative. ankles swollen. next?
d dimer is a non-specific test meaning it doesn't really tell us anything espeically with a normal ct which would have picked up a pulmonary embolus. the most common cause of ankle swelling especially in obese people is venous incompentence. the valves in your veins aren't working and that leads to venous pooling in your ankles and feet.
could you get asthma by eating too much?
i don't care what anyone says eating too much does not cause asthma. it can cause or worsen reflux. but is does not cause asthma. reflux is a known cause for cough. not for triggering asthma. nejm published data supporting this recently.
how do you control odor of urine through diet and cleansing if you have a mild incontinence case?
with a "mild" case of incontinence! i am guessing you leak with sneeze or cough. this type of incontinence can be improved with pelvic floor exercises and weight loss. the "odor" of the urine is related to the food and drink you eat. drink a lot of water to dilute the urine to improve the odor but the best thing is determining why you have the mild problem and trying to correct it.
have mucus that comes up into throat i assume from my lungs as my sinus' are clear. it has been going on for 5 years now with no diagnosis. feel bad and sometimes a little short of breath more a heaviness feeling. have had pft and test for asthma foo
did you had allergy test done. do you have allergy symptoms. chest radiograph needs to be performed as well. are you a smoker? . chronic allergies chronic bronchitis other chronic lung conditions/ infections can cough chronic cough with chest congestion. you are having short ness of breath as well - need to get further work up done or be referred to a pulmonologist.
what are the side effects of tamoxifen?
the common ones are bone pain; constipation; coughing; hot flashes; muscle pain; nausea; tiredness; vaginal discharge; weight loss. severe ones are even a more comprehensive list - allergic reactions vaginal bleeding chest pain coughing up blood dark urine decreased libido and so. on.
hi doctor i am suffering with dry cough from last two years. cough increases in night time. and snoring started from that time i think. what to do?
please see your physician to discuss an overnight sleep study to diagnose possible obstructive sleep apnea.
hi doctor i am suffering with dry cough from last two years. cough increases in night time. and snoring started from that time i think. what to do?
there are numerous conditions that could cause your problems but it seems most likely that you have nasal congestion and postnasal drip. you should see your doctor and discuss these problems. i am sure you can be helped.
constant crackling in my ear when i cough or blow my nose. what could be wrong?
the eustachian tube is a small tube-like canal which connects the inner part of the ear called middle ear to the back of the nose and upper throat. its function is to equalize the air pressure within the middle ear and the pressure outside it. you likely have swelling in the eustachian tube. try taking sudafed or a similar decongestant.
can a hiatal hernia cause constant shortness of breath?
yes it can if it is large enough. should be evaluated with a ct-scan and surgery is indicated. but in a 28 y/o unlikely to be that big to cause such symptoms. reflux is also associated with a hiatal hernia and that can cause irritation of the airways if bad enough that can manifest as a chronic cough.
could i have got a hiatal hernia from the stomach flu? threw up harder than ever then a week after ended up in er with breathing trouble+chest pains.
stranger things have happened. but i guess it could develop if you were coughing so hard. usually it is a chronic problem that is associated with reflux and if breathing problems occur that means it is very big and needs surgery to be fixed.
can u take phentermine with codine?
if you are taking codiene for a cough be advised that phenteramine can cause coughing.
could lifting (eg babies and young children) affect an hiatus hernia?
many people with reflux have a hiatal hernia. not all people with hiatal hernias have reflux. the symptoms of hiatal hernia may be subtle or none at all. lifting babies and/or children can cause an increase in intrabdominal pressure. this could affect reflux and increase pressure on a hiatal hernia. but so too would sneezing coughing or any straining. it is safe to do so no need to worry.
are severe acid reflux and hiatal hernia related to snoring and excessive hiccupping?
acid in your throat from reflux will create small patches of irritated tissue which triggers coughs and hiccupping. one commonly found problem adding to symptoms of reflux is sleep apnea so be sure you get that checked out.
are there surgeries that could prevent me from having another hiatal hernia?
there is no magic bullet but the use of an implanted prosthetic to reinforce the area can help make it less likely that the hernia will recur. other factors that contribute to hernia formation is chronic coughing in patients with copd or who smoke and being overweight. if those factors are present then your pcp can help you remedy those.
can gerd feel like hot waves going up your chest tighten your throat and lose breath a bit trigger just one cough and nostrils burn? not overweight.
possible anxity.
ate a burger from a fast food place; about 3 hrs later i began experincing cold like symptoms. scratchy throat headache etc. is it related 2 what i ate?
it is doubtful that the burger caused your symptoms. it is more likely due to the high school kid working on the 'burger line' who coughed on your food!
am 54 female over weight has pain right abdominal high mid ribs to back dull + stab @ naval nausea bowel changes cough + feel some lumps not on ribs?
i would make an appointment to see your pcp. the pain nausea and bowel habits could be your gallbladder. the lumps are pretty nonspecific and probably have always been the it is just that you are noticing them because ou are hurting. or it could be something completely different. but if you are hurting and nauseated i would recommend being seen by a physician.
constant acidity dry cough burning in throat+chest when exercising breathing trouble. is my sleep apnea causing this or is it acidity causing apnea?
there is an association between acid reflux and sleep apnea. there is no proof that reflux leads to sleep apnea (or vice-versa) but the association between the two has been shown repeatedly. you need optimal treatment of both conditions to feel well again so ttyd about a sleep study with a cpap mask and prilosec or other acid blocker. hope this helps. thanks 4 trusting healthtap w/ your question.
constant acidity dry cough burning in throat+chest when exercising breathing trouble. is my sleep apnea causing this or is it acidity causing apnea?
your symptoms may be due gastroesophageal reflux
can a hiatal hernia cause pain under left ribs& side? it hurts often but sometimes only when cough & i have a lump on each side of my ab muscles.
discomfort under the left rib cage may come from hiatal hernia but may also be due to other things such as gas entrapment in the upper left colon or even from pinched nerves in the rib cage or problem with the base of the left lung. it's best to have your physician examine and advise you and if he/she feels it's advisable a referral to a gastroenterologist will be made.
can hiatal hernia cause breathlessness on walking?
not itself. but it can cause gerd which can cause sob and coughing.
had bronchitis finished antibiotics cough syrup etc. now tummy upset. cramps. loose stool. eat healthy. no known allergy. how to make tummy happy?
for a pathogenic bacteria that colonizes the gastric tissue. if present this would explain your gastric symptoms and hyperacidity. loose stools could be from antibiotics. your doctor can do a simple 5 minute breath test for h pylori. avoid dairy and salad to help diarrhea. some kaopectate (kaolin and pectin) might alleviate diarrhea. hope this helps.
are people who are obese more likely to develop hernias?
if a person is obese his chances of developing a hernia or significantly greater then someone who is not. . however anyone can develop a hernia living heavy objects coughing genetics and some disease states.
so what are the symptoms of metastatic breast cancer?
this really depends on the extent and location of the cancer. some patients with bone-only cancer can have no symptoms. others may have general symptoms such as fatigue weight loss poor appetite pain depression and specific symptoms related to cancer sites such as cough nausea vomitting shortness of breath bleeding mental changes etc.
why does my right breast hurt when i cough? i do have thickening in. that breast and i have had mam and us and was ok
not everything shows up on mammogram. a sonogram may show changes within the breast but if it's. subtle skin change it needs the trained eye
husband has sarcoidosis with chest pain and cough. dr says he has mild sleep apnea. doctor not aggressively treating the sarcoidosis. what next?
it appears you have some concerns. it would be advisable to get a second opinion if both you and your husband desire it.
did warm-up & 1st workout in ova a year. only lasted literally 5 mins. now i'm wheezing and coughing. very obese. will it always b like this? <negative_smiley>
with the symptoms you describe you need to see: your doctor a referral to a lung specialist a consult with a dietitian
hi. i'm experiencing cough with expectoration without fever. my uncle (living with me) has been coughing for a month and has experience weight loss.
and pertussis. agree with other doctors that it sounds like you have a contagious infectious disease process going on in your household. take your uncle and self to a primary care doctor for an evaluation and labs. i hope the family feels better soon.
hi. i'm experiencing cough with expectoration without fever. my uncle (living with me) has been coughing for a month and has experience weight loss.
this is something that you should get evaluated- particularly because your uncle's disease has progressed (now includes weight loss). in your part of the world i worry about tb - so this is an important thing to check for. if you have other information about the nature of the cough illness that might help figure out the possibilities. it's important to get yourself and your uncle checked soon.
hi. i'm experiencing cough with expectoration without fever. my uncle (living with me) has been coughing for a month and has experience weight loss.
i would advise you to seek help locally
what exactly does waist training do and is it safe and effective?
tight lacing (also called waist training or corset training) can cause shortness of breath fainting indigestion. this practice can decrease lung volume (requiring intercostal breathing). relatively less use of lower lungs can leading to coughing. some corset styles can push the lower ribs inward. the liver is forced upward & accessory lobes of the liver may form. stomach volume is reduced & >
a very fouly smrll whitish yellow small thing came into my mouth from oesophagus i guess. this happens mostly after overeating. is this food reflux?
you cold have an esophageal diverticula in which food gets trapped starts to digest (decompose- can be foul smelling almost fecal) and coughing could bring it out. i would think a barium swallow or upper endoscopy could clarify pretty quickly.
blood vomitng fever dizziness upset stomach weight loss cough flu feeling cold not feeling hungry. dez r symptoms. got 4 wounds in stomch 1 near liver?
dont mess around on the computer gk to the er asap or urgent care!
blood vomitng fever dizziness upset stomach weight loss cough flu feeling cold not feeling hungry. dez r symptoms. got 4 wounds in stomch 1 near liver?
given these symptoms best to be seen and evaluated as soon as possible.
bitter cough swollen neck and pain acanthosis in hand and foot and pain fast heart beat stomach upset hiv and vdrl test is negative?
please seek medical attention asap. you need examination and more detail testing.
been taking mucinex (guaifenesin) blue liquid for cold. now have green diarrhea. also been eating a lot of splenda sweetened hard candy for cough is this why gassy?
the sucralose found in splenda can be the cause of your diarrhea.
small short axis mediastinal nodes show on ct i had nhl 5 yrs ago and i am so scared what does this mean. doc. said scan in 12mths. also 2 4mm lung nodules. breast cancer 15yrs ago. i am nuts. he wanted to wait 12 mths. i said noooooooooo?
small nodes in the mediastinum( < 1cm) are not necessarily abnormal so you can relax and wait to worry. if you had any chest symptoms like pain fever or cough then a repeat ct scan or pet scan may be justified. if there are sufficient odds of your lymphoma recurrence being a consideration repeat imaging studies should be done in 3 to 6 months. lung nodules of < 5-10 mm are probably benign.
viral flu for 10 days. still have fever of 37. 8 and now face pain on right side. cough. tight throat. why am i still sick? breast cancer? sore lump.
sounds like a sinus infection. see md who will likely obtain xrays and prescribe antibiotics.
viral flu for 10 days. still have fever of 37. 8 and now face pain on right side. cough. tight throat. why am i still sick? breast cancer? sore lump.
we're having a serious flu season. do you have a cool mist humidifier? fill it with one bottle of hydrogen peroxide and two bottles of water. that will give you a 1% aerosolized mist of hydrogen peroxide. the peroxide kills the bugs on contact (virus or bacteria) as you breath in the mist and breaks down into water and oxygen. you should feel better in a day or two.
getting bitter cough neck pain swollen neck hand and leg pain acanthosis in hand and leg body pain stomach upset and the hiv and vdrl test is -ve?
the best thing to do is see your family doc.
girl. 6. obese always hungry sweats profusely body odor chronic cough very active but doesn't lose weight. dark circles under eyes. sleep problems. ideas?
evaluation might need to be evaluated as well by an endocrinologist for her obesity problem and an allergist for the chronic cough and the? allergic shiners (dark circles under eyes) check aaaai. org or acaai. org for an allergist/immunologist in your area good luck
i am having chest pain above right breast hurts when i inhale or raise right arm came on about an hour ago i am asthmatic inhalers not helping?
this may be muscle sprain from coughing or uncontrolled asthma. take some ibuprofen if that doesn't help go to urgent care or er anyplace you can get a chest x-ray these may be the symptoms of a pneumothorax. pulmonary embolism is also in the differential diagnosis.
i have been coughing a lot and now my rib hurts under my shoulder blade and wraps around under my left breast. hurts to move cough and sneeze.
try taking some dayquil/nyquil combo for now. ask your dt if s/he would recommend antibiotics and chest x-ray. take care!
i have been coughing a lot and now my rib hurts under my shoulder blade and wraps around under my left breast. hurts to move cough and sneeze.
you pulled some muscles try tylenol (acetaminophen) and get the cough and sinuses addressed. you may have bronchitis but this is not unusual.
is it possible that coughing too much cause breast pain?
commonly known as tietze's syndrome breast pain from inflammation of the rib cartilage also known as costochondritis. treatment is anti-inflammatories and heat.
i have to undergo gynecomastia. i stopped smoking tobacco for a month. do i still have to tell my anesthesiologist about my habit in the past?
always tell your physicians your full health and smoking history. smokers may have more problems with anesthesia such as cough and secretions. your anesthesiologist should know this in advance even if you quit smoking a month ago.
i had a mastopexy 8 days ago. the past 2 days i've had a croupy cough hurts to swallow & i'm achey all over. should i be on an antibiotic?
it sounds more like a viral illness but it is best that you get checked out by your doctor to rule out a bacterial infection such as a strep throat.
could radiation therapy for breast cancer be giving me a cough?
there is a small amount of lung radiated that usually causes no problems. but sometimes this amount is large enough to cause a pneumonitis that can cause a cough. you need an exam and a lung x-ray to determine if this is the cause.
could radiation therapy for breast cancer be giving me a cough?
rarely radiation to the breast can cause inflammation of a portion of the lung. this can cause cough. it is typically treated with steroids. if you experience cough and shortness of breath during or shortly after radiation you should contact your radiation oncologist.
could radiation therapy for breast cancer be giving me a cough?
as stated by dr. terstriep it is rare. inflammation of the lung because of radiation ( radiation peumonitis) can produce a dry nagging cough typically 6 months out from radiation. it can be treated with steroids. it happens in less than 10% of the patients.
is coughing out blood or having chest pains a sign of breast cancer?
it is a sign of nothing good. get it checked out by a physician. without also having a size able lump in your breast or a past history of breast cancer i think it is rather unlikely that these are signs of breast cancer however.
is coughing out blood or having chest pains a sign of breast cancer?
this probably is not a sign of breast cancer but still could be a sign of a serious medical condition. you need to be examined by a doctor immediately. go seek care in an emergency department if this is happening to you.
i have gynecomastia surgery tomorrow and i was around my friend who had a cough and sniffle yesterday. i feel a tickle in my throat today will they cancel my surgery if it turns out i catch it?
it often takes several days for these illnesses to set in. unless it caused significant irritation to your airway before the procedure there would not be a real reason for delay. you might call the office to share your concerns with the staff and let them help you.
my friends lungs are full of tumers from forth stage breast cancer she is having coughing fits and her docs haven't given her oxygen therapy why not?
it sounds like your friend is quite ill but she may not oxygen yet. this is quite easily determined in an office setting with a pulse-oximetry meter. if she is having shortness of breath easy fatigue etc. it is reasonable to check her oxygen status. treating her coughs may make her more comfortable. advise her to consult her docs. wish her luck for me.
my friends lungs are full of tumers from forth stage breast cancer she is having coughing fits and her docs haven't given her oxygen therapy why not?
oxygen is only needed if a persons blood oxygen is below a certain level the treatment of symptoms is not oxygen unless a person is not able to keep a good level of oxygen without supplement so if your friend has a po2 of >90 without oxygen he may not need any.
my friends lungs are full of tumers from forth stage breast cancer she is having coughing fits and her docs haven't given her oxygen therapy why not?
oxygen will not stop the cough. it may help her feel a bit better but a strong cough med is probably indicated. is hospice needed? they do a wonderful job of helping when conditions seem bleak or unsolvable to usual care.
my friends lungs are full of tumers from forth stage breast cancer she is having coughing fits and her docs haven't given her oxygen therapy why not?
oxygen can only be prescribed if her oxygen level is low enough to warrant this therapy. so your friend's oxygen level is likely not low enough. her doctors will likely monitor this and prescribe it if/when necessary (her pulse ox needs to be below 88% on room air to qualify). i am very sorry about your friend's illness. best of luck to both of you!
can breast lump be caused by wegener's granulomatosis? what are the other symptoms?
wegner's causes nasal and sinus problems and respiratory symptoms like cough and lung nodules. it affects kidneys which shows up as rising creatinine and abnormal urinalysis.
does a history of lung problems make it a bad idea for me to have radiation for breast cancer?
it depends on your lung problems. radiation for breast cancer may cause some lung changes on x-ray and sometimes a cough. women with asthma or copd can have radiation therapy. women with lupus or scleroderma should not have radiation therapy. you should not have radiation therapy if you have had previous radiation to your chest. ask your radiation oncologist about your specific lung problems.
i had a breast reduction in 2008. i now have pneumonia and last night during a horrible coughing episode i felt a pop at the top of my abdomen close to my right breast followed by extreme burning that radiated half way down my abdomen and to the side. tod
your pain is very unlikely to have anything to do with the breast reduction and more likely represents costochondritis or other problem with a rib. see your doctor!
i had a breast reduction in 2008. i now have pneumonia and last night during a horrible coughing episode i felt a pop at the top of my abdomen close to my right breast followed by extreme burning that radiated half way down my abdomen and to the side. tod
the question is cut off. please advise
breast implant surgery feb 7th starting to feel sick with headache and flu symptoms. can i take nyquil? i am suppose to only take tylenol (acetaminophen) for pain.
the pain medicine in nyquil is tylenol (acetaminophen). depending in the type of nyquil the other medicine in it is a decongestant and/or a cough suppressant neither of which will interfere with subsequent surgery.
have had ache in up right back for 3 yrs also right breast thickening mam ok and us. i feel it in my breast when i cough? any idea?
would it be possible that your breast is pulling against your back. i can not understand why your breast is thickening. i really think that your size may have a roll in all of this. the best thing is to have a complete physical by your family doctor
have had a cold yellow phlegm slight cough. normal to have pressure behind one ear with this? had breast cancer and am afraid of brain mets? !
so unrelated to brain. on the other hand without an exam i can only give general information but phlegm and cough can be a sign of beginning pneumonia if they continue. scary risky if someone's immune system is gone in context of serious chemotherapy/radiation.
my partners mam just got her tonsils out should it be hurting loads and she coughing up blood and gunk is that ment to happen thanks?
if there is excessive pain and coughing up blood then she needs to call her doctor immediately or proceed to the er.
my friend has been coughing blood and having chest pains. does it mean she has breast cancer? she even loses her breath.
hi harold theses are not symptoms of breast cancer. if she is a teenager it is unlikely to be cancer but she should be seen asap. it could be an infection that needs to be treated. she should see her doctor or go to the er for an evaluation. thank you.
my friend has been coughing blood and having chest pains. does it mean she has breast cancer? she even loses her breath.
these symptoms are not likely due to breast cancer. depending upon age symptoms most likely due to infection or a blood clot. lung cancer can also cause these symptoms. these are potentially serious symptoms and your friend should see a physician or primary care provider.
my friend has been coughing blood and having chest pains. does it mean she has breast cancer? she even loses her breath.
the symptoms you described and pain in the chest is a serious medical condition. especially chest pains is always a red flag and appointment with your pcp is warranted. rec. : see your pcp for further investigation or referral to cardiologist. if concerned do not hesitate to go to urgent care or er. take care.
my friend has been coughing blood and having chest pains. does it mean she has breast cancer? she even loses her breath.
have your friend see a doc could be anything including cancer but that's lowest on the list.
my friend has stomach pains nose bleeds coughing up blood fainting bruises and small lumps on her chest. can this be lung/breast cancer?
i dont think we should answer if this a sign of cancer but we should get your friend to her doctor for a full evaluation for causes of her symptons. dont have her delay the visit.
bronchitis lupus and dull achy pain above right breast. slight swelling to collarbone. xray mammo and us all neg. 35 yr female?
the area above your breast and below your collarbone has muscles blood vessels lymph nodes and breast tissue. your lupus puts you at risk for blood clots so that's one thought. you have bronchitis and if you're coughing you could have muscle pain/spasm of your pectoral muscles. inflammation of lymph nodes in that area is also a possibility. make sure the ultrasound checked for a blood clot.
breast enlargement in males is a side effect of ace inhibitors. does it affect women? my sister has developed painful rt breast since starting tablets
well proven drug for hypertension with relatively few side effects like joint pains cough. skin rash male breast enlargement ii unusual so is breast pains speak to our doctor.
i am 1 week post op breast augmentation and haven't been doing much but laying around. last night i started having a dry cough today i have perioral?
or just post surgical collapse of small airways [atelectasis] walk alot and and breath deep i perioral lesions? could be stress apthous ulcers or fever blisters [herpes 1 flair] btu if worse see a dr. or yoru surgeon for antibiotics incuding augmentin/zhithromax to cover all bacteria if allergic to penicillin can use other liek keflex or cefdinir i hope you have the breasts you like
need expert help here. what are risks with breast reduction and nicotine?
the main thing is wound healing. nicotine retards healing and most plastic surgeons would not do surgery until u stop. also most smokers cough a lot. this could cause sutures to break and hematoma (collection of blood) to form that could even get infected further complicating issues.
painful mass on ribcage under breast. us came back normal just started coughing up thick clear mucus and pain behind knee and arm pit what could it be
in this setting my concern would be whether you have a blood clot in the leg with a pulmonary embolus into the lawn. this may not be the correct diagnosis but it needs to be evaluated as it is a serious medical problem. see your position immediately and get this clarified
my heart is pounding hard but not racing and it hurts to breathe. feels like i should cough to make it go away but that doesn't help. what's happening?
a lot of benign medical condition can cause the heart pouding the urge to cough is your body way to try to convert the heart rate to a slower rate you need to see a doctor or need to go to the er right away if it is happening now. many condition could become serious and life threatening so do not ignore it and see your doctor.
worsening dry cough after viral illness. short of breathe. fast heart rate. dr says lungs sound clear could still be pnemonia? temp steady at 37. 4
it is common to have a cough after most of the other symptoms of a viral illness have resolved. the shortness of breath though should not occur in association with the cough. this may represent bronchospasm or another cause. i would advise a pulmonary function test. if your lungs are clear and you are not febrile pneumonia is less likely.
what could cause palpitations / shortness of breath with little exertion?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
wt loss of 20lbs over 1 week diagnosis w/flu. history asthma & hypokalemia. s&s: palpitations cough weakness. concerns? what should i be asking my doctor?
weight loss from flu includes fluid weight loss. any significant shift in fluids can cause electrolyte issues for example hypokalemia. hypokalemia can present as weakness and palpitations. this can be a life threatening situation. you need evaluation now not later. in a weakened situation you should not drive. best call your doctor and 911.
wt loss of 20lbs over 1 week diagnosis w/flu. history asthma & hypokalemia. s&s: palpitations cough weakness. concerns? what should i be asking my doctor?
this weight loss is excessive. you need a chest xray ekg and nutritional advice. you may have a bacterial infection on top of flu and need antibiotics. should get some blood work and look for elevated white count. make sure you drink enough fluids and recheck your potassium.
what are natural ways to treat palpitations or just a very fast pulse?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
whay med can take for a bad flu and cold am taking flecainide atorvastatin losartan metformin levothy my cough is dry discharge mucous from lungs?
mucinex (guaifenesin) and chlorocedin -hbp are the i reccomend.
why have i recently developed heart palpitations?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
what could cause someone with a defibrillator to have incessant coughing spasms?
sometimes the leads for the defibrillators may be positioned near the phrenic nerve - this would cause a hiccup-type sensation when the device paced.
what you should do for survival incase of heart attack when you are all alone & without medicine or assistace?
first you need good luck! you may try to give a series of sharp hard coughs. theoretically this increases blood pressure to the coronary arteries temporarily and may aid in dislodging a flow obstructing blood clot. i will finish with may usual advice: prevent so you don't need to fix!
i am having having palpitations pretty frequently (many times a day. at rest and active) which then cause me to cough. ?
this sounds very much like a cardiac arrhythmia. also known as an abnormal heartbeat. you need to see your doctor today and have an evaluation including an ekg. most arrhythmias are benign and nothing to worry about but some are not so and need to be treated.
i am having having palpitations pretty frequently (many times a day. at rest and active) which then cause me to cough. ?
palpitations can be harmless but annoying or potentially a dangerous rhythm problem. there is no way to tell these apart without an ecg taken while it is happening. if you don't experience them while at the doctor you can wear a monitor to catch them when they do occur. treatment can be simple lifestyle advice (less caffeine) or medication. don't ignore this symptom.
i have pvc's like 1-10 a day which i can feel and they scare me a lot. i think they are caused by adrenaline. what can i do to stop them?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i take medicine for sinus tachicardia and really would like an otc cough syrup what is safe?
it would be safe to try a cough medicine which contains dextromethorfan sometimes written as dm on the bottle. it is not a great cough suppresant but would be safe to try.
i had mi 3years ago on holliday and got sunburnt lower legs and ankles ankles have swollen mostly my right is this from sunburn or heart failure?
sunburn will cause edema of the tissues. with a hx of cad and mi you may need to get it checked out but it is common for excessive sun exposure to cause swelling. go get checked especially if you have any soa or wet cough.
is it possible to have a heart attack without any warning signs? symptoms of heart attack (dizziness anxiety cough fainting etc) are very similar to other conditions how can i figure out if those are signs of heart attack?
chest pressure shortness of breath nausea and sweating are the most common symptoms of a heart attack. some people will describe it as feeling like indigestion or may have aching in the arms jaw shoulder or upper back. the likelihood of a heart attack increases as the number of symptoms increase and the probability is also higher in someone over the age of forty. these symptoms are also more worrisome in people who smoke have high blood pressure high cholesterol diabetes or a family history of heart disease. however it is quite possible to have a heart attack with few or mild symptoms and while less common they can occur in people under the age of forty. unfortunately many other conditions can produce symptoms that are similar or identical to a heart attack including heartburn panic attacks collapsed lungs and pulmonary embolism. it may be impossible to distinguish a heart attack from other conditions without testing even for a seasoned physician. for this reason you should seek care immediately if these symptoms occur. unexplained fainting should always be checked out promptly. similarly chest discomfort or difficulty breathing that lasts more than 10-15 minutes is grounds for going to the nearest emergency room.
is it possible to have a heart attack without any warning signs? symptoms of heart attack (dizziness anxiety cough fainting etc) are very similar to other conditions how can i figure out if those are signs of heart attack?
yes it's possible to have a heart attack without any warning signs. in some cases people have them never have a diagnosis and have the old "infarct" found later on a subsequent ekg. go to the er sooner rather than later if you think you are having one. age male status smoking and excessively high lipid levels (including - elevated homocysteine and c-react protein) = other risk factors.
i experience a lot of stress anxiety and panic. i've been checked out (blood thyroid x ray ekg urine) for palpitations and the doctor says it's anxiety. what should i do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
i have had migraine headaches for years. i take beta blockers. for the last year the top of my head hurts whenever i bend over sneeze or cough. ?
several issues must be reviewed: 1 sleep problems? even you might not realize that 2. any trigger points or painful points in neck as they give referral pain in head 3. is there any medication withdrawal or sudden stop? 4. is scalp tender on top of head? see your doctor for assessment.
i have had migraine headaches for years. i take beta blockers. for the last year the top of my head hurts whenever i bend over sneeze or cough. ?
the symptoms you're describing could be related to increased pressure inside your skull. this could be due to many things including a mass high blood pressure or a vascular malformation. it is definitely something you need to discuss with the doc treating your headaches right away.
i think i have palpitation. what do i do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
is there any way to reduce my frequent heart palpitations?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i am having frequent squeezing sensations in left side of chest dizziness (to the point of nearly passing out) rapid heart rate and minor cough. a cardiac catheterization revealed no abnormalities last year. is it possible i have a-fib or any other abn
need follow-up with primary md or cardiology for 24 hour holter test.
i am having frequent squeezing sensations in left side of chest dizziness (to the point of nearly passing out) rapid heart rate and minor cough. a cardiac catheterization revealed no abnormalities last year. is it possible i have a-fib or any other abn
ask for an event monitor to monitor your heartbeat.
i hve had an bventricular pace maker fitted with an ablation but now develop a dry cough with lots of white mucus. tried all differnt tyes of inhalers nothing works?
talk to your cardiologist asap as you may be having chf.
i am experiencing irregular heartbeats. sometimes it's so weak and slow but sometimes it beats so hard that it makes me cough. what should i do?
irregular heartbeats are very common and while usually not related to any serious problem should be evaluated by a cardiologist. test may include an electrocardiogram an echocardiogram a 24 hour cardiac monitor and even a stress test. often the cause is related to a stimulant including the caffeine in chocolate coffee tea and cola beverages or an over the counter supplement.
i am experiencing irregular heartbeats. sometimes it's so weak and slow but sometimes it beats so hard that it makes me cough. what should i do?
it is difficult to know the type of irregular heart beats you are experiencing by the symptoms alone. a complete evaluation is indicated. ideally a recording of your heart rhythm at the time you are having symptoms is the best way to identify the type. this can be accomplished with a recordiing device you take home. knowing the type of irregular heart beat will guide the appropriate treatment.
i am mostly worried about my cough-raspy. rasp in my throat and chest after coughing i have to catch my breath heart racing. wat is it see a doc?
a cough associated with shortness of breath should be evaluated by a doctor. it may be due to bronchospasm which can sometimes be diagnosed directly by a doctor and sometimes requires testing like pulmonary function tests. if this is the problem it can be treated with bronchodilator and steroid inhalers. if you smoke you need to quit asap to decrease airway inflammation.
i take benicar and norvasc. i have clear nasal drainage and some cough but no fever. i started otc mucinex (guaifenesin) and my bp is elevating. is mucinex (guaifenesin) the?
yes. be careful with otc meds and bp issues.
i feel suicidal because of heart palpitations. is there any relief for me?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help. you need to see a psychiatrist also suicidal is serious.
i have a healthy heart and lung but everytime i walk i feel like im going to faint and i have palpatations is this becauze of the p. e i had in my lung?
your symptoms of feeling faint palpitations and a history of p. e. cough difficulty breathing require further evaluation. your management may include a repeat hrct of your lungs holter monitor/echo pulmonary function testing and an ultrasound of your legs to rule out a dvt. in addition a v/q scan will be ordered. your coumadin (warfarin) dose may need to be adjusted. i hope that you follow up.
is possible for me to have respiratory problem and asthma even though my ecg is normal? i have frequent chest pain and dry cough.
yes the ecg is a test to assess cardiac disease only rarely will advanced lung disease manifest itself on an ecg.
is possible for me to have respiratory problem and asthma even though my ecg is normal? i have frequent chest pain and dry cough.
this is entirely possible.
is it true that coughing helps when a person is experiencing a heart attack? if yes then how is it helpful? what does coughing do to such a person?
no. its not true. coughing doesn't help during a heart attack.
is it true that coughing helps when a person is experiencing a heart attack? if yes then how is it helpful? what does coughing do to such a person?
what you refer to isn't really help when a heart attack happens but when a cardiac arrest is happening. when the heart isn't pumping the acute changes in thoracic pressure with coughing can move blood through the circulation. this is a very temporary situation and has very limited clinical data surrounding it.
is coughing useful during cardiac arrest and why?
the so called "cough cpr" is not an accepted method of cardiac resusitation.
is coughing useful during cardiac arrest and why?
there is no good data on cough really producing enough cardiac output during an arrest to justify the recommendation. the american heart association does not presently recommend this technique. it is possible it could help but no rigorous studies to prove its value.
is coughing useful during cardiac arrest and why?
cough may cause a cardiac contraction pvc and make some blood flow. but cpr and defibrillation are better in a bad situation!
is it true that coughing helps during a cardiac arrest? if yes then why and how?
the so called "cough cpr" is not an accepted method of cardiac resusitation.
is it true that coughing helps during a cardiac arrest? if yes then how and why?
been scientifically proven.
is it true that coughing helps during a cardiac arrest? if yes then how and why?
the so called "cough cpr" is not an accepted method of cardiac resusitation.
i am 28 on my period i have hot flashes cold chills nausea a cough non productive wheezing i also have had and gerds rapid heart rate sob?
gerd leads to aspiration? you need to see a physician asap.
i have a left side upper chest pain and i noticed coughing up a little bright red blood at morning only. i got x-ray and ecg done. nothing detected.
hemoptysis ( coughing up blood) is a serious issue and should not be taken lightly no matter how little it is. i common causes include blood thinners ( if you are taking them) bronchitis ( acute and chronic) bronchiectasis lung cancer tuberculosis. you should have a discussion with your pcp depending on other symptoms like weight loss lack of appetite and energy may warrant a ct scan of chest.
i have a left side upper chest pain and i noticed coughing up a little bright red blood at morning only. i got x-ray and ecg done. nothing detected.
follow up with a lung specialist pulmonologist -- you may need chest ct.
i hadn't eaten in like 3 days because if a stomach bug and today i ate but i felt heart palpitations is that normal? i still have a cough too
if you had vomiting and diarrhea most probably you are dehydrated. drink plenty of water and gaterode if possible. stop smoking wont help with the cough. follow with your physician.
i have been having to heart palpitations that make me cough ill lose breath for a second and after i cough ill be back to normal. i don't smoke drink?
premature atrial or ventricular contractions which are common but could also be arrhythmia. . may want to discuss with your physician if troublesome.
i lifted some heavy weight and did some damage to my xiphoid process. only pain when i cough/sneeze. otherwise discomfort. ekg ok. any medical help?
unfortunately rib strains and xiphoid process strains are treated only with avoidance of straining and waiting. you can use otc analgesics to lessen the pain however they wont work very good for something like this. you don't need any surgery or bracing. pain typically improves over a period of a couple weeks. good luck!
is there any way heart palpitations can be cured? my doctor told me that i have an abnormal heartbeat. can it lead to something serious?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help. you need to see a psychiatrist also suicidal is serious.
i heard that if you cough during a pvc (benign or not) its literally impossible to have heart problems. true?
i dont believe that is true. there are many causes for heart problems.
will my blood clot put me at risk for a heart attack or a stroke?
where is your blood clot? in the leg? will usually be cought in the lung unless you have pfo check with your doc asap.
i thought atenolol(being selective) where as nadolol(being non selective) has a better chance at not causing breathing issues on bb for high hr (pots)?
they can both cause cough. often the doctor has long term experience with the drugs and has noticed in actual practice one may be superior or they are both the same. people also react differently to the short acting versus theg acting pills.
i've had taccycardia for over a year. could this be a pulmonary embolism?
a pe would present as cough bloody chest pain and shortness of breath. now it could be associated with tachycardia in an acute situation but you're talking about a year of rapid heart rate. i'm assuming you've been seen and evaluated by a physician. if not do so. good luck.
i am coughing slightly. my chest is aching and i have body pain and slight elevated heart rate?
you may have an infection. best to make an appt to see your doctor to get check up.
why could i keep getting heart palpitations?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
is it pleurisy or pericarditis for chest pain in the center of sternum below left breast. normal 2decho jan2013 chest xray 12lead ecg threadmill test?
how long have you had it? is it the sequelae of a flu or cold you've had recently. if the pain increases with inspiration or coughing it is more likely musculoskeletal so costochondritis or pleuritic pain is most likely. see your doctor tomorrow. those tests you're asking about are only necessary if more simple diagnostic steps haven't succeeded in identifying the problem.
i have a dry raspy cough think it maybe ashtma is it safe to have prednisole and metroplol together. i am on metroplol for rapid heart beat.
sure - no problems taking them together.
what do i do to get my heart palpitations under control?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i take bupropion nexium (esomeprazole) metoprolol. i was given norco 5/325 in the hospital for coughing and having a cold. is it safe to take all of this together?
it should be fine. stop the norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) if you have significant sedation.
what side effects does hyzaar (losartan and hydrocholorthiazide) and betaloc have as i feel sick dizzy and have bad flushing of the face?
as with any medication there are potential side effects of hyzaar (losartan and hydrocholorthiazide). the most common side effect is low potassium in the blood which occurs in up to 6. 7 percent of patients. other common reactions include an infection such as the common cold or flu; dizziness; and coughing. if you experience more severe problems such as seizures an unexplained rash or vomiting contact your healthcare provider.
i was exercising when suddenly. i got dizzy increase heart rate coughing up bloody phlegm dizzyness fatigue. am i okay?
exercise-induced dizziness with palpitations and hemoptysis (coughing up blood) are of great concern because the cause might be serious. this merits an urgent visit to ones doctor or to an emergency dept. a thorough history and physical exam including a check of ones blood pressure heart lungs and limbs and an ekg and chest x-ray would enable diagnosis and treatment of the problem.
i'm having bad palpitations. what should i do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i'm sick. i'm coughing like crazy. my head is hot. i can feel my heart beat in my stomach. the other day i had a cramp so bad i threw up.
there are many causes of cough. it is important to obtain a more thorough history (when did the symptoms begin? any day/night variation etc. ) and a physical exam in order to make the correct diagnosis. only then can an appropriate treatment plan be implemented. if you can no longer participate in your daily activities due to your symptoms i recommend consulting with your doctor.
why does your heart rate increase when you sneeze or cough or breath deep in and out?
when you do the mentioned activities you trigger what is called valsalva reflex that make your heart rate go up.
i take beta blockers and synthroid (thyroxine) is it ok to take phenylephrine if i have a cold?
oral nasal decongestants such as sudafed (pseudoephedrine) and sudafed pe (phenylephedrine) can increase blood pressure by increasing your heart rate and by causing blood vessels to narrow also known as vasoconstriction. these effects are greater with immediate release products and higher doses. pseudoephedrine and phenylephedrine can also be found in many cold cough and flu medicines.
why can cause black spots in my eye when i cough or my heart beats fast?
you are seeing "stars". like they draw on cartoons.
i have chest ache on left heart palpatations dry cough upper left back pain shortness of breath and feeling nausia any idea on the problem?
with those symptoms and the smoking history i'd be most suspicious of a pulmonary problem like pneumonia but there's a long list of possibilities and you really should have someone examine you and listen to your lungs. based on that they might consider further testing. feel better!
i have chest pain. resting heart rate low as 48 sometimes. short lasting mild headaches daily for past week. tightness on sides of head and face.
in the absence of any drug reactions i would recommend you see your doctor. you did not mention any symptoms of dizziness shortness of breath or cough.
what's the fastest / safest way to stop heart palpitations?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i keep coughing and i have a severe head cold with an avg. resting heart rate of 110. i am scared about cardiac arrest should i go back to a doc?
young people can generally tolerate hr elevations like this for many days especially if they are associated with medications like cough medicine or decongestants.
i have a bad sore throat hard cough yellow mucus chest pains shortness of breath and fast pulse.
suggest you see ahealth care provider for examintion and appropriate treatment
i was diagnosed with pneumonia 3 wks ago. tightness in my chest has not gotten better. xray ct scan vitals and ekg all looked good. what could be wrong?
it's understandable that you are impatiently waiting to get well but healing takes time. has your cough improved? do you have fever? is your sputum lighter and less? if the answer is yes you're slowly getting better. o/w ask your doc for reevaluation.
what can you do to address a heart palpitation?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
is coughing up bloody mucus shortness of breath and rapid heart beat normal during pregnancy?
that's never normal pregnant or not. if you think it's just allergies or congestion you can see how it goes if worried see your doctor soon.
is coughing up bloody mucus shortness of breath and rapid heart beat normal during pregnancy?
you could have an infection an embolism etc speak with your doctor asap
what can i do to calm down heart palpitations if i have svt?
if your palpitations are from svt you can try something called a "vagal maneuver". these include coughing or bearing down like you have to have a bowel movement. you can also try rubbing your carotid artery on your neck. the palpitations may not necessarily be from svt so you might need to confirm with a heart monitor. other options include medication such as beta blockers or an svt ablation.
with a blister aneurysm ica when i cough yell sneeze etc i get a sharp pain that throbs for a few seconds with my pulse. is it related?
this could be a dangerous situation and should be addressed as soon as you can.
with a blister aneurysm ica when i cough yell sneeze etc i get a sharp pain that throbs for a few seconds with my pulse. is it related?
where is your pain? if its a headache it is more likely that you are just aware that internal body pressure changes cause headaches but its possible that the aneurysm is causing headache. talk to your neurologist.
what is the difference between cardiac cough and cardiac asthma? cough is not from medication or illness. have it with talking. have dcm.
cardiac cough can comes at night as part of the paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea from chf. cardiac asthma is bronchospasm/wheezing from pulmonary interstitial fluid accumulation from chf.
what is the difference between cardiac cough and cardiac asthma? cough is not from medication or illness. have it with talking. have dcm.
both refer to symptoms that are usually interpreted as pulmonary in origin but found to be from increased fluid in the lung from congestion from heart failure.
i have a phlegm in chest feeling not coughing up phlegm very weird feeling; uncomfortable. 13 yrs old heart skipping beats when checking pulse often?
can you ask your parents or guardians to take you to a physician so that you can be examined and an ekg done? in the meantime please don't drink caffeinated drinks which include sports energy drinks or take decongestants or any stimulating drugs. if no other option you can call emergency services if your symptoms worsen. you need to be seen by a doctor.
what can i do about severe heart palpitation?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
what kind of cough medicine can i take if i have afib?
i would rx. tussi-organidin nr.
what are the symptoms of dilated cardiomyopathy?
you might feel fatigue weakness shortness of breath while you are lying down or physically active lightheaded dizzy fainting persistent cough of wheezing especial at when you are lying downs. you might have leg ankle or feet swelling sudden weight gain or fluid retention lack of appetite heart flutters palpitations and pale skin.
what are the side effects of taking lisinopril and metoprolol together?
there is no incidence of increased side affects (sa) taking lisinopril (l) and metoprolol (m) together l can cause a cough which is non-productive and can cause in rare cases swelling of the lips. m can cause a slow pulse rate and can cause some erectile dysfunction. using both of these agents to treat hypertension does not increase the frequency of the sa's of either drug. ask your doctor.
what are the symptoms of an arrythmia?
most people describe a "flutter" "skip" "thud" or feeling like they need to cough with an odd sensation in their chest. an on-going arrhythmia can cause breathlessness with exertion and fatigue. a very rapid or very slow heart beat can cause faintness.
what can you do to stop arrhythmia without medication?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
what are some good healthy natural things and activities i can eat and do to help with my arrhythmia?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i've been diagnosed with cough-variant asthma clear xray and ecg. it presents primarily on the left side with wet cough and tightness. is this normal?
no cough perfect health is normal. cough variant asthma is more common than the public understands though. assuming the diagnosis is correct resist the urge to "throw antibiotics at it" and instead i hope your doctor is prescribing beta-agonists (albuterol) inhaled steroids (flovent etc) and maybe other adjuctive meds. if no improvement in a few weeks follow up with your dr.
i drank robitusin cf and after a while i feel that my heart beats slower. is it normal?
the phenylephrine in robitussin cf can cause a reflex bradycardia. while this is a known potential side effect of the medication i would not say it is normal. consider trying plain robitussin or robitussin dm (guaifenesin and dextromethorphan) if needed for cough symptoms which should not contain phenylephrine. there are many potential interactions with other medications too. please be careful.
i'm a 20 year old female. i was examined by my cardiologist a few months ago and all was good. but sometimes my heart beats really lound but not fast?
anxiety caffine stress nictine otc cough cold medication can cause it.
i have low-moderate probability of dvt/pe with a normal d dimer chest x-ray and ecg. could my symptoms leg pain/chest pain/cough still be a clot?
there is a very low probability of any clot with a normal d dimer. however a venous ultrasound is the gold standard for finding a clot from the groin to below the knee and chest ct or mri of the chest would show a pe if present but i doubt that these tests are indicated. follow up with your treating physician.
i suffer from severe anxiety and panic attacks. my biggest triggers are heart palpitations. i have had a stress test ekg and two echocardiograms?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
how can i tell if i am having a heart burn or heart attack? it seems that symptoms of heart burn and heart attack are very similar how can i tell the differences and the warning signs before it's too late
there is no single test that distinguished one from the other. a heart attack is more likely if you are a man older than age 55 or a woman older than age 65 if you smoke have diabetes high blood pressure or have high levels of total cholesterol. it is more likely to be a heart attack if you have relatives who had a heart attack at an early age (men before age 55 or women before age 65) or you have had a heart attack previously. a heart attack is usually a feeling of pressure behind your breast bone which may radiate to the arms associated with exertion (activity) and relieved with rest or nitroglycerin. it may be accompanied by nausea vomiting sweating or feeling faint. it is less likely to be a heart attack if the pain is sharp or stabbing occurs due to a change in your position or with taking a deep breath. heartburn is a burning sensation in the chest that may radiate into the back jaw neck or arms and can be accompanied by a cough hoarseness difficulty or pain with swallowing vomiting and lung problems including asthma and pneumonia. it may resolve on its own or with the use of antacids. it occurs after you eat especially if you lie down soon after if you eat a lot of chocolate or peppermints if you smoke or drink coffee. because these types of chest pain are difficult to separate if you think you might be having a heart attack call 911 use nitroglycerin if you have it and chew on an aspirin while you await 911.
i have the flu and i've been coughing constantly for 3 days. will this damage my heart? i have wpw
influenza doesn't cause heart damage and even though you feel like a dog now you'll get all better in time.
i had a very hard & loud heartbeat that made my body go in shock. i wheezed and coughed. then i got 3 "smaller" hard ones which made me tremble. why?
you may be having palpitations - heart beats whose intensity or rhythm cause you to have symptoms. you did not give your age so i cannot speculate on causes. but if this is not an isolated incident then you should be seen by your primary clinician or maybe a cardiologist in case you have an underlying heart disorder.
what should i do for my severe palpitations please help?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
what to do if i keep getting palpitations can anyone help?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
would heart failure be possible after normal resting echo? pains vomiting collapse tachycardia on standing and complete exercise intolerance 5 months. possible pots but symptoms so severe i worry.
the symptoms of heart failure are difficulty breathing with exertion or shortness of breath at rest leg swelling inability to lie flat on back due to shortness of breath and cough and fluid retention. assuming a completely normal echo your symptoms many related to vasovagal syncope pots adrenal insufficiency among others. tilt table testing and certain medications can help with diagnosis.
what to do if i get heart palpitations when i'm stressed. please please help!?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
what medicine will a patient take if he has cough with yellowish mucos. patient has a pacemaker.
should see dr. to be checked to see if additional treatment is indicated.
what medicine will a patient take if he has cough with yellowish mucos. patient has a pacemaker.
physician feels is best. . pacemaker has no bearing here.
how can you stop heart palpitations?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i have experienced a sinking feeling in chest while sitting on and off. have had ekg 48 hr holter & echo which were all normal.
the description of ur symptoms is vague. is there pain? regurgitation / coughing? trouble breathing? given just ur description & ur age (36) the odds r greatly in ur favor that this is not related to ur heart. the testing was overkill & (of course) negative. ttyd about other possibilities maybe biofeedback to get a handle on the symptom. keep a journal of when it happens; it cd help point 2 cause
when i have irregular heart beats i perform chest compressions on my self then the heart returns back to beating normal. is it safe what i'm doing?
have heard of self -performed cough-induced cardiac compression & self-performed chest thump (neither of which i am suggesting that you do). however i haven't heard of someone doing self -performed chest compressions. if you are having irregular heart rate then this should be evaluated by your physician or a cardiologist. would discourage you from engaging in this activity unless you are >>.
how to cure ourself when heart attack coming and nobody around?
there is no cure that you can self provide. . but call 911 and chew 325mg of aspirin. there is some anecdotal evidence for continuous low intensity coughing as well.
how do i get rid of my heart palpitations?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
how do i know if i have costochondritis pain and not a heart attack?
if pain is alongside your breast bone (sternum) and is worsened by pressing along the ribs there or worsened by coughing or deep breathing more likely costochondritis and less likely heart attack. . if worsened by activity and associated with nausea sweating arm or neck pain lightheadedness shortness of breath and not with touching the ribs near the sternum then possibly angina.
i was told need to take z-pac antibiotics for persistent cough. is there any other way as i don't like taking antibiotics for reasons of superbugs?
you do not take antibiotic for cough. unless the cough is productive with brown to green sputum and associated with fever or the lung sounds that you have a bacterial bronchitis or pneumonia. otherwise take a cough medicine to stop the cough. see a doctor fpr evaluation and treatment
i have a tightness in the middle of my chest when i laugh sometimes. i have seasonal asthma and recently has perfect ekg. is this my asthma? anxiety?
pain in the chest with inspiration or cough is usually a pulmonary issue. see your md to make sure
what drugs that can cause a heart attack or heart problems?
things that can cause high blood pressure rapid heart rate or very low blood pressure or what we call vasospasm (closing of arteries) can cause heart attack. these are seen in crystal meth and equivalents too much diet pills and too much of allergic cough medicines and smoking due to vasospasm and deposition of cholesterol eventually. in short don't do illicit drugs they are all bad.
what causes heart palpitations and sudden cough?
sometimes skipped heart beats knows as premature ventricular or atrial contractions (pvc pac) cause these symptoms these are benign. there other causes of palpitations like a supraventricular tachycardia or ventricular tachycardia these are more serious and should be investigated. i recommend that you discuss this with your doctor and get a holter monitor to find put what is causing them.
heart attacks: can coughing save life during a heart attack?
coughing would decrease the risk of having a heart attack or lessening the consequences of a heart attack. please don't count it as a remedy!
how do you stop superventricular tachycardia?
episode then bearing down like your having a bowel movement can abort it. coughing or placing ur face in cold water can help. for chronic treatment drugs and ablation are used.
how can i stop having heart palpitations?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i just had a heart papltion that made me cough one is that normal right after i checked my pulse it was 87. is that normal?
changes to what's called the intrathoracic pressure (pressure inside the chest cavity) can affect everything inside your chest (including the lungs heart trachea (wind pipe). the linings surrounding the heart and lungs can also be affected simultaneously causing the same response. see your doctor for evaluation to make sure there's nothing dangerous as it's better to be safe.
i just had a heart papltion that made me cough one is that normal right after i checked my pulse it was 87. is that normal?
if it happens again see your doctor
is dextromethorphan safe? i have anxiety disorder hypertension pre-diabetic and history of heart attack.
yes it is safe and is a very commonly prescribed cough medicine. it is not a decongestant which can cause several potential side affects.
why when i get a pvc i feel a quick instant loss in breath and sometimes cough? this is so scary and starts my worry and anxiety
actually the underlying lung issue (copd asthma bronchitis or emphysema) can be one of the causes of premature ventricular contraction which is the result of the left ventricle of the heart contracting too early before receiving the expected signal from the sino-atrial node. hypoxia or a lack of oxygen in the blood can lead to this issue.
what can i do to know if i'm having palpitations for sure?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
having crazy heart palpitations don't know what is wrong?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
how can i get rid of palpitations without visit first to gp? can i go straight to cardiologist?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
im doing a 10 mi run sun april 12. i have had a cold and cough for a few days. i missed my long run yesterday/other workouts. should i long run today?
when ill take a break or your illness will last longer and be more severe!
i have thyroid issues. low potassium levels. memory issues. clear horid smelling discharge after my period. period lasting longer than normal. pain in pelvic area when i sneeze or cough at times. low to non sexual drive. i'm married. i'm scared of what ma
sounds like primarily a gyn problem. see your gyn he/she can integrate that problem with your other concerns.
which robitussin (guaifenesin) is ok to use for a heart patient with afib?
most otc cough and cold meds contain cough suppressants and antihistamines. you need to avoid decongestants that have amphetamine-like agents in them. the preps that have "-d" after the name are the ones to particularly avoid since those agents may aggravate your arrhythmia.
what causes the heart rate to escalate when coughing? i have asthma pneumonia and bronchitis. am being treated with inhalers and antibiotics
coughing can cause this. this could be related to the valsalva maneuver which is brought on by coughing. there are different phases of the valsalva and in brief this affects the heart rate. also if you have breathing problems are medication for this is confect heart rate cost to go up.
having lots of heart palpitations and very tired all the time?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
is it common for chest contusion pain to go away after 3 months then come back after a couple of weeks of no pain?
often trauma to the ribs or simply coughing hard or lifting something the wrong way may cause the little muscles between the ribs to spasm and may misalign their connection to the spine or sternum. if the joint is not aligned again it may cause recurrent pain. i would suggest seeing someone such as an osteopathic doctor who manipulates or a chiropractor or physical therapist.
i often get fluids for pots. when i got them last week they hurt. felt crawl up arm into chest. immediate coughing pain gagging. docs gave nausea med 2nd ekg and more bloodwork. what happened?
it is possible but not definite that air bubbles got into your vein and travelled to the lung causing the symptoms. the physician that attended you is best qualified to answer your question however. most importantly you seem to have had no residual problems.
i had a cough what medicine can i take? i'm taking metoprolol?
first the cough comes from a particular (treatable) condition. second inflammation is almost always present and inhaled steroids or monteleukast are generally helpful. then. sugar drops (cough drops) are certainly not going to interact with metoprolol. also tessalon perls is safe. decongestants interact with metoprolol. probably would not recommend those.
have idiopathic dcm & bi vent icd. ef was 38%. have a bad cold and heart feels strange short of breath but don't want to go to er due to cost. norma?
many times people with weak hearts think they are having a cough and cold but are really in chf. cough especially at night may be cardiac asthma. call your doc. tell him if you have gained any water weight he may try to increase ur water pills but if that doesnt work may have to admit you.
have bronchitis. up much of night coughing. should i be flying 4 hrs to florida tomorrow for week vacation. also have supra ventricular tachycardia?
i would see an md before flying. cardic arrhythmia can be problematic. sometime it can precipitate atrial fibrillation and may need anticoagulantion to prevent systemic embolism!
had cardiac cough. dr prescribed lasix (furosemide). went away for 6 mo. now back. too much sodium? have idiopathic dcm and have bi vent. last ef 38%. no swelling
if you are on medications from a class of ace inhibitors they may cause cough even after years of taking them. best idea- see your cardiologist. you should limit salt in your diet to <2gm/day.
had cardiac cough. dr prescribed lasix (furosemide). went away for 6 mo. now back. too much sodium? have idiopathic dcm and have bi vent. last ef 38%. no swelling
would expect you to have swelling of legs. if no swelling cough maybe a cough that is not related to fluid build up irritating your lung.
i notices splinter hemorrhages on two of my nails. i also have a cough and sore throat. and mild palpitations. could it be myocarditis?
splinters can be seen in patients with endocarditis (infection of the heart valve) but rarely present with a cough and sore throat. . they usually are not seen in myocarditis
i believe i have myocarditis. i have been known to suffer from anxiety but i have had palpitations that reccur every so often also coughing because i feel mucus. i have periods of being fatigued and am not willing to get up from bed every morning.
to assess for myocarditis you need an echocardiogram to see if there is inflammation around the heart muscles. palpitations are not really specific and you should get an ekg to assess the underlying electrical activity of the heart. if palpitations are more spaced out i suggest wearing a holter monitor which can detect underlying atrial fibrillation pvcs which cause palpitations.
i believe i have myocarditis. i have been known to suffer from anxiety but i have had palpitations that reccur every so often also coughing because i feel mucus. i have periods of being fatigued and am not willing to get up from bed every morning.
your symptoms are all bothersome but not specific for myocarditis. to diagnose myocarditis you must have specific abnormal blood tests and echocardiogram.
i believe i have myocarditis. i have been known to suffer from anxiety but i have had palpitations that reccur every so often also coughing because i feel mucus. i have periods of being fatigued and am not willing to get up from bed every morning.
your symptoms are more likely to be due to other things than myocarditis. see your doctor to be evaluated and be sure to get an explanation of what the doc believes the problem is and how to treat it.
i'm being feeling shortness of breath. no cough no wheezing no increased heart rate no fever.
see your doctor. may need medication for anxiety.
what to do about svt?
when a person first develops symptoms of psvt they can attempt the following simple maneuvers called vagal manoeuvres. 1) hold the breath for about 20-60 seconds. 2)quickly dip the entire face in cold water. 3)cough multiple times. 4)tense the stomach muscles as if the patient was bearing down to have a bowel movement. relax and see if that helps. if that is not working then see a doctor.
had 5-day holter monitor. had palpitations. doc gave reason but said not serious. what could cause palps every couple minutes if not harmful?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
have clear nasal drainage some cough for over week. take benicar and norvasc. tried mucinex (guaifenesin) but caused bp to elevate. what can i take to dry up?
try coricidin hbp or tussin dm. you want to avoid decongestants. i have always found that a simple saline nasal spray does a great job too. hope you feel better soon.
have clear nasal drainage some cough for over week. take benicar and norvasc. tried mucinex (guaifenesin) but caused bp to elevate. what can i take to dry up?
often the source of the drainage is the sinuses. often a steroid nasal inhaler is the answer. see your doctor.
how to stop my serious heart palpitation?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i can feel when afib starts and stops i find deep breaths and coughing helps stop it when it's in flutter about to fibulate any others?
yes there are other techniques that may stop the arrythmias. see the link. <link> also avoid stimulants like caffeine chocolate decongestants stress and becoming over tired to limit episodes of fibrillation.
why is my heart beating fast? is it cuz if my cold and cough?
being ill can raise your heart rate but are you taking anything for the cold for example pseudo-ephedrine - the "d" in many cold remedies. that will increase your heart rate.
why is my heart beating fast? is it cuz if my cold and cough?
fever can cause increased heart rate but so could any number of things such as low oxygen heart attack pulmonary embolism pneumothorax or serious infection. if you are short of breath or your pulse is >120 or so you need to see a doctor immediately.
how strong can pvcs get? i have something i feel that takes my breath away and makes me cough. family history of heart issues.
too many pvcs with accompanying symptoms are somewhat worrisome. the presence of it prevents accurate diagnosis via ecg gated tests such as nuclear stress i. e. mpi. a better and perhaps the only choice for you is multifunction cardiogram. it may save your life! <link>
how to treat heart palpitation shortness of breath in a 16 year old?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
had open heart surgery for my atrial septal defect 3 years ago. everyday since then my heart skips a beat at least once a day is this normal?
depends on whether anything else is going on; i. e. any symptoms passing out chest pain cough? any changes on your ecg? a few "early" heart beats can be normal but a cardiologist would have to ensure nothing else bad was happening and evaluate an ecg. bring this to the attention of your cardiologist but it is not immediately worrisome in the absence of significant symptoms.
have had sudden horrible asthma for a couple weeks and heart palpitations. today i started coughing up mucus. can it be caused from asthma?
bronchospasm and inflammation in the airways can cause the symptoms you describe. the mucous is typically from both the bronchospasm and airway inflammation. the heart palpitations can be the result of shortness of breath due to asthma low oxygen level or even the bronchodilator inhaler medications commonly prescribed. if symptoms are worsening see your doctor or go to the er.
have had sudden horrible asthma for a couple weeks and heart palpitations. today i started coughing up mucus. can it be caused from asthma?
asthma and heart failure can sometimes look alike. you should go see your doctor and be checked to see what's going on.
how could i get heart palpitations under control?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
had a dry cough for 20 days. i've tried several meds that contain dextromethorphan but not much help. i even hv palpitation/ svt when taking it. help?
you may have bronchospasm which would respond to selective bronchodilators by prescription (selective so as to not worsen your palpiations). a short tapering steroid course may be beneficial. you may have underlying bronchial infection. sometimes an antibiotic is necessary. you should have futher consultation with your doctor.
had a dry cough for 20 days. i've tried several meds that contain dextromethorphan but not much help. i even hv palpitation/ svt when taking it. help?
let your doctor know and stop the medications!
had a dry cough for 20 days. i've tried several meds that contain dextromethorphan but not much help. i even hv palpitation/ svt when taking it. help?
time to see md and find out cause and safe medicine.
i can hear pulse in my head and neck / had hbp now under control with medecines. seems chinese soup agravate and get bad palpitations.
ah so. pulse in head and neck from forceful heart beat maybe from blood pressure medicine but not to worry unless causes pain exercise intolerance cough or driving you crazy and can't sleep. chinese food have lots of monosodium glutamate(msg) in it unless you ask them not to add to your food. it can worsen those pulses as side effect. if just started bp medicines talk to doctor about alternatives
i have svt and it rarely bothers me. i take propranolol daily to prevent episodes. is it safe to consume a cup or two of coffee?
heartbeats skips are usually not life threatening see a doctor to exclude serious heart conditions such as atrial fibrillation or heart artery blockages before assuming a begnin cause. stay hydrated try magnesium supplements avoid stimulants such as caffeine alcohol (beer wine & spirits) pseudoephedrine and similar agents that are often present in decongestants cough & allergy medications.
i'm having heart palpitations. anxiety is acting up i'm on busprione. no previous heart conditions. is there a way to stop them?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
what are some techniques to stop benign pvc's? ( i don't drink caffeine or smoke. )
when you feel them cough. get plenty of sleep. avoid stress if possible. don't sleep on your left side. it would be useful to check your potassium magnesium and thyroid stimulating hormone levels. a 24 hour holter exam would also be useful to quantitate how many you have. (>10% of total beats needs treatment). most of the time benign pvcs will go away over a week or 2. if not seek help.
i've had heart attack & chf. after had shortness of breathe but was walking 1 mile a day 6x a week. now cough and wheeze and no breathe. what happened?
degrees of chf keep good check with your cvd md and get reg tt it is not a condition that will go away needs constant care tt
is bnp blood test necessary if echocardiogram was okay? have shortness of breath and cough
bnp sometimes helps in diagnosing diastolic heart failure. patients with diastolic heart failure have normal echocardiograms for the most part.
i woke up with a fever of 101. 2 my blood sugar was elevated i am a diabetic and my pulse rate was 113 is that normal when somebody has a fever thank you?
it's normal to have an elevated pulse and some elevation of blood sugar(bs) with a fever. the elevated bs may be more a result of the infection itself. monitor bs to be sure doesn't get extremely elevated in which case you may need extra medication. if you have a runny nose +/- sore throat and cough> likely just cold virus. but if only symptom is harsh cough or if fever >102f or lasts 3 days see dr
ive started having an irregular heart beat this afternoon. its beating causing a cough a lttle light headed. this is new for me should i go to er?
yes- could represent atrial fibrillation. you should have an ekg and electrolyte evaluation in an er today. good luck!
i feel pressure in my chest did an ecg test the the results came abnormal had and echocardiogram test as well and everything looked okay. i have slight coughs now. what could this be pls?
pain in the chest with cough could be a manifestation or lung infection or inflammation. would suggest an xray. the ekg abnormality could be associated or an unrelated finding.
what to do if i continue getting a pain in the center of my chest when i breath cough or sneeze or increase in heart rate?
see your doc and get checked out there are conditions like pericarditis and pleuritis that could possibly explain your symptoms. costochondritis or other chest wall inflammation could also explain some of the symptoms.
what to do if i continue getting a pain in the center of my chest when i breath cough or sneeze or increase in heart rate?
and get checked.
what eould cause heart to race with a heart rate to stay in the 100 for a couple of hours and get dizzy to the point where i nearly black out?
you need an accurate diagnosis. a 24 hour holter recording of your heart would answer your question. i see you're taking antibiotics and cortisone for cough and fever - that may well be the cause.
how do benicar (olmesartan) and lisinopril differ?
as dr. weisberger noted benicar (olmesartan) is an arb while lisinopril is an ace inhibitor. the latter has a greater risk for dry ticklish cough compared to the former. otherwise both are used to lower blood pressure and have been proven beneficial in heart failure as well as protecting kidneys. cost is the other big difference b/c benicar (olmesartan) is a brand drug while lisinopril is a generic available for $4/mo.
is it ok to take qlearquil if i'm already taking 12. 5 metoprolol once a day and 500 metformin twice a day for a cold and sinus issue thank you so much?
none of these otc cough and cold meds works. and this one is not supposed to be used with people with hypertension. save your money. vick's chloraseptic (numbs tickle from mucus) fluids and tincture of time and you will likely get better sooner and feel better than if you took it. see <link> take tylenol (acetaminophen) for aches. no fragrances & aerosols: <link>
i woke up one day with a racing heartbeat. and before i sleep i feel heartbeat irregular. and when i eat alot i have heart pains when i breath?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
my heart seems to skip a beat. do i need to see a doctor? for a couple weeks now i have been noticing a fluttering in my neck (right below where you would take my pulse) that makes me cough a little. my husband listened to my heart and when it did that my
yes you should visit your doctor. this is most likely a non-serious arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythm) but further diagnosis and management decisions would be based on a careful history your risk factors a physical exam and an electrocardiogram (ecg). depending on the results your doctor may also elect to order an echocardiogram and/or ambulatory heart monitor. if this is a non-serious condition there may be no treatment necessary. but if the symptoms are a nuisance or the condition is more concerning there are numerous treatment options.
my heart seems to skip a beat. do i need to see a doctor? for a couple weeks now i have been noticing a fluttering in my neck (right below where you would take my pulse) that makes me cough a little. my husband listened to my heart and when it did that my
an occasional skip can be quite normal and in a young otherwise healthy person is best ignored. if it happens a lot your best bet is to see your doctor and have an ecg taken. for events that happen only sporadically you may be asked to wear a "holter monitor" that records all your heart beats for 1 2 or 3 days. hopefully these are just early beats and can be ignored.
my 11yr old daughter is having chest pain when she inhales. what is it her heart rate is 60bpm?
most chest pains in children are respiratory in nature such as a tight cough. bronchitis asthma etc. best to have your child seen to rule out other causes and more serious medical issues.
what does it mean when i take a deep breathe and i feel a sharp pain in my chest could i be having a heart attack. please im scared?
typically at your age this symptom would not indicate a heart attack however it could indicate a serious problem like pneumonia or a blood clot in the lung if you have other symptoms like cough fever and sweating in the former or shortness of breath in the latter. more than likely this is neither of those and unless you have other symptoms i would suggest you make an appointment with your doc
whenever i tried to sleep i wake up with a cough and mucus in my throat. and heart beats fast but slows down after a while?
you could have acid reflux which causes those symptoms also a form of sleep apnea could be occurring see your provider or a sleep doctor i order to evaluate which problem is occurring and help you
help please? i have frequent heart palpitations what to do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help your anxiety may be overdriving everything may see psych help.
i hv ocasional shortness of breath. no cough no wheezing. doc says nthng wrng & ecg also normal. smoker but quit it year ago. age 26. is it lung disease?
most likely it related to hyperventilating secondary to anxiety. if breathing into a paper bag for 5 to 10 minutes helps you may have extra confidence it is hyperventilating. it is related to co2 levels not oxygen!
i feel out of breath. no cough no wheezing. ecg cbc sugar test normal. is it copd & is copd possible if der is no cough & wheeze? former smoker& age 26.
you will need a pulmonary function test.
i have chest pain on my left side and shortness of breath both only when laying down. when i'm up and about i cough a lot. what could this be?
together with chest pains may indicate pneumonia nor heart disease. the safest action is to go to the er or urgent care. diagnostics are best done there.
my brother says i should get treated because once in a while i get palpitations? is he right?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
what is my constant deep cough? cough since 0<negative_smiley>13. especially when exercising - shortness of breath too/recently cough when eating/heart palpitations
sounds like you should see a physician for a proper diagnosis. could be a viral infection pneumonia bronchitis asthma sinusitis or heart problem. hard to tell without an examination.
what is my constant deep cough? cough since 0<negative_smiley>13. especially when exercising - shortness of breath too/recently cough when eating/heart palpitations
sounds like it might be infectious asthma. your doctor will want to know if the cough keeps you awake at night is associated wth sneezing and runny nose or itchy eyes. an inhaler would be helpful and he might give you a breathing treatment. further tests might be a specaill breathing test or xray. the doctor will help
what is the difference between the symptoms of pericarditis (that develops rapidly over the course of an hour) and a heart attack?
pericarditis is worse with deep breath/cough. it hurts to shake your chest like the slap of your foot on the pavement when walking. it's worse lying on your back & better sitting forward. heart attack can mimic this because some heart attacks have associated pericarditis but in general they feel different: heart attack usually is a squeezing tight central feeling without change for hours.
had ekg it was fine that's three this year question is what could cause my chest pain it's sharp pain stabbing could it be my acid reflux or aniexty?
your 3 normal ekgs and age make your heart an unlikely source of your pain. cough muscle stretch acid reflux and anxiety are all likely contributing factors.
heart skipping beats 1-2 times every 5 minutes chills high blood pressure and pulse at 110 so nasea what can it be?
did you catch cold? it sounded like viral or bacterial infection -- sore throat coughing or congestion headache?
i have palpitations shortness of breath and a cough after botox in neck yesterday. how dangerous is botox? three times this has happened. end botox
sounds like you are having classic side effects to botox. the shortness of breath however can signify a dangerous complication whereby the botox can enter the blood stream and travel to other places like the heart lungs and brain.
i can't breath from nose cause of my cough and mucus the scary part is aside from that i'm having irregular heartbeats. no chest pain. is this bad?
r u febrile? u appear to have flu symptoms or bad cold. medicines for cold can cause irreg heart beats & it is good to know what rhythm is on ecg as well as what meds u r taking. you should see an internist. asap. afrin (oxymetazoline) (generic avail) overcounter spray should help clear mucous(only spray sitting up). little systemic effect but use gingerly you nose can become addicted (ie only clear w afrin).
i've been coughing a lot tonight and now my chest hurts a little bit. i feel a little out of breath. what can i do to help it go away?
would seek medical attention. may be viral or from post nasal drip ( which is helped if you raise the head of bed) or from reflux which is helped by raising head of bed and trying prevecid (otc) or ranitidine or bacterial including mycoplasma which needs antibiotics. may also be a bit of reactive airway and need albuterol inhaler. f/u/ w/ doc today especially if short of breath
i get couplet pac feel like fast bursts of beats woke up today to a kinda long one and freaked started coughing heart raced for secs & settled?
it is conceivable that you are experiencing episodes of svt fast spontaneous heart rate and that coughing as part of a vagal reflex terminates the arrhythmia. the fast heart beat after coughing may be a rebound seen after vagal stimulation. at any rate perhaps this should be evaluated by wearing an event recorder
my heart rate is over 100 bpm and back muscle are aching iv had a cough for a while now but easing off not sure if i have the flu cause no temp
take your temperature after 4 pm (when fever shows itself). use an ear or temple device or if you use an oral thermometer be sure not to eat or drink for 30 minutes beforehand. it's possible that you had a fever a week ago and that you're on the tail-end of this illness when fever has resolved.
muscles all over are aching have a slight cough still is fading feel a bit dizzy and very cold even when in front of a heater and my heart rate is 110?
do you think you might have the flu?
muscles all over are aching have a slight cough still is fading feel a bit dizzy and very cold even when in front of a heater and my heart rate is 110?
you have a fever and this is from an infection. most likely viral but it could be bacterial. if this has been going on for more than a few days then see your doctor.
why shortness of breath happens during gerd attack & why do you feel spasms that mimic heart palpitations?
gerd is a known cause of bronchospasm/asthma and causes cough and shortness of breath in susceptible people. the association with palpitations is weak. i suspect you either have coincidental palpitations or another cause which isn't evident from this brief encounter.
i have cold symptoms of sore throat mild cough with clear mucus & runny nose. also have upper chest pain and threw up mostly mucus last night?
try nsaid like aleve (naproxen) for pain and fever decongestant with guaifenesin decongestant like mucinex and cough suppressant like dextromethorphan if needed. hot shower sleep with head elevated vitamin c hydration and soothing beverages helpful. if pain or fever and symptoms persist 10 days or green/yellow secretions and fever see doctor. good luck.
i have chest pain under my left breast. pinching when i breath deep and move worse lying down. no feveri take qvar daily and had serve cough in dec. ?
many severe viral upper respiratory infections are accompanied by s verse pleuritic pleurisy or pericarditis. they both have symptoms you described and can be self limited or treated with anti-inflammatory agents
i'm 16 and have pleurisy and i have a hard time breathing as to be expected but i was very dizzy yesterday and i use an inhaler to help me breath. i am concerned with my health i almost passed out on the stair today and the cough syrup and antibiotics are
for these symptoms that are severe you need to talk to your doctor. it sounds like your therapy is barely adequate and a follow up appointment seems like a very good idea. i would call now and let the doctor know about this. it's possible you need different or stronger medications. with dizziness/passing out i don't take any chances. would go to an er if you can't be seen today by the doc.
my neck veins bulge a lot when i talk laugh lie down or sometimes stand upright. is this related to heart palpitations or how my neck veins twitch?
it is not uncommon for veins in the neck to stand out when you increase pressure in your chest. this can occur when you cough laugh or bear down. neck veins can also bulge when you have too much fluid in your body or when part of your heart is not working properly. a doctor may examine you and listen to the heart for evaluation. it is not generally related to heart rhythm problems.
what gets rid of palpitations or helps to relieve them?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
had echo of heart and holter monitor in past 2 months. past 2 days have pain when coughing under left breast and some squeezing in chest. should i worry?
those two tests did not specifically test for blockages in arteries. though younger women are less likely to have this you should review any new symptoms with your doctor.
heart palpitations every day but worse at night. shortness of breath dizziness coughing loss of balance and panic attacks but normal heart rate?
you have to be evaluated by your personal physician. you need physical examination and some tests to rule out possible heart and lung disease.
i been having heart palpitations on & off through out the day what does this mean i'm 21 years old i don't have insurance to get checked out help plz?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
i have shortness of breath and the constant feeling of phlegm in the back of my throat causing me to cough a lot. now my upper chest hurts like someone is sitting on it and i have a headache. yesterday i took claratin-d and ibuprofin.
please call your physician for an examination and evaluation
in the mornings i will cough till i am sick often. chest xrays appear clear. i passed a lung test after inhalers but asthma not confirmed. chest pains?
lots of possibilities including esophageal reflux allergies and inhalant reactions among others. see a lung specialist to work through them if primary care doc limited.
what can cause 2months shortness of breath and fatigue? no fever or cough. lung sounds and ecg normal. sob worse in morning and evening.
you need to give more info. ? progressive? new? any other symptoms ? any fever. what was done to work this up so far? cxr echo complete pulmonary function studies ambulatory piuse ox and a full set of labs may be needed.
had minor chest discomfort and shortness of breath. ekg and blood work normal. still yawning sometimes to catch breath. should i be concerned?
check your lungs? do a chest x ray? have you ever had any wheezing? fever or chills or cough?
having chest tightness for a week and dry cough had recent ekg it was ok had a follow up chest ct for a nodule 4months ago no changes question can something change in short time in chest or what els?
yes things can change in the lung in 4 months. not cancer etc but a respiratory infection asthma etc can come up anytime. see a doctor if concerned.
having chest tightness for a week and dry cough had recent ekg it was ok had a follow up chest ct for a nodule 4months ago no changes question can something change in short time in chest or what els?
chest tightness has many causes. i'd call your physician
had virtually every diagnostic test- all negative. still have constant palpitations spasms in heart cough heart fluttering chest pain. what is it?
these significant symptoms require a person to person evaluation examination by a doctor and a variety of testing. a cardiologist is who you need to consult with. if you have already seen one then i would recommend a second opinion by another one.
having dry cough and chest tightess mostly with movement i have esophagitis can this cause this problem? had ekg last week it was ok
if the esophagitis is due to reflux of acid from the stomach it is quite likely to be associated with both chest pain and a persistent cough. it merits a careful assessment to confirm this and is readily treatable with anti-acid medications such as the proton pump inhibitors and the local tissue-coating medication carafate (sucralfate).
i've been coughing over for a week i have chest pain now and again and my mucus is dark green?
do you have fever or shortness of breath? any chronic lung conditions? are you a smoker?
i have acid reflux and am now sick with cold/sinus infection. i blew my nose and almost fainted. what's wrong with me?
coughing or sneezing can cause a vaso vagal response which can cause passing out. for specific diagnosis or treatment see a doctor in person
i've been sick with the common cold for about 3 days now but lately i've been having chest pains that spreads down my ribs. could it be lung cancer?
chest pains with a cold are very common. it could be as simple as rib pain from coughing too much or more complex if the cold progressed to become a pneumonia lung infection. if you have a persistent fever or if you're not getting better very soon then you should see your doctor for a check up to make sure everything is ok.
intermittent sharp brief chestpain directly behind right breast only on right side when i take a breath. no cough5 wks po total vaginal hysterectomy?
have your gyn surgeon re-examine you or go to the e. r. if you experience continued shortness of breath.
i have post nasal drip a chest pain and a cough from the centre of my chest in deep a whooping sound - could it be tb i previously worked with homelss?
hi ~ of course possible ~ highly unlikely. its not easy to get tb if you healthy not living in close confines of a confirmed case. whooping you could have one of the other whooping coughs theres 3: bordetella pertussis - u were vaccinated for sure 2. bordetella parapertussis - u could have that and 3. bordetella bronchiesepticum unlikely since its vetinary. viruses make u whoop too
i sometimes suddenly start experiencing chest pressure sob as well as coughing. my chest pains a lot what it could be?
i would suggest developing an asthma action plan with your physician. this form may be found online. asthma symptoms vary and in general using albuterol inhaled with a spacer device in addition to your budesonide will help to control the symptoms. avoid smoke and any allergic triggers use mattress and pillow covers. an inbox consult is available also.
i have a bad cough and chest pain. i don't have a fever. can you have pneumonia without a fever? or do you always have a fever?
you can have pneumonia without fever although it is usually present. if you have severe or worsening shortness of breath high fever vomiting or any other worsening symptoms you should go get an evaluation.
i have a bad cough and chest pain. i don't have a fever. can you have pneumonia without a fever? or do you always have a fever?
it's possible to have pneumonia without fever but unlikely. probably just bronchitis. however other things could cause this including potentially serious ones like a blood clot in the lung. best to see a doctor. if you're also short of breath or get winded with activity or mild exercise or if you cough up any blood get seen immediately.
i have cough with yellow thick pleghm voice horsening and chest pain but no fever. my nose are congested at night no flu. should i start antibiotiocs?
this certainly sounds more like a viral infection which is not helped with antibiotics. if you worsen or develop a fever then you can reconsider.
i've had a cough for 4 days now and chest tightness. no fever. could i have a blood clot in my lung? how do you get a blood clot?
if you had a blood clot in your lungs (a pulmonary embolism) you would be one sick cookie and would not be typing me over the net. that is a potentially mortal condition and your doc would have you hospitalized and on anticoagulant therapy. 400 spaces is not nearly enough but you probably just have a bad cold or even a chest infection. speak to your doc.
i was taking a small pill and choked on it and gagged and then inhaled/swallowed. did it go in my lungs? no pain in chest
if you had the pill get into your bronchi you would have coughed a lot and been quite aware you aspirated it.
wheeze upper chest cough non specific changed t waves on ecg normal bp and oxygen help?
wheezing cough and abnormal ekg is concerning. a blood clot in the lung is possible. predisposing causes include birth control pills and inflammation and clotting of the veins in your legs. you should see a physician as soon as possible.
wheeze upper chest cough non specific changed t waves on ecg normal bp and oxygen help?
this is most likely a pulmonary issue possibly asthma or an upper resp infection (viral vs bacterial but unless fevers and chills - probably viral). the nonspecific t wave changes are just that and likely unrelated to this acute episode unless you have other chf symptoms (fluid overload decreased energy level etc)
why would i have short of breath and chest pain with flu virus. normal chest x-ray and ecg in emergency. not much coughing.
i take it you are a healthy female. if your bloodworm and xray is normal you will probably recover soon. if not you need to see another doctor suggest pulmonologist.
how to perform a valsalva maneuver for svt? if it didn't work what other maneuver that i can do safely?
bearing down like you are having a bowel movement is the typical maneuver for svt. you can also try coughing gagging or holding your breath pinching your nose with closed mouth and blowing. these maneuvers may fail and if so you should get to your doctor or the er quickly.
is pneumonia diagnosed by doctor confirmed chest xray (mild hazy infiltrate) considered pleural effusion? chest pains and cough prompted visit to dr.
it sounds like you are concerned you have a pleural effusion along with the pneumonia you were diagnosed with. a pleural effusion would have been seen on the chest xray taken if it was significant. if it has been a while since your chest xray and you have completed a course of treatment and you are still coughing or short of breath then please see your doctor again for re-evaluation.
i have a really bad cough every morning i cough up a bunch of yellow/green flem my chest hurts and my throat hurts. no fever. what could this be?
hello your symptoms could be due to a variety of causes. much depends on the details you can provide such as duration severity aggravating/alleviating factors. your symptoms could be due to a cold sinus infection allergy acid reflux tonsillitis etc. if your symptoms persist beyond 5-7 days see your doctor so they can prescribe appropriate treatment.
i have a severe cough with foamy pink vomit no fever that i have caught and no chest pain but tightness when i breath in very deeply?
you should be seen by your doctor and receive a chest x-ray.
i have very bad watery diarrhoea and an extremely sore throat. i have been getting back and chest pains along with a cough also. what could this be?
sounds like you may have the flu or an intestinal infection. make sure you stay hydrated. if you can't you will need to go to the hospital. hope this helps!
my heart rate is 103 and my blod pressure isiss 130/90 should i be concerned?
if you're otherwise feeling well it's not a cause for concern. if you were not at complete rest it's not a valid measurement anyway since everyone will raise their hr and bp with simple exercise (even walking across the room). coughing will also raise both. a valid measurement requires quietly sitting for 10 minutes.
i am 27 and have been having chest pain for the past 4 days and tums (calcium carbonate) and acid reducers aren't helping at all.
non-acidl chest pain is nothing to ignore! the potential origin of your symptoms includes: heart lungs mediastinum esophagus musculoskeletal pericardium (sac around the heart) pleuritis bronchiitis or referred pain from a remote site. your doctor will be concerned about accompanying fever blood with coughing vomiting shortness or breath difficulty reclining tenderness. get checked.
i'm 30 years old and my pulse rate when i got home from work was 113 is that too high?
a pulse of 113 is high if you have been at rest. however it may be normal if you were exerting yourself or rushing. some of the reasons the heart rate can be faster than normal: anxiety smoking(nicotine) alcohol medication side effect(including otc cough and cold medicines) fever pregnancy caffeine over active thyroid gland congestive heart failure
i had a sore throat and cough when i throw my phlegm i saw a red on my phlegm is that because i have sore throat? but i dont have chest pain
if you coughed hard enough you could break a small blood vessel and that would be the answer. as long as it disappears fine! if it persists go see your doc for an evaluation.
i have been having chest pain. last night i was breathless for 1 hour after doing exercise for 10 minutes there was dry cough as well?
are you drinking enough water? your body requires 1/2 your weight in oz of water minimal. dry cough is sign of dehydration and intestinal issues. did you eat too late before you exercise. how is your digestion? do you have bloating? you may also be vitamin d3 deficient. taking vitamin d3 will help your intestine in turn will help your lungs.
metropolol and now coreg (carvedilol). sinus issues. why do beta blockers cause this. any suggestions as to one that may not?
beta 1 is found in the heart b2 receptors are found in the lungs and respiratory system. if one takes a beta blocker that it nonselective it can act on the heart and lower the blood pressure but can act on the lung and potentially cause a cough. this is why beta blocker can potentially cause coughing in asthmatics. you should talk to your pcp if symptoms or side effects continue. good luck.
my resting heart rate is 100 right now. i took my klonopin (clonazepam) to see if it would go down. it actually is now higher. why is this happening?
there are many causes of tachycardia some benign such as anxiety however some can be very serious. if you are worried you may want to be evaluated especially if you are also having other symptoms such as fever shortness of breath chest pain cough etc.
wheezy chest heart rate is fast. every time she coughs she vomits. can't stand for too long what shall i do?
take her to a physician asap urgent care or er. she may have asthma pertussis heart failure pneumonia. time to get an exam and xray. keep her hydrated with fluids. vomiting losses need extra fluids to make up for them. in the er iv fluids can be given and at least anti-emetics to ease the nausea and vomiting and anti-tussives to ease the coughing.
what are symptoms of pulmonary hypertension? would i need an inhaler if i had it? would tachycardia be a symptom? how is it diagnosed?
are shortness of breath fatigue cough chest pain ankle swelling or fainting. elevated heart rates may or may not been seen. remember there are many causes of pulmonary hypertension treatment depends on the cause. diagnosis involves many tests but often sounds studies of the heart(transthoracic echocardiograms) and catheterization to measure blood vessel pressures are utilized.
heart skips a beat and i cough like i want to catch my breath. been to cardiologist 5 months ago. i had nothing wrong. also i'm 20? what could it be?
skipping of heart beat is not an uncommon finding in all age geoups and does not indicate by itself heart disease. if the doctors have examined you and felt there was no problem with your heart then you have no reason for worry. engaging in exercise and physical activity is likely to benefit irritability of the heart muscle which is the most common cause of skipping
i choked on something last night (not sure if it was solid or liquid) and managed to cough and vomit it up. but now when i cough i get chest pain?
it is not uncommon to have pain in the chest cage or the diaphragm after violent vomiting but if you still have a cough 24 hours after the episode then i would be concerned over aspiration pneumonia. if the problem persists for another day or gets worse at any time see your doctor- however in case of doubt get checked out sooner rather than later.
i have shortness of breath even at rest but spirometry xray and ecg shows normal. sometimes black streaks present in cough. what it is as m afraid?
if spirometry x-ray and ekg were normal then one needs to rule out anemia or anxiety as the cause for your breathlessness. a pulmonology consult may be in order.
i have a little bit of a cold my chest is sore and i have a cough. i have been woken the last couple of nights wheezy. but i keep getting a painful?
i cannot answer this question as posted? painful? - please specify exactly what is going on.
would i benefit from imatrex as to just taking tylenol for my migraines? usually behind one eye zig zag around eyes nauseated throwing up at times. can not take antihistamines or otc cough meds. gives me heart palpatations. although i do use alaway an
tylenol (acetaminophen) does not really work that well for migraine and thus imitrex would likely be far more effective. the earlier the better. sometimes adding a nsaid may provide added benefits. if nausea prevents you from swallowing imitrex ask for a nasal spray version.
what someone need to do if he get heart attack with nobody is around? some says one should deep cough. is it true?
call friends or family a and get help sublingual nitroglycerin if available
how do i make heart palpitations go away?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
if someone goes into ventricular fibrillation how can you keep them alive until the ambulance arrives? how can you prevent asystole before ambulance?
however if the person is still responsive but you know they have developed vfib in the past you can yell at them and encourage them to cough forcefully many times to attempt to get them back into a normal rhythm. if they are unconscious and you have taken cpr you can administer a blow with the fist to the breast bone (and only there). such a person should have a pacemaker and be on meds.
i have a cold. today i noticed whenever i have a bad coughing fit my heart rate increases for about 10-15 seconds. normal? or should i go to er?
heart rate going up by up to 20 beats per minute for a short duration when you have an infection or after coughing is normal. unless this persist after you have recovered from your infection i would not be concerned.
i've had a bad cough for 6 days it start with a sore throat. had chest tightness and wheezing. this morning my ear popped and won't pop back advice?
i'm sorry you've had a bad cough for 6 days. no need to worry about the ear popping back. as the congestion in your upper respiratory system resolves the pressure in your eustachian tube will come back to normal on its own. you don't need to do anything. don't try to "pop it back". no need to focus on it. turn your attention to other things and you will find it will resolve in time. best wishes.
i've been to the er feeling chest discomfort rapid heartbeat a lil sweats they tell me i'm fine ekg and x-ray good but i still can't figure out why?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
why do i get palpitations when i lay down. usually after 20mins then they really start. when i'm nearly asleep 30yrs otherwise healthy. not anxiety?
maybe reflux as pain or burning not necessarily noted with reflux and cough and or palpitations maybe only notable symptom. everyone has palpations and some people are more in tune with these changes a fee test would be needed to assure this is normal heart beat changes or if there is something abnormal going on even at the young age of thirty. hope all is well.
why do i have heart palpitations sometimes?
heart palpitations could be due to hyperventilation. be observant of your breathing habits. keep your lips closed during the day at all times unless speaking and eating. try not to sigh chew gum. cough and sneeze with your lips together. at night use paper medical tape to keep the lips together. restoring the carbon dioxide reserve levels will calm smooth muscle and can regulate the heart rate.
i have ocassonal specks of blood in mucus no cough and an ocassional dry nose no alergis that im aware off no chest pain.
please get examined and if needed get an x-ray. the specks may be from small broken blood vessels in your nose or throat possibly a lung involvement. please get examined asap.
i wake up with a heavy chest which always goes away within a few hours i also have a mild cough. i have anxiety could it be that?
anxiety always a possibility but usually i do not make that call till other possibilities considered. could be some type of asthma or possible gerd.
should i be concerned? daughter had surgery on 2-27. she had been acting weird last two days. sleeping a lot bad cough not wanting to eat and i think her heart rate seems a little abnormal. she went to the doctor yesterday and they said she was just ir
the symptoms you are describing for your daughter are not specific and easily could be the result of simply having a surgical procedure and/or the pain medications patients will frequently be taking immediately after surgery. on the other hand the symptoms you are describing could be early symptoms of a pneumonia or other post operative complication (although this seems unlikely based on the information provided). the easiest way to distinguish is that if it is the result of the surgery or pain meds than everyday your daughter should get better (maybe only a little but everyday will be better than the last). if a complication is developing then each day will be worse (either a little or a lot) than the last. specific symptoms of pneumonia would be a fever above 101 a "productive" cough (meaning phlegm that is either greenish or yellowish) or shortness of breath.
should i be concerned? daughter had surgery on 2-27. she had been acting weird last two days. sleeping a lot bad cough not wanting to eat and i think her heart rate seems a little abnormal. she went to the doctor yesterday and they said she was just ir
i would help to know what surgery she had for what diagnosis.
should i be concerned? daughter had surgery on 2-27. she had been acting weird last two days. sleeping a lot bad cough not wanting to eat and i think her heart rate seems a little abnormal. she went to the doctor yesterday and they said she was just ir
minor cough throat irritation lack of appetite and sleeping more can be a common temporary side effect after surgery or general anesthesia. i do not know if your daughter had a major surgery or what her age group is. pain medications can also cause side effects of nausea and unusual feelings in some people. watch for fevers and revisit or call your surgeon if there are more concerns.
should i see a doctor for recurring heart palpitations?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
why did propranolol give me a bad cough a hard time breathing? atenolol does not give me these symptoms why did the 2 have different reactions
propranolol is not selective for b1 and b2 receptors while atenolol in lower doses only affects periphery ( b2) receptors which doesn't work on your heart that much. do you have asthma? propanol is even worse for people with asthma.
how to get rid of heart palptxns? had holter ecgs heart ultrasound blood test chest xray. all normal. its scaring me when it happens
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
how have i lost 15 pounds over the past few months without trying? i'm now 120. bloodwork is fine but heart rate is often elevated from sinus node.
if you have other symptoms - fever cough blood in your bowel movements night sweats a painless lump under your skin - you need further evaluation. you mention blood work is fine: you need a chest x-ray and thyroid tests also at a minimum. are you exposed to any industrial toxins fumes or waste? something is causing your weight loss. a careful evaluation is necessary to find it.
heart fluttering for a few months and now triggers coughing fit. chest feels tight. mirena (levonorgestrel) implant. past asthma. strange pain in legs. nausea. tired?
with multiple nonspecific symptoms it is impossible to sort out your problems with a limited answer in an online forum. you should see your primary care provider a more complete evaluation. hope this helps!
i'm a smoker and i can't take deep breath why? i don't have chest pain nor does my lung make a sound i just cough when i take a deep breath
issues means you need to see your doctor asap. this is dangerous. catch this before it gets worse. please work on stopping smoking and it will raise the probability of a longer and much happier life for you and those you love. peace and good health.
i had strep throat was unable to treat it(i'm allergic to meds)and cleared tues. now i'm dehydrated sleep deprived coughing and my ribs and chest hurt.
there are alternative meds. strep throat must be treated as sequelae of untreated group s strep infection include scarlet fever rheumatic fever kidney failure. stay calm & follow up immediately.
i had strep throat was unable to treat it(i'm allergic to meds)and cleared tues. now i'm dehydrated sleep deprived coughing and my ribs and chest hurt.
when you submit a question you provide background information for site docs to review and question that reflects the info submitted. you have not submitted a question. this is not a chat room so any question must be complete we do not have access to any previous question or data you upload
in brief im a 37 yr old female. continual chest pain and heart trouble. bpm goes as high as 120-212 (resting) then drops below 40 leaving me coughin?
insufficient information in this forum to assess you;go see a physician immediately or do so via health tap concierge.
i've got a real bad wet cough. when i'm coughing or take a deep breath the center of my chest hurts severely? (sharp stabbing piercing pain. )
at your age unlikely to be cardiac in origin see your md for an exam listen to your lungs cough medicine antibiotics symptomatic relief. good luck.
my 13 yr old girl has cheat pains and dry throat. ekg and eco were normal last month should she have a chest x-ray?
it is probably not likely that anything will show on the xray. a persistent dry cough and chest pain in that age child is more likely to be signs of some type of bronchospasm (asthma). i would recommend a pediatric pulmonologist. <positive_smiley>
sometimes my heart rate will go up to 200 bpm after a small cough or burp; it also hurts alot?
it could be an svt or any other rapid heart rate so should be evaluated by a dr to make sure it gets treated appropriately.
severe chest pain when taking a deep breath. shortness if breath. my pulse is 81. hurts to cough sneeze hiccup laugh. had a pneumothorax 30 months ago.
go to emergency room. pneumothorax may recur.
severe chest pain when taking a deep breath. shortness if breath. my pulse is 81. hurts to cough sneeze hiccup laugh. had a pneumothorax 30 months ago.
the pain sounds pleuritic (due to irritation of the lining around the lung). however given the history of a prior pneumothorax one wonders whether there might be a recurrence. it would be advisable to see your doctor for an exam and chest x-rays.
slept on recliner for wk. amoxicil for bronchitis/no cough. pain on top left hypochon region(where chest meets. feels like i'm pressing on bone. concern?
or pleurisy. looks benign to me if it worsens go see your dr!
having dry cough for last 2. 5months. had 12 episodes of cough syncope losing consciousness for 2 seconds. did all the tests related to neuro cardiology ent & pulmonology. echo shows normal. holter monitor test for 24 hrs shows normal. mri & ct
this is unusually a severe presentation. however if nothing is found yet look for environmental allergy like inhalants such as dust molds pollens or food allergy. to learn more how to treat the foundational causes please visit us at www. ehacstl. com
hello. i had vats and pleurodesis before 15 days for spontaneous pneumothorax. i feel better now. but since 2 days i had mild coughing. in biopsy underlying koch's found. so now i am on akt. sometimes i felt palpitation with tachycardia. plz reply soon.
most of non-sepcialist physicians are unable to understand the pertinent specifics in terminology; therefore the surest bet to get the answer to the point is to ask your treating doctors. to get these things done correctly follow instructions in <link> thereby you gain much insight on how to work closely and timely with the doc.
i have recently been having heart palpitations at night. i am wondering if i should be worried about this? anything you recommend that i can do? thanks! heart palpatations
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i have a chest pain near the center for the past 4 days and worsens when lying down or try to get up cough or inhale deeply. also coughing at night?
these symptoms are most compatible with pleurisy and associated pneumonia although bronchitis pericarditis or pinching of intercostal nerve or muscle in the rib cage are possibilities. in any event you should be examined by a physician even if you have no fever sweats or chills. a chest xray complete blood count and possibly an ekg will most likely be part of the evaluation.
i drank a rockstar energy drink four hours ago before skateboarding for three hours and i just took a nyquil and i want to know if im gonna die or not?
like all of us you will die sooner or later (hopefully not for 70-80 years) but what you took will not kill you. the energy drink has some caffeine which is stimulating and the nyquil has a cough suppressant and antihistamine that can make you drowsy but the combination will not kill you.
i had the flu about two weeks ago along with strep. now coughing up phlegm wheezing heart rate 115 oxygen 94 chest pain. would they admit me?
you need a chest x-ray
i've had a bad cough for two years and was told it's acute bronchitis 6 times. now i have chest pain/shortness of breath/wheezing. what do i do?
an inbox consultation is available and the imaging may be reviewed at that time. the imaging can be uploaded for review. have you had a cf sweat test? do you have a history of sinusitis or other infections? there are several possible causes and i would suggest an appointment.
intermittent sharp chest pain on left for 3 days. feel fine then suddenly hurts severely when breathing or moving. then feel fine again. muscular?
sharp shooting chest pains brought on by a deep breath cough or certain motions are often due to pinched intercostal nerve or muscle which runs between 2 ribs. this is more of a nuisance rather than anything serious and tends to resolve without any treatment. if symptoms persist have your physician examine your chest carefully.
my friend is 54 and is never sick. she said her chest feels heavy and back hurts and kinda a headache and fast heart rate no fever or coughing?
it sounds like she may have a bit of a cold but with the chest discomfort and fast heart rate she should get checked out. best of luck to her!
med history is factor v palpitations lupus. on coumadin (warfarin) along with others. my upper part of back hurts & is achy when i cough or take deep breath in. y?
the history given is unclear. however it sounds like pleurisy or pulmonary embolism and given your h/o lupus and coagulation problems you should see a physician asap or go to er.
my throat feels tight which makes me have a barking cough when i breathe too deeply. i have cardiomyopathy should i be concerned with this symptom?
24 years old? what type of cardiomyopathy? postpartum? if this is the case there is a chance you heart function can still get better. second barking cough would go to your respiratory system and even though heart and lungs are interconnected and their function affect each other breathing deeply and having cough with inspiration is not a typical symptom of cardiomyopathy
still having back/chest pain/cough. chest xray blood work ekg bone scan blood pressure all normal what should i do next and really worriedit bserious?
normal chest x-ray usually eliminates serious possibilities such as tumor large consolidation and cardiac enlargement. if chronic cough are several possibilities. physical exam would hear wheezing related to asthma. a common problem is walking pneumonia or mycoplasma pneumonia which many radiologists do not recognize subtle interstitial findings on radiograph. see dr. for appropriate antibiotic.
still having back/chest pain/cough. chest xray blood work ekg bone scan blood pressure all normal what should i do next and really worriedit bserious?
may be required or this may be related to an upper respiratory issue. . what does your physician say?
sometimes my heart flutters and then i have to cough. should i have it checked?
what are you waiting for?
why does my heart bpm go up to 280-290 and my adrenaline gets very high and i kind of panic. seems to happen after i cough every so often palpatation?
you should see a primary care physician to evaluate your cardiovascular health.
went to walking today bronchitis order antibotics/tesla perles cough is worse now vomit and i fainted. not sure what to do can't stand cough anymore?
i would advise a chest radiograph you may have pneumonia. a change in your antibiotic may be indicated. azithromycin covers atypical organisms such as mycoplasma.
what would cause my pulse ox levels to go from consistently 99 or 100% to being 96 or 97% consistently? need for concern?
31 y/o female asks what would cause my pulse ox levels to go from consistently 99 or 100% to being 96 or 97%. first is person currently acutely ill with cough/ upper respiratory infections/ pneumonia or muscle strain/injury that restrict full lung expansion and deep breathing. 2nd does one smoke cigarettes or other items. sedentary life/lack of exercise/ weight gain can also come into play
hi i have had a nagging cough for the passed month for the passed few days every time i cough my heart flutters could you tell me why this happens?
you could be performing what is called a "valsalva" maneuver a sudden holding breath against pressure. this may slow your heart enough that the next beat contains more blood and you feel it! just a thought! hope it helps! dr z
had stressful holiday didn't eat or drink all day & hav cold. coughed then randomly felt heart skip a beat. normal? is it due to cough not eating?
it is likely that you had skipped beat due to stress. it is not due to cough or not eating. they may occur due to use of caffeine nicotine electrolyte imbalance or heart disease. see psychiatrist for therapy for stress of relationship unresolved feelings of worry fear hurt resentment; work and finances.
i've contracted a cold from a 8 month baby i've now got a bad sore throat chest pain and bad breathing and when ever i cough i taste blood.
it appears you have caught a cold so treat with fluids and tylenol for pain fever. otc meds for cold as needed throat lozenges. also cold fluids for the broken throat capillary suspected from strong coughing. if blood and coughing persist see an md for further investigation or call for virtual appt with internist thru health tap.
i have "sick sinus syndrome" and a couple of days ago i developed acute bronchitis. wondering if i should travel/fly in < 2 days?
you'll be able to travel with acute bronchitis. transmission rates are highest the day before and the first day that people are sick with acute infection so even though you will still be coughing you can assure people that the doctor said you weren't contagious.
i have random heart palpitations. when i check my pulse when that happens the heart rate is not particularly fast. is that normal? i do feel pinching
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
ive had a chest xray today still worried. what do you think it is? ive been coughing up foamy phlem and been sick nearly passing out gasping for air
i would recommend being seen again for a follow up visit. your chest radiograph may be uploaded so that i can view it by booking an inbox consultation. monitor your temperature carefully and drink plenty of fluids. your pcp may prescribe an inhaler as needed for wheezing/bronchospasm.
i have a miriad of symptoms diagnosed as gastro issues. my stomache area is so distended pain accross the underneath part of my ri s. chest pain cough?
your question is hard to understand and it sounds as if both stomach and chest issues may be mixed in. good luck.
i had a cold with a tight chest feeling. it all seem to have cleared up - energy is fine again. i am getting a pain when i cough (which is only about?
you have irritated/strained your ribs and they are now "crunching" each time you cough. it is not exactly true but i call this "microfractures" of the ribs. it will likely clearly up soon. other much less likely possibilities exist. likely take as needed 1-2 advil + 1 tylenol extra strength for (just) several days: can be taken up to twice a day (less is more). i also like topical soothanol
i had a cold with a tight chest feeling. it all seem to have cleared up - energy is fine again. i am getting a pain when i cough (which is only about?
pain in chest is common after repeated coughing bouts. this could more than likely be attributed to muscular pain of the chest wall. however if you are finding it is difficult to breathe as well with pain on deep breathing then this is likely due to inflammation of the sac which surrounds the lungs. this is called pleurisy and may need further investigation and treatment.
major heart skipped beats every few seconds several days feel very tired and now have annoying cough not related to a cold feel dizzy and foggy at tim?
palpitations that are associated with symptoms of dizziness and tiredness may suggest underlying heart condition. please see your primary care doctor for initial evaluation and referral to a cardiologist if indicated.
my doctor is sending me for xrays and blood tests because of decreasd breathing and tachycardia now a cough should i be worried?
the question should be asked of your doctor. the doc has far more information about you than the little bit in your entry. what you provide is too little to judge.
sick 8 days now. flu like illness. saw dr. yesterday morn er after having sweats and chest pain. ekg 2 troponins 5 min. on echostress test. all neg. ideas?
chest pain can be due to the hacking cough which you probably have with the flu.
shortness of breath chest pain burping and farting a lot cough that won't go away noisy stomach(not hungry) stomach cramping i had ekg and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago and they were clear. is this gerd?
have you been checked for a hiatus hernia lactose intolerance or gluten intolerance? for these symptoms try taking mylanta 1/2 hour after meals and at bedtime. an examination by a gastroenterologist would be recommended.
shortness of breath chest pain burping and farting a lot cough that won't go away noisy stomach(not hungry) stomach cramping i had ekg and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago and they were clear. is this gerd?
none of your symptoms suggest heart disease which can be ruled out just by description. gerd gastritis gastroenteritis malabsorption celiac disease esophageal spasm peptic ulcer disease giardiasis non-ulcer dyspepsia food allergy gallstones - are all possibilities.
shortness of breath chest pain burping and farting a lot cough that won't go away noisy stomach(not hungry) stomach cramping i had ekg and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago and they were clear. is this gerd?
possibly. would ask your internist.
shortness of breath chest pain burping and farting a lot cough that won't go away noisy stomach(not hungry) stomach cramping i had ekg and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago and they were clear. is this gerd?
it could be many things from reflux to even a virus. see your physician for an exam and diadnosis.
shortness of breath heartburn cough that won't go away chest x-ray and ekg are normal? what could it be?
is a viral disease characterized by prolonged excessive dry coughing. he most common symptom of acute bronchitis is a cough that is dry. acute bronchitis is a one-time condition that lasts for several weeks. drink plenty of fluids and otc medication. rec. see your pcp if symptoms persist another week.
shortness of breath heartburn cough that won't go away chest x-ray and ekg are normal? what could it be?
gastro esophageal reflux disease. avoid smoking or caffeinated beverages after 5 pm (and avoid late night snacks ). may help to take pepcid (famotidine) daily.
shortness of breath heartburn cough that won't go away chest x-ray and ekg are normal? what could it be?
could be allergy to some foods or meds. or some git problems like indigestion or hyperacidity.
slight chest discomfort when playing basketball. i do have mild asthma but never wheeze. i had 4 clear ekgs should i ask dr. for stress test? no family history of heart disease. normal cholesterol.
you can probably tell better than anyone whether your chest discomfort is chest-wall pain from the body movements of the ball game cough-variant asthma (i have this and recognize the discomfort in the chest it can cause on exertion) or the real fear-inducing pain of coronary disease. i'm assuming you have no heart murmur to suggest hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and are cocaine-free.
woke up to a long fastrun of pac coughed quick to stop it felt like drums! holter 62pac majority (couplet) 7 pvc echo mvp/trivialmr cardiac arrest?
likely you have a supraventricular arrhythmia amenable to vagotonic maneuvers you need a comprehensive assessment including ecg and lab. documentation via ambulatory 30 day /ilr may be needed. please seek formal consultation with local electrophysiologists or via health tap concierge consultation
would chest pain from a pulmonary embolism be constant and get worse or could it come and go?
usually rapid heart beat is present. usually rapid labored breathing is present. is there a swollen red painful leg? coughing? coughing blood? x-ray? cardiogram? blue lips & fingers?
how many palpitations can a person with a healthy heart experience in one day and not be worried about it?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
have a cough for 6+ weeks with chest pressure and pain fatigue. had a ct it came back normal. lungs sounded clear one week ago. what's going on?
chronic cough has multiple causes defined as a cough lasting more than 8 weeks. post nasal drip gi-reflux disease asthma medications bronchitis including lung or thyroid cancer. details of the history such as clearing throat symptoms after food symptoms with exertion are all useful to sort out the cause and requires a detailed history and physical by a lung specialist or internist.
have a cough for 6+ weeks with chest pressure and pain fatigue. had a ct it came back normal. lungs sounded clear one week ago. what's going on?
could be as simple as a cold that would have cleared but with residual irritation/cough. as likely may be rhinitis due to infection or other chronic condition such as allergy creating post nasal mucus drip and subsequent irritation. it is sometimes due to acid reflux undiagnosed asthma (although your lungs sound clear breathing test can confirm) or vocal cord problem. or medication side effect
hi i would like to know what cause me to constanlty get the feeling the my heart is stoping for like a second that i cough and get shortness of breath like if it was a best skipping i am a female 23years old?
cs ( premature ventricular contractions) or another cardiac arrhythmia please consult your physician for diagnosis and treatment.
hi so i've had a chronic cough for a long time and sense october it's been really frequent and i taste blood when i cough and i have been diagnosed with acid reflux. why do i taste blood and my chest hurts as well.
its possible the chronic cough is traumatizing the airway and you indeed are tasting blood. in any event get a workup why the cough allergy severe reflux asthma etc alst take the reflux seriously and start taking medication to reduce acid production. i think you should be in close contact with either your pmd or a gastroenterologist
i had a cold for 4 weeks. now get sharp chest pains when i cough or sneeze. i've always had back pain-is it referred pain? chest xray was clear.
you should see your primary doctor to confirm this. it may be a viral pericarditis aka inflammation of the fibrous sac around the heart causing sharp chest pain; pain may also be felt in the shoulders neck or back pain worse with lying down and breathing deep. diagnosis is ekg ultrasound of the heart to look for pericardium effusion. treatment typically with nsaids like ibuprofen or naproxen.
i vomited a fair amount of blood last night and since then i have been coughing it is not a normal cough and i have chest pain middle of back?
get to the emergency room for a complete evaluation.
is a heart rate of 140-150 an acceptable heart rate for a 5 year old with a fever of 102. 5 and cough? he's taken mucinex and albuterol 2 hrs ago.
expect an increase of 10-15 bpm for every increase in 1 degree fahrenheit from normal. albuterol will also increase the heart rate by a significant amount as long as it is in his system. the numbers you list are well within the expected and well tolerated at his age.
is a heart rate of 140-150 an acceptable heart rate for a 5 year old with a fever of 102. 5 and cough? he's taken mucinex and albuterol 2 hrs ago.
acceptable hr for a child with these clinical signs but is pretty hard on the little one. reduce the fever as much as possible. if the heart rate remains elevated when the fever is down then you should take him to be evaluated by a health care professional.
is it common for it to hurt to breathe or chest hurt when you are sick? bronchitis etc
ehen someone has bronchitis it can hurt to breathe deeply or when you cough. this is typically called pleurisy where the lining of the lung is inflamed. it is very sharp pain and very localized normalized.
i have had a cough for over a week now and it is now hard to breath without coughing. i taste blood a lot too? i take atenolol for fast heart beat
you may have an infection symptoms of asthma or another underlying cause related to your cardiac condition. it would be advisable to see your pcp for an evaluation. if you are producing mucus it may be sent to the lab for analysis. have you had a flu vaccination this year? do you have a fever? testing may also include pulmonary function tests and a chest radiograph to help determine the cause.
if i lay down my chest hurts when i breathe sat up its okay pain radiated from chest to back. health is fine. is it costochondritis?
costochondritis is inflammation of costal cartilage in the chest. common in young adults. typically it hurts when you press against the cartilage in the chest. so it is possible that you have costochondritis. however chest pain with shortness of breath fever palpitations cough or skin rash would lead to different diagnosis. if persistent- good idea to see a health care provider.
my 14 yo son is having random bouts of chest discomfort and palpitations. recently got over pneumonia. has barky cough head hurts when he coughs?
by an allergist seems that he has reflux may be the cause for the barking cough source of cough needs to be investigated repeated cough can cause headaches chest discomfort and palpitations also needs to be evaluated either by his doctor or a cardiologist
my 3 year old just got over pneumonia a month ago and is now showing all tge sane signs and symptoms his pulse ox has ranged tonight from 88% to 94% should i be concerned?
natural to have those readings of pulse oximetry while asleep other cardinal signs of pneumonia would be fast labored breathing cough and fever observe for those call your doctor then if any your child will be fine
people with cardiomyopathy typically have what symptoms?
often none in the early stages but chest pain shortness of breath fatigue leg swelling cough lightheadedness palpitations may all be occurring at some point. be aware though that having one of teh above symptoms does not mean that you have a cardiomyopathy.
shortness of breath for 2 months clear echo a year ago clear chest xray/ekg/d dimer in december. could this be lung cancer or asthma/allergies?
these symptoms are nonspecific. depending on the type of cough productive or nonproductive will help determine the cause. chest ct should be considered since other tests are normal. best to talk to your doctor to get to the bottom of the cough
son 5y was swimming in lake mi today & swallow/choke on water due to lg waves. late afternoon he became cold & was coughing but stopped now. worry?
just keep an eye on him and if the cough worsens or he develops a fever you should take him to his doctor.
was standing and suddenly had tightness in chest heart felt like it was pounding and nausea with sweaty palms and hands and a cough and gagging?
more info is required in order to advise appropriately. symptoms like this in female in 30s could be related to anxiety asthma infection etc. however with recent onset of chest pain in people that are potentially unstable based on history family history appearance or vital signs should be immediately evaluated in an emergency dept. in stable pt a consult would help to determine next steps.
what are some tips to relieve heart palps? i have chronic palps on diltiazem er 60mg 2x daily. still have palps. valsalva maneuver doesn't help.
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
worried about unproductive chest cough chest & soreness in muscle just below middle of ribcage. symptoms began after a 30 min anaerobic run on fri.
this can be a stitich in the muscle about and below the rib cage. you can try ice or heat to the are. consider it a pulled muscle
how can i help my husband when he is about to lose consciousness whilst coughing and can't take a breath in. ?
if a person is losing consciousness or has passed out calling 911 for an ambulance is the safe thing to do. if person loses consciousness when coughing laughing or during some similar activity and he gets it off and on his primary doctor will likely refer him for cardiology and pulmonology evaluations. his heart may be slowing down so much that it causes fainting. also consider learning cpr.
how long does the side effect of coughing last after i stop taking coreg (carvedilol)?
this should get better within a few days but it may take upto a couple of weeks. if not better should consider other causes of cough such as other drugs reflux allergies etc.
i have chest pain and weird feelings in my chest. i'm pretty young and im a girl. most of the time if i move or twist my upper body it'll be a sharp?
it's probably just pain from your muscles ribs or back. do you have any shortness of breath? is your heart racing? is the pain just when you twist? how did it start? are you on the pill (the pill can increase the risk of you having blood clots in your lungs) have you had a cough or a cold?
i've got blocked sinus and a hoarse throat. i've started to get chest pain on the right hand side. what would be the best course of action?
there are various maladies that can cause this. it could be that a bronchitis or pneumonia is starting. also could be a pericarditis or myocarditis from an ongoing respiratory infection. could be from the rib wall from coughing. should go in for an objective evaluation by a physician. sounds like you are feeling miserable. i hope you feel better soon.
i have a cough headache chest pain. what kind of cold medicine can i take? some cold medicines make my heart race or i get anxious. or what to lookfor
or promethazine dm
if a teenage girl is experiencing chest pain and sharp back pain several times a day and she did not strain her muscles what could be the problem?
long the symptoms have been there and exactly where the pain is it could be one of several things. if you are coughing and/or have fever it could be an infection. i would recommend having your doctor examine you to determine the cause and treat you properly so that you can feel better soon.
i'm experiencing soreness and tightness in my lower throat back of neck and upper chest. no cough and am breathing fine. not reflux?
does the throat soreness and tightness occur with swallowing. does this and the upper chest tightness occur with exercise or stress. are the symptoms continuous or intermittent. what is your age. do the symptoms occur at night when you are laying down. are they associated with eating or with specific foods. how long has this been going on?
i'm experiencing soreness and tightness in my lower throat back of neck and upper chest. no cough and am breathing fine. not reflux?
the first thing i would consider is the beginning of a viral upper respiratory tract infection with nasal congestion and some cough to follow. treatment consists of rest drinking adequate fluids gargling with warm salt water or sucking on lozenges. if sore throat persists or worsens a throat culture to check for strep(which is treated with antibiotics) is indicated. discuss this with your md.
i've had a mixture between a dry and wet cough. my nose burns when i breathe through it and sometimes its hard to breathe. i sometimes get chest pain.
likely viral infection. how old are you? any other medical issues. how long has this been going on? any fevers? please let me know to help get you better faster.
i am 31 years old for past few years i have had sharp chest pain on the left side every now and then but has occured more often the past few months?
recurrent sharp and fleeting chest pains suggest pinching of an intercostal nerve which runs between two ribs. the pains are brought on by deep breath cough or other movements of the rib cage. to be sure have a physician examine you to see if the discomfort can be pinpointed to the actual rib cage and not the lungs or heart which i feel is highly unlikely as a cause of your chest pains.
i have a cold and heavy dry cough. chest pain when breathing ans shallow breathing and left shoulder blade pain when coughing. very lethargic?
the combination of symptoms could mean that a simple viral upper respiratory infection is now tracking lower down into the lungs. the shortness of breath and chest pain could indicate development of an early pneumonia or pleurisy. you need to visit your nearest accident and medical clinic for further evaluation and treatment.
i have a cold and heavy dry cough. chest pain when breathing ans shallow breathing and left shoulder blade pain when coughing. very lethargic?
have a viral infection. rest fluids and analgesics. if your symptoms do not resolve in 48-72 hours make an appointment with a health care provider for thorough evaluation.
i have a cold and heavy dry cough. chest pain when breathing ans shallow breathing and left shoulder blade pain when coughing. very lethargic?
your symptoms could indicate pleurisy or pneumonia. would be good idea to see doctor.
i'm itching i have a cough and a tight chest. i also feel very week. could this be the flu? if not what could it be? it's been going on a week now
like it could be the flu. if symptoms persist it would be reasonable to see your health care provider for an evaluation.
my dad: heart attack 2. 5 yrs ago lbbb as inoperable 90% blockage in 3 valves 87yrs old now severe cough when eating makes him shake. prognosis?
sorry to hear about your dad's problems. only his physician can give an estimate of his long term prognosis. the issues he suffers from run in families and thus in your family tree. you cannot change your family history but you do not have to repeat it. learn to feed the roots of your family tree to avoid getting his problems. i would consult with your dr to see how to hand other factors in you.
medication reaction? extremely high bp with crying. strong pulses in head that made me cough and have dry heaves. vomit 3rd. started lamictal ystrday
up to 20% of people can can have nausea &vomiting and that alone could cause the high blood pressure as part of the stress reaction. i don't know if you took your blood pressure but symptoms of headache or migraine may also occur. although it can happen high bp itself is very uncommon though. call prescribing doc immed. try 1/2 strength gatoraide. if not able to take fluid go to er.
sean is 7 has fever achy chest congestion ans runny nose. cough also rapid heart beat. we gave him otc meds should we go to er?
if he has a past history of asthma treated with singlair the that would be a good plan. mild asthma can progress rapidly into something much worse sometimes without treatment. does he have a nebulizer with albuterol available at home? is he short of breath or breathing fast? can he talk without breathing in between words of a sentence? it may be better to be seen by a physician now.
sean is 7 has fever achy chest congestion ans runny nose. cough also rapid heart beat. we gave him otc meds should we go to er?
if he is breathing fast having to work hard to breath is listless or is wheezing then i would take him to the er tonight.
swelling all over for 7 days it is very painful coughing up frothy like substance i have devics chf afib chronic pain?
hi sorry to hear about ur problem it sounds like a chf exacerbation you should go to er for evaluation and treatment please be safe.
there are many times when i can feel my heart beat thumping inside my chest. it beats very strongly and sometimes causes me to cough. anyexplanations?
consider caffeine excessive sugar otc medications.
tx x2 past wk 4 sinus infect. levoquin then rocephin (ceftriaxone) shot. have prolong qt. now have cough wheez can't breathe still sinus. can i take steroid shot?
yes a steroid shot shouldn't have an effect on qt-prolongation.
would having a peak flow meter at home help my md manage my rad? my only symptom is a horrible cough and some chest tightness. when i have an attack.
you definitely should have a peak flow meter for home use. you should then record your peak flow meter result at least 3 times daily and when you have symptoms. you should record next to the numbers if you were having any symptoms. you can then have a plan in place that if your peak flow drops to a certain number you should call your doc go to the er etc. peak flow meters are very helpful!
what can it indicate coughing up yellow stringy phlegm my chest is tight feels as tho i've been punched in chest & back.
this sounds like bronchitis. if you have been coughing a lot then the pain in chest and back is due to this. the yellow just sign of infection. if it becomes chronic you may need treatment but most bronchitis will resolve without antibiotics within a few weeks.
what otc medications can directly cause cardiac arrest within 24 hours?
over-the-counter medications depend on what you want to by. the list is infinite. vitamins analgesics cough meds weight loss. in the event you have allergic reaction all may go bad therefore you always must read the side effects contraindications and interactions with medications you are taking and check it in the internet. usually cardiac arrest is well spelled out and in bold letters
hi. i'm 27 weeks pregnant and have had a cough for 3 days. i'm starting to cough up yellow mucus and my chest hurts when i cough. need antibiotics?
would follow up with doc urgent care. there is a degree of immunocompormised state during pregnancy and it seems as your cough is worsening so some might consider antibiotics like z pak (azithromycin) if not allergic. also have them check for reflux which can precipitate /exacerbate coughing and is common in pregnancy.
heart flutters after eating food. already have a heart murmur beats more prominent?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. ><link>
have pains across my middle back and some chest pain coughing up clear to a dirty grey/brown mucus with dark particals in it.?
worrisome for a pulmonary issue. a physical exam chest x-ray and blood work would be useful. see a health care provider as soon as possible for an evaluation.
hey i have minor chest pain in the mornings sometimes a heavy feeling no cough no cold or flu previously ah cold about ah month ago no fever no chills?
if i was seeing you in a clinical setting i would first be asking you many questions to make sure that you were not someone who was highly likely to be having a heart or lung issue. even if unlikely i would still be likely to obtain an ekg. if you passed the first screening questions and ekg was normal most likely explanation for your problem is mucus congestion. also consider gerd allergy
hey i never get sick and i have never had a medical issue i now sometimes get ah little chest pain in the upper left side of my chest have no signs of a flu no headache no fever no cough i had a cold about ah month ago and a half ago but nothing else i al
in general we are going to take chest pain seriously and advise evaluation. you don't want to miss something important. an otherwise healthy young woman with chest pain could be evaluated further by going through a detailed history of the symptoms. sometimes tests may help. consider seeing a doctor or discussing with one here on healthtap.
have had chest (l; above breast); back pain indigest. weak morning pulse. xray clear but ecg showed slightly abnormal depression. how likely mi/pe?
i would suggest reviewing your ekg and labs such as a crp and cardiac enzymes with your physician. the test result may indicate strain on the cardiac tissue. is there any respiratory symptom such cough?
how does what you eat affect your chest/ breathing. i can't tell which it is but something feels uncomfortable when i breathe in at times. i had an ekg & pulmonary function test done. the doctor said i was fine. trying to think of other options.
the ekg and pulmonary function testing are reassuring. if symptoms occur when eating or swallowing and there is no coughing or wheezing some degree of esophageal dysfunction may be present. a consultation with a gastroenterologist is worthwhile if you still have concerns. if coughing and wheezing occur see a pulmonologist.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (better by: anti-inflammatory medication antacids) (quality: burning or stinging) (side: left) (worsened by: pressing on chest taking deep breaths) (severity: mild) feeling anxious (worsened by: emotional str
this is probably pleurisy or chest wall pain. continue with fluids and ibuprofen. this should improve in a week. if fever cough then get checked. also be seen if symptoms worsen while treating.
my boyfriend has been sick for 2 months and has been to urgent care twice for his sickness each time being sent home with the same diagnosis as before. he has a cough and when he coughs yellow hard mucus is coming up. he also has chest pains and today has
i would suggest a sputum culture to help guide the treatment. in addition i hope that he has had a chest radiograph and a cf sweat test.
my cough has had no cold symptoms apart from lasting 10 days and having mucus but my chest is tight and coughing fits are making me gag. ?
chest. x ray.
my daughter has coughed up a teaspoon r so of blood had bout the same on a nose bleed chest pain n no fever. what do u think?
if she had the nose bleed before she coughed then the blood could have come from the nosebleed. if she has no lung problems no fever and no other medical conditions then coughing up blood is not common in children and mostly related to bleeding in the nose or throat- if concerned it is always best to be seen by your doctor!
my chest is tight feeling and i feel like i can't catch my breath. i coughed up mucus a few days ago but no other symptoms except jaw pain. ?
regardless the cause chest pain shortness of breath and jaw pains always a red flag and visit to the er is warranted. do not drive call 911.
my chest is tight feeling and i feel like i can't catch my breath. i coughed up mucus a few days ago but no other symptoms except jaw pain. ?
good day; suggest contacting pcmd or pulmonolgist for chest/ lung symptons. schedule a visit to your dentist to evaluate the jaw pain.
my chest feels tight i feel like i can't breath i got a headack i'm feeling my heart thumping makes me. cough been like this for days what is it?
the differential diagnosis is large more detail and an exam are needed before one can begin to help you
my chest hurts on the right side when i cough sneeze laugh or lean forward should i be worried it started wednesday. ?
sounds like you might be suffering from musculoskeletal pain on the right side of your chest. this occurs with straining activities like working out. usually the pain is reproducible when pressing against the area. it should resolve on its own with time otc analgesics. if worsens or persists see primary doctor.
my chest hurts when i sneeze cough laugh or lean forward its started wednesday should i be worried. i dont think its my heart im not having numbness?
various possibilities including pericarditis. best to see your doctor and be checked.
shortness of breath and faster heartbeat only in 3 weeks pregnancy. should i be worried?
this is very common. it is due to the increase in your progesterone level. but f it becomes severe (and you have chest discomfort or cough or heart rate over 100 at rest or fever) get seen right away.
taking nexium (esomeprazole) 40mg better to take in the morning or night? been taking it for 2 weeks chest feels tight slight cough and heart palps is this normal?
it is not common to get heart palpitations with nexium (esomeprazole) chest tightness is also not characteristic of the side effect profile i would check with your doctor to get the heart issues worked up good luck and feel better.
tachycardia chest pain breathless and coughing. everyday all day for the past months what is wrong? feels like my heart is beating out my chest.
if these symptoms were due to a very serious disease such as pulmonary embolism heart attack aortic dissection pneumonia etc. the symptoms simply do not linger for months without a catastrophic event occurring. plus 23 year olds simply do not have blockages in their coronary arteries or heart attacks. you need to have an ekg chest x-ray blood work and a good physical exam to confirm.
was sitting my heart did extra beat run 2-5 beats (last 48holter showed 25 pacs) i coughed and everything was normal no symptoms got mvp tr mr normal?
hormonal changes and mg deficiency can give you arrhythmia check your labs thyroid functions
wheezing coughing sneezing chest pains?
or go to er or urgent care chest pain and wheezing should be attended to asap
hi i'm 30yo with cough for 4+ weeks and central chest pressure palpitations and red throat with bumps which isn't sore just wondering what it is?
not sure what it is but you should contact your primary doctor as soon as you can.
hi doctors. 22 years old i've been going through a lot of anxiety for 2 months usually a very healthy person. as of late i've had a lot of heart palpitation at a normal beat and very strong but i feel a fluttering feeling as well like a buzz?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
have surface chest pain gets worse when i cough or sniff or lean forward?
like a physical therapy deficiency. hrs md facc www. thepmc. org
had cold symptoms 6 days they have gone now just feeling dizzy and my chest feels tight/itchy with cough no mucus?
you may be partly dehydrated. drink enough water so that your urine is colorless and do this on a regular basis. it will also help with the dry cough. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. practice safe sex.
have a flu it's 2nd day and i now have a bad middle chest pain/gets worse with movement/ feels like gas pain but isn't. what is this/normal for flu?
body aches are common with the flu. in young patients with no medical problems chest pain that is worse with deep inspiration or movement can usually be treated with over the counter pain meds. if you have shortness of breath cough up blood or notice the pain is worse with exertion you see a doctor to get checked out.
have a flu it's 2nd day and i now have a bad middle chest pain/gets worse with movement/ feels like gas pain but isn't. what is this/normal for flu?
it sounds like you may have strained part of the rib cage and the small muscles that attach each rib to the other rib. a violent cough or coughing fit could have caused that. hopefully you can see a doctor to verify this. if this is 'the flu' there are anti-viral medications that you can take. tylenol would help with the pain. there is of course a flu vaccine that i highly recommend to avoid this.
had viral inf 12 days ago coughing chest pain. constipation & chest pain (reflux) since then. took whole bottle of mag citrate yesterday-nothing?
try an antacid: it helps with constipation (take bid two times per day); and it helps with acid reflux.
im getting sick really bad head congestion. what over the counter cold remedies can i take? im on 25mg beta blocker and 120mg of ccb for heart rate. 19?
you're rather young to be on 2 medications for your heart rate. i suspect you have a predisposition of some sort. maybe wolff-parkinson-white (wpw) syndrome? that needs to be worked out before any advice is given. use healthtap prime or talk to your doctor for advice. most otc cough/cold sprays & meds have phenylephrine which can cause your heart to race. saline nasal sprays are safest. good luck.
if i had untreated chronic sinusitis can that cause pneumonia with severe chest pains? i've already had my tonsils and aiednoids removed.
however sinusitis can cause coughing and frequent or violent coughing can lead to chest pain. if you have had frequent upper respiratory infections pneumonia on top of the chronic sinusitis consult an allergist/immunologist for an immune evaluation.
im 19 weeks pregnant & i have a fever of 99. 4 i also have a sore throats headache a bad cough & almost fainted earlier today. i was wondering if i sho?
all of these issues should be presented to your presently treating ob md for his/her assessment during your pregnancy. if you haven't seen one yet start now.
my father experience paroxysmal dry cough he take betaloc 50 amlodipine and cordarone (amiodarone) 200mg for afib what is the cause of cough and treatment please?
you do not mention it but your dad may be on an ace (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitor for high blood pressure. a well known side effect of that class of drugs is cough. it usually diminishes with time but if it is too much for him his doc can stop the med and manage his b/p with other medicine.
my chest hurts when i lie down and im suddenly wheezing and coughing up water-like liquid and experiencing painful coughing.
go to er as soon as possible. you do not mention age or other history but may have some excess water in lungs and some heart issues that need a water pill or medicine to resolve it. could also be reflux with asthma but that needs evaluation as well go to er immediately.
my father had dry cough after flu episode he also took cordarone (amiodarone) 200 is this cough due to cordarone (amiodarone) what is the treatment for it?
sometimes a cough may linger for weeks after flu or a viral infection but one needs to rule out infection-triggered asthma or a sinus infection also. cordarone (amiodarone) is not expected to cause a cough but if it does changing to another drug would be the only treatment.
mostly upper left chest pain with movement. just recovered from cough. so i think its a musculoskeletal problem. but sometimes it hurts when at rest.
change the fact that it is a chest wall muscle sprain from cough. . the muscles are still in spasm and will hurt whether at rest or with movement
natural cure for arrhythmia? is there any way to treat arrhythmia without prescription medication?
there are many types of arrhythmias ranging from nuisances to life-threatening conditions. the treatment depends on the type and severity of the arrhythmia. some can be treated without prescription drugs and some don't require treatment at all. for example one common arrhythmia in healthy people called paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia can often be treated with simple maneuvers like coughing or specific breathing exercises. whether or not to take a medication always depends on the balance between the risk of the condition and the risk or burden of the treatment. if you have an arrhythmia you should talk with your doctor and be sure to ask what all the treatment options are including those that do not involve prescription drugs.
palps chestpain left arm pain cough. negative ecg echo 7daymonitor stressecg mri x-ray. etc. but symptoms improve with diltiazem. what is it?
when you have a episode of palpitation go to er or doctors office to have ekg checked if normal it might be all in the head. . <positive_smiley> you might be suffering from anxiety disorder (perhaps too much stress in your life). avoid caffeine and alcohol in excess. drink plenty of fluids - remain well hydrated exercise and eat healthy. check thyroid hormone levels and blood work for anemia.
palpitations heart flutters like your heart drops in your chest likes its drowning and then goes back to normal what to do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
palpitations driving me mad what to do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
past week experiencing headaches fatigue trouble breathing chest path on left side stabbing pain ekg and echo ok?
do you have a fever or chills coughing? any history of asthma? any h/o reflux esophagitis? i'm glad your ecg and echo were done and fine. does your chest hurt when you push on it? it would be rare to still have a cardiac problem without family history and with your normal heart studies. is your trouble breathing due to chest pain hyperventilation wheezing or stuffy nose? breathe into paper bag.
recently i've been in and out of the er heart palpitations and have had ct dye scan. xrays. stress test. all normal. what can be the cause?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
side affects from intubation. had a cardiac ablation on thursday and my throat hurts very badly.
endotracheal intubation can be associated with throat pain if any degree of trauma accompanies the intubation or the extubation. generally this will settle down over a day or two. if it doesn't resolve in a day or two or if fever or a cough occurs see your doctor for evaluaation.
stopped smoking 3 months ago started exercising 2 days ago chest feels tight and coughing all of the sudden is this normal?
i would probably be seen and thoroughly evaluated. a former smoker with chest tightness associated with exercise should have a cardiac and pulmonary workup including probably a stress test to make sure you don't have ischemic heart disease.
stopped smoking 3 months ago started exercising 2 days ago chest feels tight and coughing all of the sudden is this normal?
you may need a bronchodilator prior to exercise.
sharp pains in chest pain in shoulder blade down to bottom ribs cough spit up is almost yellow sore to breathe pain gets worse with deep breath?
your symptoms suggest pleurisy. this can be caused by either a virus or by bacteria. you need to see your doctor for appropriate evaluation which may include a chest x-ray and/or blood work. if bacterial antibiotics are advised in either case anti-inflammatory drugs can provide great relief. warm regards.
two negative d diners normal ecg cough chest tightness extreme aniexty convinced i have clot docs won't further test?
pulmonary emboli or blood clot in lung. . is an acute illness in general. if you have been dealing with this for some time that is reassuring. as are your symptoms. the cough and tight feeling suggest your airways (bronchial tubes) may be "spasming" or contricting. like from asthma or other rarer conditions. the d dimer test is very helpful when negative. it virtually means no clot in body.
what can lung and chest pain with a cough and a dizzy spell be?
time to go see your doctor for exam
what would cause you to cough up blood for two days and have chest pain on the side. i''m a 26 y/o female.
there are many possible causes and among these are an infection. i would suggest being seen right away. a close examination of the nasal passages mouth and chest in particular is advised. a chest imaging study should be obtained.
how do doctors treat a patient with both asthma and svt with daily symptoms of chronic coughing and wheezing?
asthma control needs a comprehensive evaluation control of co-morbid conditions as rhino-sinustis gerd etc is important adherence to treatment plan for controller medications not including laba is needed for breakthrough symptoms or asthma flares levoalbuterol which doesn't cause tachycardia can be used for opening up the lower airways the bronchi regular follow-up is important
have had a chesty cough and cold since last wednesday and it has calmed since sunday i have had acute and painful left sided chest pains what is it?
cher pain/soreness after prolonged coughing is not unusual and most likely due to overuse of the muscles of the chest wall. if pain worsens or persists seek immediate medical attention.
hello dr. allan i woke up worried today because i noticed a purple spot on my knee that doesn't hurt or itch. i also get chest pains.
without more details it is hard to tell if your chest pain is due to a cold or flu coughing or heart disease. a painless purple spot on the knee in the absence of other spots is also difficult to pin down.
having blood smell when i'm coughing sneezing and having tightness in chest pls explain the type of disorder what i'm having?
what do you mean by blood smell and is the chest tightness only during the cough or sneeze or does it occur at other times?
having blood smell when i'm coughing sneezing and having tightness in chest pls explain the type of disorder what i'm having?
coughing sneezing and chest tightness may indicate an allergic reaction. an inbox consultation is also available. if you have any bleeding please see your pcp. have you had a recent tb test?
help. given a cough medicine with steroid in it. now i feel that my heartbeat pulse is so fast. it was 90 and 95 per min. tested at neck by myself.
during an illness it is common to have an elevation of your heart rate. please check your temperature and rest. a follow up appointment with your physician is advised.
hi i have chest pain when i cough and start sweeting sometimes fever and it's some times hard to breath any advice?
never ignore these symptoms and you cannot be diagnosed online. close your computer and call for an immediate examination and testing.
hi i have chest pain when i cough and start sweeting sometimes fever and it's some times hard to breath any advice?
many heart and lung problems can cause this-see a doctor and get an xray soon!
it's been 7 wks 2 rounds of steroids & i'm still coughing up clear phlegm each day from acute bronchitis. don't use inhaler due to high hr. advice?
i would advise a pulmonary appointment. you should be assessed for a chest radiograph and pulmonary testing.
i am experiencing cough (worsened by: lying flat) (quality: no phlegm or mucus) chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing sens.
you don't need medical care for the average cough or sore throat. you often just need to give your body time to recover. most are caused by viruses which antibiotics can’t treat <link>
i am experiencing cough (worsened by: lying flat) (quality: no phlegm or mucus) chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing sens.
there are many causes of cough few that can cause chest pain. if you are having shortness of breath with it i would be worried about a pulmonary embolus. could also be cardiac related especially since it gets worse with lying flat. potentially could be asthma (based on symptoms you describe). best bet is to be seen.
i am experiencing cough (worsened by: lying flat) (quality: no phlegm or mucus) chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing sens.
cough + chest pain may need to consider the possibility of a chest infection. like dr pool says most are due to viral illnesses and will disappear with time however would be important to have a doctor examine and consider other causes such as reflux asthma or pneumonia depending on how you present. this should be done urgently if any breathing difficulties.
i eat shrimp then fish plus fish egg after that i have an aching throat caught feeling tired trouble breathing and chest hurt. never happen li?
female says i ate shrimp then fish plus fish egg after that i have an aching throat cough feeling tired trouble breathing and chest hurt. never happened. sounds like new onset "sea food allergy". could be problematic. should see m. d asap. meanwhile best to stay away from all sea foods until the exact cause of the allergic reactions are determined.
lately after eating i get phlegm-like fluid in throat cough a bit and get palpitations sometimes not sure if related. any causes of these symptoms?
your symptoms are suggestive of gastro-esophageal reflux disease (gerd). speak to your physician (p) about it. if you have no physician consider taking prilosec 20 mg daily. if that does not help see a p for a diagnosis and treatment plan. good luck.
lightheaded and tight chest with pain in my left arm. cbc & ekgs normal. had an echo and havent heard back about it. heart skips and makes me cough.
please follow up with echo results. maybe atrial or ventricular arrhythmia need further assessment discuss with your physician
lightheaded and tight chest with pain in my left arm. cbc & ekgs normal. had an echo and havent heard back about it. heart skips and makes me cough.
perhaps your doctor will give you a monitor to wear for 35 hours. that will clearly define what the skips mean. i bet they are benign. work with your doctor
left side upper body pain ecg normal no swetting?
it could be musculoskeletal. any referred pain to the arm or neck? cough? troubles breathing?
my boyfriend is having chest pains on his right side. when he lifts his arm or turn it send sharp pain in his chest. what could it be?
if your pain is sharp in anterior chest on deep breathing coughing or sneezing it is inflammation of costchondral junction joint between rib and breast bone. ice ibuprofen and no weight lifting helps. if not better in 8-10'days see a physician.
mild throat pain change in voice stuffy nose fatigue some stomach pains ear pain some chest pain. been about a week or so 20 yrs old hard to breath?
i would advise seeing your pcp for fever. prolonged cough or other prolonged symptoms. if you are short of breath or having problems breathing i would advise seeing the ed. otherwise a follow up appointment tomorrow with your pcp. probably this is a self limited viral illness with either a secondary infection pleuritic inflammation or bronchospasm.
my boyfriend passed out this afternoon while coughing- he has almost passed out before- but not completely until today. what should he do?
any time someone passes out completely it means that there is something wrong with the blood supply to the brain. if the blood supply is not quickly restored the person would not wake up---ever! so don't mess around with this condition please.
nasal congestion. cold sensation when i inhale& occasional palpitations. i do have gad. can this be gad or asthma? i have never wheezed nor do i cough
your family doctor can help you determine if your symptoms are related to generalized anxiety disorder allergies cold etc. based upon diagnosis your doc can then discuss appropriate options w/you.
nauseous fatigue loss of appetite what can this be also pain in right chest? i have bad sinus problems. took blood test and ekg. thought it was heart problems.
unfortunately nausea fatigue and loss of appetite are all non specific symptoms that can be caused by many different medical problems (a heart condition would be very unlikely). a common cause in a young healthy man would be viral illness with sinusitis cough and pulled muscle in chest. but many possibilities! suggest followup with a doctor if not better in a few days.
nail bed infection for 4 wks low potassium and having on and off chest pain and tightness. why the chest pain and tightness? related symptoms?
nail bed infection and low potassium would not cause chest discomfort. are the chest symptoms brought on by exertion and relieved by rest? is there associated shortness of breath cough belching and are they worse with a deep breath? i recommend an exam by your physician.
normekg stress echo holter blood work. age28 no fam hist non smoker. norm bp. chol220. weeks of mild chest pressure&numb chin. heart ruled out? anxiety?
it is unlikely cardiac with the tests being normal. anxiety is possible if your symptoms are intermittent. gastric reflux can cause chest discomfort but the numb chin is strange. underlying asthma could cause symptoms but you should have a cough or wheezing. hyperventilation could cause both (with fast breathing) but this would not be constant. lastly inflammation of the breast bone joints woul
pulse was 87 on finger pulse oximeter. sneezed and it jumped to 131 for over a minute. what causes this? freaking out!
how kind were you tachycardic (heart rate greater than 100)? i assume it was brief (few seconds) & you had no other symptoms like coughing breathlessness dizziness or chest pain. if this is not true then get checked.
progresive prod. cough at ni8 wile sleeping with constant mild dul lt. chest pain 55yr f. echo=grad1-diastoli dysfn ecg-inferio-later ischemi. wats rx?
some of the more common causes for a chronic nocturnal cough are: post nasal drip gerd cough variant asthma and chf. there is not enough information to suggest the cause of your cough or dull chest pain. was your chest x-ray normal? smoker? are you on medication? an online inbox consultation at health tap may be helpful. you would upload your complete medical history and all studies done.
sometimes it feels like there is water in my lungs but it happens randomly and i can breath the same. it just feels weird and i don't know what it is.
what sensation you are describing. of course there are serious problems that cause actual fluid build up in the lungs which can be diagnosed by physical exam or x-ray such as pneumonia heart failure etc. but most of these would also cause shortness of breath/coughing etc. you may have a patch of inflammation which sounds/feels like rattling. it is worth a visit to your doctor for evaluation.
shortness of breath tight chest with cough sore throat headache & constant fatigue. is it more then a cold?
the combination of symptoms could mean that a simple viral upper respiratory chest infection is now tracking lower down into the lungs. the shortness of breath and tightness could indicate development of an early pneumonia. you need to visit your nearest accident and medical clinic for further evaluation and treatment.
shortness of breath tight chest with cough sore throat headache & constant fatigue. is it more then a cold?
the shortness of breath is problematic. please proceed to your local physician or uc clinic.
slight pain below the left collar bone that comes n goes. worse when press on or stretching arm. no other symptoms. had been coughing. slight cough still.
probably during the coughing spell you strange some of the muscles that attached to the area of the clavicle which is part of the pectoral muscle. this should go away after the coughing spells subsides.
sore throat earache in both ears. coughing. chest feels tight?
a virus. gargle w/cool salt water for sore throat lozenges delsym otc for cough advil (ibuprofen) for pain inchest and ears maybe an inhaler if you are wheezing. if not better 1 week see your dr.
the only info i have from my gpshould a dry cough tachycardia and decreasd breathing i have to go for xrays and blood tests in 3 days time. worry? or no
the testing is indicated for a number of different conditions being considered. if your heart rate is quite high then an ekg can be added to the workup. a virtual consultation is available online for further evaluation. you can also upload the results. healthtap. com/dosanjhmd code: ncyhpz
taking z-pac for cold/cough and w/in 3 hrs developed pink eye. used ofloxicin from prev condition and 12 hrs later hives red rash on back gone in 2 hr?
most colds and coughs don't need antibiotics. you may well have a virus and the zpak will not speed your recovery if so. unless the prescriber told you bacteria are likely present due to high fever or white count or exam. eye drops do not remain sterile after opened and should be discarded. this is why! check back with your doctor if symptoms get worse or do not get better.
taking guaifenesin ac for bad cough but it's not helping. what else can i try? i also take effexor (venlafaxine) er and a low dose of metoprolol
you can try benzonatate (tesalon perles) which is a non-narcotic cough suppressant that you take by mouth three times a day. tell your doctor your medical history allergies and other symptoms. when did your symptoms start? do you have any fever or shortness of breath? if so go get seen in person. if you have a cough but no fever/chills/shortness of breath healthtap physician in nj. good luck.
taking 60mg of vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) (lisdexamfetamine) and i have developed more severe allergies over time. antihistamines and vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) make my heart race. suggestions?
it's most probably the vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine) please check with your doctor for dose adjustment/alternative. as for allergies i am not sure what you meant exactly is it hives or allergy symptoms as sneezing coughing better get evaluated for proper management good luck
when lay on right side heart beats rly weird. either beats fast continuously or it will go two fast beats pause and repeat. stops if change position?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
when i take a deep breath i start to cough and i get pain in my throat feeling of not being able to breath due to feeling like my heart is beating in?
i advise a comprehensive medical examination and a chest x-ray: cannot be diagnosed online!
woke up today w bad cough no sputum (non-productive) that causes chest pain. minor trouble breathing runny nose temp 99. 2 f. cold or bronchitis?
a cold is an upper respiratory infection. acute bronchitis is also an upper respiratory infection. i would say you have both: acute bronchitis caused by a cold. the risk is that you may have a lower respiratory infection (i. e. pneumonia) - the fever is the worrisome sign. you need to be seen by your doctor asap. sometimes antibiotics really are needed!
have had chest pain and breathing issues dry cough and widespread pain have been to doctor and er with out improvements.
there are a myriad of possibilities. you should ask the doctor who you saw what's going on and what to do about it.
have chest pain or discomfort (better by rest) ( mild) (quality: sensation of pressure or heaviness) (right side) occasional cough/congestion?
you must be examined evaluated x-rayed diagnosed and treated. your symptoms cannot be diagnosed online.
have chest pain or discomfort (better by rest) ( mild) (quality: sensation of pressure or heaviness) (right side) occasional cough/congestion?
unfortunately chest pain is a serious complaint so i would advise you to seek an immediate medical attention however because of your young age this is likely due to muscle pain or asthma like variant but i would still urge you first to immediately seek medical attention to rule out serious causes like heart related issue or pulmonary embolism (lung blood clot).
heart palps for 4 days with cough no sputum. nausea at times. palps last most of day and into night. no caffeine or other stimulants. i avoid these?
you may benefit from cardiac evaluation and cardiac motoring (holter monitor or event monitor) to see if you have cardiac rhythm abnormalities (arrhythmia)
hi there mom has pacemaker for 6 days now her legs started swelling has developed a cough and last night battled to breathe also kept waking up in?
a person who has heart disease and then gets legs swelling shortness of breath and cough. . may have congestive heart failure. the usual care is to go see the doctor now at the doctor's office or at the er. the er can take care of such issues and consult a cardiologist as needed. if a person has a heart attack or kidney failure she can also have symptoms like these.
i am a 29 year old female i'm having slight chest pains that come and go i have had it for more than 24 hours now should i be concerned?
we need to know the location and severity of your chest pain also if you have shortness of breath cough or any recent cold. this may be nothing serious but one thing that comes to mind is blood clots leading to pulmonary embolism especially in a female who may be taking oral contraceptives. i would not worry right now but if there is any other symptom(that i have listed) a med-check up is advi
i had three small bouts of chest pain that felt like shocks on my left side?
such fleeting sharp chest pains are usually not heart related or even due to lung disease unless there are other symptoms like cough fever or wheeze. mild pinched intercostal nerve or muscle which run between 2 ribs are more likely causes and can be felt with a deep breath. these usually resolve on their own. see your physician as needed.
if i have chest pain and my x-ray was clear do i need to worry about lung cancer why would a tumor not show?
pain in the chest can be caused by many different reasons. lung cancer can be one of these but it will often produce other symptoms such as cough and shortness of breath. if a chest x-ray is normal then you are not likely to have any tumor in your lungs. other reasons to exclude is angina(although it is a disease of the older people) or muscular pain(this is the most likely reason). such pains go
i am experiencing vomiting chest pain or discomfort (better by: antacid medications rest) (side: left) (severity: mild) and sore throat.
how bad is it? is the pain on the surface at the rib or deep in the chest? does it come and go or change with coughing? does it move? does it radiate anywhere else? what makes it worse? activity? eating? breathing? did you injure yourself? is it improving or worsening or the same. other symptoms? fevers? chills? if worsening or a/w shortness of breath see an md. if severe call 911.
i have had very sharp chest pain on my left side when i inhale. been going on for 3 days now. no cough or illness just the pain. so bad it feels almos?
although this doesn't sound cardiac - if your pain is severe - assessment would still be prudent.
i've been experiencing chest tightness almost like i need to cough but never get that urgent coughing feeling. just a heaviness i the chest. dr liste?
please re-phrase so that you can provide info and include a clear & specific question.
i am experiencing left arm pain when i cough hard. the pain is dull and lasts 2 to 3 mins. no chest pain?
no worries it is probably musculoskeletal.
i am experiencing rapid heart rate (worsened by: psychological stress after exercise) heartburn (gerd) (worsened by: bending forward eating certain foods. )?
but chest pain is nothing to ignore! the potential origin of your symptoms includes: heart lungs mediastinum esophagus musculoskeletal pericardium (sac around the heart) pleuritis bronchiitis or referred pain from a remote site. your doctor will be concerned about accompanying fever blood with coughing vomiting shortness or breath difficulty reclining tenderness. get checked please
if i was having possible signs of lung cancer pain in chest cough a ct scan would probably detect the tumor?
mayo clinic: "a ct scan can reveal small lesions in your lungs that might not be detected on an x-ray. if you have a cough and are producing sputum looking at the sputum under the microscope can sometimes reveal the presence of lung cancer cells. " ref: <link>
if i was having possible signs of lung cancer pain in chest cough a ct scan would probably detect the tumor?
yes it would probably detect a cancer buti would see a physician as you may have something less serious such as bronchitis and a chest x-ray may be all that is required
just coughed up blood it's stopping now but coughed up a good bit the first 3 times. i have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy but also drank a beer hardgulp?
you need to see your family physician asap!
just coughed up blood it's stopping now but coughed up a good bit the first 3 times. i have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy but also drank a beer hardgulp?
neither beer or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are causes of coughing up blood. your smoking is a factor. you need to be evaluated - a chest xray at a minimum. call your primary care doctor monday morning.
just felt a string of strong heartbeats that were a little faster than normal- like beat beat beatbeatbeatbeat beat beat- could it be nsvt? i had pvcs and needed an ablation for them but this was different - no sensation of a skipped beat.
given your history of irregular heart rhythm requiring ablation i would advise follow up with your heart specialist or pcp should this continue. especially if it becomes longer or more frequent or you experience lightheadedness or chest pain. irregular beats are not uncommon and can be precipitated by stress alcohol caffeine infection etc. simply coughing can sometimes break them. needs eval.
just diagnosed w/ strep. noticing chest tightness. not pain just sort of uncomfortable. is this common with strep? i get anxious about heart stuff.
strep throat infections are rarely associated with lung involvement but can cause rheumatic heart complications although in this country with access to prompt antibiotic treatment of strep throat infections that is a rare occurrence. nevertheless if chest discomfort persists or if cough fever joint pains develop notify your physician.
just suddenly woke up coughing and heart racing. feeling heart pounding in neck! hands shaky. it's so cold maybe that's why? phlegm now in throat
u may have had nightmare? u may have had reflux which activated your awake system &u came out of deep sleep. the heart pounding was it fast? good to have a watch nearby to meas rate. a hard beat can be from activ of symp nerv systom from reflux or dream. the phlegm in throat may have been reflux. make sure not to lie down w/i 2 hours after a meal. tell md about it if it happens again: holter
just had flu havr slight cough no pain/chest issues no stuffiness. do have seas. allergies. i feel like i must breath in deeply. is this allergies?
have trouble breathing in is from upper airway obstruction or anxiety. if this becomes a recurrent problem then you need to make sure that your anxiety is resolved (with psychiatric counselling as well as medications) and consult an allergist or ent to evaluate your upper airway area (vocal cord dysfunction is one possibility. )
leg swelling from knee down. recent chest pain/pressure/cough. ekg normal. xray inconclusive. ct in 5 days. hx of pericardial cyst-4x3cm. thoughts?
are you on birth control pills? are you over weight? do you have diabetes? how active are you ? do you smoke? these and other things need to be reviewed for the correct diagnosis to be made. a possibility of heart failure even though you're young unless you have a h/o heart disease considering your symptoms. of much concern would be blood clot in your legs. you need to be seen by a doctor
leg swelling from knee down. recent chest pain/pressure/cough. ekg normal. xray inconclusive. ct in 5 days. hx of pericardial cyst-4x3cm. thoughts?
these are complex conditions not amenable to this format. just continue working with your doctors. for another opinion you could do a virtual visit with a doctor here on healthtap. com.
my chest hurts when i cough. i have a cold coming on. what are ways to reduce this discomfort?
i find ibuprofen to be very helpful when i get a cold. sadly though nothing makes it go away faster and colds stink.
my chest hurts when i cough. i have a cold coming on. what are ways to reduce this discomfort?
pain in chest is common after repeated coughing bouts. this could more than likely be attributed to muscular pain of the chest wall. however if you are finding it is difficult to breathe as well with pain on deep breathing then this is likely due to inflammation of the sac which surrounds the lungs. this is called pleurisy and may need further investigation and treatment. otc cough syrups may help
neck pain major headache pain back of head nausea tachycardia blurry vision. had brain mri which was clear. if not tumour what could it be?
did you get brain vessel imaging? there are many types of headaches including migraines cough cluster occipital neuralgia muscle strain etc. keep a log of the timing duration severity and location of your headaches. also try to identify any headache "triggers" (stress not sleeping/eating). take this information to a neurologist. <link>
normal d-dimer chest xray ecg today. throbbing leg chest pain cough. had sx same 2 years ago with neg ctpa and neg ultrasound. what could it be?
could be many things. fact that it went away raises the question of an overuse syndrome from say performing some repetitive work chore etc. other possibilities include some form of arthritis. i would see a primary care specialist in the form of either a good do or internist who can work this up further.
night sweats can't regulate body temp nausea heart flutters extreme fatigue. cough pain in stomach right below ribs?
many of your symptoms could be related to thyroid disease. please see you doctor and make sure a thyroid panel is ordered. best of luck.
normal chest x-ray and vq scan. normal ekg. chest and back pain gurggling sound short of breath dizzy. also tachycardic and dry cough. please help.
you need further face2face evaluation by a physician. sounds like you are in the middle of a work-up. are you an inpatient or is this evaluation being done as an outpatient? sounds like you are looking for a second opinion? too much information is required to properly second guess your current work-up. online is not appropriate for this purpose.
normal chest x-ray and vq scan. normal ekg. chest and back pain gurggling sound short of breath dizzy. also tachycardic and dry cough. please help.
i assume you have been to the er and were discharged. a serious cause for your symptoms seems less likely as your initial tests were normal. among the less serious causes for such symptoms is the possibility of a chest cold and superimposed panic attack with hyperventilation. but if your symptoms persist you need to be re evaluated to determine the proper diagnosis. return to the er if needed.
normal chest x-ray and vq scan. normal ekg. chest and back pain gurggling sound short of breath dizzy. also tachycardic and dry cough. please help.
please see a board certified pulmonary medicine expert ( pulmonologist)-asap- unable to diagnose online; however very suggestive of bronchospasm with superimposed viral or bacterial infection.
nausea a runny nose coughing up yellow phlegm dizzines stomach pains tiredness and with my asthma sometimes breathing difficulties &tight chest fevers?
it sounds like you are either having a sinus infection or an asthma flare up. i think you need to see your doctor as soon as possible
no appetite feel hot and sick worse when eating. no energy. had chest pain but ekg troponin chest xray normal. i am guessing not heart? cause?
any fever/chills. other chest pain any body pain cough sore throat running nose head ache nausea vomiting diarrhea abdominal pain. viral syndromes can make you fell like this like flu or flu like syndromes. need more information to give you a better answer please.
no cough or chest pain but two little blood spots in first phlegm of the morning. daily but moderate smoker but went overboard during the weekend. ?
i think with your history i would see a physician and get it checked out
on beta blockers (bystolic. ) is it safe to take a cough suppressant whose only main ingredients are guaffisen & dm?
should not be an issue. the medicine to stay away from in heart patients is sudafed (pseudo ephedrine)
on antibiotics for sinus infection. better but cardiac cough is back. i have dcm. no swell in feet but i have trouble with swelling in stomach. norm?
cardiac cough implies congestive heart failure -- you need medical attention now!
on a beta blocker & allergic to morphine nsaids. considering all this are there any otc meds i can safely use for a bad cough and/or congestion?
try the various cough formulas like robitussin (guaifenesin). guaifenesin is safe. occasional oral decongestant use should be safe. dextromethorphan in robitussin (guaifenesin)-dm is technically related to narcotic family but shouldn't react to morphine allergy. i would suggest starting with robitussin (guaifenesin)-pe.
out in cold most of night and day and been sneezing and coughing with a little chest pain sore throat headache nausea. cold or bronchitis?
sounds like you're describing an upper respiratory infection which are mainly caused by viruses which don't respond to antibiotics whether you call it a cold or bronchitis. technically speaking chronic bronchitis (<link> is diagnosed after productive cough for 3mo in each of last 2yrs. see family doc if persists
ok so i've been kinda tough ng for a few days have had congestion for a few days and i started clindmaycin yesterday for a tooth abccess this morning i wake up with like a burning in my throat and sorta chest pain like when i cough temps been 99. 5?
tooth abscess can be a serious condition which warrants antibiotic and subsequent incision and drainage along with a possible root canal. this needs close follow up and consultation with a dentist
ok so i've been kinda tough ng for a few days have had congestion for a few days and i started clindmaycin yesterday for a tooth abccess this morning i wake up with like a burning in my throat and sorta chest pain like when i cough temps been 99. 5?
clindamycin is an effective medication against certain types of bacteria which cause dental abscess. however it should only be used on the recommendation of a dentist or gp. see your gp or dentist for evaluation.
ok so i've been kinda tough ng for a few days have had congestion for a few days and i started clindmaycin yesterday for a tooth abccess this morning i wake up with like a burning in my throat and sorta chest pain like when i cough temps been 99. 5?
antibiotic will not cure an infection just help control it until your dentist can physically treat the infection. your other symptoms may be due to the infection and would be even mora acute without the antibiotic at may be due to a coincidental viral bacterial or fungal infection. call your dentist for more information and to schedule appropriate treatment.
please help i feel like i have got a heavy chest like a need to cough a lot but don't have a cough? i'm feeling very worried?
"heavy chest" is a sign to go to the e. r. if one's doctor is not readily available. chest heaviness or pain can be a heart attack. one should not drive herself (it's safer to go by ambulance). if she turns out not to have heart attack symptoms the e. r. will also have evaluated for chest problems such as a collapsed lung or a pneumonia. a chest x-ray ekg and labs can be done quickly at the e. r.
recovering from pneumonia x-ray clear. shortness of breath on oxygen. heart rate 99 oxygen 92. i also have afib and a residual cough. my pulmonologis?
the compromise of breathing is a medical emergency a visit to your pcp or nnert emergency depot is warranted
recently suffered with a cold the cough i have had for 7 days now. coughing up green phlegm with blood and coughing when exhaling pain in chest?
what you described is more than a cold. is is possible that you a mild form of pneumonia and it would be prudent to see your doctor. it is not feasible to provide a more meaningful opinion without examining you. wish you good health!
sinus infection twice followed by sneezing runny nose chest pain swollen glands hacking cough with thick green white dark yellow mucus. cold?
your history suggests that you may be suffering from nasal congestion (most likely from allergies) leading to obstruction of the sinus drainage and then infection. controlling the nasal congestion would be the first step (visit an allergist? ). later on a ct sinus and/or immune work-up may be pursued if indicated.
sudden heart palps tightness in chest nausea irritable rapid breathing dry cough. panic/anxiety attacks?
attacks. please see your doc to rule out or identify medical conditions. after that consider seeing a clinical psychologist who specializes in treating panic attacks. lots of reason to be hopeful. peace and good health.
should pvc's be a cause of concern after a normal echocardiogram and ekg? when they come and go should i be concerned when they come? everytime they act up it makes me want to run to the er
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj
since my cold has gone i have had chest tightness breathlessness and a slight wheeze. hard to breath in too deep and now starting to get a dry cough.
are likely. you need to be seen and probably to get an inhaler for the wheezing and chest tightness. good luck!
sudden burning tightness in chest into left side of back and sudden cough now. now hurts left side to rotate towards right.
at this age with a connective tissue diagnosis you need prompt evaluation options range from serositis to serious vascular pathology
sort of heavy chest a little hard to breathe deep. not palps but feel a little strained beats bit dizzy tinnitus eps been going on 2 weeks or so?
i would get an ekg and a chest xray for this make sure it's not your heart. if you don't think it's that it could be a mild viral infection that caused inflammation of the lungs or created fluid around the heart or caused mild cardiomyopathy. is it worse with exertion? does the heaviness radiate somewhere when you exercise? can you still exercise? any cough? leg swelling?
started out sore throat but now i have chest tightness coughing up green phlegm and feel like my airway is swollen. i'm very hoarse. this is day 4?
if you are having chest tightness with airway that feels swollen you need to see a doctor. you might be experiencing wheezing and bronchospasm that may require medication.
started choking on food when eating/swallowing. throat full of phlegm. constant lump in throat feeling always swallowing. afraid to eat-there've been 2 times i almost didn't get food out of mouth/throat in time. cough rib/chest pain. ideas/help please?
what you are describing medically would be called dysphagia there are multiple causes. among the more common is chronic reflux disease leading to constrict ute of the esophagus. consider being seen. work up would likely include a swallowing study and an egd.
shallow breath and sharp pain in left chest 2 inch top nipple. comes and goes for about a month now. heart beat feels weaker daily. barely hold breathe anymore or walk my car without heavy. all tests normal heart lung every. click noise lump throwt?
sharp shooting chest pains are often caused by a pinched intercostal nerve or muscle that runs between 2 ribs. deep breaths or coughing brings them on or worsens the pain which lasts only seconds. these usually resolve. avoid rib cage straining. if you want to investigate further consult a thoracic surgeon for an opinion or specific testing.
tight chest coughing fever shakes and body aches what could this be im out of town for christmas and im so sick?
if you have headache especially behind the eyes flu is more likely and an urgent care or ht consult could help you get some tamiflu. however if there is any chest pain along with these symptoms pneumonia is possible and an exam is really needed. good luck!
top left chest pain got a cold and a cough been doctors said its not heart related but it is worrying me the pain comes and goes?
your are 28 year old male and it is unlikely to be a life threatening. it is likely pleurisy. i would recommend alot of fluids and take ibuprofen regularly for a week.
tightness in upper back when inhaling. muscles feel tight. chest hurts when i cough. on and off for a mnth. post nasal drip& sinuses. do i have pneumonia?
however given your descriy you need to be seen probably the doctor would ask for imaging studies of your sinuses/chest and you need rx medicines good luck
tightness in upper back when inhaling. muscles feel tight. chest hurts when i cough. on and off for a mnth. post nasal drip& sinuses. do i have pneumonia?
you would be sicker if you did but it is possible. you should make an appointment with a health care professional to get checked out as soon as possible.
tightness in upper back when inhaling. muscles feel tight. chest hurts when i cough. on and off for a month. post nasal drip& sinuses. is it just allergy?
you need a physical exam and a chest x-ray to diagnose your issues.
upper back pain mostly left side no cough shortness of breath after activity and irregular heartbeat at times?
see your pcp.
unwell. chesty cough. no phlegm. had minor fever but heart rate between 110 -115. is it normal?
is it normal to be unwell? no. it is not normal. it means you are ill. it sounds like you need to see your physician. don't you think?
unwell. chesty cough. no phlegm. had minor fever but heart rate between 110 -115. is it normal?
you should go into be examined. your heart rate points to either not getting enough fluid in or a significant illness like pneumonia.
very painful productive cough x2 days. thick yellow/green sputum. chest feels tight and hurts. no head cold sx. malaise fatigued. when to worry?
if you are experiencing trouble breathing or fever i would recommend being seen. drink fluids and please stay well hydrated.
wheezing at night when laying down but no cough? dr said it was asthma but i'm not sure? my chest gets tight as well sometimes
asthma is a variable condition most known for reversible restriction to airflow in the tiny airways. this is represented best by wheezing or "tightness". cough is a less specific feature and may or may not be present on any specific occasion. try to learn as much as you can about asthma and how it may be affecting you. it is a very significant illness & true asthma is a lifelong problem.
wheezing cough chest pain that goes to shoulder hurts to breathe in 100. 4 fever vomiting headache stuffy nose constant chest pain fatigue.
can't be helped online heart and lungs need to be evaluated wish you well
wheezing cough that causes vomiting constant chest pain severe headache fatigue 99. 5-100. 5 fever flushed face sore throat green mucus. ideas?
from the symptoms you describe fever chest pain headache sore throat and green mucus. it seems you have a respiratory infection. it could be a bacterial infection as you have green mucus. get it checked by your doctor as you may need antibiotics if doctor feels you need after your examination
what is the common cause for chest pain? i woke up this morning feeling chest pain and also my back.
chest pain is nothing to ignore! the potential origin of your symptoms includes: heart lungs mediastinum esophagus musculoskeletal pericardium (sac around the heart) pleuritis bronchiitis or referred pain from a remote site. your doctor will be concerned about accompanying fever blood with coughing vomiting shortness or breath difficulty reclining tenderness. get checked now please.
what are the chances of having collapsed lungs? should i go for xray? i have bronchitis taking rulide150mg + symbicort turbuhaler. my coughing is very bad worse at night. my chest hurts both sides when breathing even more when laying down breathing
it sounds like a severe case of asthmatic bronchitis- may lead to pneumonia or pleuritis; you will need an x-ray and pulmonary testing.
was told i caught an allergy in breathing still coughing heavily. now i have swelling in legs and abdomen. abdomen seems to be getting larger.
i would recommend an evaluation including a cardiovascular assessment.
pressure on the center of my chest burping a lot and shortness of breath. thi is the third night. should i go see a doctor?
chest pain is nothing to ignore! the potential origin of your symptoms includes: heart lungs mediastinum esophagus musculoskeletal pericardium (sac around the heart) pleuritis bronchiitis or referred pain from a remote site. your doctor will be concerned about accompanying fever blood with coughing vomiting shortness or breath difficulty reclining tenderness. get checked asap please.
right side of chest hurts periodically. i always feel like i have to cough throat feels irritated/ left side tight and hurts. blood/chestx-ray norm?
perhaps but you need to dig deeper. look for a physician who performs multifunction cardiography : <link> google. com/search? q=multifunction+cardiogram&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&hl=en&client=safari#itp=open0.
shortness of breath and chest pain and chest pressure an awful cough headache after a cold that started a week ago fevers and chills. why?
please get checked at the er now- this certainly sounds like pneumonia with pleuritis ( pleurisy )- and can be quite serious. this will require aggressive antibiotic therapy.
sharp stabbing chestpain on hiccup cough. somewhat body postional but cause inconsistent. eating might provoke. bowel movement makes it easier?
may be musculoskeletal gas or colonic from constipation or other process since provoked by eating an relieved by bowel movement. you could try simethicone but follow up with gi and consider colonoscopy/ct abdomen/pelvis to insure not missing lesion polyp tumor diverticula or rare hernia.
sharp stabbing chestpain on hiccup cough. somewhat body postional but cause inconsistent. eating might provoke. bowel movement makes it easier?
you are describing esophageal spasm and acid reflux. try this - smaller bites chew very thoroughly sip fluid between bites take a few seconds between each bite smaller meals smaller portions softer foods. if no contraindication try omeprazole 20 mg otc twice a day for 2 weeks then once a day for 10 weeks straight. if you are heavy aim to lose some weight.
please describe the medication: cozaar (losartan)?
this is an angiotensin receptor blocker used to treat blood pressure. it has a beneficial effect upon the kidneys and can also be used in people who develop a cough on an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.
symptoms of bronchitis? i have slight cough some wheezing shortness of breath for a week clean chest xray clean ct chest swollen eyes stuffy nos
maybe it is allergies. in ohio right now the weeds are a blooming so it might be an asthma/allergy exacerbation. i would hope your doctor has considered treating you.
symptoms of bronchitis? i have slight cough some wheezing shortness of breath for a week clean chest xray clean ct chest swollen eyes stuffy nos
this combination of symptoms with absence of findings on chest xray or chest ct sounds consistent with an upper respiratory infection- bronchitis with probable sinusitis.
sore sternum/ribs hard to tk full/deep breath off and on since sept-worsening fam history of asthma/copd no cough nonsmoker is it a heart problem?
a common cause of chest pain in the young population it's costochondritis a chest wall pain involving muscle and joints at the chest wall. symptoms worse while taking a deep breath and with pushing certain involve areas of the chest. idk if you have risk factors for heart disease but that's also a possibility. a good history and physical will be great.
should i be concerned about my dry mouth lasting more than 2 days and frequent coughing sneezing and chest pain?
with the symptoms you are relating it is likely you are taking a otc remedy for decongestant etc. these are well known to dry out the oral environment. hydrate well and if it continues beyond the time of taking meds see your md.
should i be concerned about my dry mouth lasting more than 2 days and frequent coughing sneezing and chest pain?
you should get checked by your physician to see if you have a systemic condition that can be treated. the dry mouth could be caused by mouth breathing due to a sinusitis.
should i be concerned about my dry mouth lasting more than 2 days and frequent coughing sneezing and chest pain?
sounds like a run of the mill viral cold coming on. if it doesn't go back to normal within a couple weeks then think about it. if you are not sure see a dr. chest pain as described by words in a post is hard to definitively say much about.
shortness of breath cough 4 weeks nasal drip side back long pain just started cough yellowish mucus lean on stuff to catch breath?
see your doctor or go to an er - you could have bronchitis but you could have pneumonia. don't delay!
shortness of breath cough 4 weeks nasal drip side back long pain just started cough yellowish mucus lean on stuff to catch breath?
you are developing respiratory compromise see physician asap urgent visit.
symptoms of headache chest pains coughing random bruising infections?
than can be sorted out in 400 characters. need a visit with your doc for a complete history and exam.
sore throat for 1 week. started 2 weeks ago with dry/tickle like cough. swollen lymph nodes and only sore in pm/early am hrs before/after sleep.?
the set of symptoms you are describing could be due to many different illnesses with many different causes. if this does not clear up quickl;y a visit to a doctor may be in order.
strep throat doesn't cause respitory symptoms such as cough runny nose and trouble breathing right?
your throat infection could result in bronchospasm and airway inflammation which could lead to the symptoms you describe. so see your doctor for evaluation as there are effective treatments.
strep throat doesn't cause respitory symptoms such as cough runny nose and trouble breathing right?
occasionally a patient shows up with stuffy nose symptoms a mild runny nose and tests positive for strep throat. trouble breathing can be due to asthma-type symptoms if the person is prone to getting such problems with any cold flu or strep symptoms. in more unusual cases trouble breathing can be due to huge tonsils or a tonsillar abscess. strep throat isn't always just a sore throat.
strep throat doesn't cause respitory symptoms such as cough runny nose and trouble breathing right?
strep throat typically causes a sore throat headache abdominal pain and fever. occasionally it can also be associated with a stuffy nose but typically a cough.
should i seek medical attention wheezing chest pain that goes around to my back cough chills body aches fever
good evening. you sound like you are feeling really miserable. although this could be a virus you might also have pneumonia. the chest pain and wheezing are of concern as you may not be exchanging air as well. you also have a cough - don't know if it is productive of sputum or not. because of the respiratory issues it would be prudent to take a trip to the er. take care.
should i seek medical attention wheezing chest pain that goes around to my back cough chills body aches fever
consider seeing your primary care physician and getting a chest x ray. currently patients are having viral upper respiratory tract infection. your wheezing in itself suggest an underlying airway disease which could be from acute bronchitis or underlying asthma or copd exacerbation can also be possible.
went outside in cold weather next day my back became sore and every time i breath my left chest hurts what's wrong?
this may be a form of "pleurisy" or early bronchitis - either diagnosis is associated with inflammation of the airways and can be exacerbated by cold air exposure. people who smoke are most susceptible to these types of symptoms. limit exposure to extreme temperatures and avoid smoking. if symptoms persist or worsen(especially fever or productive cough) i would pursue a formal evaluation with m. d.
what causes you to have sharp pains above left breast that also cause shortness of breathe?
the "stitch" is chest pain of unknown cause but could be due to muscle strain pleuritis (infection of the lining of the lung usually viral) or intermittent atelectasis (small areas of collapsed lung) as well as pneumonia and more. if you don't have fever and it gets better within a day don't worry about it. if you have fever and cough you may need antibiotics see a doctor
what are some of the symptoms of lung cancer and emphysema?
common symptoms of emphysema include cough wheezing and shortness of breath. the problem with lung cancer is. many times there are no symptoms (like coughing up blood) until it is too late. that is why lung cancer is so deadly. and that is why smoking which causes lung cancer is so harmful.
what are the symptoms of end stage emphysema?
end stage copd is usually characterized by shortness of breath which is so severe that one can barely rise from bed or from a chair without getting intolerable shortness of breath. incessant coughing also tends to accompany this.
what's wrong with me i have a heavy cough red eyes stomach hurts trouble breathing very mild headache and little itch bumps that show up at random?
please seek medical attention immediately. you are having stomach pain and trouble breathing. it's not appropriate for you to be trying to avoid seeing your doctor.
was told i had mild asthma because pft came back okay. but i wake up at night and have trouble breathing after almost nothing. is it severe? how tell
night time cough can be a sign of asthma that is not well controlled and medicines may help so please relay this information to your health care worker.
what is a safe decongestant/cough suppressant to take with lisinopril?
the best thing to do is ask your pharmacist when purchasing one but most otc cough meds are fine to take with the ace inhibitor class. interestingly a dry cough is one of the most common side effects of the ace medications (something to discuss with your dr. ).
when should one be concerned about mild chest trauma? 72 hours ago fell about 4 feet and chest landed squarely on padded surface. a bit sore but no shortness of breath bruising hypotension etc.
after a blow to the chest some degree of soreness is predictable. things that should prompt a trip to your doctor or er: *severe pain *shortness of breath *lightheadedness *coughing bloody mucous or just plain blood *nausea / vomiting *increasing tenderness in the upper belly if those symptoms aren't there you will probably recover just fine. if in doubt? see your doc for a checkup.
why is my chostochondtitis not going away. i have rib pain and muscle chest pain and extreme fatigue. not heart got checked out for heart.
why it's not improving? how long ago was the diagnosis made and what was thought to be the primary cause? examples would be overuse from cough injury from fall or work related. what measures have you taken for treatment and to help condition resolve? discuss these with your primary physician and make sure the reason for continued symptoms is not something else.
what to do if i have cough with phlegm mild chest pain but no fever what do i have?
those symptoms are nonspecific which means it could be anything from a 'cold' bronchitis gastroesophageal reflux heart disease allergic rhinitis etc. . see your doctor. if the pain just happens after coughing it would suggest cough is the cause if it is not related you should see your doctor more promptly.
what to do if i have asthma and have been having difficulty breathing coughing and a powerful choking sensation. help!?
call ems and dial 911. don't drive to the er. use your rescue inhaler if you have one. don't delay!
what are some common side effects of losartan?
cough high potassium renal issues rash
wt are early symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis apart trouble breathing?
difficuty breathing. cough. drs make the diagnoses. reflux can precipitate it.
what reason could be for alt 60; abs eosinophils 680; co2 31test results symptoms - chest pain chronic dry cough left knee swollen & painful?
you're on methotrexate and this itself may account for your elevated liver enzymes. the trivial elevation of your eosinophils isn't going to be helpful. if you're on this medication it's likely to be for joint disease known best to you and your physician. please forgive me but your having to ask healthtap tells me you need to ask for better communication from your treating physician.
when i run too much i start wheezing and coughing and have trouble breathing and it hurts a lot it's strand cause i don't have asthma?
sounds like exercise induced asthma. the best path is to have a physician check a pulmonary function test and then provide your with an albuterol inhaler to use prior to exercise. if this does not help another diagnosis is likely. if your pcp does not do pft testing see and allergy or pulmonary doctor.
why do i have this hacking cough especially at night feels like its strangling me. why is that?
it is most likely part of the postnasal drip or allergic rhinitis. when you lay down the little amount of secretions flow from the sinuses and the nose to the back of the throat and cause irritations. there are other causes though so have your doctor look at you and make sure.
what are symptoms of a reaction/allergy rejection to titanium. i had a rod out in my femur 8 months ago and have sudden symptoms. fatigue coughing shortness of breath random high heart rates.
i am concerned that you are throwing emboli. go to the er asap.
what are symptoms of a reaction/allergy rejection to titanium. i had a rod out in my femur 8 months ago and have sudden symptoms. fatigue coughing shortness of breath random high heart rates.
those symptoms could be a sign of a blood clot or fat embolus. this could be a serious/ life threatening problem. you should seek medical attention immediately. there are other possible causes of your symptoms however you should be checked without delay.
why am i having collapsed lung after heart surgery?
several reasons: air in the chest is very common as the very delicate pleura may be entered anytime. this is called collapse- pneumothorax. the chest tubes drain fluid and air. post operative atelectasis is also called collapse and follows chest surgery pain poor cough and improves with incentive spirometry cough with pain control.
what exactly causes the normal tight and aching chest/throat/face when crying? because i get similar pain at other times sometimes exacerbated by deep breaths. clear chest ct neg cardiac work-up.
we have sensory nerves in our airways trachea etc that let us know when things are not right such as bronchitis with its irritation and coughing. crying and deep breaths may trigger the same receptors with similar tightness/aching. when bothered try to stop the hard breathing by relaxing and breathing slowly in through the nose hold it briefly and then gently exhale with a slow sigh. no smoke!
what are the symptoms of intercostal rib pain in the back?
the spine. the pain will b between the ribs not over the rib itself. hurta 2 breath in cough bend sideways away from the painful side. nsaids ice activity modification. if of sudden onset 4 no reason c ur pcp 2 r/o pe.
why am i breathless after quitting smoking?
the smoke was irritating and helped you cough and clear your secretions. many new ex-smokers notice increased shortness of breath initially but stay the course! it gets better and eventually you'll be much better off!
what to do if i get shortness of breath in the spring and autumn. is that normal?
the seasonality of your symptoms suggests that it may be allergen triggered bronchospasm (aka asthma). do you cough also? (typical). do you wheeze? (typical). you can be tested any time of year with a provocative protocol (methacholine challenge) - pulmonary function test. there are very good treatments once the diagnosis is established.
why do i have chest pain difficulty breathing after running cough that won't go away feeling weak?
chest pain with exertion needs immediate attention even in a 39 year old. speak with your doctor now or go directly to a cardiologist.
why does my heart race when i am lying down on my side? why does my asthma act up when i'm lying down which makes me cough for a long period.
tell him/her what you've noted above. neither heart rate nor asthma should be positional. in other words neither should respond to or be affected by your position. so best to get complete evaluation. you didn't mention taking any medications so best to confirm your asthma diagnosis including severity so that you can receive appropriate standard of care.
why does my heart race when i am lying down on my side? why does my asthma act up when i'm lying down which makes me cough for a long period.
reflux can trigger cough when lying flat especially after a fatty or large meal. the heart racing is not easily explainable. some lung conditions cause shortness of breath when lying on one side but not heart racing.
what can i do if my uncle who is 55 just had triple bypass now he has pneumonia?
when surgery? in the first few days to weeks inability to clear with coughing can lead to congestion atelectasis and pneumonia. respiratory care incentive spirometry and antibiotics are common treatments.
what cardiac conditions will look similar to bronchitis on a chest xray? had cp but no cough or known illness. is it heart related problem?
a chest xray that is similar to bronchitis maybe congestive heart failure. hard to tell without more information if this is a cardiac condition. seems like you will need a complete work up including ekg echo and maybe stress test to iidentify heart disease.
what are side effects of lovastatin lisinopril and metformin in women?
major side effects are: lovastatin - muscle pain and liver enzyme elevation. lisinopril- persistent low level cough and much less commonly painless swelling of the face. metformin- diarrhea and abdominal cramping.
what symptoms are common in heart failure in women?
shortness of breath decreased exercise tolerance swelling of feet and ankles cough wheezing.
why is it hard to breathe when i am coughing?
because you are closing up your airways.
what could cause back pain discomfort or burning in middle of the back with slight difficulties breathing. no cough or fever. heart checked ok.
arthritis scoliosis herniated disk shingles kidney stone are among other causes which resulted in your back pain. see physician for diagnoses and treatment.
what could cause right side chest pain when coughing? had this for about 2 weeks. started to feel slightly dizzy and nauseous today.
pneumonia bronchitis are possible. if you smoke stop. need to be evaluated and treated by physician.
what causes hemoptysis in pulmonary embolism and how long last?
or the coughing up of blood comes from the breakdown of the damaged lung tissue. the embolism blocks the lung tissues supply of nurishment and oxygen the lung tissue breaks down and bleeds. how long it lasts depends on how big the injury is.
what causes hemoptysis in pulmonary embolism and how long last?
in the embolic process ends up in the very small blood vessels in the lung adjacent to the air sacs where gases are exchanged. some of the clot ends up in the small airways and then is coughed up. it should improve as the body stabilize with treatment of the pe.
what if your heart feels like it is vibrating from time to time for 2 days and you sometimes cough due to the vibration?
by vibrating you probably mean sudden onset of rapid heart rate which starts and stops suddenly it can cause shortness of breath and cough it should be checked out by your pcp / cardiologist. it needs work up including lab / holter monitor / electrocardiograph etc. see your md asap.
what if your heart feels like it is vibrating from time to time for 2 days and you sometimes cough due to the vibration?
may be your thyroid.
when i cough my chest feels like its burning. i have been to my gp who said my chest is clear of any infection. im still unsure as to why chest hurts?
sometimes coughing really hard can cause a pull of the muscle. as long as your cough is getting under control then this pain should go away. if still having this pain in a few days fu with your pmd.
what is the definition or description of: aspirin allergy?
an aspirin allergy or sensitivity or a reaction to another nsaid can cause symptoms that range from mild to severe. reactions generally occur within a few hours of taking the medication. they may include: hives itchy skin runny nose red eyes swelling of the lips tongue or face coughing wheezing or shortness of breath anaphylaxis — a rare life-threatening allergic reaction.
what are the side effects of zestoretic (lisinopril and hydrocholorthiazide)?
it is a combination of two different medications zestril- dry cough high potassium levels hydrochlorothiazide- low potassium levels low magnesium levels slightly high calcium levels.
wake up at night with pain between under left shoulderblade. anti inflammatories &sitting up straight reliefs pain eventually. struggling to breath?
you probably need a chest x-ray to rule out pneumonia especially if you have cough and chest congestion. pleurisy and/or pneumonia can cause these stmptoms.
what should i do about the phlem in throat from my bp med?
check with your md. certaiin bp drugs namely ace-inhibitors or even arbs can cause a hacking cough or phlegm in the throat. he or she can change your drug!
wheezing when i cough and chest pain. what could this be?
can result from a multitude of things. talk to your physician about your symptoms.
wheezing when i cough and chest pain. what could this be?
wheezing cough and chest pain may suggest bronchial asthma chronic or acute bronchitis etc. need to see doc for office spirometry and chest radiograph or see a lung specialist to make sure that you do not have bronchial asthma. angina is less likely with cough and wheezing unless associated with congestive heart failure.
what type of side effect will telmisartan micardis have?
telmisartan can raise your potassium a little. this does not cause symptoms. rarely there can be a cough. be sure to purchase the generic telmisartan rather than the brand name micardis. all bp lowering agents can lower your bp too much. you will know this if you stand up and get light headed.
what type of side effect will telmisartan micardis have?
this class of medications is remarkably free of side effects. a very small percentage of patients experience a dry cough. if there is a blockage of 1 kidney artery blood pressure may rise or kidney function may worsen.
what causes bad chest pains and a cough?
could indicate an infection in the chest. some get pluerisy with pneumonia. some chest discomfort may be present with just the common cold. if you have productive cough with fever and shortness of breath and the pain is worse with a deep breath you may want to check with your doctor to be sure of the diagnosis and get the right treatment.
what could be causing pain in chest when i cough?
muscular pain pleural inflammation ( lung lining) or a rib fracture which is not nearly as common as the first two.
what are the symptoms of congenital heart diseases?
can be related to chd. rhythm problems dizziness fainting water accumulation in legs or torso difficulty breathing nightly cough weakness. and lots more.
what might cause head throat and rib pain?
may be a viral illness. this often causes sore throat headache and myalgias (body aches). an upper respiratory infection with a cough can also lead to sore ribs. if this gets worse or does not get better see your doctor to ensure it is nothing worse. if the rib pain prevents you from breathing normally get it checked to ensure it's not cracked rib.
what do enlarged lymph nodes in the chest feel like?
in most cases you would feel nothing. it is only when the nodes are significantly enlarged and cause pressure on other areas of the chest that symptoms occur. symptoms could result in pressure cough or pain.
what are the side effects of niaspan (niacin)?
all medicines may cause side effects but many people have no or minor side effects. diarrhea; dizziness; headache; heartburn; increased cough indigestion or upset stomach; nausea; temporary skin redness itching tingling or feelings of warmth (flushing); vomiting.
what are some signs of congenital heart defects?
can be related to chd. rhythm problems dizziness fainting water accumulation in legs or torso difficulty breathing nightly cough weakness. and lots more.
what is the difference between the medications enalapril and lisinopril and which one is better?
both are in a class of medications called ace inhibitors primarily used for the treatment of high blood pressure. neither is specifically "better" although lisinopril tends to be slightly better in overall bp reduction. side effects are similar with persistent cough in about 10% of patients. both are generic medications.
what is it in blood pressure medicine that causes a cough?
ace inhibitors are the most common cause of cough with bp medications. it is caused by an elevation of bradykinin. the side effect is much more common than published numbers suggest. in rare instances angioedema or swelling of lips and larynx can result which is considered a medical emergency.
when i cough heartbeat goes very fast for half and hour then all disapears should i be worried?
i wouldn't be too worried but would see doc to eval you for svt ( supraventricular tachycardia) with holter monitor. wear it and try to make symptoms happen. i am not worried because svt usually occurs at a relatively fixed rate. if it happens again it will happen at the same rate and not faster. since you tolerated last episode well you will tolerate the next.
which are better ace inhibitors or arb's?
both are effective and safe some people get a dry cough on the ace inhibitors but otherwise they are well tolerated.
what are the effects of benazepril?
benazepril is an ace inhibitor type of blood pressure lowering medication. this class is most famous for a potential side effect of dry nagging ticklish throat clearing cough. it can also affect kidney function especially in renal artery stenosis but it also protects kidney function too by lowering blood pressure.
why does the medication capoten (captopril) cause a dry hacking cough?
capoten (captopril) is one of a class of blood pressure medicines called ace inhibitors which can sometimes cause a dry persistent cough as a side effect. if you are having trouble with this talk to your doctor about changing to a different medication.
what are the major signs and symptoms of pulmonary embolus?
some patients with pulmonary embolism have no symptoms whatsoever. so it is possible to have one and not know it especially if it is a small clot. if the clot is big enough most patients will have sudden onset of shortness of breath chest pain that worsens when breathing deeply a cough and a fast pulse. sometimes people with a pe are lightheaded dizzy clammy and sweaty.
what are the major signs and symptoms of pulmonary embolus?
chest pain shortness of breath are the most common. coughing up blood mild fever can also happen. fast heart rate may be another sign. you will feel more winded while walking.
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure associated with pulmonary congestion?
fatlgue shortness of breath on lying down or nocturnal shortness of breath in severe cases coughing up pink frothy mucous restlessness cold sweats etc.
what is the best antihypertensive drug in diabetic pt.?
an ace (angiotensin-converting enzyme) inhibitor med. is the best high blood pressure medication for diabetes. ace drugs also preserve kidney function and may help prevent heart attack and stroke (hope trial). ace drugs are inexpensive usually ~$4/month generic (wal-mart & others). if one develops a disabling cough from ace drug then an arb medication may be just as helpful.
what are the side effects of benazepril?
first let's remember that all drugs & dietary supplements have side effects. there's no such thing as a free lunch. with that in mind then divide known side effects into common & serious (hopefully this list doesn't overlap! ). for benazepril & other ace inhibitors a dry ticklish cough is a well known relatively common side effect. of course anaphylactic allergic reactions are always serious.
what are the symptoms of sarcoidosis?
most patients have no symptoms and it is found by accident. if symptoms occur they can be cough shortness of breath swelling and pain in one or more joints red bumps on the shins fatigue swelling of the salivary glands or other lymph nodes. fever and eye redness or pain are other less common symptoms. there are racial differences as well; african american and asians have worse symptoms.
what are the major presenting symptoms of pleuritis?
most often associated with pneumonia. may need antibiotics pain medications cough suppressants etc see my previous answers. inflammation of pleura lining of lung.
what's the difference between left vs right heart failure?
in a nutshell left heart failure causes congestion in the lungs: breathlessness with exertion when lying down interfering with sleep cough coughing blood. right heart failure causes congestion in the abdomen and legs: enlarged liver fluid in the abdomen (ascites) swollen intestines with loss of appetite nausea swollen genitals swollen legs/ankles. they often occur together.
what sort of disorder is cough syncope?
coughing can stimulate nerves in the throat that cause a vasovagal response. this vasovagal response results in a drop in blood pressure which can lead to dizziness or even fainting. treatment is directed at cough prevention.
what sort of disorder is cough syncope?
excessive cough can limit the amount of blood returning to the heart and therefore cause syncope or a blackout spell which is reversible when cough stops.
when i cough my chest burn and have trouble breathing took a ned treatment and don't help?
if you are having trouble breathing and treatments are not helping you need to see your doctor.
when i cough my chest burn and have trouble breathing took a ned treatment and don't help?
if you are having trouble breathing you need to be seen in an er. there are many disorders that can cause this some of which can be life-threatening and even fatal. you should not self-treat with a "neb" treatment if you have not been diagnosed. go to the er!
what are causes of a vitreous humour hemorrhage?
there are many causes of vitreous hemorrhages. common causes include diabetes vitreous separation coughing. it can be from very serious eye conditions such as retinal detachments vascular anomalies.
what effects do hiccups have on your heart? i've been having hiccups every 45 minutes for over a year now. should i get it checked out? they get closer together as i'm more active and further apart when i'm relaxed. i've gotten so used to them that i har
by all means get checked out. hiccoughing that frequently is not normal. its not likely to hurt your heart but you should find out what's doing it.
what does it feel like being in advanced stages of emphysema?
usually the advanced stages of emphysema are associated with shortness of breath even at rest. sometimes cough chest tightness wheezing. many times people require oxygen. it is quite uncomfortable. i hope you never reach that stage.
what are the chances of getting emphysema if you have not smoked in 30 years?
but the answer is more related to how many packs a day and for how many years you smoked (packs x years) also related to individual genetic factors. if you have cough or shortness of breath see your doctor for a spirometry (breathing test). the test is quick and simple.
what is the difference between copd and emphysema?
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is the name given to a not reversable clinical condition when the patient experiences difficulty to breathe with wheezing ronchi chronic cough. emphysema is a pathological diagnosis when there is prove of rupture of septums between alveoli causing large pockets of alveoli together (bullas of air). most if not all patients c emphysema have copd.
what can someone do for a bad cough with chest pain?
the best relief from cough is prescription medication. usually this comes in two main forms 1) non-narcotic 2) narcotic. most of the non narcotic forms use antihistamines or affect the cough receptors themselves (ie benzonoate). narcotic cough medications usually contain either codeine or a synthetic codeine (like hydrocodone).
what can someone do for a bad cough with chest pain?
depending on how long the cough has been present the chest pain is likely musculoskeletal especially if it worsens with coughing or deep breathing. the etiology of the cough needs to be determined so therapy can be initiated. a doctor needs to evaluate the cough and testing may be needed to diagnose and treat the cough.
what should i do about shortness of breath? i am feeling short of breath but can breathe. should i go to the emergency room or just go see my doctor?
i will get into some specifics in a minute but will summarize first- shortness of breath can mean a lot of things many of which are quite dangerous. so yes you should go to an emergency room. now to answer your question in more detail. when i see a patient who is complaining of shortness of breath- i always think of certain disease processes and try to rule them out either with testing or by historical information and exam. asthma is common but unlikely to present in adulthood. pneumonia is common usually accompanied by fever and productive cough. pulmonary embolism (a "blood clot" in the lungs) is often (but not always) preceded by leg pain and swelling is more common in women the elderly people with cancer smokers and overweight people. congestive heart failure is usually preceded by heart problems or a history of high blood pressure and often the patient will also have leg swelling. certainly heart attacks can present with shortness of breath and no chest pain. as you can see all of these potential problems (and many more) would require a doctor's evaluation as soon as possible.
what is sarcoidosis? what are the conditions of sarcoidosis what are the causes and can people recover without any treatment?
sarcoidosis is an uncommon disease whose hallmark is the formation of tissue nodules known as granulomas. ordinarily granulomas form when the immune system is confronted with microorganisms that are very difficult to kill. white blood cells pile on the invaders and try to wall them off from the rest of the body. in sarcoidosis the granulomas have nothing at their centers. despite the resemblance to certain infections sarcoidosis is not contagious and no infectious agent has ever been proven to cause the disease. the cause of sarcoidosis remains unknown. symptoms of sarcoidosis depend upon the extent and location of the granulomas. the lungs are the most common site for sarcoidosis and may lead to cough or shortness of breath. however sarcoidosis is often found when a chest x-ray is done for an unrelated reason. involvement of the skin liver and eye and brain are not unusual and may present as rashes liver disease eye inflammation seizures or mental changes. heart and kidney failure can also occur. the disease can be very difficult to diagnose as it can resemble many other medical conditions including tuberculosis leprosy certain fungal infections and multiple sclerosis. sarcoidosis frequently stabilizes or disappears without any treatment usually within 2-5 years. however some people will have persistent or aggressive disease and may require intense suppression of the immune system to prevent life-threatening complications.
what is emphysema vs copd? is emphysema the same as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease?
yes you can think of emphysema as essentially the same as copd. technically emphysema refers to the anatomical destruction of lung tissue i. e. a term used when referring to abnormal appearing lungs on either chest x-ray ct scan or lung biopsy. copd on the other hand is a general term describing patients who are either known to have emphysema or have a chronic cough (e. g. smoker's cough) typically in association with pulmonary function tests that show abnormal airflow into and out of the lungs. they are both treated and managed in the same way as each other.
what are the symptoms of the common cold?
the common cold viruses cause upper respiratory tract infections typically that can present with runny nose sneezing occasionally with fever nasal congestion and cough. symptoms usually last 7 to 10 days but can last as long as 14 days. extra rest fluids and symptomtaic treatment are usually all that is required. antibiotics will not help colds.
what are the symptoms of the common cold?
common cold=uri (upper respiratory infection) is runny nose stuffy nose coughing.
what can i do when my baby with croup coughs so hard she has trouble breathing?
croup is usually mild illness managed at home. help with cool m? ist placing child near vaporizeri if you do not have a cool mist vaporizer even a simple humidifier in child’s bedroom may be helpful. seek er if cool mist not clearing up stridor in 15 minutes repeated episodes of stridor or trouble breathing child’s chest or stomach retracting bluish lips lethargy drooling neck pain stiffness
what can i do when my baby with croup coughs so hard she has trouble breathing?
croup can be scary - it is worse at night when normal body hormones that suppress inflammation go down. when a baby gets that barky cough and develops difficulty breathing taking the baby into a steamy bathroom with the shower running may help. also going outside into cold air can also help. if you are still worried call your pediatrician!
what can i do when my baby with croup coughs so hard she has trouble breathing?
croup is a common illness in young children. it is caused by one of several respiratory viruses and can affect any susceptible child throughout the year. it often presents as a harsh barking cough due to the relative small size of an infant or child's airway. there is no specific medicine but humidified air such as the steam off a hot shower or table-top humidfier is usually sufficient.
what can i do when my baby with croup coughs so hard she has trouble breathing?
with any scenario that includes difficulty breathing the child needs to go to the er immediately.
what can i do when my baby with croup coughs so hard she has trouble breathing?
croup is a viral illness that causes swelling in the baby's upper airway- near your baby's larynx (voicebox). your baby may be hoarse. when it is severe the swelling may block off airflow into your baby's lungs and cause problems with getting oxygen into the body. this can become a life-threatening senario in the youngest infants. best to call your doctor or if breathing is severe go to the er.
what are the warning signs of a pulmonary embolism (pe or blood clot in the lung)?
shortness of breath sharp chest pain coughing up blood fainting and rapid heart rate are all common symptoms of pulmonary emboli. it is one of the most challenging diagnoses to make in medicine on the basis of either symptoms or signs. because of this whenever there is a suspicion that is reasonably high tests must be done to rule it in or out. surgery trauma immobility cancer are risks.
what are the warning signs of a pulmonary embolism (pe or blood clot in the lung)?
symptoms can be variable- from no symptoms whatsoever- to increase heart rate difficulty in breathing chest pain especially when taking a deep breath - these symptoms usually happen all of sudden. if the blood clot is large or affected the central /main arterial area- patient can pass out and people can die from blood clot in the lung. low grade fever and coughing up blood also can happen.
what may happen as pulmonary fibrosis progresses?
worsening shortness of breath persistent cough episodes of sudden deterioration need for oxygen use limited mobility depression need for life support devices.
what is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis?
it's a disease characterized by thickening of the membrane of the lungs causing difficulty of the oxygen molecule from passing into the blood. symptoms are usually related to shortness of breath and cough. cause is unknown.
what are the warning signs of stroke?
a cough should not exceed 7 days without seeing a doctor.
what causes chest pain while breathing in after eating?
it is not entirely clear when the pain comes on (are you breathing in immediately after eating and then having pain or just have pleuritic pain after eating a meal). in either case it could be that you are inhaling either food directly into your lungs or getting gastric contents in your lungs. however cough is the more common symptom of either. are you having a cough?
why does my heart flutter when i cough?
cough and palpitations may be mediated by the same nerve in the body (called the vagus nerve). with significant coughing irriation of the nerve can take place resulting in palpitations or tachycardia (fast heart beat). usually palpitations associated with coughing are safe but you should be evaluated by a health care provider to be sure.
why does my heart flutter when i cough?
sometimes when we cough the changes in intrathoracic pressures will trigger extra heart beats. in general this isn't something worrisome.
what should i expect from having an angiogram done?
there will be some pressure at the arterial access site. several times during the test dye will be injected which can result in warm flushing and possibly nauses lasting perhaps 15 to 30 seconds. in some cases the heart briefly slows. you may be instructed to hold your breath at times or to cough. usually there really isn't much pain at all. after the test the main concern is arterial leakage.
what are common symptoms of a leaky heart valve?
the principal symptom is shortness of breath. other symptoms might included fatigue swollen ankles cough.
what are the causes of chest pain?
there are numerous causes of chest pain including: trauma heart attack pulmonary embolism aortic dissection pneumonia pleurisy shingles muscle spasms coughing costochondritis- just to name a few. it's important to see your doctor or go the er if you develop chest pain.
why am i having chest pains? i'm a 27 year old female with no prior history of heart problems. but for the last three weeks i've had chest pains everyday sometimes the pain is sharp and sometimes it's more of a dull ache. sometimes the pain goes into my
chest pains can be related to your heart your digestion or your lungs. chest pain should be taken very seriously and it is crucial you see your health care provider. in your case where pain is radiating to your back and feels strange when you breathe could be related to fluid building up in your lungs. have you experienced bronchitis or other allergens that affect your respiratory status? another reason you may have a constant pain in you chest could be a stomach ulcer. note whether or not you have been coughing up blood or feeling a burning/warm sensation in your chest. is this pain relieved by antacid? lastly this pain could be cardiac related. cardiac related chest pain can radiate to your neck arms and back. the pain in your chest is a sign that your body is stressed or that there is tissue injury. see your health care provider as soon as possible to get this resolved.
what does it mean when i feel like i have butterflies in my heart? i cough a lot when it happens/ i can not sleep laying down i need to sit up or i can't breathe
being short of breath lying down is called orthopnea often associated with paroxysmal dyspnea - awakening in the night short of breath and having to sit up to catch your breath. cough can also be a sign of heart failure with buildup of fluid on the lungs. get in to see your doctor. a echocardiogram may be needed.
what does it mean when i feel like i have butterflies in my heart? i cough a lot when it happens/ i can not sleep laying down i need to sit up or i can't breathe
if you are having shortness of breath laying down and need to sit up to breathe something is wrong. yoe should be evaluated first for congestive heart failure. step number one would be to get an echocardiogram. see a cardiologist as soon as possible!
what is cough syncope?
cough syncope is passing out in relation to coughing. it is caused by a drop in blood pressure which is caused by the cough stimulating the vagus nerve which leads to the loss in blood pressure. it is the same mechanism as the common "fainting spell" some people have.
what is cough syncope?
cough causes an increase in chest pressure. this causes a pressure increase in the skull. high chest pressure decreases venous blood return and cardiac output. increased chest pressure is sent to the circulation causing a reflex-vasodilatation. the combination of increased pressure in the skull and the lowered arterial pressure results in a perfusion standstill in the brain resulting in feinting.
what is the connection between leg cramps and pulmonary hypertension?
pulmonary hypertension is increase in the pulmonary artery pressure resulting in shortness of breath fatigue chest pain cough and may have ankle swelling. cramping in leg muscles is seen with venous incompetence often associated with ankle swelling. the two different disease process can cause ankle swelling and that may contribute to the cramping.
why do i always have trouble breathing when the wind is blowing in my face?
this is a type of asthma where your lungs get "twitchy" or airways go into spasm when exposed to cold air. some people will cough instead of wheezing. many get the same symptoms of wheezing whenever they get a cold or say that "when i get a cold it always goes into bronchitis. " you should get a breathing test to make sure that your lung function is normal otherwise. albuterol will stop the cough.
what is the difference in symptoms between asthma and emphysema?
different day. asthma occurs at any age emphysema is rare under age 40. symptoms - coughing wheezing shortness of breath are the same. bronchodilators & controller medications like inhaled corticosteroids are very effective in asthma; classically not effective in emphysema. not so fast many patients with emphysema have an asthmatic component & get significant relief with these drugs.
what is the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
both are forms of copd so both are chronic incurable diseases typically caused by smoking. emphysema patients have shortness of breath as the primary symptom whereas chronic bronchitis patients have a chronic cough productive of sputum. both are slowly progressive but treatment will decrease symptoms.
what is the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
emphysema and chronic bronchitis are two conditions termed copd or chronic obstuctive pulmonary(lung)disease. emphysema is long term progressive disease which causes shortness of breath. the tissue necessary to suppot sructure of the lung is destroyed chronic bronchis is chronic inflammation of bronchi which causes cough and sputum production at least for three months in two successive years.
what is the difference between chronic bronchitis and emphysema?
in chronic bronchitis cough is very prevalent and typically productive of sputum. the classic definition is daily productive cough for 3 months out of a year. emphysema can be associated with cough but shortness of breath is more common. there are also a significant number of patients who overlap between both illnesses.
what are the indications that a heart is failing?
as the heart starts to fail fatigue and shortness of breath particularly with exertion begin to occur. later swelling of the feet and legs inability to lie flat at night and coughing may happen. eventually even at rest these symptoms can exist.
why does bronchitis make my blood pressure swing so much?
increases in blood pressure during infection are usually secondary to coughing (which can raise intravascular pressure) or from medications (mainly decongestants). these are the two reasons your blood pressure may be elevated during an active episode of bronchitis.
what are some of the symptoms of heart failure?
shortness of breath with activities or even at rest orthopnea paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (sob and cough at night) palpitations chest pain ankle edema fatigue. all above symptoms depend how acute or chronic is the cause if the chf.
what are symptoms of a faulty heart valve?
when a heart valve is not working right the heart does not pump blood effectively this could lead to chest pain shortness of breath leg swelling difficulty breathing lying on your back cough and lightheartedness among other.
what cold medicines are good and don't affect blood pressure?
as long as you are not allergic the following are good for most people: discomfort/fever: tylenol (acetaminophen) congestion: mucinex (plain) nasal saline vicks vapor rub drinking lots of fluids runny nose/sneezing: claritin allegra benadryl cough: robitussin dm mucinex dm delsym you can often find combo products with the active ingredients of the above if necessary.
why are my chest pains happening? i went to my grandmothers funeral than at the viewing i started to get a sinus infection. but within the couple days it got bad then all i got now is a little cough middle of my back hurts and a really warm burning feeli
visit pcp or contact your doctor.
why are my chest pains happening? i went to my grandmothers funeral than at the viewing i started to get a sinus infection. but within the couple days it got bad then all i got now is a little cough middle of my back hurts and a really warm burning feeli
you may be dealing with bronchitis pneumonia sinusitis and/or gastritis or peptic ulcer (the last two can cause the burning feeling in your chest. the bottom line here is to have a medical evaluation by your primary care provider for a complete history exam testing and hopefully treatment. best of luck.
what symptoms would someone with very low ejection fracture number(12%) show? possible they can seem healthy & do normal activities until heart fails?
people with a 12% ejection fraction (ef) are considered to be in severe heart failure. the symptoms of heart failure are shortness of breath fatigue swelling of the lower extremities fluid build up in the abdomen (ascitis) chest discomfort occasionally cough weight gain due to fluid retention decreased urinary output intolerance of physical activity etc.
why do my ribs hurt?
ribs may hurt for many reasons such as trauma (bumped into something somebody poked a finger into the ribs) coughing (bad cold & cough symptoms) jogging/running (breathing heavily for a while) weight training or sit-ups (over exertion while exercising) irritation in the rib's bones/muscles/cartilage/linings a tumor (rare) etc. . if symptoms don't go away quickly one must visit a doctor.
what are symptoms of a pulmonary embolism?
pulmonary embolism can occur without any symptoms. some symptoms include sudden onset of shortness of breath coughing up blood chest pain racing heart etc. the person may have a low oxygen level. if this diagnosis is suspected go to the er immediately since this can be life-threatening.
what are symptoms of a pulmonary embolism?
larger emboli cause shortness of breath (dyspenea) pleuritic chest pain or both. dyspnea may be intermittent or occur only with exercise. less common symptoms include cough and coughing up blood. the first symptom in an elderly patient may be altered mental status. massive pe may show low bp rapid heart rate fainting or cardiac arrest. it's a medical emergency and should be taken seriously.
what are symptoms of a pulmonary embolism?
most common shortness of breath and or chest pain of sudden onset. weakness passing out coughing blood low grade fever feeling a stab in the chest when breathing palpitation are all possible symptoms.
what are symptoms of a pulmonary embolism?
common symptoms are shortness of breath chest pain cough. you can also develop a rapid heart beat.
what are symptoms of a pulmonary embolism?
chest pain shortness of breath are the most common. coughing up blood mild fever can also happen. fast heart rate may be another sign. you will feel more winded while walking.
what are sign & symptoms of pulmonary edema? and what is the treatment?
shortness of breath cough chest tightness heaviness in the chest low oxygen levels. chest x ray shows congestion sometimes effusion enlarged heart. treatment starts with oxygen diuretics. determine the cause treat accordingly. a pressure mask might help in certain circumstances to assist with breathing.
what are the long term side effects of lisinopril?
most common is a nuisance cough. most serious is swelling of lips and throat which can cause breathing difficulties. rash can occur. there may be a worsening of kidney function rarely if you have blockage in blood vessels to both kidneys. sometimes it can also cause high potassium. overall it is a safe inexpensive and very useful medicine!
what are the long term side effects of lisinopril?
its a great drug and i write it often but u need to check for high potassium occ. some people's also can develop a chronic cough.
what sort of blood pressure problem requires the use of an ace inhibitor?
ace inhibitors are a cornerstone of almost any hypertensive patient especially if a patient has diabetes or heart failure. monitoring of kidney tests and potassium and watching for cough or rarely rashes or swelling of the lips and eyelids are adverse effects that need medical attention.
what sort of disorder is emphysema?
emphysema is a form of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). it is characterized by chronic obstruction in the airways usually due to smoking. symptoms include shortness of breath coughing wheezing etc. the diagnosis is made by an evaluation by a doctor as well as pulmonary function tests. there are treatments available. smoking cessation is important to prevent further lung damage.
what could consant pain in the center of my chest that has lasted foir several weeks be?
most likely musculoskeletal-skeletal but it is better to be evaluated and maybe get a chest x ray. we need more or your history like past medical and surgical history smoking history age what happened before symptoms started (exercise? accident? physical work? cough? other symptoms.? previous tests done?
what could consant pain in the center of my chest that has lasted foir several weeks be?
have you been exposed to tb? have you been coughing and wheezing? are you a smoker? the cough could be pleurisy which is inflammation/irritation of the lining of the lung and the chest cavity. pain can also come from dysfunctional ribs/sternum caused by the cough itself. this can be helped by treating the cause of the cough and then treating the ribs themselves with omt.
what does it mean when i feel a knot in my chest through my back every night and it hurts when i breathe?
your pain may originate on either side of the diaphragm to produce your symptoms. cough (dry or productive with blood? ) pleurisy fever nausea vomiting altered stool pattern blood with stool tenderness distension? do the symptoms "refer"elsewhere (to back shoulders chest neck jaw arms)? recent trauma herniations? what is your age gender do you smoke have heart/lung issues stones?
what are the most common symptoms of cough syncope?
when you cough hard enough you pass out.
what are the most common symptoms of emphysema?
there is spectrum of lung disease from "pure" emphysema to chronic bronchitis. the symptom common to all is shortness of breath. emphysema may have a dry cough unlike the juicy cough of bronchitis. some have chest tightness. coughing up blood is possible but rare.
what can i take for nasal congestion and cough when taking meds for heart disease i caught a col and do not know what i am safe to take
it's an over-the-counter cold ; flu symptom- relief medication that does not contain decongestant. decongestant is found in other cold ; flu remedies and it can cause blood pressure to go high which may cause more pressure on the heart. hope it helps!
what can i take for nasal congestion and cough when taking meds for heart disease i caught a col and do not know what i am safe to take
please provide a list of the medications you are taking. also you can call your doctor or ask your pharmacist what is safe to take for the symptoms you are having since they know all the medications you are on. this may be faster than waiting for a doctor here on avvo to respond. in the meantime over the counter nasal saline drops can help with your congestion. i hope you are better soon.
what do i need to tell my fiance about my future health? i have fainting after coughing.
the condition you have is called cough syncope. as long as you supress the cough your fine. if you do pass out it's related to the vagus nerve and usually resolves quickly without permanent nuerologic sequella. however if your driving or up on a ladder and you do have an attack the consequences could be disastrous. pts like this need aggressive cough suppression with colds or infections.
what do i need to tell my fiance about my future health? i have fainting after coughing.
probably this will not affect your long term health and life span. you should have a heart monitor to see if you have a long pause in heart beat making you faint. take measures to sit or lie down when you have a coughing spell. pacemaker can sometimes help if it becomes a nuisance and a long pause in heart beat is documented. have a complete check up by a cardiologist.
we would like to know what respiratory disorder these symptoms point to……… do they point to asthma? wheezing coughing especially at night shortness of breath pressure/pain in the chest general tired feeling restlessness
the simple answer is yes. see your physician to make sure that it is not something else.
we would like to know what respiratory disorder these symptoms point to……… do they point to asthma? wheezing coughing especially at night shortness of breath pressure/pain in the chest general tired feeling restlessness
cough wheeze shortness of breath and chest tightness are all symptoms of asthma. i would recommend that you see a local provider to evaluate these complaints.
what should i do/ i fell about a week ago. my ribs hurt and i thought i had broke them. it let up about day ago. today while sneezing i felt something feel like tearing in my back. it went from my ribs down to my hip. now if i cough or sneeze it i am in
you need to be seen to be sure you don't have an injury to your lung such as a pneumothorax. you will need a prescription pain reliever for your pain. i'm sure you have tried advil or tylenol (acetaminophen) but it sounds like you are having extreme pain. please be seen so that you can be treated appropriately. i am sorry that this happened to you.
why are emphysema patients more prone to infections such as bronchitis?
emphysema patients has chronic obstructive lung disease so any infection can set in easily. it is manifested by shortness of breath and coughing episodes. meds are necessary.
what is emphysema?
this is destruction of lung tissue most often from smoking. it can cause symptoms of cough wheezing and shortness of breath. it is diagnosed by imaging and lung function tests.
whats sign of pneumonia cough wheeze or chest tightness?
or none of them. there is nothing specific about the symptoms of pneumonia or for that matter nearly every other disease your doc has to diagnose and treat. symptoms are common to many different disease and have to be viewed in context. rarely pneumonia can cause no symptoms and only be seen on a cxr. most will have some fever and cough.
whats going on? in hospital for pneumonia and was diagnosed with chf also have copd?
the symptoms of the three could be the same shortness of breath productive cough with some more specific like fever and purulent sputum in pneumonia and bronchitis abnormal cxr in pneumonia and chf; and one can exacerbate the other. it is a little complex and the patient may think that we are lost but we can identify the problem or problems and help.
why is heart burn giving me a sore throat sometimes?
backflow of stomach contents (not just acid) comes up the esophagus and irritates the tissues of the throat; can cause hoarseness chronic cough throat clearing as well as vocal cord problems such as nodules granulomas etc. see md for lifestyle and medical rx. avoid fried greasy fatty foods alcohol coffee peppermint large meals lying down after eating. elevate head of bed at night.
what is an s3 heart murmur? how serious is it? 38 year old woman asymptomatic. had a baby one year ago
s3 is the description used for a 3rd heart sound after the typical "lub dub" you hear when listening to the heart. young people athletes and pregnant women often have an s3 on exam and it is considered completely normal. it can also be an indicator of congestive heart failure but patients often have other symptoms such as shortness of breath with exercise or lying down fatigue swelling of extremeties weight gain and fluid retention and coughing up pink phlegm. since she is 38 asymptomatic and recently had a child it is likely benign. if she starts to notice any of the symptoms above she should call her doctor right away.
why have i been spitting up blood coughing getting chest pains?
hemoptysis or coughing up blood needs to be investigated. a flexible bronchoscopy is indicated as hemoptysis can be a symptom with lung cancer. cat scan without and with contrast to r/o av malformations hemoptysis can occur also from necrotizing pneumonias rasmussen aneurysms from tuberculosis eisenmenger syndrome pulmorary hypertension tracheal tumors bronchiectasis. massive could b fatal.
why have i been spitting up blood coughing getting chest pains?
coughing up blood called hemoptysis is a serious symptom which always requires evaluation. the most likely cause is bronchitis but malignancy needs to be ruled out especially if you are a smoker. your chest pain is likely musculoskeletal especially if it is only present w/ coughing or deep breathing. this type of pain will resolve slowly once the cough resolves.
why have i been spitting up blood coughing getting chest pains?
there could be several reason for this you should go and see a physician or go to emergency room.
why are emphysema patients more prone to pulmonary infectionsand bronchitis?
emphysema doesn't usually occur as an isolated condition - it's part of a spectrum of chronic lung diseases all characterized by damaged breathing passages. thus resistance to infection is impaired and excess mucus is often produced resulting in cough phlegm and susceptibility to invasion by bacteria.
what is the best asthma medicine for wheezing and coughing and shortness of breath?
there are essentially two types of medications for asthma: controller medications and rescue medications. the controller you get placed on is determined by your severity and this can be changed based on the degree of control of symptoms and risk. we follow guidelines for severity and treatments such as naepp and gina. however in short most asthmatics need to be on inhaled corticosteroids.
what is the best asthma medicine for wheezing and coughing and shortness of breath?
the best treatment for control of these asthma symptoms is bronchodilator and steroid inhalers. if severe enough symptoms are present a course of systemic steroids may be needed to get these symptoms under control. avoid any allergic triggers. antibiotics when there is an infection present is also needed. see your doctor for any worsening symptoms.
what's the timeline for the development of a common cold?
colds which are caused by viruses range in severity from mild to severe depending on the virus and your degree of immunity. typically it incubates 1-3 days after exposure followed by sore throat nasal congestion and rhinorrhea (running) sneezing and often ends with some degree of bronchitis. (cough). it may be as brief as 3-4 days but can stretch to 10-14. you've been there!
what are symptoms of heart failure in women?
below are the more common symptoms but usually starts with breathlessness on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance; feeling breathless on exertion and when lying flat. waking up in the night breathless. ankle swelling. cough. fatigue. decreased exercise tolerance. confusion in elderly. nausea or abdominal pain.
whats the difference between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema?
copd represents both emphysema and chronic bronchitis since it can be difficult to separate how much is present in any individual and the symptoms are similar. the big difference is chronic bronchitis produces a cough with sputum production and emphysema causes breathlessness without sputum. the damage in emphysema occurs in the air exchange units; the damage in bronchitis occurs in the airways.
why might an arb be more effective in stabilizing blood pressure than an ace inhibitor?
for most patients there is no advantage. a few patients have a severe cough taking an ace inhibitor which does not occur with an arb. a very few patients can "bypass" the ace inhibitor with other enzymes that convert angiotensin and these will benefit more from the arb. however this is unusual.
what are the clinical findings of pulmonary edema?
patients typically complain of shortness of breath cough or chest heaviness. on exam patients may be breathing rapidly with an elevated heart rate there may be an abnormal finding listening to the chest called rales or crackles. this is similar to the sound of "rice crispies" cereal in milk and finally there is chest xray abnormalities that indicate fluid in the lungs.
what is robitussin (guaifenesin) pe?
its a combination of a medicine called pseudoephedrine which is a decongestant that works by shrinking the blood vessels in the nose and an expectorant ( guaifenesen ) that aims to make mucous easier to cough up.
why does the medication capoten (captopril) cause cough in patients?
when capoten (captopril) (one of the ace-angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor) drugs causes a persistent dry cough it is best to stop and use another antihypertensive medication such as an angiotensin ii receptor antagonists (arb such as losartan). capoten (captopril)/ace inhibitors increase bradykinin levels by reducing the breakdown of the bradykinin. best to switch to another medication in presence of cough.
what is the best way to treat cough that is a side effect of cozaar (losartan)?
cozaar is the trade name for losartan which is a bp med in the arb (angiotensin receptor blocker) class. that class does not have cough as a side effect. the angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors may have cough as a side effect but not the arb's. if you hava chronic cough on losartan (cozaar) you should talk to your doctor and find the cause: gerd? asthma?
what are the symptoms associated with right-sided heart failure?
rt sided heart failure is due to long standing high blood pressure in pulmonary arteriesand right ventricle of the heart. symptoms are shortness of breath and lightheadedness during activities chest discomfort or pain swelling of feet and ankles. symptoms of underlying cause wheezing and cough and fainting spells with activities.
what are the symptoms of common cold?
common cold symptoms include: cough congestion watery eyes sneezing sore throat mild headache low grade fever & mild body aches.
what are the symptoms of common cold?
bad breath cough malaise fever muscle pain sneeze sore throat swollen tonsils thick mucus drainage from nose productive cough wheezing runny nose chest congestion.
what are the usual symptoms of emphysema?
usual symptoms of emphysema include shortness of breath decreased blood oxygen level decreased appetite decreased ability to sleep decreased activity level cough wheezing weight loss etc. the diagnosis is made by seeing chronic obstruction on pulmonary function tests which can occur without any symptoms.
what are the symptoms of lung cancer compared to emphysema?
emphysema typically causes breathlessness with exertion. cancer is silent at first but later can cause persistent cough or even coughing up blood. chest pain that is persistent may occur. emphysema generally doesn't cause much coughing unlike chronic bronchitis which often occurs in combination (copd).
what are the symptoms of lung cancer compared to emphysema?
symptoms of emphysema include shortness of breath cough which can have production of bloody sputum whether or not lung cancer is present. other symptoms include weight loss decreased appetite difficulty sleeping etc. these symptoms can also be present with lung cancer. lung cancer cannot be diagnosed by symptoms alone so see your doctor for evaluation to rule out lung cancer! and quit smoking.
what are the symptoms of lung cancer compared to emphysema?
secret of lung cancer is that it causes very few symptoms in the early stages. copd emphysema and chronic bronchitis have cough shortness of breath worse with exercise and stair climbing and can cause blue lips and finger nails purse lip breathing. lunf cancer can cause "clubbed finger nails" once underway lung cancer can cause trouble everywhere.
what are the symptoms of common cold and is there an effective way to relieve them?
common cold symptoms include: cough congestion watery eyes sneezing sore throat mild headache low grade fever & mild body aches. cold tips: for sore throat – gargle with warm salt water (1/2 tsp salt in 8 oz of water). * for congestion – saline nose drops or a neti pot. *for anti-inflammatory effect & mobilizing mucus- homemade chicken noodle soup. **for hydration- lots of water. try clear>
what are the symptoms of right sided heart failure?
rt sided heart failure is due to long standing high blood pressure in pulmonary arteriesand right ventricle of the heart. symptoms are shortness of breath and lightheadedness during activities chest discomfort or pain swelling of feet and ankles. symptoms of underlying cause wheezing and cough and fainting spells with activities.
what are the symptoms of inherited emphysema?
are you referring to alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency? if so the symptoms are basically the same as copd they just occur at a younger age than expected (like 20-30s). symptoms include cough shortness of breath wheezing etc. if the person smokes the disease is accelerated. diagnosis is made via a blood test. treatment includes enzyme replacement as well as usual copd therapies.
what are the symptoms of ards?
the main symptom of ards is severe shortness of breath. other symptoms depend on the underlying cause of the syndrome. for example if the ards is due to pneumonia then symptoms would also include fever cough productive of discolored sputum cold symptoms body aches etc. ards has many underlying causes and part of the treatment is to treat the underlying cause.
what does it mean when your chest hurts really bad when you cough?
if coughing hurts chest it could be due to bronchitis pleurisy or something musculoskeletal. first see your doctor try figuring out why you ate coughing as much.
what does it mean when your chest hurts really bad when you cough?
if the pain is present only when you cough deep breathe move around etc. and not all the time then it is most likely musculoskeletal pain. the most likely diagnoses are muscle strain cartilage inflammation or rib fracture. these will all resolve once the cough goes away gradually over days to weeks. if the pain worsens or is present all the time see your doctor.
what are the symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis?
shortness of breath with exertion is the most frequent symptom. dry cough and ankle swelling may occur. eventually breathlessness even at rest can occur.
what can cause shortness of breath (dyspnea)?
depending on your age heart and lung causes need to be looked at. also one would look at other symptoms ie. chest pain cough sinus symptoms.
wakening up at night coughing can't beath now feet are swollen?
if you're having a sudden change in your breathing - 911 to the hospital immediately. if the breathing problems have been gradual over days to weeks especially if it's worse when lying down and you notice your feet swollen we worry about the heart having trouble pumping (and fluid is backing up in the lungs and the rest of your body). time to see your doctor asap to get examined.
wakening up at night coughing can't beath now feet are swollen?
do you see a heart doctor? if not then have you seen your primary doctor about it. sounds like you may have congestive heart failure. it needs to be treated immediately.
why am i having constant coughing attacks with phlegm and chest pain?
the symptoms you describe suggest a combination of infection with airway irritation. productive cough with discolored phlegm especially when associated with fever is suggestive of lung infection requiring prompt treatment with appropriate antibiotic therapy. the cough can be due to airway inflammation treated with stepwise asthma treatment. a chest xray and medical evaluation/prompt treatment.
why am i having constant coughing attacks with phlegm and chest pain?
if you are a smoker it can be bronchitis or smokers cough. you need to see your doc for a definitive diagnosis and treatment.
what are the lengths of stages of a common cold?
initially there is nasal congestion for 3-5 days then cough for 4-5 days.
what are some possible causes of fever with lingering chest pain and no cough?
possible causes-- flu pneumonia bronchitis etc.
what are some possible causes of fever with lingering chest pain and no cough?
a viral illness can cause costochondritis (tenderness in the cartilage between the ribs). press the ribs and if tender try putting ice on spot. some heart problems such as pericarditis (inflammation in the sac around the heart) can cause pain and fever. blood clots in the lung (pulmonary embolus) can cause fever and chest pains. suggest cardiac and pulmonary evaluation with cxray ekg etc.
when i cough there is a tingling feeling in the middle of my chest. what could it be?
this is possibly due to a musculoskeletal problem. possibilities include muscle strain cartilage inflammation etc. the possible diagnoses of the cough include bronchitis bronchospasm gerd sinus disorders etc. see your doctor for a more specific diagnosis.
when i cough there is a tingling feeling in the middle of my chest. what could it be?
pleural irritation most likely due o allergy.
what medication can i take for a common cold if i am pregnant?
a common cold really does not need any treatment--just time. but if you are really misearble then tylenol (acetaminophen) is the first line otc medicine then maybe a cough medicine (plain robitussin). it is recommended to just 'target a symptom' and not take a mixture of drugs (e. g. nyquil dayquil contac. ).
what are symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis?
shortness of breath is the primary symptom of ipf. also dry cough weight loss inability to do activities you did several months ago.
what are symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis?
shortness of breath and nonproductive cough are the most common symptoms for this rare disease. older age eg over 50 is usually required. presuming you are talking about ipf.
what are the symptoms of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis?
slowly progressive shortness of breath chest discomfort cough with exercise declining exercise capacity. at advanced stages weight loss leg swelling frank chest pain simulating angina.
what are some symptoms of heart failure in women i should look for?
shortness of breath cough chest tightness or congested feeling fatigue leg swelling abdominal bloating cold sensation and decreased exercise tolerance are some of the symptoms.
what does it mean when you cough and makes your ribs and chest hurts?
the discomfort you are experiencing is likely musculoskeletal in nature. there are muscles cartilage bones etc that make up your chest wall. these structures can become strained/inflamed with continued coughing. you need to have this cough diagnosed and treated by your doctor. possible etiologies for this cough include bronchospasm from any cause gerd post-nasal drip or combination of these.
what are the signs and symptoms of a head cold or a sinus infection?
colds usually are not painful. a cold wiil give nasal cogestion and discharge and youmay have fever cough and malaise. sinus infection will give you sll the above symptoms but may also include pain snd pressure in the affected sinus.
which is better ace inhibitor vs. arb in layman terms please?
similar effectiveness. ace inhibitor has a higher incidence of a nuisance cough as a side effect. if this happens you might try an arb.
what are risks of the drug losartan?
can make blood pressure too low. can rarely cause cough or painless swelling of the face or upper airway (angioedema). not a good drug to take if you are pregnant.
what should i do if you are breathless wheezy cough and dizzy after coughing?
your symptoms are likely due to bronchospasm and airway inflammation. you will likely need a beta- agonist inhaler and a steroid inhaler. shortness of breath can be a life-threatening symptom so you need to see a doctor asap so your symptoms can be evaluated and treatment rendered.
what should i do if you are breathless wheezy cough and dizzy after coughing?
these are breathing test done as an out patient which determine is you have functional breathing disorders. you should also be checked for acid reflux.
why does inhaling tobacco smoke give me heart pain coughing and dry throat?
even though you may not have lit the cigarette you're getting a percentage of the many side-effects tobacco smoke causes. if there were an fda-like package insert it would probably several feet long.
what is better for hypertension: arbs or ace inhibitors?
ace and arb both are used to treat hypertension by similar mechanisms. they decrease blood flow to part of the kidney that causes an overall decrease in total blood pressure. the only difference is that with an ace you can develop a persistent dry cough. once this occurs you have an allergy to the ace. the arb treats the bp without the cough.
what is better for hypertension: arbs or ace inhibitors?
both has the same side effects including cough and angioedema. . losing prop is cheaper and i start with that usually
what is better for hypertension: arbs or ace inhibitors?
ace inhibiters and angiotensin receptor blockers are both effective and bring the blood pressure down effectively i will say arbs are preferred overace inhibiter because of side effects like cough and angio edema with ace inhibiters as compared to arbs
what are the side effects of blood pressure medication?
too low of a blood pressure and possibly a low pulse. that can lead to dizziness weakness fatigue etc. making asthma worse is possible. coughing hives swelling tingling scalp urination and many others. even so carefully chosen bp meds can save your life. don't try to figure this out on your own find a doc you trust and them guide you.
what sign would help distinguish if pneumonia v. congestive heart failure?
fever chills productive cough and chest pain with deep breaths maybe more consistent with pneumonia while shortness of breath that wakes you at night or shortness of breath when laying flat and swelling of the legs may be more consistent with heart failure. if you have any of these symptoms please see your doctor immediately.
what could be causing me to be spitting up blood and getting chest pains?
cough or spit? cough could be from infection irritation tumors of head and neck including sinuses throat bronchial tubes or lungs. spit can be from sinuses throat esophagus gut. see your doc soon.
what is the best way to handle a head cold?
head cold is caused by viral infecton and is self limited and gets better without treatment within a week. for symptomatic relief you should drink extra fluid and for congestion you can take over the counter decongestants and mucinex (guaifenesin) dm for cough if you have cough. there is no role of antibiotics for head cold.
what are the main risks of suffering from pulmonary hypertension?
common symptoms of pulmonary hypertension (ph) include breathlessness chest pain dizziness chronic fatigue edema (leg swelling) light-headedness or fainting at rest or with exercise and dry cough. in severe cases right heart failure may develop resulting in death.
what are the best ways to get bad of a really bad head cold?
lots of fluids and rest. to stay more comfortable use salin spays to relieve stuffy nose and perhaps an otc cough medicine.
what are the symptoms of the flu and the common cold?
according to mayo clinic flu sxs may include “fever over 100f (38c) aching muscles especially in your back arms and legs chills & sweats headache dry cough fatigue and weakness nasal congestion. ” common cold symptoms include: cough congestion watery eyes sneezing sore throat mild headache low grade fever & mild body aches.
what are the symptoms of the flu and the common cold?
flu can include: fever cough sore throat runny or stuffy nose body aches headache chills extreme fatigue and sometimes vomiting and diarrhea. if progresses and worsens respiratory distress and worse. colds can have the same but usually not extreme fatigue muscle aches and chills.
what are the differences between enalapril 20 and losartan 50?
enalapril is an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and losarten is an angiotensin receptor blocker. both work at the kidney level to control blood pressure and reduced proteinuria. acei can have a side effect of cough while arbs do not.
what is the best way to relieve chest tightness from asthma?
asthma gets relieved with inhalers or nebuliser treatments as well as chest tightness. mmcough also may get better in course of time.
what are the side effects associated with coversyl?
some are fatigue headaches mood & sleep changes cough nausea rash (rare).
why does my chest hurt when i cough or sneeze?
these activities of coughing and/or sneezing require muscle contractions. if prolonged the muscles of the chest may hurt. this is not a serious problem. the main question to be answered is what is the cause of the cough and sneeze. allergy is a good possibility.
what could cause a teenage girl to have chest soreness and coughing?
chest pain can be due to an heart attack esophagitis acid reflux musculoskeletal problems gall bladder disease pericarditis pneumonia pleurisy etc. check with your doctor.
what are the symptoms of emphysema?
shortness of breath wheezing cough - usually dry but sometimes wet. you can also get chest pains etc.
what are the symptoms of emphysema?
shortness of breath especially on exertion; cough - usually dry; fatigue and general tiredness; loss of weight especially if advanced. go to a doctor they can diagnose quantify and treat it for you. and if you doubt what you hear come back to healthtap.
will infection of the pericardium cause excessive fatigue coughing and nightsweats?
pericarditis is usually manifest by positional sharp pain (often worse with deep inspiration) and cough. so this sounds a bit atypical. get checked out by your physician.
what causes non stop deep coughing shortness of breath chest congestion? i coughed for 45 minutes straight last night causing lack of breath.
those symptoms make me think that you might have pneumonia. this is the time to go see a doctor and get checked. there are other causes as well but they are going to require physical exam. go see your doctor. now is the time.
what does sarcoidosis rash look like?
shortness of breath (dyspnea) and a cough that won't go away can be among the first symptoms of sarcoidosis. but sarcoidosis can also show up suddenly with the appearance of skin rashes. red bumps on the face arms or shins and inflammation of the eyes are also common symptoms.
what are the symptoms for vocal cord dysfunction? i have been told by an allergist i have it because i have chronic shortness of breath.
vocal cord dysfunction is a condition that mimics and/or complicates asthma. it is the result of one's vocal cords closing instead of opening with inspiration. the symptoms include trouble breathing (more so when breathing in) stidor like noise with breathing in cough trouble speaking not responding to typical asthma medications.
what are the symptoms for vocal cord dysfunction? i have been told by an allergist i have it because i have chronic shortness of breath.
vcd causes intermittent trouble breathing coughing and hoarseness and is very often mistaken for asthma. the problem is in the vocal folds though and often the irritation is from reflux. sometimes people have both asthma and vcd. the treatments for each problem are very different. <link>
what can cause chest wall pain?
often times it is viral in nature but you need an ekg to rule out any cardiac problems or lung issues. some people get asthmatic and later have chest wall pain. chronic coughing from bronchitis smoking and other lung irritations can cause this as well.
why does my chest hurts with cramps in it?
does your chest hurt when you breathe? are you coughing? does it hurt with activity? there are lots of reasons and some can be serious and some not. it is hard to tell with this information.
what system causes sore throat and swollen lymph nodes?
infectious mononucleosis (mono) is often called the kissing disease. the virus that causes mono is transmitted through saliva so you can get it through kissing but you can also be exposed through a cough or sneeze or by sharing a glass or food utensil with someone who has mono. however mononucleosis isn't as contagious as some infections such as the common cold.
what are the symptoms of a congenital heart defect?
can be related to chd. rhythm problems dizziness fainting water accumulation in legs or torso difficulty breathing nightly cough weakness. and lots more.
what are the symptoms of congestive heart failure?
chest pain cough crackles in lungs distended neck veins enlarged heart enlarged liver fever heart murmur nocturia pounding heartbeat pleural effusion difficulty breathing swelling wheezing difficulty breathing when lying down fatigue lethargy.
what are the symptoms of a pulmonary embolism or dvt?
for pulmonary embolism: chest pain shortness of breath are the most common. coughing up blood mild fever can also happen. fast heart rate may be another sign. you will feel more winded while walking. for dvt: leg pain swelling in one leg.
what are the symptoms of a pulmonary embolism or dvt?
pulmonary embolism can cause chest pain shortness of breath cough or even fainting. it is a complication of dvt which has different symptoms. often there are no symptoms of dvt. usually leg swelling pain redness and warmth accompany a dvt when it is symptomatic. sometimes cramping or a feeling like a muscle strain may be present.
what symptoms can you have for pulmonary fibrosis?
could be slowly progressive. cough short of breath dyspnea to effort among the common ones.
what arre the symptoms of sarcoidosis?
they can range from being asymptomatic to cough bloody cough headache gi problems visual problems arthritis the list goe on.
when i try to sleep my heart starts racing and i awake with a chocking feeling i get up and drink hot water and start to cough up thick white mucus once i do i feel better only to wake 30 minutes to an hour later with the same problem what can i do a
it sounds like you have a paroxysmal cardiac arrhythmia. a simple 24 hour recording (holter monitor) can help make an accurate diagnosis so that you can receive targeted treatment.
why do i always have shortness of breath after eating in mid night and when overly tired? i have no asthma.
the most likely cause of your breathing problem is gastro-esophageal reflux or what is common. y called heartburn. going to bed with a full stomach increases the likely-hood that acid from the stomach can leak into the esophagus and cause chest symptoms including cough chest tightness and voice change. treatment includes antacids h-2 blockers and protein-pump inhibitors.
why chest pain when sneezing and coughing?
chest pain during coughing and sneezing can be due to inflammation of the junction of your ribs and cartilage (costochondritis) or a strain of a muscle between ribs. other issue can cause similar symptoms so if it does not improve you should see a regular doctor.
what causes chest pains/headaches/stomach inflammation/muscle pain all over/ear infections/cough?
this is a problem that requires a face-to-face meeting with your doctor. in that meeting your doctor will listen to you perform a throrough examination and possibly order labs or other tests. based on this information he/she will be able to tell you what's wrong and what to do about it.
what is the difference between coughing with respiratory and coughing with cardiovascular diseases?
both can cause a dry cough but more commonly there is production of clear secretions with a cardiac cough. purulent (yellow and/or green) sputum is not present when the only issue is cardiac.
what is the difference between coughing with respiratory and coughing with cardiovascular diseases?
cough is a cough? but with infectious respiratory elements yellow green bloody production can occur. frequently also respiratory signs- short of breath chest wall pleuritic pain. heart - heart failure with congestion and white frothy production- which can turn pink if severe with edema of legs as well. cough is not the only or most common for heart issues and frequently later in clinical cours.
what doctors specialize in sarcoidosis treatments?
sarcoidosis is a condition where inflammatory deposits can localize in multiple sites in the body but most commonly the clinical findings are most prevalent in the lungs (hilar adenopathy micronodule deposition in lung tissue). changes in pulmonary function studies coughing and dyspnea might occur. in heart sarcoidosis can result in arrhythmias and cardiomyopathy.
wife has been coughing for the last three month non stop. been to the hospital and nothing prescribed helps. what do i do? please help us out.
several possible reason. some blood pressure medication might cause dry cough. some upper airway viral infection might last long. pertussis is coming back to the community. asthma sometimes presents as a chronic cough a clue is family history of asthma or person frequent cold and cough as a child. you might need a chest xray and then see a pulmonologist.
whats symptoms causes persistent couphing at nights persistent sweating and at rare times increased heart beat for no reason?
night sweats and cough can be caused by a number of pulmonary infections including tuberculosis additionaly reflux with aspiration and simple thing like post nasal drip. requires medical attention to go thru diagnostic evaluation.
what can cause rib pain?
referred pain costochondritis pneumonia pleurisy tuberculosis chest pain from heart disease asbestosis or mesothelioma lymphoma myeloma whooping cough shingles is rib pain occasional panic attacks and there are more than that.
what is the definition or description of: cough syncope?
some people are susceptible to changes in their blood pressure when they change position move their head suddenly or cough. the resultant fall of blood pressure leads to decrease blood flow to the brain. your brain's idea of a solution to this problem is to make you faint. now that your head is at the same level as your heart the problem is solved. a true solution is more complicated.
what is the definition or description of: cough syncope?
a neurally mediated reflex resulting in bradycardia and/ or hypotension and fainting.
what are the signs of pulmonary edema?
presuming that you are asking about symptoms of pulmonary edema - shortness of breath cough increased sputum production with a slight pink tinge decreased exercise capacity feeling tired etc. signs are findings on physical examination that your doctor will be able to find.
what could chest and back pain along with shortness of breath indicate?
shortness of breath (sob) could be from many things such as asthma and infections like bronchitis and pneumonia. infections could cause chest and back pain. sob can go along with coughing. coughing could lead to muscle strain which in turn can lead to chest and back pain.
when i run track i sometimes feel chest pain after running a speed work out i do not cough or wheeze. can this be bronchospasms?
you are an excellent candidate for a stress echo and you need to tell your internal medicine doctor your symptons. she will listen to your lungs as well as check an ekg and make a determination regarding chest xray and spirometry to evaluate your lungs as well as your heart.
woke two days ago choking on large amount of mucus- have had chest pain and painful coughing since and bringing up foamy white mucus-possible causes?
sounds like you should be evaluated by your doctor!
what is cardiac cough?
cardiac cough is a terminology used to describe cough due to pulmonary congestion in heart failure. it produces frothy phlegm typically.
why do you faint after a coughing fit?
usually decreased blood return to heart and decreased heart output.
what does a cardiac cough sound like?
assuming you are referring to the cough associated with heart failure (congestive heart failure) it is a persistent moist cough which is not relieved until the heart failure is adequately treated.
what are the characteristics of a cardiac cough?
it is mostly night time associated with shortness of breath lying down in bede pt feels better sitting upright.
what are the characteristics of a cardiac cough?
a cough worse at night when lying flat in a pt with known heart failure is the classic description. but when a pt has copd or other lung problems it more difficult to tell. also pts on acei pills will be prone to cough. a full h&p is usually needed along with a cxr and labs.
what cause right side rib pain?
trauma bruise exercise coughing stress fracture costochondritis can all cause pain that should get better over several weeks. shingles other infections and rheumatic diseases can cause pain that may be more chronic. ask your provider. rib films are rarely helpful. cancer and myeloma can cause pain of course but you would probably already know. there are other benign bone tumors etc.
what could be causing post chest pain on left with coughing sneezing deep breath? have had cough cold- 4wks no fever no purling drainage thbetter ws
you have classic pleurisy symptoms. this is an infection which can be due to virus bacteria or mycoplasma. if you've been coughing a lot you could have a muscular component as well now. if your chest x-ray is clear you will get better gradually. take ibuprofen or naproxen and be patient. if you haven't had a chest xray consult your doctor to see if it's necessary after you're examined.
what kind of cough syrup can a heart and renal patient use?
may use antihistamines without a decongestant!
what could happen if sarcoidosis is left untreated?
the most common symptoms would be related to the lungs with shortness of breath and cough the nose with ulcers and the skin with rash. joints may become painful and swollen. like any disease there are all degree of severity.
what are typical causes of a hiatel hernia? can it be the cause of shortness of breath. heart work up is ok but have a snall hiatel hernia and reflux
most people with hiatal hernias are born with them. being overweight/obese may make the hernia worse; reflux may lead to mild cough or shortness of breath which can worsen if the reflux leads to repeated episodes of acid going into the lungs (aspiration). there are many other causes of shortness of breath the most common being out of shape. see a pulmonologist and get checked out.
which class of hypertension drugs are more likely to cause fatigue -- arb or ace?
these drugs don't cause fatigue and are equivalent in their efficacy. arbs which generally don't cause cough have a side effect profile that is indistinguishable from placebo. ace-inhibitors cause cough in 10% of users but are available as a generic and very inexpensive for those who don't get the cough.
what are the symptom s of pulmonary embolism? my daughter has trouble exercising and has swelling and shortness of breath
along with shortness of breath signs of a pulmonary embolism would be coughing that may produce blood chest pain that worsens when taking a deep breath lightheadedness wheezing increased heart rate. if you are concerned of a possible pulmonary embolism immediate medical attention is advised.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
the cough you are describing sounds like pertussis or whooping cough. will need to see physician for dx and treatment. very contagious.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
all these things could occur with a cold. colds lasting more than 10 days may have developed into a sinus infection. if you have fevers and a headache influenza is a possibility. pertussis could give you a cough that just won't let up give you barking cough or make you cough until you vomit. if your symptoms seem to be going on too long see your primary physician.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
a barky cough is usually associated with croup and this is most commonly viral. rest fluids and try warm moist aerosol therapy.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
current flu has prolonged periods of dry cough but you need to see physician to rule out pneumonia gerd reactive airway disease among other causes. see a doctor.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
whooping cough is also increasing in certain areas. recommend you see your doctor tomorrow.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
you have upper respiratory infection and may have bronchitis or pneumonia you should consult your family doctor meanwhile you can take over the counter mucinex dm and tylenol (acetaminophen) or motrin for pain.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
could be something simple like a viral bronchitis. it may be pertussis. if it persists beyond 5-7 days you should be seen if you develop worse symptoms or new symptoms you should be seen.
what cough medicine is best for patients that have chf congestive heart failure?
probably best to avoid combination medicines which contain pseudoephedrine which many do. this speeds up your heart. diphenhydramine (benedryl) can dry up secretions. however it is important to understand that the cough may be due to the chf. also medications commonly used to treat chf (ace inhibitors - often end with. pril) can sometimes cause a chronic dry cough. talk to your md.
what cough medicine is best for patients that have chf congestive heart failure?
coughing is related to having fluid in the lungs. it is not going to respond to a cough suppressant or expectorant. it responds to diuretics which help to remove the fluid from the lungs.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
generally left heart failure causes you to be short of breath (breathlessness). this is generally worse when you exert yourself (for example walking up hill) or when you are lying flat in bed. this shortness of breath can be associated with a cough. the main symptom of right heart failure is swollen ankles and legs (buildup of fluid) your liver may also become enlarged.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
difficulty breathing crackles in lungs chest pain difficulty breathing when lying down lower leg swelling enlarged liver pounding heartbeat pleural effusion wheezing nocturia cough fever heart murmur distended neck veins enlarged heart swelling fatigue lethargy.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
below are the more common symptoms but usually starts with breathlessness on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance; feeling breathless on exertion and when lying flat. waking up in the night breathless. ankle swelling. cough. fatigue. decreased exercise tolerance. confusion in elderly. nausea or abdominal pain.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
the symptoms associated with heart failure often depend on the severity of failure. people can experience shortness of breath and fatigue. some are unable to lie flat w/o sob (orthopnea) and sometimes they suddenly wake up short of breath. they may need to urinate many times at night. frequent cough with frothy white sputum can occur. and sometimes chest pain. there are many more.
when i swollow my food i'm have chest pains also when i lay down i t feels like something stuck in my chest n throat! n cough tht burn chest n back?
go see your doc. he needs to do an upper gi series to help him figure out if gerd is a problem. it can also reveal esophageal strictures or any hiatal hernias or stomach issues. reflux can cause this too.
what can be prescribed in place of ace inhibitors due to allergy? this is for chf
i presume for allergy you refer to a chronic cough? if so a different class of medications can be used. they are referred to arbs. losartan is an example.
what are symptoms of heart failure.?
below are the more common symptoms but usually starts with breathlessness on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance; feeling breathless on exertion and when lying flat. waking up in the night breathless. ankle swelling. cough. fatigue. decreased exercise tolerance. confusion in elderly. nausea or abdominal pain.
what to do about chronic cough with mucus and some shortness of breath for a month or so?
you have cough with mocous and shortness of breath you should consult your doctor as you may have bronchitis or pnumonia and may need antibiotics you have been sick for a month or so so it is about time you seek help.
what to do about chronic cough with mucus and some shortness of breath for a month or so?
chronic persistent bronchitis need for sputum analysis imaging establish abx sensitivity.
what is best treatment for cough syncope besides quitting smoking?
cough can have many causes and should be evaluated by your doctor in order to determine the right treatment course. stopping smoking would be appropriate.
what is best treatment for cough syncope besides quitting smoking?
you said it and you're right. to avoid cough syncope you must avoid coughing. if you asked:"how do i stop a headache when i'm banging my head with a hammer? " we would agree that you must stop banging your head right?
what are symptoms of heart failure?
shortness of breth with activity then at rest. patients wake up from their sleep with breathing difficulty. to be able to sleep better they keep their head elevated with multiple pillows. they get short of breath when they lay flat. edema in the legs and fluid retention is another findings. patients may get tired and have dry cough.
what are symptoms of heart failure?
below are the more common symptoms but usually starts with breathlessness on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance; feeling breathless on exertion and when lying flat. waking up in the night breathless. ankle swelling. cough. fatigue. decreased exercise tolerance. confusion in elderly. nausea or abdominal pain.
when you have pneumonia will it be very obvious? will the chest pain be really bad? how high is the fever if a teen has it? how hard is it to breathe?
the answer to you questions can all be answered in the negative. for instance you may have walking pneumonia and the only symptom you might have is a prolonged cough. consult a doctor if you feel under the weather. he has a stereoscope to listen to your chest and if that doesn't help he can order an x-ray to see if youhave pneumonia.
what does it mean when u cough and your chest hurts and u have diarriah and chills in the morning but don't have a fever?
this can still be an infection since a fever isn't always present even when an infection is causing problems. your symptoms involve both the lungs and gi tract so you could have a viral infection or combination of infections.
why does my right side chest hurt when i cough?
pleurisy rib cartilage sprain (from really severe coughing) muscle injury (again from all the coughing). usually one of those. other options include complications of pneumonia and infection or inflammation of the heart lining.
why does zestril (lisinopril) sometimes cause coughing? would the cough be constant or intermittent?
there is an enzyme in your lungs called angiotensin converting enzyme. it is inhibited by zestril (lisinopril). as a result there is a local accumulation of products (possibly kinins substance p and thromboxane) that triggers cough. the cough is intermittent and nonproductive - some describe a tickle like cough.
why does zestril (lisinopril) sometimes cause coughing? would the cough be constant or intermittent?
ace-inhibitors (ace-i) are well known to cough. having said that there are other causes of cough in patients who take them and are unrelated to them. if you have a cough you think is due to an ace-i stop it for two days. if you still have the cough after 2 days it is not due to the ace-i. call your physician to discuss some other things that can cause a cough. one of them is esophageal reflux.
why does zestril (lisinopril) sometimes cause coughing? would the cough be constant or intermittent?
zestril (lisinopril) is an ace inhibitor and in addition is a bradykinase inhibitor. this means it prevents the breakdown of bradykinnins. bradykinnins cause increases in histamine levels. this increase in histamine likely causes the cough. the cough may constant or intermittent and typically is of the dry/hairball variety.
why does my chest burn after i take a hot bath and i cough a lot after and shortness of breath?
you may have a problem with the bronchi the air passages of the lung. you should see your doctor.
why does my chest hurt when i cough? also it feels like a sharp pain.
simple exam would verify may need xray to rule out a significant cause of the cough.
why does my chest hurt when i cough? also it feels like a sharp pain.
often coughing will cause irritation or spasm of the intercostal muscles.
what does it mean when your chest hurts only when you cough. is this something to be worried about?
likely due to strain in your ribcage or lung from vigorous coughing. if it permits see your doc.
what would the side effects be from taking lisinopril and metoproplol be?
anytime you treat blood pressure you can have fatigue and sexual side effects which are usually transiet. lisinopril can cause a dry cough in about 25% of people. metoprolol can cause low heart rate and at times cough and nightmare.
what would the side effects be from taking lisinopril and metoproplol be?
both lisinopril (l) and metroplol (m) treat hypertension and are from different classes of drugs that do so. l can cause a dry cough that is worse at night. it can also cause nausea vomiting skin rash and swelling of the lips. m can cause fatigue upset stomach loss of erectile function in men and a headache. using them together does not increase any side effect to occur more commonly.
what is the dosage of benadryl (diphenhydramine) for a 23 mo. old? he is taking chlorpheniramine maleate every 6 hrs. but hasn't taken it since yesterday. also coughing
do not use it for a 23 month old. ask your pediatrician for something else.
woke up this am congested coughing up clear phlegm (taste bad)& a vapor like when. breathing out in the cold. very hard to breathe.
call your doctor if your symptoms seem severe. . if "hard to breath" means lungs see someone right away. pneumonia is still a dangerous disease that requires treatment even if it starts out as a virus.
what's it like to have open heart surgery?
work up includes blood samples x-rays cardiac catheterizing through groin or arm if surgery appropriate! preop prep clipping anesthesia devices lines catheters open sternum do the operation dry up cleanup go to recovery icu and wake up and cough deep breathe get out of bed get devices remove and go home in 5-7 days.
what is commonly used to help a cough if you have high blood pressure?
mix hot water 1 tsp. lemon juice & 1 tsp. honey in a mug then add more lemon juice or honey to taste if desired. sip the mixture slowly and inhale the steam from the hot liquid to help reduce congestion in the chest. or make tea with 2 tsp of marshmallow root bark per 1cup of hot water (steep in a covered pot for at least 5 minutes). drink several times a day or as needed to relieve coughing.
what side effects are commonly associated with lipitor (atorvastatin) and lisinopril?
for lipitor (atorvastatin) & cough for lisinopril.
which symptoms do you have for pulmonary fibrosis?
mainly patients with pulmonary fibrosis have shortness of breath. some can get low oxygen levels. others can also have an unrelenting cough. the thing is however this greatly depends on how severe the pulmonary fibrosis (or scarring) is. if you have only mild scarring you can have no symptoms at all. the best way to find out how much it has affected you is to do a lung function test.
what does wheezing means to a patient with ischemic heart disease. what does it signifies. cough is also there. should i increase the dose of diuretic.
wheeze can be due to fluid in the lungs or an asthmatic condition. either way see your doc.
what are typical signs of congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath during exertion during sleep if flat at bed requiring increase head of bed at rest; rapid heart beating cough dizziness ankle swelling fatigue and weakness. chf affects around 6 millions americans. severity depend on acuteness vs chronicity of the cause of chf. consult your physicians for diagnosis cause and treatment.
what kind of flu like symptoms do i have when my chest hurts & a bad cough?
common flu symptoms are low grade temp body aches runny nose congestion sneezing -- you may have more than flu and it could be pneumonia -- go see your doctor.
what's a way to distinguish between gastroesophageal reflux and cardiac problem symptoms?
both can give you chest pain. in general gerd is associated with burning chest pain acid/sour taste in your mouth cough at night burning abdominal pain with stomach. ascad associated with pressure type chest pain worsening during activities heart palpitations shortness if breath. esophageal spasm from gerd can give you pressure pain. good history/physical stress test endoscopy.
why do i have coughing fits that result in shortness of breath resulting in throwing up?
could be allergies or asthma if you have it. bronchitis usually persistent cough. reflux can even cause a chronic caugh. get checked for possible whooping cough. see your dr if it persts.
what causes breathing problems besides asthma?
however i see that you are 33 so many things are less likely. asthma is a very common disease and can present with a few different types of symptoms like cough shortness of breath or even chest discomfort. nevertheless there are some more rare causes of breathing trouble in younger females. you should see your doc and discuss your symptoms thoroughly so they know how to evaluate you.
what are the causes of chest pain when i cough laugh breathe in or lay down?
these symptoms sound like those of pleural inflammation.
what is causing me to have trouble breathing and horrible cough?
any kind of upper respiratory inflammation/infection could cause your symptoms. astrhma brochitis pneumonia could cause this. are you a smoker. see your doctor right away!
what is causing me to have trouble breathing and horrible cough?
most causes of shortness of breath will also have cough associated. see your doctor for evaluation.
what can be initial signs of emphysema?
the elasticity of the lung is impaired in emphysema reducing the patient's ability to exhale resulting in wheezing and shortness of breath. early symptoms may also include daily cough particularly in the morning. recurrent episodes of bronchitis can occur as the disease progresses. severe emphysema can also cause low oxygen levels heart failure and death.
what can be initial signs of emphysema?
emphysema is a destruction of lung tissue with resultant reduction in oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange and respiratory effort. this leads to shortness of breath and chronic productive cough. it's usually due to smoking but could be due to other medial conditions. it's treatable but not curable.
when i'm coughing my left side chest hurts really bad why?
if your cough is from an infection there my be associated inflammation of the lining of your lung (pleura) which would be painful when you cough or take a deep breath. vigorous coughing may also have caused a strain of your intercostal muscles.
why would a physician order blood testing in the evaluation of a chronic cough with shortness of breath?
each test has its own indication. you can check for allergies anemia genetic problems cystic fibrosis signs of parasites exposure to mold hiv tuberculosis. etc.
what's the difference between diovan (valsartan) 320 mg and lisinopril 40 mg?
one is an arb and the other one is lisinopril. the doses are quite similar in effectiveness. lisinopril can give you cough whereas diovan (valsartan) does not.
went to hospital for bad cough/fever. have viral infection that should clear up soon. blood test: ast 29 ( un. 35) alt 19 (un. 35) ldh 227 (125-227) alp 360 (56-261). possible cause of high alp?
viral infections can cause changes or elevation of liver functions. you should get rechecked in 2 weeks to make sure it's reversed back to normal. if persists your doctor should look for other causes
would a hard cough cause a brain aneurism?
when you cough the pressure in your head increases temporarily. it may be possible for a hard cough to cause an aneurysm to rupture.
would a hard cough cause a brain aneurism?
no relationship.
when i go for a jog my heart beats way too fast and i get out of breath. no wheeze or cough & once i stop i'm ok. part of my anxiety?
exercise causes a release of lactic acid which can cause your heart to race if you have panic disorder. about one third of panic patients respond to exercise in this way. i would still recommend a visit to a cardiologist to make sure the problem is not cardiac in origin.
why does my chest hurt sometimes when i breathe in? what can cause chest pain and is it an emergency?
chest pain is not always an emergency. if it is happening sometimes and when breathing basically speaks against any serious problem particularly tot he heart condition. you may have rib cage issue or what we call musculoskeletal pain. if you care not coughing does not have fever and other constitutional symptoms you need not worry. take some advil or tylenol (acetaminophen) and see if it responds.
what would cause sharp pain in wrist along with shortness of breath and chest pain. also coughing on and off. have radial artery occlusion.
it is possible you have thrown an embolus to your lungs. if you havent done so already check into the e r asop.
what can i do if my chest hurts when i cough or sneeze. my chest hurts from when i fell. whats wrong?
you have a contusion of your ribs intercostal muscles intercostal nerves and/or costochondral joints. depending on the severity of your fall you may even have broken a rib. in the worse case you've punctured a lung. if you're short of breath go right to an er!
what are the symptoms of emphezema?
shortness of breath especially with activity is the hallmark of emphysema. fatigue usually accompanies it. since emphysema is closely related to bronchitis and asthma many people share the symptoms of cough and wheezing as well.
why am i coughing up blood chest pain can't really breath head hurts?
coughing up blood is never good go to the er.
what doc should i see for chronic cough and shortness of breath?
chronic cough can be from sinusitis allergies asthma but also from reflux. chronic bronchitis & other possible. get check first.
what doc should i see for chronic cough and shortness of breath?
why? we cannot tell over the internet. who? your doctor. hope this helps!
whenever i yell or talk for too long i find that i have a shortness of breath. it feels like something is blocking my airways/breathing. asthma?
asthma causes shortnes of breath cough and musical wheezing during exhalation which the doctor may hear on examination even if you dont hear it. it is very treatable. if you feel it on talking it probably is slowing you down in other ways so why not get examined by your doc or school nurse?
what is the different between a pfo and ostium secundum?
you're right that both can cause r to l shunt (and rarely l to r). but everyone is born with a foramen ovale (which is small) and when it fails to close there is usually a flap and shunting only occurs with increased right atrial pressure (like during straining or cough). a secondum asd is a fixed pathological defect in the interatrial septum. size is variable. they're similar but different.
why am i having chest pains after quitting smoking?
often after quitting smoking there is an increase of coughing rebound effect that would case chest pain.
what are the different symptoms from mesothelioma and emphysema?
emphysema in smokers commonly and cause cough short of breath right heart failure and not much pain. mesothelioma and association with asbestosis and also commonly smokers. may be asymptomatic until chest wall pain or fluid compressing lung. over time they are both life threatening.
what are the symptoms of acid reflux apart from heartburn?
cough chest pain bad taste in mouth rapid tooth decay.
what should dialysis and heart patients use for cough?
depends on the cause of cough which would be best evaluated by a physician. for cough suppression combination of guaifenesin and dextrometorphan or codeine may be used.
what can a heart patient take to relieve somewhat symptoms of a bad cold that came on fast? symptoms complete head congestion earaches chills.
the primary over-the-counter meds to avoid when you have a cardiac condition are the decongestants (ie. sudafed). they can increase your heart rate and blood pressure. most cardiologists are ok with their patients using an antihistamine (ie. benadryl (diphenhydramine) claritin zyrtec) and a basic cough med like robitussin or mucinex. if your symptoms progress you should see your primary care physician.
what could it mean when my chest hurt when i breathe cough or move my arms?
chest might hurt as a consequence of protracted cough. if the pain is localized in a small area and is associated with coughing than you should see a doc to rule out pneummonia.
which cough syrup should a heart patient take?
take the amount prescribed or if an over the counter remedy as directed. always ask your doctor if you have a question. hope this helps!
why does lisinipril make you cough?
lisinopril is an inhibitor of ace (an enzyme) which is responsible for the breakdown of bradykinin. build up of bradykinin and substance p can trigger cough. there are other proposed mechanisms as well however above is the most commonly described.
what does sharp pain in ribs short of breath mean?
sharp pain while taking deep breaths could be pleurisy. basically an inflammation around the linings of the lungs. when taking deep breaths they rub against each other causing pain. there are many causes of this. however it would be concerning if you are severely short of breath coughing up blood having chest pain etc. if it is causing a lot of discomfort have your doctor evaluate you.
what are symptoms of tb? is chest pain one of them?
pulmonary tuberculosis typically presents with cough blood in the sputum weight loss and night sweats.
what are symptoms of tb? is chest pain one of them?
the most common symptom of active tb is a cough. the phlegm may be tinged with blood. fever is common weight loss and fatigue are symptoms of more advanced disease. chest pain would be uncommon.
what does it mean when your coughing non stop and spitting up blood and short of breath a little never smoked?
please go to er to have that checked & let your pcp know.
what does it mean when your coughing non stop and spitting up blood and short of breath a little never smoked?
it means you are ill and need the attention of your doctor urgently.
what does it mean when your coughing non stop and spitting up blood and short of breath a little never smoked?
in my practice with a patient describing similar symptoms i would recommend calling his or her family physician immediately or go to the emergency department of a nearby hospital. those symptoms could be pneumonia heart problems or any of many other potentially serous illnesses that can only be accurately diagnosed by a careful physical exam.
what does shortness of breath body ache grey cough and chest ache for months denote?
those symptoms denote you should go see the doctor and find out what's going on.
woke up feeling really tired after 7 hrs of sleep chest discomfort and a headache cause? history: htn pcos provera (medroxyprogesterone) lisinopril hctz
that is more than likely the cause in someone your age. especially if you start coughing. there are lots of viruses going around this time of year. did you get your flu shot yet? that is important too. if it gets worse and you get a high fever you should seek care otherwise comfort measures are usually the norm for the first few days.
waking with palpations at night with chest pain down both arms currently fight new bout of sarcoidosis is this related to this illlmess?
the lungs are usually the first site involved in sarcoidosis. indeed about nine out of 10 sarcoidosis patients have some type of lung problem with nearly one-third of these patients showing some respiratory symptoms—usually coughing either dry or with phlegm and dyspnea. occasionally patients have chest pain and a feeling of tightness in the chest. www. medicinenet. com/sarcoidosis/page4. htm.
what are symptoms of congestive heart failure if you had it would you be able to walk 3 miles in an hour in a mall. level. no incline no ankle swellin?
congestive heart failure patients often have shortness of breath/coughs swollen legs need more pillows at night and may notice heart palpitations. your doctor can run tests to determine if you have this condition. in the early stages you might be able to exert yourself more but as time goes on it becomes more difficult to do simple tasks like walking around a mall.
what's the differance in bronchiectasis vs asthma copd emphasima. what there similarities between the other disease's. i can't stop coughing at night?
bronchiectasis is due to chronic infection damaging the ends of bronchioles and creating a haven for chronic infection. asthma is due to reactive airway disease making it difficult to get air out. copd is a complex process and can involve emphysema and brochiectasis. see your doctor to figure out why you are coughing. without more info cannot diagnose this.
what's the differance in bronchiectasis vs asthma copd emphasima. what there similarities between the other disease's. i can't stop coughing at night?
copd is chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and is a clinical diagnosis. emphysema is the destruction of alveoli the small lung sacs. asthma is narrowing of the bronchioles often with mucus production. therefore asthma and emphysema can be included in the diagnosis of copd. bronchiectasis is abnormal dialation of the bronchioloes usually due to chronic or repeated infections.
what are telmisartan 40 mg & rampiril 5 mg tablets effects & side effects?
ramipril (r) is a member of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor class of anti-hypertensives. telmisartan (t) is a member of the angiotension receptor blocker class of anti-hypertensives. both reduce blood pressure and proteinuria. the major side effect of r is a cough and angioneurotic edema. drugs of the t class have fewer side effects and are better tolerated in some patients than r.
what are some of the causes and treatments for long term coughing and breathing problems with lupus (lse) when no infection or fever.
the inflammatory sle process often affects the lungs and surrounding tissue. lupus can scar the lungs making them stiffer causing shortness of breath with panting respirations fatigue and a chronic dry cough. it can also inflame the pleura and chest wall causing chest pain. treatment of sle lung usually involves corticosteroids or anti-inflammatory agents such as methotrexate.
what are some of the causes and treatments for long term coughing and breathing problems with lupus (lse) when no infection or fever.
i really depends on the specific cause because these symptoms can be related to either cardiac or pulmonary issues. start with a pulmonologist.
what are the symptoms of an acute sinus infection? plus chest hurts and throwing up.
facial and/or dental pain fever discolored mucous discharge with nose blowing. the majority are caused by viral infections and last 4 weeks or less. 0. 5 - 2% progress to bacterial infection. antibiotic resistance has increased to the 30-40% range. cough sore throat facial tenderness may accompany. your symptoms: do you have pneumonia? you need a chest x-ray exam and maybe blood work.
what kind of cough medication can someone with sarcoidosis take?
can take all the standard cough syrups.
what kind of cough medication can someone with sarcoidosis take?
just like anyone there are causes of coughing and the cough is treated the same way. a productive cough is treated with expectorant to help with clearing of secretion and if with allergy treated like allergy. bronchospasms is treated with the inhalers. if there is already co2 retention be careful with narcotic cough suppressants to avoid severe sedation.
what does it mean when feel like your lung are cold n have wheezing and feeling cold and short of breath every once in a while after he coughs really?
you may have asthma. consult a pulmonologist or allergist for help.
when i get up from sitting or lying down i cough. i suspect asthma and use salbutamol inhaler for shortness of breath however i have not been diagnos?
your cough may be from reflux or asthma (especially if you have shortness of breath). in the latter that would mean that your asthma is not under control and you need to see your doctor to give you something besides salbutamol for asthma treatment.
what are the main symptoms of pulmonary embolism?
also could cause chest pain or back pain cough coughing up blood feeling of needing to have a bm fast heart rate low blood pressure
what else can i take to stop coughing if i have already taken tussinex and high blood pressure medication?
time to find out why you are coughing. there are many reasons why someone coughs too numerous to detail here and if tussionex can't control then there must be some continuing process. best to consult your doctor.
when i bend/ twist/ lay/ get up i get severe back/ chest pain persisting for 4 days. i have a little cough mild asthma and shortness of breath.
your back and chest pain are due to a process going on in your lungs. see your doctor to determine if you have an infectious process like pneumonia occuring or are you having an exacerbtion of your asthma.
what are thissymptoms heartburn chest pain regurgitation difficulty swallowing a fullness in the throat cough pneumonia hoarseness dental erosions?
your symptoms suggest that you should start by seeing your primary care physician for an evaluation. he\she may refer you to a gastroenterologist and ent specialist. you should also see your dentist for an evaluation. diagnosis and treatment is best accomplished by a one on one exam with the appropriate professionals and not over the internet.
what are thissymptoms heartburn chest pain regurgitation difficulty swallowing a fullness in the throat cough pneumonia hoarseness dental erosions?
it sounds like severe acid reflux disease and aspiration into the lungs. acid reflux can cause chest pain hoarseness of voice causes by acid irritating vocal cords. cough due to bronchospasm from acid. further investigation is needed in this case including upper endoscopy to look for any abnormality in the esophagus /stomach.
what are thissymptoms heartburn chest pain regurgitation difficulty swallowing a fullness in the throat cough pneumonia hoarseness dental erosions?
all these symptoms combined gives a great indication of acide reflux disease. dental erosions from stomach acids alonge with throat problems see a doctor for treatment asap before permanent damage occurs
what can cause chest pain n a 21yr old cough runny nose & taking claritin (loratadine) d & robutissin dm no health problems known of! it's on the left side?
in the chest wall there are muscles cartilage and bone etc. when you have a cough you can injure any of these structures. injury includes muscle strain/sprain cartilage inflammation and rib bruise or even fracture. all of these can be painful. the good news is as the cough resolves the injury will heal and the pain will resolve. if the cough worsens see your doc for diagnosis/treatment.
what can cause chest pain n a 21yr old cough runny nose & taking claritin (loratadine) d & robutissin dm no health problems known of! it's on the left side?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
what can i take for a dry cough and chest pain?
rather than self medicate see your doctor why you have chest pain with your cough.
what would cause me to cough up small hard yellowish chunks? have had some shortness of breath thag comes and goes as well.
when mucous stagnates and dries up it is called inspissated and when coughed up they can look like chunks or tubes. i people with asthma or bronchitis they can actually plug up the airways and make breathing harder and can cause lung collapse called atelectasis. hydrate yourself well to avoid it. i hope this helps.
what can a person on beta blockers do for chest wheeze cough phlegm when albuterol breathing treatments are contraindicated? how to clear out lungs?
i don't know the contraindication to albuterol but there is levalbuterol as alternative. in addition an inhaled steroid is usually indicated for chronic lung problems. revisit your bblocker as there are also more selective ones that don't induce bronchospasm. talk to your doctor about these. and definitely try to see if you can get cough meds. cough can induce wheezing. good luck.
what does a high wbc count n esr along with weeklong fever chills weakness coughing n wheezing n mild shortness of breath indicative of?
the elevated wbc and sed rate in combination with your symptoms indicates you have an infection. the coughing wheezing and shortness of breath indicates the infection is likely respiratory like acute bronchitis or pneumonia. the other symptoms like weakness fever and chills are more general signs of infection. you need treatment so see a doctor asap!
which is better drug amlodipine or telmisartan for controlling bp with less side effects.
some once a day bp meds may put too much medication into the body quickly causing - dividing the dose into half twice a day or taking with food helps. potential class side effects include: beta-blockers: fatigue wheezing breathlessness depression; calcium blockers: fluid retention; acei: cough (also rarely for arbs) diuretics: cramps low potassium or magnesium; all: sexual dysfunction.
what do you suggest if i'm off college with a bad cough and all of a sudden i am having trouble breathing what should i do?
you should go to the doctor or to the er to get checked out to see what is happening.
what to do if i have intense chest pains after coughing?
it is either pleuritic or musculoskeletal and less likely cardiac please see your pcp.
what do you recommend if i have been having some drainage but very little to no cough. can the mucus be causing my chest pain and trouble breathing?
have it evaluated and treated.
weak tired wheezing coughing up phlegm dark green sometimes grey sinus pain also asthmatic. very short of breath. worried. what do i have?
so see your doctor for a definitive diagnosis and treatment.
wheeze. short of breath. cough sometimes clear sometimes yellow. 8 pack year hist. copd? asthma? just sick? xray had hyperinflation follow up one fine.
both conditions are associated with cough and wheezing. a pulmonary function test is a helpful diagnostic test which can help your physician determine the underlying cause of your shortness of breath and productive cough. checking your temperature and providing a sputum sample for analysis may be helpful as well. prmg will review records at attn. prmg fax 858 259 9689.
wheeze. short of breath. cough sometimes clear sometimes yellow. 8 pack year hist. copd? asthma? just sick? xray had hyperinflation follow up one fine.
both conditions can cause wheezing and respiratory difficulties. best option is to start stopping smoking which would benefit both. abn ihaler would help asthna and wheezing.
when ever i go to sleep. i can't breathe and i cough a lot sometimes. i also have asthma. sometimes i feel chest pain?
night time symptoms are often a sign of poorly controlled asthma and should be evaluated and treated by a doctor. untreated asthma can be dangerous. there is no need to continue suffering.
when ever i go to sleep. i can't breathe and i cough a lot sometimes. i also have asthma. sometimes i feel chest pain?
it sounds like the kinds of symptoms you get from asthma. asthma symptoms usually get worse at night. all of these symptoms suggest that your asthma is not controlled. let your parents know and ask to see your doctor. also make sure you are taking your medications as prescribed. good health.
when ever i go to sleep. i can't breathe and i cough a lot sometimes. i also have asthma. sometimes i feel chest pain?
an inhaler is not the only medication you should have if you have this symptom every night. you need a medication to prevent bronchospasm not just to treat a spasm after it occurs. now the other issue how you feel and think and experience stress can be making this worse. it is time to get some help for this part of your problem as well.
when ever i go to sleep. i can't breathe and i cough a lot sometimes. i also have asthma. sometimes i feel chest pain?
sounds like a poorly controlled asthma with night time symptoms. please see your doctor for asthma management. most probably you will need daily controller meds.
what to do if i have severe chest pain when i cough?
such pain is usually due to irritation of the linings of the lung and inner chest wall known as pleura. when one or the other is inflamed (pleuritis) one experiences pain on movement of the chest wall which is abrupt and explosive when one coghs. pleuritis can occur by itself (viral) or due to inflammation in the lung which has extended out to the surface of the lung among other causes. see doc.
what cough syrup can i take with having high blood pressure?
as long as a cough syrup doesn't contain a decongestant like sudafed you can take the syrup which won't affect your hypertension. plain robitussin (guaifenesin) or robitussindm would be examples.
what cough syrup can i take with having high blood pressure?
avoid using cough and cold medicine that contains nsaids (ibuprofen naproxen) or decongestants especially pseudoephedrine. these can raise your blood pressure and heart rate.
what do you suggest if i have cough with phlegm mild chest pain but no fever what do i have?
more info needed to answer. 'could be mild viral bronchitis with pleuritis. however many other causes are possible is there shortness of breath. how long symptoms present. history of smoke or dust exposure? the list is not short. a visit to your doctor is appropriate if symtopms do not resolve ina very few days.
what to do if i'm having difficulty breathing after i cough?
but asthma would be number 1 on my list.
what can cause bad chest pain after thoracoscopy surgery?
it depends on the type of surgery done and the approach but the pain is likely due to the procedure itself. since you have to breathe all the time you can't immobilize the chest. so the usual approach is to medicate the patient to prevent splinting. failure to take deep breaths can result in pneumonia or lung collapse. so take the meds and take deep breaths and cough several times per day.
what to do if i have high blood pressure drug: how do you spell sineprill?
it is a common blood pressure medication known as an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor or ace inhibitor. works at the level of the kidney to decrease blood pressure. can sometimes cause unexplained cough as a side effect. also affects kidney function somewhat to need to follow kidney function regulary while on this med. do not take advil motril aleve (naproxen) on this med w/o talk to doctor
what to do about complications with lisinopril with hctz (hydrochlorothiazide)?
lisinopril treats hypertension reduces proteinuria and it can cause a dry cough that is worse at night. l can also cause nausea vomiting skin rash and swelling of the lips. hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) can cause both low potassium (k) and magnesium (m) levels. the higher the dose of hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) the more k and m one will lose. hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) can also at times impair glucose intolerance.
what would cause 1 sharp 5 second deep pain in chest to the left of sternum? no other symptoms. chronic upper back pain. fear cardiac. pcp says heart ok
often sharp brief pains in the chest are due to strained ligaments or joints in chest wall where rib joins to breast bone called costochondritis. when you bend turn deep breathe or cough this can cause brief stabbing pain. usually heat to area and advil or aleve (naproxen) can help. if pain continues to occur or gets worse or you get short of breath or other symptoms see doctor again. good luck!
what to do if i have difficulty breathing after i cough?
that's a typical asthma symptom. if you don't have previously diagnosed asthma see your doctor and ask for spirometry with and without a bronchodilator and with methacholine challenge if otherwise normal.
while eating i drank soda and i think i swallowed wrong. i didn't cough afterwards but my chest hurt and it felt like i was going to faint. why?
can range from penetration of larynx with saliva or small amount of swallowed liquid (just irritates vocal cords a bit) to frank aspiration pneumonia (think of it as a non-infectious chemical burn of lungs from stomach acid). these scenarios may result in hoarseness dry cough shortness of breath etc. sounds like no real damage was done but a chest x-ray may better reassure you.
while eating i drank soda and i think i swallowed wrong. i didn't cough afterwards but my chest hurt and it felt like i was going to faint. why?
you may have aspirated some small amount of the carbonated soda into the trachea/lung which would cause your chest to hurt. if healthy you may be fine. if any issues continue then see a doc depending on just how much soda "went down the wrong tube. " best wishes.
waking up choking on vomit gasping for air sometimes then vomiting more. also had bowel movement in sleep slept through it. took 2. 5 mg clonazepam?
something is quite wrong. leave a message for your doc and the. head straight to the er. s/he may call while you are in route. klonopin (clonazepam) is a respiratory depressant. it does sound like while you vomited & did cough up this protecting ur airway aspiration risk is hi and dangerous. bowel movement in "sleep" could indicate anything from over sedation to seizure to gi problem. need work to be safe!
when harvesting the ima during a cabg how is the lung/pleura manipulated to necessitate the need for a chest tube? why is coughing and deep breathing so important post op?
the lungs are not being inflated during this part of the bypass the patient is on a machine that circulates the blood and oxygenates it as well. the reason for deep breathing post op is to reexpand the lungs and open alvoli that are shut it also gets out sputum that otherwise could become infected
when harvesting the ima during a cabg how is the lung/pleura manipulated to necessitate the need for a chest tube? why is coughing and deep breathing so important post op?
the technique for harvesting an ima usually required taking a pedicle of tissue om either side of the artery. visualization required opening the pleura. once you open the pleura a chest tube is usually inserted. coughing a deep breathing are used to keep the lungs clear and avoid post- operative pneumonia.
when harvesting the ima during a cabg how is the lung/pleura manipulated to necessitate the need for a chest tube? why is coughing and deep breathing so important post op?
in order to harvest the ima for cabg the surgeon had to enter the pleura on that side and that will make lung collapse after surgery the chest tube is to keep the lung inflated until the eire heal and there is no more ail leak after surgery you have a big incision on the sternum and a tube between your ribs hard to breath without pain that why you need to breath deep and cough to prevent pneumo
when harvesting the ima during a cabg how is the lung/pleura manipulated to necessitate the need for a chest tube? why is coughing and deep breathing so important post op?
lung and pleura may be in the way so sometimes need to compress them or even not ventilate one lung to allow visualization. this may cause mucous buildup in lung and thats why coughing and deep breathing so important. chest tube used when pleura opened to collect any blood or fluid that may drain intra and post-op.
what do you suggest if my mom has just been dagnised with emphysema?
disease characterized by airflow obstruction. symptoms are usually related to shortness of breath and or cough. primary factor is smoking. smoking cessation is needed. depending on severity and symptoms treatment may imply using an inhaler or nebulizer. in more severe cases use of controller medications such as advair spiriva breo anoro symbicort (budesonide and formoterol) or nebulizer medications. oxygen may be neede
what happens if you have emphysema can you still use nicotine inhalers or does this still damage your lungs?
although you may have more trouble with cough after using the inhaler. it is not nicotine that causes damage to the lungs it is the other substances in tobacco smoke - "tars" are organic compunds produced by tobacco combustion plus things like carbon monoxide formaldehyde and many other additives flavorings preservatives etc. i would recommend the nicotine lozenges instead to avoid cough.
will i always have a cough with emphyzema?
no emphysema may be characterized by shortness of breath and or cough. typically coexists with chronic bronchitis
wbc 8. 1 esr 33 no fever white sputum. loss of voice breathless for 30-40 sec during cough for 3 weeks. took antibiotic for 4 days no relief. help?
at this point i think you should go in for a visit.
wbc 8. 1 esr 33 no fever white sputum. loss of voice breathless for 30-40 sec during cough for 3 weeks. took antibiotic for 4 days no relief. help?
sounds like asthmatic bronchitis following a viral infection. may need inhalers. meanwhile try guaifenisin to loosen mucus
wbc 8. 1 esr 33 no fever white sputum. loss of voice breathless for 30-40 sec during cough for 3 weeks. took antibiotic for 4 days no relief. help?
could be a chronic bronchitis and may need another round of antibiotics. have you had a cxray?
what are the issues involving altace?
altace is a brand ace inhibitor very good for treatment of hypertension heart failure and prevention of renal failure in patients with diabetes and hypertension (as are all ace inh). in a few patients cough can be an annoying side effect that may force the doctor to switch to an arb. very few patients may have a very serious allergic reaction and then no ace inh can be used.
what could be the cause of my shortness of breath had for 2 months started from a sore throat chest x-ray clear had prednisone a inhaler didn't help?
cough from persistent bronchospasm. this is inflammtory response of our body to mostly viral bronchitis. commonly seen after flu syndrome. bronchodilator may help. ginger tea and turmeric will help
went to the doctor because i had a fever and ear ache. prescribed amoxicillin and i have 1 pill left. can't stop coughing and it's hard to breathe.
the fever may be related to the ear ache. it is important to know if the ear ache is the reason you got the antibiotic or did you have pneumonia. the doc may want you to take more med. you should probably be checked as not every one gets better on antibiotics. it may be all viral. best wishes.
went to the doctor because i had a fever and ear ache. prescribed amoxicillin and i have 1 pill left. can't stop coughing and it's hard to breathe.
your symptoms are suspicious for pneumonia. it may be caused by an organism that is resistant to amoxicillin or even a virus. you should return to your doctor for additional evaluation. if your breathing is difficult now you should go to the er.
what causes a short stabbing pain in side of left breast near armpit? some dull pain in ribs below armpit & below bra line of pcp says heart ok.
costochondritis or tietze's disease results from irritation of the cartilage that joins the upper ribs to the breastbone. pain is typically manifest with movement deep breath cough. it is a benign condition which can be properly treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and osteopathic manipulative medicine. mechanical irritation due to bra wires can exacerbate the symptoms.
what do you think about lisinopril for treatment of high blood pressure?
lisinopril (l) is a member of the angiotension converting enzyme inhibitor (ace-i) class of drugs. it not only reduces bp it also reduces proteinuria (p) protein in the urine which can be a sign of developing cardiovascular and kidney disease. the most common side effect of l is a cough. it is a great first line agent to lower bp in patients prone to develop p such as diabetics.
what medication can i take for sore throat stuffy nose and coughing up yellow phlegm if i have high bp?
if your phlegm is yellow you likely have an infection and it is no longer simply a "head cold". having said that you need to be seen by pcp and considered for antibacterial if it is not deemed viral. however in the interim for symptomatic relief you can take delsym for cough advil/tylenol for soar throat altho that will mask a fever and benadryl (diphenhydramine) as a decongestant at night (sleep) no sudafed
when i take a deep breath i get a sharp pain in back top/middle of back. i also feel quite breathless like i need to remember to breathe?
your symptoms suggest pleurisy although there can be muscular causes as well. if you have fever or productive cough you should have an x-ray done. otherwise a simple analgesic like ibuprofen rest and time may be all that's required (and please don't forget to breathe! )
why i'm i bleeding for 10 days still after my period with right upper pain nausea headaches cough fatigue and shortness of breath with fever occasiona?
you may have a pelvic infection with liver involvement (adhesions). in addition you may have anemia from excessive bleeding which may be contributing to your headaches fatigue and shortness of breath (sob). in any case sob should be evaluated as there may be other serious causes such as blood clots in your lung pneumonia etc. see your doctor for an evaluation.
what's the place ofenalapril 5 mg as a drug for bp compared to norvasc (amlodipine) 5mg? can one take the two at the same time?
cannot be compared. can be taken together. both have unique properties. if associated with diabetes. enalapril can be better. but can cause cough and angioedema. amloidopin ( norvasc) is good it can cause ankle edema constipation. kidney heart conditions guide the choice also.
what medicine is good for coughing short of breath?
3 most common causes of cough are acid reflux post nasal drip and asthma. so there is not a magic bullet medication that treats all cough. you have to know what the reason for the cough is. best way to do that if you don't know why you have it is to see your doctor and have the cough and shortness of breath evaluated.
when i cough it hurts so much usually around my heart area. cold and chills all the time but no fever. not hungry either. not sure what's wrong. ?
you need to see your doctor and have at least chest x-ray and blood work done. you may have pneumonia
woke up feeling like i was choking. coughed and got my breath. felt heart pounding and pulse was 120bpm. this happens occasionally what causes it? i'm 28
it may be that while on your back your breathing gets harder and harder because your tongue falls back and obstructs the air flow. then you gasp for breath and in your case it gets so severe it wakes you up. that's called "sleep apnea. " if it happens more than"occasionally " have it checked out. if not that maybe it's anxiety/bad dreams or less likely a heart rhythm problem. let your doctor know
what are manifestations of ebola virus? can it cause changes in cardiac function?
per cdc incubation period is 2 to 21 days w average of 8 to 10 days. early sx's: high fever chills sore throat weakness fatigue malaise headache lack of appetite low back pain & muscular /joint aching. sx's may progress to nausea vomiting abdominal pain diarrhea (potentially bloody) marked weight loss chest pain coughing hemorrhagic rash over body bruising red + swollen eyes & >
why do i feel shortness of breath at night then i get really congested and my back starts to hurt?
if you only notice shortness of breath at night possible causes include allergic nasal congestion with postnasal drippings causing shortness of breath. lying very flat would aggravate this. if there is any wheezing and/or cough nocturnal asthma may be occurring due to allergies or changes in temperature and barometric pressure. the cause of the back pain is unclear. a pulmonologist may help.
what are the side effects of blood pressure meds (mavik)?
mavik (trandolapril) is an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor or " ace". this is a very commonly used class of blood pressure lowering medication. any blood pressure medication if too strong can make you feel weak or light headed if the reduction in bp is too great. a side effect specific to ace inhibitors is chronic cough.
weird symptoms past 2 days. can't sleep (4 hrs in 2 days) increased thirst chest pain and upper back pain headache cough?
hi. that could be any number of things. are you peeing more? any fever or sweats? any sputum production? shortness of breath? your doc can do a history physical exam and appropriate diagnostics and see if anything needs to be done. good luck and get well soon!
what are meds for primary pulmonary hypertension with a dry cough?
while dry cough can be a manifestation of pulmonary hypertension (ph) in a small percentage of patients you should discuss with your doctor other possible causes and treatments.
what hypertensive treatment works for a patient with coexisting chf high cholesterol and iddm?
an ace inhibitor would be anti hypertensive of 1st choice in a pt with said profile bc of its cardio and reno-protective benefits. if a dry cough side-effect develops an angiotensin receptor blocker ought to be tried next.
when i exercise my throat gets sore when i breathe. within minutes i'm short of breath coughing and gasping to get a full breath. normal or not?
you definitely need to get this checked out - someone needs to take a thorough history and then do a physical exam followed by appropriate testing which may include blood work a chest x-ray lung function tests or other tests.
should a patient with emphysema clean their own apartment?
depends on their activity level. if they are able to do it that would be good. if not then they need help. dusting might trigger cough. avoid chlorinated bleach.
what type of breathlessness do asthmatic patients experience?
classically the respiratory distress during an asthmatic attack consists of wheezing along with the sensation of breathlessness. there may be a sensation of difficulty getting air in and/or out. a cough may also be present. the patient feels short of breath at rest and very short of breath with exertion. some attacks consist of a very persistent dry cough without wheezing.
what medicine can be used for coughing and sore throat while being pregnant and also while coughing chest my chest hurts?
i was always taught that delsym and tylenol (acetaminophen) are safe to take care of cough and pain respectively. as always check with your obgyn. either he or she are available or have a nurse or pa assigned to these issues and questions. good luck and feel better.
should i be worried? yesterday. (lower mostly right side and left rib pain) sinus problems and mucus in her throat very little coughing. i see no reason for the pain and she said it very bad pain.
enuf info here discuss wi your primary healthcare provider. but for"sinus/mucus" issues avoid dairy 100% (100%! ). www. thepmc. org.
should i be worried? yesterday. (lower mostly right side and left rib pain) sinus problems and mucus in her throat very little coughing. i see no reason for the pain and she said it very bad pain.
the rib pain sounds like it is unrelated to the sinus issues. this question is very difficult to answer based on the limited information given. when you stated "lower mostly right side" are referring to the abdomen (stomach)? please resubmit your question with more details. i will say that the fact of the pain being "very bad" the person in question should call their doctor or be seen in an urgent care or er.
sever dry cough with chest pain i suffer from sever cough and sneezing with chest pain it started with nasal drops 5 days ago.
you might have a bronchitis or pneumonia and need to be checked.
sever dry cough with chest pain i suffer from sever cough and sneezing with chest pain it started with nasal drops 5 days ago.
your symptoms are concerning for bronchitis or pneumonia. if you are experiencing chest pain with cough you should be medically evaluated. if you get fever or shortness of breath then you must be seen as an emergency.
sometimes i get pains in my lungs and have difficulty breathing in bed but am fine when up what could it be?
pericarditis causes pain with deep breath or cough when lying down that's relieved by sitting up. if that is your symptom see your doctor today.
went to doctor with a little cough and chest discomfort. he said oxygen levels were good and diagnosed acute bronchitis. im scared that i cant breath?
whenever you have a respiratory infection such as pneumonia or bronchitis and you can brief you may need to go to emergency room. you could get a respiratory treatment there such as a nebulizer with medications. and if you're doing okay at home i would recommend a coolmist humidifier. you can add vicks vapor to the humidifier or eucalyptus oil.
why do i always experience chest pain my neck tightening wheezing fatigue coughing and difficulty breathing when i smell cigarette smoke?
this could be a reactive airway response. cigarette smoke has thousands of chemicals and carcinogens which irritate our airway. this is a response of the airway being irritated
when does a very bad cough need imm med attention? no mucus or fever. cough so deep causing pain in chest. and makes breathing clear hard. pneumonia?
do you have a cool mist humidifier? fill it with one bottle of hydrogen peroxide and two bottles of water. that will give you a 1% aerosolized mist of hydrogen peroxide. just put it in your bedroom or wherever you happen to be. the peroxide kills the bugs on contact (virus or bacteria) and breaks down into water and oxygen. i've used this regimen to treat pneumonia without antibiotics.
small swelling on lymph node and phlegm?
assuming the lymph node is in the neck or head area with phlegm is sounds like you have some sort of upper respiratory tract infection. if the phlegm isn't discolored - probably not bronchitis. i would monitor the situation - a high fever or worsening cough or badly discolored mucus may be a sign of a worsening infection.
side effects of diovan (valsartan) 160mg what are the most common side effects?
side effects can include: dizziness increased potassium levels viral infections cough fatigue stomach pain low blood pressure and diarrhea.
sore throat shortness of breath runny nose and chronic cough. why since i'm nonsmoker?
possibilities include bronchospasm post-nasal drip gerd or a combination of these diagnoses. shortness of breath is a serious symptom that always requires evaluation by a doctor. if your shortness of breath is severe go to the er today! get an evaluation asap.
sharp and sudden chest pain when breathing in. what might cause it?
chest pain with deep breath can be due to pleurisy (irritation of the lining of chest cavity such as with pneumonia) diaphragm irritation (such as with problem with gallbladder liver stomach or spleen) or rib problem (such as fracture or irritation of cartilage between rib and sternum from chronic coughing).
shortness of breath weakness over 2 wk? but no cough. serious problem?
weak for 2 weeks can be a serious problem.
shortness of breath weakness over 2 wk? but no cough. serious problem?
shortness of breath is a serious symptom which always requires an evaluation by a doctor. the severity of your shortness of breath will determine whether you see your family doctor or the er doctor. but either way you need to see a doctor asap.
shortness of breath no other symptoms? do you have to have other symptoms to have asthma?
however asthma usually also has cough and/ or wheezing. shortness of breath can be a symptom of many different underlying causes. you should see your doctor.
sharp pain in chest area for 10-20 seconds at a time. when to start worrying?
if you have shortness of breath or cough if the pain feels like squeezing pressure or if there is arm or neck pain. if you are sweaty lightheaded dizzy or nauseated with it then go for immediate evaluation. if it gets worse or doesn't go away you should seek attention.
severe dyspnea due to cough and small amount of blood in mucus. tb?
hemoptysis coughing blood always needs to be evaluated by a doctor. the usual etiology is bronchitis ( including from tb if other symptoms present) but malignancy can cause this as well so it needs a doctor evaluation asap. if you are short of breath you should go to nearest er as this can be life-threatening. good luck!
slight cough chest pain and fever?
an infection involving the lung airways or pleura is possible. probably not too serious but get checked out to make sure.
side effects of altace?
common: cough; dizziness; headache; tiredness. uncommon side effects include allergic reactions chest pain low blood pressure jaundice loss of appetite seizures and others. if you have concerns ask your doctor.
still having pain after tests ruled out cad? why?
can be pericarditis or inflammation of the sac around the heart. . could be pleurisy or inflammation of the lining of the chest cavities. could be musculoskeletal including pain related to the cartilage connecting the ribs to the sternum (costochondritis) e. g. from excessive coughing. could be a tumor. variety of reasons that could be narrowed down based on characteristics of the pain.
side effects of long term use of coversyl?
its in the category of ace inhibitors headache cough diziness weakness and allergic reaction like angioedema are possible.
what to do if 5-month old has mucus in the throat and trouble breathing? her ribs are sucking in when she breathes which we've heard is bad.
any time your child is having difficulty breathing this is a medical emergency. the coughing and shortness of breath can be due to many things including inhaling a foreign object virus (bronchiolitis) bacterial pneumonia or asthma/reactive airways. go to your pediatrician or er or acute care clinic for evaluation and treatment. let us know how it goes!
what test(s) do doctors run to rule out pulmonary embolism in a pregnant woman? 20 gs wks no leg pain shortness of breath cough and chest pain for 4 days after long distance traveling.
without leg symptoms one would not perform a leg ultrasound (dvt us). with sob a chest xray is first choice and can be performed safely by shielding the baby. if xray is normal then a nuclear medicine vq scan is performed. if the vq scan is indeterminate a ct pulmonary angiogram is performed with settings designed to reduce radiation dose to mother and fetus.
what test(s) do doctors run to rule out pulmonary embolism in a pregnant woman? 20 gs wks no leg pain shortness of breath cough and chest pain for 4 days after long distance traveling.
most of the test for pe involve either iv dye or radiation or both venous ultrasound can look for clots in the legs - if negative that is a good sign. clot in the pelvis is hard to identify without radiation. if there is a real clinical concern you could have a ctangiogram of the chest with your abdomen shielded but you would have to discuss with your doctor to see the level of his/her concern
what test(s) do doctors run to rule out pulmonary embolism in a pregnant woman? 20 gs wks no leg pain shortness of breath cough and chest pain for 4 days after long distance traveling.
blood gasses. if normal you are ok
was diagnosed with a sinus infection yesterday but have had medial chest pain for three days and now includes left rib area. should i see dr again?
she must have been given antibiotic treatment for sinusitis. so please take that inhale steam and add advil (ibuprofen) like drug for pain and inflammation. if your symptoms get worse with productive cough and fever disepite taking abrx then see your doctor to ske sure you do not have pneumonia
wedge resection right lung 1/15/15. still have chest tube in due to small air leak. painful barking cough just started. what is it?
could be a normal reaction from the breathing tube you had during the surgery. could also be an upper respiratory infection. other than causing pain at the incision site its probably not dangerous. ask your doctor when he/she is making rounds or at your next visit. can try some cough suppressant in he mean time. hope this helps!
side effects of medicine of lisinipril?
besides low blood pressure you can have a nonproductive tickle type cough. you can also have occasional rise in your creatinine and you can develop a painless and sometimes life threatening swelling of your face.
would a pulmonary embolism cause a chesty cough?
a pulmonary embolism can cause cough.
slight headache for 2 days. today sudden chest congestion needing to blow my nose throat feels thick when i swallow cough tight chest hurts to cough?
sounds like you are catching some viral infection. you need some otc decongestant however if the symptoms do not subside in one week see your doctor.
sore throat coughing nasal drip normal temp no allegerys for 6 days viral or bacteral? 61 years slighty high bp no serious health probs
if you don't have a fever greater than 100. 4 no green or yellow productive cough then likely viral or could be allergy-mediated. allergies can be tricky - people may think they don't have any allergies but actually might.
shortness of breath bloody cough and shortness of breath 56-year-old smoker
would see a doctor asap.
severe pain in right lung upon coughing also shortness of breath?
see a doctor asap.
should i seek medical attention? i have severe itching everywhere on my body vomiting chest pain very serious cough fever headache. ect?
you must check with your primary care physician first and as soon as possible.
should i seek medical attention? i have severe itching everywhere on my body vomiting chest pain very serious cough fever headache. ect?
some of these symptoms can lead to more serious issues if they continue. i would recommend seeing your doctor as soon as you can.
sharp pain in chest-near heart started yesterday but only hurts when coughs & breaths. had similar pain before but this is diff. -for my dad (45 y/o)
sounds like your chest pain is non cardiac and a workup for other causes should be sought.
when i breathe in my chest feels cold and it makes me cough. is this something to do with my congestive heart failure?
more likely to be a sign of bronchospastic airways (or asthma). get a chest x-ray for starters.
what can i do to stop coughing and having trouble breathing it just makes me weak?
should see your doctor soon---and get a full evaluation if you have a history of asthma it may be a flair of symptoms---if you do not have a history of asthma ---it could be an infection-----or possibly a chemical irritant ; any case if you are having so many symptoms--have it checked out
what are the symptoms of chf and copd?
chf: shortness of breath (sob) positional sob espeially when lying flat (eg at night when asleep) exertional sob dry or wet cough confusion/headache stomach discomfort chest pain or palpitations decreased urine output or increased nighttime-only urine output. copd: sob (usually only with exertion at first) wet (colored or white sputum) or dry cough worse in am wheezing headach/confusion
symptoms: raspy cough includes chest pain right side pain (above hip) tummy pain right side back pain (below shoulder blade) nausea heartburn?
a chronic cough from irritation of the airways can cause these symptoms. smoking is the most frequent cause of this.
symptoms: raspy cough includes chest pain right side pain (above hip) tummy pain right side back pain (below shoulder blade) nausea heartburn?
your symptoms are too many in chest and abdomen and you need to be checked to find out what is causing all your symptoms so check with your family doctor asap.
salty clear phlegm/ mucus with little bubbles. similar mucus sometimes from nose. thick mucus cough sometimes in the morning. no chest pain no fev.?
you are describing chronic bronchitis. if you smoke this is a strong indication you should quit. in a nonsmoker this could represent asthma or other respiratory conditions. you should see your healthcare provider and get pulmonary function tests.
salty clear phlegm/ mucus with little bubbles. similar mucus sometimes from nose. thick mucus cough sometimes in the morning. no chest pain no fev.?
this is a problem that necessitates a face-to-face meeting with your doctor. this will allow him/her to examine you ask specific questions. and possibly order tests to find out what's wrong and what to do to help you.
since it gave me more lung congestion my doctor took me off coversyl. will all blood pressure medicine give me congestion? thanks.
some antihypertensives will cause a dry cough (ace inhibitors like coversyl) but not truly "congestion" with mucus etc. . you should not have this symptom with other drugs for high blood pressure if they are not ace inhibitors.
sharp pain in middle of my chest or upper abs. hurts to cough & sneeze. tender to touch. just below sternum. causes shortness of breath & lightheaded.
go to your doctor now if you can't get in go to the er.
