is a high calorie high fat or high protein diet beneficial to young cystic fibrosis patients?
one of the problems folks with cf have is that their pancreatic duct gets blocked. this means that the fat-digesting enzymes from their pancreas can't get to their gut and break down the fat they eat. a high-fat diet would be very bad in this situation. you need to have conversations with your cf doc to optimize your diet. you should have both a pulmonologist and a gi doc on your team.
is a high calorie high fat or high protein diet beneficial to young cystic fibrosis patients?
in general cf kids need much more fat and salt in their diet since their generic defect prevents proper management of sodium.
why does my 9 month old has chronic upper respitory issues and low weight gain?
possible your child needs to be tested for cystic fibrosis and genetic condition which can cause low weight gain and chronic uris. your pediatrician will be able to go over the specifics for you.
what can cause fat malabsorption?
or sometimes the pancreas does not make enough of the enzyme lipase (as in cystic fibrosis).
my 8 years son have:cf(f508d) diabetes mellitus typ1 mb. coeliacus and bronchopulm. aspergilosis. therapy? please i am doctor internist.
you need to be seen at a cystic fibrosis center a major care center. i don't know what part of the country you're in but your child needs proper evaluation pulmonary function testing and proper medication. please get those soon.
what does type 2 diabetes do to the lungs?
type 2 diabetes itself does not usually do much to the lungs by itself. however type 2 dm is an immune deficient state & espec if uncon could make you more susceptible to lung infections. people with type 2 dm also tend to be overweight and & risk risk of sleep apnea. very mild cases of cystic fibrosis have been found & could cause lung probs & diabetes. last cancer risk is inc in dm esp smokers
what are the symptoms of fibrocystic disease of the pancreas?
if you are referring to cystic fibrosis the first signs of pancreatic insufficiency in children is the failure to thrive and passing fatty stool. this is due to the pancreas being unable to secrete the enzymes necessary for fat absorption in the small intestine; the pancreatic ducts become obstructed and fibrosed in the course of the disease.
what are the symptoms of fibrocystic disease of the pancreas?
i would need more information to answer this. are you asking in regards to an infant or child. or an adult. it can be related to cystic fibrosis. if can be a chronic disease that affects the pancreas functioning. the pancreas functions to help regulate sugar level in the body and it secretes enzymes to help break down food. fibrocystic disease may interfere with the normal job of the pancreas.
what to do if i have cystic fibrosis and want breast implants?
as dr. pousti has indicated the risks of surgery may outweigh the benefits of the procedure. this involves a complex analysis to discuss with your health care providers who may feel that it is not in your best interests.
what to do if i have cystic fibrosis and want breast implants?
much will depend on your overall health and pulmonary status. i would suggest that you start with an open communication with the doctors that know you best including your pulmonologist. it may not be in your best interests to undergo elective surgery… remember safety first. best wishes.
what to do if i have cystic fibrosis and want breast implants?
nobody knows your pulmonary status better than your pulmonologist. if s/he thinks it's ok to undergo general anesthesia then find a plastic surgeon and have a conversation about your options.
what to do if i have cystic fibrosis and want breast implants?
as my colleagues have mentioned it is important for you to have a thorough evaluation and discuss your plans with your pulmonologist. the risk of surgical intubation and possible pneumonia the potential for complication including infection should be taken into consideration. speak to a board-certified plastic surgeon and have this person open a dialogue with your pulmonologist.
how is the fibrocystic disease diagnosed?
if you are referring to cystic fibrosis the standard diagnostic test is to conduct 2 back-to-back sweat chloride tests. these tests measure the amount of sodium and chloride in the sweat content; levels of 60 milliequivalents per liter or above are considered diagnostic. the disease can also be diagnosed by running a genetic test but this is more expensive.
is cystic fibrosis and fibrocystic breasts the same thing?
cystic fibrosis is disorder passed on from parents to children through genes which affects organs like lungs liver pancreas intestines sinuses and sex organs. they have thick mucus which blocks the ducts in these organs and cause complications. they are not same. <link> <link>
is cystic fibrosis and fibrocystic breasts the same thing?
cysts can simply be thought of as fluid filled sacs which can be caused by a myriad of medical conditions. cystic fibrosis is a serious medical condition involving multiple organs and systems including the pancreas in which it causes fibrotic cystic changes hence the name. fibrocystic breast only involves the breasts and is considered a benign condition.
is cystic fibrosis and fibrocystic breasts the same thing?
cystic fibrosis is an illness characterized by chronic difficulties with lung function and poor absorption of nutrients. fibro cystic breast disease is localized to the beast tissue and is a mildly uncomfortable condition of limited course.
is cystic fibrosis and fibrocystic breasts the same thing?
cf is a genetic disease affecting the lungs and other organ systems characterized among other things by abnormal mucus sweat and digestive secretions. fibrocystic breasts on the other hand is a constellation of benign histologic processes that can result in variable degrees of pain and lumpiness. besides very similar names the two have absolutely nothing in common.
why do i keep getin collasped lungs?
some people especially athletic teenaged men simply experience multiple episodes of unexplained lung rupture and collapse. i hope you don't smoke and that your physicians have talked about pleurodesis to prevent more episodes and ruled out antitrypsin deficiency sarcoidosis and adult-type cystic fibrosis.
what's the youngest age a person can have pulmonary fibrosis (18y? 25y? etc. )?
cystic fibrosis is a genetic disase that can diagnosed at birth. many children are diagnosed before age 1 or when they are born. the disease can also be diagnosed much later in life as well (usually milder forms).
why do sufferers of cystic fibrosis have heart and lung transplants?
most people with cf have neither and almost never have a heart/lung transplant if thy do. both lungs are usually transplanted partially to reduce the risk of infection.
what're the common causes of breathing problems?
there are many many causes of breathing problems. some are related to the respiratory system (asthma copd) others to the cardiac system (congestive heart failure). some problems are due to infection (pneumonia) and others related to trauma (quadriplegia). there are congenital causes (cystic fibrosis) and some causes where the etiology is not known. there are so many causes so see your doctor!
what are the chances of pulmonary fibrosis at the age of 19?
unless you have a genetic condition that can cause fibrosis such as cystic fibrosis. other than that it is pretty rare for a 19 year old to get pulmonary fibrosis.
why would a physician order blood testing in the evaluation of a chronic cough with shortness of breath?
each test has its own indication. you can check for allergies anemia genetic problems cystic fibrosis signs of parasites exposure to mold hiv tuberculosis. etc.
