how can i prevent dehydration as i am having diarrhea and vomiting.
get iv fluids
how can i prevent dehydration as i am having diarrhea and vomiting.
drink water and electrolytes (such as gatorade) to replace not only water in the body but basic nutrients and minerals.
how can i prevent dehydration as i am having diarrhea and vomiting.
drink your maintenance fluids. based on body weight which you did not supply in your question.
should it be ok to drink beer if u are healing from a 2nd degree burn?
this question is a little tricky because i don't know how you got the burn in the first place? some people burn themselves when they are intoxicated -- makes it more likely to have accidents. also i agree with dr. weiner about the dehydration part. if you can't hold off drinking while your body heals from this burn better take a look at your use of alcohol. best wishes in getting well.
what are the health consequences of a drought.
if you live in an area that is experiencing a drought then you need to find a source of clean water to drink. if you can get bottled water and stay well hydrated then there should be no health consequences. if you are not able to get adequate water then dehydration can cause symptoms of fatigue and in extreme cases damage to the kidneys and other organs.
what are the health consequences of a drought.
dehydration can deplete the body with fluids and minerals causing electrolyte imbalance.
what medical conditions should i be aware of during a drought?
base your clinical assessment on symptoms. you may see more dehydration and malnutrition during this phase but diagnosis and treatment will remain much the same.
we're stuck inside a collapsed building for hours. what should we do to prolong our survival?
call 911 if not already done! let as many people as poss know where you are/situation. try to conserve cell phone power as they may use this to track you. keep hydrated if possible! on of the biggest risks is dehydration or if trauma damage to the kidneys. move around a little if possible/safe to prevent pressure injuries but conserve energy. make some noise so rescuers can more easily find you.
could a laceration to the liver cause dehydration?
someone with a lacerated liver is seriously sick and will be in a place where fluid management needs to be carried out meticulously.
difference of appearance between 1st and 2nd degree burn on chest? second degree serious?
redness; bubbles and skin coming off is 2nd degree. both increase chances of skin cancer in the future; 2nd degree is also a concern for infection dehydration and scarring. do try to protect your skin next time - high-spf lotion uv-opaque clothes.
do i have to check my kids' temperatures during a heat wave to make sure they're ok?
heat waves run risk to community by exposure and dehydration. during a heat wave staying inside around air conditioning and staying well hydrated are keys to good health not checking core temperature
does eating and drinking cold stuff actually help ward off heat exhaustion or it merely feels better?
drink plenty of fluids get in to cool water like shower or bath and use cool compresses on body. you need to drink fluids to prevent dehydration and can be at room temp but cold drinks will feel better than warm
what is the healthiest food or drink?
unless you are in an environment or daily perform activities that predispose to dehydration when a doctor asks you to liberalize fluids he/she means for you to drink lots of water and non-sugary or non-salty drinks. that excludes: sodas caffeinated products alcohol highly sweetened products and even "sports" drinks. healthy foods: fruits vegetables whole grains lean meats & moderation.
why can't people who have had gallbladder problems use alli?
alli impairs fat absorption by blocking the pancreatic enzyme lipase. biliary disease if there's excess bile in the intestine can cause steatorrhea (fecal loss of bile fats/salts). the increased loose stool production by alli effects on biliary steatorrhea can quickly cause dehydration electrolyte disorders etc. there's no substitute for smart dieting and exercise.
i have binged and purged all day and taken 10 laxatives and a lot of diet pills. should i seek medical advice im getting chest pains?
this activity can derange electrolytes cause dehydration and some emetic agents can be cardio toxic. i suspect emergency department next step.
i have insomnia constipation and weight gain i've tried everything- prune healthy diet lots of exercise and my blood test came normal for thyroids
constipation is frequently a sx of other things. dehydration hypercalcemia primary diseases of colon. thyroid excluded as cause needs further evaluation. may additionaly be caused by medication opioid analgesics notorious.
is diet cola dangerous?
the carbonic acid can contribute to caries mineral depletion & dehydration. increased caffeine in some sodas can ^ anxiety in people w anxiety disorders. if it contains artificial sweeteners & is used daily this is linked to a 3fold ^ in dementia & stroke.
is an otc body cleanser a good thing to use to filter bad stuff from body and help in weight loss?
not at all it can be dangerous and can dehydrate you and in some cases patients endedup in intensive care due to side effects and dehydration. wt loss is temporary loss of water from your body and as you get hydrated it is back.
i need to lose 15 pounds in a week. i weight 150 and im 5'2". what can i do? what diet pills do you recommend? does grapefruit help to lose weight?
probably won't happen unless you starve yourself and don't eat anything for a week. even then losing 10% of your body weight in one week is very unhealthy. diet pills like phentermine don't so much burn calories as they do curb appetite. laxatives and diuretics will cause dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities and possibly arrhythmias. rethink plan and try 15 lb over 3 months probably safer.
is it normal for low calorie diet resulting rapid weight loss?
rapid weight loss has the following risks - gallstones which occur in 12% to 25% of people losing large amounts of weight over several months. dehydration which can be avoided by drinking plenty of fluids. malnutrition usually from not eating enough protein for weeks at a time. electrolyte imbalances which rarely can be life threatening.
if i have calcium-oxalate kidney stones what diet should i follow to prevent the formation of more stones?
avoid dehydration; follow diet: avoid spinach rhubarb strawberries nuts chocolate tea wheat bran and all dry beans; increase citrate: orange juice 8 oz twice daily; realemon extract: 5 tblspns per day; increase fluid 4 liters/day; only 4 oz meat/day; 4-5 fruits/day; maintain low salt; egg white 2 per day as additional protein; 25 mg hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) daily to reduce ca in urine - this will work;
i am 5 weeks pregnant. i am unable to eat healthy due to vomiting sensation. will this affect baby?
nausea+vomiting in pregnancy can start at 5-6 weeks peak at 8-10 weeks and for most women it resolves at 12 weeks. approximately 20% continue to have issues later on. attempting to get fluids in and some calories daily will prevent dehydration and vitamin+nutrient deficiencies. to control nausea+vomiting it is good to eat dry crunchy food+sip on fluids or ice chips or popsicles throughout the day.
if my goal is to lose weight to increase energy should i quit drink 4 to 5 cups of coffee a day?
too much caffeine can be bad for you. it can cause rebound fatigue or rebound headaches increased pulse and dehydration. replace those cups of coffee with water.
is there a fat burner that is reliable to help burn long term fat? need help to lose 50-100lbs. i'm 27f dieting excercing 4awhile. don't want surgery.
no great meds. there are 2 types of fat: visceral (hard deep fat) & superficial (soft jiggly fat). both respond to low calories (500cal/day less to lose one pound/week) low intensity exercise to burn fat. and lots of water to help hydrate the body since obesity causes dehydration visceral fat=insulin resistance so ue metformin & hormones. niacin green tea and fish oil can help at times.
i am taking a weight loss flush pill that is called acai berry cleanse and i am supposed to take it 4 times a day. is it healthy to take these?
acai alone does not cleanse. what are the other ingredients? if it has cascara and/or senna you need to take them with a lot of water. watch out for dehydration. taking large doses for long periods of time may affect your bowel habits. a week or less cleanse should not be a problem. if you are interested in more colon wellness information. look at my educational site: indwellwellness. com.
i have been urinating a goldish color and it has an unpleasant smell. i have also been dieting can. the dieting be the cause for the color and smell?
dark urine usually means dehydration and concentration of the urine. some diets result in "spilling ketones" in the urine which can cause dehydration. i see that frequently in "high protein high fat diets". the solution is simple avoid harsh starvation diets and drink a lot of water while you are dieting. there are 0 calories in wtaer and it fills up your stomach and makes you less hungry.
is it common to get muscle spams all the time when on extreme diet?
i agree with dr. tran & would add dehydration to the list of relatively common concerns that can develop with certain extreme diets. dehydration can lead to a variety of problems including muscle cramps/spasms. if you need to loose weight & are trying-good job but if doing it in an extreme manner please be sure you're doing it with medically supervision so you can have proper monitoring.
i think one of my weight loss buddies is aiming too high. what would you say to an approx 425 lb 30 y/o woman who wanted to drop 200 lb in a year?
without medical supervision and monitoring we do not suggest more than 1-2 lbs/wk or 100 lbs/yr. too many risks of medical complications from inadequate intake of certain nutrients dehydration kidney and electrolyte problems and starvation.
is it normal to urinate a lot when you have type 2 diabetes?
the term 'diabetes mellitus' actually means excessive sweet urine flowing through. in uncontrolled diabetes with high blood sugars this sugar abnormally passes through the kidneys and into the urine. the excessive urine then causes dehydration and frequent thirst. alternatively high sugars can lead to frequent infections including urine tract infections that cause frequent urination.
is colon blockage a problem after gastric sleeve?
this is not something specifically associated with a sleeve gastrectomy but constipation could be a sign of dehydration.
i just had blood work done i have high hemoglobin white cells ferritin levels recent weight gain. tris and ldl are high never had that beforr?
what you have described likely includes many issues which may range from dehydration hypoxia from obesity and metabolic changes due to weight gain. it would be prudent to seek care from a primary care provider who can coordinate with specialists as needed.
is atkins diet good diet for breast feeding mom?
the low carb atkins during breastfeeding might not be safe according to many experts. risk of dehydration low calcium high fats and other reasons.
why do i seem to gain weight in the evening?
could be fluid retention from a relative dehydration which catches up w you by the end of the day. cut back on caffeine and alcohol. consider sodium restriction and drink 2-3 liters of water a day.
what determines if gastric bypass was successful?
i guess the success is the lost of weight and the improvement in the numbers of the glucose (a1c) and improvement in blood pressure and the lack of complications vomiting dehydration formation of ulcers etc.
what will happen if a person stops eating for 5 days and only live on water and diet pills?
starving the body long term can have adverse effects such as dehydration electrolyte imbalance hypoglycemia weakness fatigue headaches dizziness syncopal episodes to name a few. diet pills could excentuate these effects and cause tachycardia and blood pressure problems. restarting a diet after starving also leads to rapid weight gain. won't die for 5 days but probably won't feel great either.
what should i eat to maintain a healthy diet for cirrhosis?
cirrhosis may get complicated by encephalopathy ( disorientation confusion) triggered by:dehydration eating too much protein electrolyte abnormalities (especially a decrease in potassium) from vomiting or from treatments such as paracentesis or taking diuretics ("water pills") bleeding from the intestines stomach or esophagus and infections. avoid alcoholic beverages & some medicines
iv had gastric bypass and am 28 weeks pregnant. i had been having mild headaches but now its migraines and dizziness. what is going on?
your headaches could be coming from tension dehydration lack of sleep/poor sleep skipping meals stress teeth grinding sleep apnea/snoring or chronic sinus problems among other things. see a doctor to get checked out so you can get som ehelp for your headaches.
what are the symptoms of diabetes mellitus type 1 in children who have not been diagnosed?
extreme thirst and urination tiredness headaches weight loss and dehydration. if you have any of these go buy a walmart blood glucose meter and 9$ strips and check your blood sugar right now. it should not be over 100. if you are having diabetes symptoms as i describe your blood sugar will be over 180 then proceed directly to an er. during office hours to your pediatrician's
what effect does diabetes mellitus have on your blood osmolarity?
especieally if you are a type 2 diabetic you can go into aroma crisis known a as nonketototic hyperosmostic coma. it can be fatal if not treaters and results from very high blood sugars that cause a dehydration state. it is as important for type 2 diabetics to maintain good control as type 1s. bad things can happen.
what foods and diet changes help with knee pain?
1. control your weight reducing load on the knee is very important. your knee sees 4-6 times your body weight. 2. keep hydrated cartilage is mostly water and dehydration affects the knee. 3. avoid lots of caffeine and acidic liquids this affects the joints as well. 4. many natural anti-inflammatories exist at the health food store (tumeric boswellia glucosamine msm are some) good luck!
what are some of the health problems associated with anorexia nervosa and binge-eating disorders?
the symptoms of anorexia are mostly related to starvation or malnutrition. they can be quite severe including heart failure loss of bone strength dehydration loss of menstruation. binge eating (eating too much at one sitting) is not really associated with symptoms other than weight gain. binge eating and vomiting (bulimia) is associated with health problems that are due to the vomiting.
is there anything we can do to prevent late night cravings? thinking about food makes me hungry is there a way to stop that also?
eat something good for you that you do not necessarily like very much. the problem with cravings is that they may represent real nutrient imbalances: most often dehydration (drink water before eating anything); too much sodium too little potassium (eat unprocessed fruit or veggies like arugula) or too much phosphate not enough calcium (have lowfat lactose-free dairy). we overeat foods we like.
i haven't eaten in two weeks due to vomiting. i weighed 133 saturday. saturday morning i started again clear liquid diet. today i weigh 137?
your weight loss was due to dehydration. as your diet increases so will your weight.
im cramping in my abdomen arms and toes. somtims in my neck. i am over weight and diabetic?
this is most likely a complex side effect of too much sugar and thus dehydration. and low potassium and calcium because of the elevated sugar and diminished fluid stores. please this is your body begging you to stop poisoning it. pay attention to these signals. you can feel so much better with the right diet and the right exercise.
what will be the effects on a person with diabetes type ii if that person eats food that contains sugar?
diabetic patients are not supposed to eat sugar. their sugars can go up and they have have severe dehydration or may go into severe acidosis and coma.
would a diet of vitamin water with an occasional flavor packet in water be ok?
when losing weight you don't "burn body fat" preferentially over muscle. as such don't waste time or money on fads products books or foods that promise to do so. strive instead for a realistic goal of 1-2 pounds/week avoid dehydration (loss of water weight is not meaningful loss) & instead go with fruits vegetables whole grains lean meats portion-size control count calories & exercise.
what are somr foods like fruit vegetables cottage cheese yogurt etc. that will burn body fat along with water? & how many tmes a day should i eat them? im 143lbs wabting to be 128 in a month. i workout twice a week for 1-2 hrs
when losing weight you don't "burn body fat" preferentially over muscle. as such don't waste time or money on products books or foods that promise to do so. also a 15 pound weight loss over 4 weeks can be achieved but may make you sick--strive instead for a realistic goal of 1-2 pounds/week. dehydration is not meaningful loss. healthy weight loss mean small portions low calories exercise.
what's proper diet for a person who has kidney stones of calcium oxalate?
avoid dehydration; follow diet: avoid spinach rhubarb strawberries nuts chocolate tea wheat bran and all dry beans; increase citrate: orange juice 8 oz twice daily; realemon extract: 5 tblspns per day; increase fluid 4 liters/day; only 4 oz meat/day; 4-5 fruits/day; maintain low salt; egg white 2 per day as protein; 25 mg hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) daily to reduce ca in urine - you can do it.
im getting wrinkles under my eyes and i am 24 if i eat healthy and drink water etc would i get rid of that problem or is it possible i'm aging already?
at 24 the wrinkles are unlikely to be age-related. wrinkles can be due to lots of causes such as stress fatigue sun exposure dehydration and smoking. eat a healthy diet drink plenty of fluids don't smoke and wear sunscreen while outside.
what is the most common side effects for someone who just start taking fat burner?
the most common side effect if likely to be jitteriness or dehydration. many over the counter weight loss meds contain mild stimulants like caffeine. a better way to lose weight is with diet and exercise.
what can i do to quench my appetite because i have recently been eating alot?
first dehydration can mimic hunger. when you feel that way drink a tall glass of h2o. second try eating smaller portions more frequently. you should also increase fruit and vegetable intake for both the nutrients and the fiber. try to find out why you want to eat more. is it boredom anger stress sadness etc. this can help you identify possible emotional triggers. do this for 1 month.
im 16 yo im overweighted when i go jogging for1h i suffer from headache and a numbness in my legs andhands which medical evaluation should i have?
see your doctor to see what is causing these symptoms. you may be having high blood pressure or other serious problems. when you start exercising make sure to take it slow and steady at first; don't overdo it! build up gradually as your body gets in better condition. make sure you are drinking plenty of water- dehydration can cause some of these problems also.
i've been dizzy a lot lately. could it be my sugar? i'm not overweight. what would be a normal sugar level for a 19 year old?
there are too many causes of dizziness to predict what could be causing your symptom. stress dehydration and infrequent meals can be common causes that are preventable. standing up too quickly can make your dizziness worse. if this continues a physical exam and testing could help evaluate for other causes including anemia ear infections blood pressure problems etc. feel better soon!
if you never really exercise or go for a walk and then start walking long periods can that cause right leg pain i'm not overweight?
overweight to experience leg pain from over walking or overexerting yourself when you start exercising after not doing it before. usually it's best to warm up and do some stretching (leg) exercises so you don't strain yourself when you first start out. also hydrate so you don't get cramps from dehydration or electrolye deficiency. i see that you take caffeine tablets. that could dehydrate you 2.
why all doctors say that if weightlifting and have protein diet shoud i dring plenty of water and how much is plenty? is it about dehydration or more?
rhabdomyolysis is a condition in which the muscles break down into a pigment that can get deposited in the kidneys and can cause kidney damage even kidney failure. that is why is it is recommended that people who do strenuous exercise regimen such as weight lifting drink enough water(say ~ 1 liter/day) to keep the kidneys perfused to prevent themselves from getting this complication.
my father was diagnozed with type 2 diabetes. he is 73 years old. lately he is falling down losing balance and having difficulty standing. why?
aside from neuropathy from diabetes uncontrolled dm can also cause dehydration weakness electrolytes imbalances. . these can contribute to the symptoms he's currently experiencing. dm medication if not taking appropriately can also do the same thing. i recommend seeing his physician to discuss possible causes and proper treatment.
what are the causes of cellulite in men?
cellulite is nothing more than normal fat beneath the skin. the fat appears bumpy because it pushes against connective tissue causing the skin above it to pucker. the amount of cellulite visible can be affected by: poor diet fad dieting slow metabolism lack of physical activity hormone changes dehydration total body fat and the thickness and color of your skin
my dad is in his 50's. after he runs his hands swell up. what could be the cause of this? he is slightly overweight. runs 3 miles every few days.
swollen hands after running could be due to increased blood and fluid flow to hands as a result of an increased heart rate which helps the muscles contract and move efficiently. other causes include dehydration running outside during high temperatures and fluid retention as a result of a high-salt diet.
my son had his wisdom teeth taken out yesterday. he is now running a 101. 1 fever. can i give his motrin while he is on oxycodone?
motrin will help but make sure he is sufficiently hydrated by drinking lots of water. dehydration is a very common cause of elevated temperature after oral surgery.
my dad is on a diet for type ii diabetes he has been told to go on a low oxalate diet(no stone). the food goes against everything we know. ideas?
he needs to void dehydration; follow diet: avoid spinach rhubarb strawberries nuts chocolate tea wheat bran and all dry beans; increase citrate: orange juice 8 oz once daily; realemon extract: 3 tblspns per day; increase fluid 2. 5 liters/day; only 4 oz meat/day; 3 fruits/day; maintain low salt; egg white 2 per day as protein; fish is excellent too
palm hurts a little but most worried about loss of fat as i age. why is that?
which part of your palm hurts and if it doesn't bother you don't think about it. losing body fat is due to dehydration. check my site: www. drernie. co. cc.
side effects on a very low cal diet. i need some advice on hydrating?
relative dehydration d/t low intake of salt that makes people not thirsty so they don't drink also the body does not hang on to its fluids. see how much you drink when you eat the salty pizza! some sensitive people even swell in legs after that! so if your diet does not have salt at all you may benefit from a cup of broth daily or a piece of pickle and 8 cups of fluid intake. avoid that if chf.
lots of ketones in urine. i drink loads of water its not dehydration no diabetes no diet or starvation going on no uti. doctor doesn't know why?
check what you eat.
lots of ketones in urine. i drink loads of water its not dehydration no diabetes no diet or starvation going on no uti. doctor doesn't know why?
a common cause of ketonuria is low carb. intake.
muscle weakness and weight loss after gastroenteritis. i have had the symptoms for 6. 5 days now. i have gone from 147 pounds to 144. 8 pounds. thoughts?
gastroenteritis can be a very serious problem for your body to deal with. the amount of fluid lost through diarrhea in addition to the lack of intact can lead to severe dehydration. furthermore the lack of nutrition causes the body to break down protein for energy. it takes a lot of fluid nutrition and rest to recover. if the symptoms do no improve i would recommend a visit to your doctor.
on unpredictable days i have contstant roaring/ringing in my ear. on some of those days the sound changes and i sometimes get dizzy sometimes with the dizziness i will get nausea. i have a chiari malformation type 1 and an arachnoid cyst possible menier
these sound like some deep dehydration and compounding tmj symptoms. i do not know the depth and breadth of your cyst nor have access to your chart. i would look at trying to drink several glasses of water a day and see your dentist about a hard night guard. i know it sounds like a stretch but i have had several patients experience similar symptoms and get moderate relief from this remedy.
started taking slim quick for women drink mix. could this worsen anxiety and chest pain that go along with anxiety? also what are effect of slim quick
they will not disclose contents but there have been known hospitalizations due to dehydration and cardiac issues. i would beware!
myself my 9 and 2 year old have all come down with food poisoning from mcdonalds. i'm diabetic and pregnant and i'm worried about dehydration?
monitor your blood sugar closely and keep well hydrated. it is important to let your ob specialist know.
ok i wrap my stomach with glad cling wrap. how many pounds could i possibly sweat off in a week?
if the cling wrap method worked for weight loss wouldn't you see a lot more people wrapping their stomachs in plastic? sweating will lead to loss of water weight maybe dehydration. cling wrap is made from polyvinyl chloride pvcs leaked to cancer. you will get thirsty.
the underside of my tongue is a sickly white color. assuming something related to diet rather than disease.
the finger-like projections on your tongue become inflamed & collect debris bacteria & dead cells which look white. causes of this inflammation include dehydration dry mouth excessive alcohol use fever smoking. patches of white can be leukoplakia (precancerous) lichen planus (autoimmune) yeast etc. it is generally harmless but may be helped with brushing your tongue & drinking lots of h2o.
why is the urine of patients with diabetes mellitus bright (almost neon) yellow? also what causes the ph spike with diabetes insipidus?
bright urine most often comes from dehydration (too little fluid or excess loss of fluids) often seen in diabetes. it can also come from the fillers and buffers in pills including vitamins. ph spiking is alkalosis or excessively alkaline state from abnormal fluid and electrolyte dynamics. see your pcp or endocrinologist for electrolyte lab work and more info and discussion.
how should a high-protein diet affect the ph of urine?
high protein diets will cause ketones to be spilled in the urine. high-protein diets should not be treated nightly and need to be monitored very closely monitor by a physician. inappropriate followup can cause significant illness and dehydration.
how do diuretics cause weight loss?
diuretics are a class of drugs that cause the kidneys to excrete a larger volume of urine. this can be a beneficial effect in patients with high blood pressure congestive heart failure or soft tissue fluid retention. these are not generally used for weight loss except in those individuals retaining extra fluid. can cause dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities in normal pts trying to lose weight.
how safe is a low calorie diet?
very strict diets run the risk of dehydration and ketosis and possibilities to faint develop anemia or electrolyte disturbances ( low potassium calcium magnesium low vitamins etc. ) less than 1200 cal/ day are probably too restrictive.
how will the heat during the body wrap procedure affect my blood pressure? i am suffering from high blood pressure and with medication it is under control except in the rare cases when i get nervous. i would like to lose some weight and i am willing to g
be careful with these unregulated "procedures. " if you raise your temperature too high it can have deleterious effects like dehydration. if the wrap is done correctly it will compress the skin and reduce blood return from the superficial veins and collapse capillaries at the skin level which will make your heart pump harder to return blood and push blood out. likely affecting your hypertension.
how much water should i be drinking now that i'm working out more often? i have started a new exercise regime in order to lose weight. is the standard 8 glasses of water a day sufficient or should i be hydrating more? should i be drinking something other
eight glasses of water with 8 ounces/glass is a good ballpark figure. however you may need to hydrate more depending on the level and intensity of exercise as well as the climate. if you are trying to lose weight you should be aware that any measurable weight change immediately following exercise is due to water loss. in other words if you lose 2 pounds right after a workout you are dehydrated by that amount. the dehydration affects all systems including delivery of nutrients to muscles removal of metabolic waste products and regulation of body temperature. if your weight is the same after a workout and/or if your urine is clear (as opposed to dark or concentrated) then you are probably ok on fluids. water is an adequate replacement. for more extreme conditions (like running a marathon) it may be helpful to use a sports drink which has additional electrolytes. if your goal is to lose weight don't lose more than 2 pounds per week and make sure that that weight loss is fat rather than muscle mass or water. good luck!
how to lose weight in 24 hours?
there are no good reasons to lose weight in 24 hours. that time frame is too short. people lose weight through changes in their lifestyles over weeks months and years. if doing sports overnight weight loss will cause weakness usually due to mild dehydration and unbalanced minerals. a 24-hour fast drinking just water or pedialyte is ok in healthy people (but will feel weaker the next day).
how long would it take an originally healthy person to die of starvation on a lifeboat?
it is dehydration that kills you.
can exercise lower blood sugar?
generally yes bc exercising burns sugar as fuel. but if you r a diabetic with an episode of unusually high sugars we do not recommend jumping on the treadmill to lower the sugar bc counter-regulatory hormones can sometimes raise sugar and if there was an underlying illness or dehydration the whole situation worsens.
can taking weight loss pills have an affect on pregnancy? mom took them in 70s
dehydration from weight loss pills or worse scant amniotic fluid both have an effect on developing pregnancies when used. potassium losing diuretics are the most common form of weight loss pill.
how much weight loss can you lose on a water diet?
fasting is an unhealthy and unsustainable method of weight loss which is not recommended. any weight that is lost is from water and/or muscle mass loss and the weight will be gained back as soon as the fast is ended. moreover fasting can lead to serious complications such as dehydration kidney failure and other dangerous complications. see your physician to discuss healthy ways to lose weight.
can over weight cause headaches?
headaches could be coming from tension eye strain tooth grinding dehydration lack of sleep/poor sleep skipping meals stress sleep apnea/snoring (which can happen more often when you are overweight) or chronic sinus problems.
can i still get weight loss surgery if i am missing a kidney? i donated a kidney. am i able to get weight loss surgery?
donating a kidney is a remarkable gift to those who need it. you should be congratulated. it is however something that puts you into a category of patients at higher risk to develop kidney failure. the gastric bypass in particular is associated with a higher risk of kidney stones. and any of the surgeries can stress your one reminding kidney because of dehydration.
can weight loss cause orthostatic hypotension? lost roughly 30lbs over last 6 months unintentionally. was on celexa (citalopram) for 7 months but been off 5 mnths
the most common cause of orthostatic hypotension is dehydration. you can check the color of your urine to see if it's very concentrated -- and if it is consciously increase fluids to see if that helps. but if you've lost 30 pounds "unintentionally " this really needs investigating because it can go along with more complex causes of orthostatic hypotension. see your doctor for an exam soon.
can having weight loss surgery make my migraines get any worse?
migraines can be the result of a variety of environmental hormonal and dietary factors. some medications may be helpful in controlling the symptoms. some patients have improvement in their headaches with weight loss. but some patients may experience worsening of their headaches related to low blood sugar or dehydration. this could be compounded if there is any medication malabsorption.
can someone who has bulimia still have a normal or even slightly above normal weight? friend of mine binges and then does crazy exercises
most people with bulimia are of "normal" weight. it's still a very unhealthy practice because of dehydration and electrolyte problems plus physical damage to organs like teeth stomach esophagus etc.
hi my aunty suffers with dizzy spells and hair loss she also very obese and feels full all the time but she doesn't eat much. what could this be?
it's hard to say since there are so many things that can cause those symptoms. the dizziness may be from dehydration irregular heart rhythm carotid artery stenosis strokes high or low blood pressure medication etc. the hair loss may be from nutritional deficiency. sounds weird but a large % of overweight people are actually malnurished because they don't eat a healthy diet. needs to see doc.
diabetes - how does sugar in urine cause weight loss?
when you have sugar in your urine it means that 6 hours ago your blood sugar was very high! when it happens repeatedly you get hungry and pretty soon you can't keep up with the calories lost in the urine and your metabolic rate is so high you start to lose weight without trying. it is diabetes out of control and very unhealthy and dangerous and can lead to dehydration and hospitalization.
could lipodren diet pill really works?
to contain hoodia yohimbine theobromine l-5- hydroxytryptophan caffeine n-methyl-b-phenylethylamine green tea extract methyl synephrine citrus aurantium ; many other compounds. side effects can include dehydration nausea constipation problems w sleep ^ heart rate ; ^ blood pressure. frankly i don't encourage patients to take these type of pills – for sustained loss – recommend portion.
are laxatives good for weight loss?
laxatives should not be used as a means of weight loss. they are intended to resolve constipation. the inappropriate use of laxatives may lead to dehydration electrolyte imbalance and other health problems. if you need to lose weight you should consult a healthcare professional to help guide you toward a healthy lifestyle.
are laxatives good for weight loss?
laxatives are not designed for weight loss. there are many different types some are osmotic like mom some are stimulant like cascara or castor oil. they can be effective for constipation when used properly but they are not effective for weight loss. they can cause problems such as rectal bleeding electrolyte imbalance and dehydration which can end up in renal failure.
heart rate up 20-30 beats when standing up. then normal. cardiac? neuro? normal? ecg cardiac echo ct angio w contrast all ok. am obese and non athletic
it is normal orthostasis. as the blood pressure decreases pulse inversely increases. try to increase fluid intake as dehydration has a tendency to increase likelihood of orthostatic hypotension.
can dehydration worsen sleep apnea?
usually things that worsen sleep apnea is weight gain alcohol and other sedating medicines. not sure that dehydration can do it.
how safe are protein shakes n prework out supplements?
20-40 grams of protein the amount in most protein shakes is safe to take as a muscle building supplement if you are healthy with normal kidneys and you drink plenty of water to avoid dehydration. avoid any products claiming additional energy or weight loss benefits since these often contain caffeine or other substances which can put you at increased risk of heat injury stroke and heart attack.
can doing sports activity in heat accelerate fat loss?
you should be very careful doing sports activity in the heat. dehydration heat exhaustion and finally heat stroke can be the consequences of this type of activity. you apt to lose water more than fat.
dr prescribed orlistat 120mg 3 times a day for weight loss! is it safe? i read about kidney failure. 25/f/smoker/overweight and scared!
it works like a conjugated linoleic acids (cla) in that it decreases the absorption of fat and has gi side effects fatty stools. you can get a similar effect with cla. orlistat is safe and effective. to minimize the gi effects take it with fiber. kidney failure is likely due to dehydration from the fatty stools?
how addictive is phentermine and is it safe for me to take metformin while taking it?
patients on phetermine do not develop addiction even after prolonged used as shown in studies. my experince most patients who combine phetermine with life style modification actual see a decrease in their blood pressure. common concern will be dehydration constipation initial jitteriness that wears away after a few days insomnia. hence take early in the morning increase fiber increase water
alcoholic: some symptoms: puffy face beer gut (or ascites) snoring heartburn rapid short breaths while sleeping dehydration on tues after weekend?
alcoholics can develop cirrhosis which can impede blood flow back to the heart cause fluid to accumulate in the lower part of the body including the abdomen can cause malnutrition can cause insult to the kidney and can impede lung function and steroid metabolism causing rapid breathing and alkalosis. all these have to be evaluated by a physician.
can a hiatal hernia cause nausea after eating?
nausea is a non specific symptom with multiple causes dehydration bad gallbladder hernia and yes hiatal hernia. nausea after eating is one of the bad gallbladder symptoms. okay to get evaluated by your regular doc ask for imaging gallbladder ultrasound. in the meantime stay on a low fat diet and increase your oral hydration. be well.
dizzy. have blood pressure of 86 and 50 bpm. normal blood test. eat healthy exercise but struggle with eating too little. are these stats safe?
a well conditioned athlete may have heart rate in 50s. systolic blood pressure in 80s is fine if you do not have symptoms. what is your bmi? if it is less than 18 you may wish to eat more. your dizziness may be due to dehydration if you are not drinking enough water and if you lost weight recently that may contribute to dizziness.
can eating too much sweets and the heat cause me to feel dizzy and light headed?
heat exhaustion and dehydration can certainly lead to lightheadedness. eating sweats may affect pre-diabetics and diabetics with compensatory hypoglycemia after ingestion which causes lightheadedness. make sure your heartrate isn't irreglar or too fast. count beats at carotid artery of neck for 6 seconds and multiply by 10. should be less than 120 unless exercising. hydrate well.
good diet tip for someone who had gastro enteritis? cheerios ok? rice?
for a few days avoid dairy products as severe diarrhea leaves you temporarily lactose intolerant. try rice soups and bland foods at first (with lemon and salt to avoid dehydration). then gradually reintroduce dairy products to your diet starting with greek yogurt - to restore your bowel flora and avoid chronic intestinal problems.
age-20 sex-male. how often can i go for a steam bath in a week? i want to lose body fat.
a person can lose a bit of weight after a steam bath but it is almost all water weight and promptly regained. it has no role in permanent weight/fat loss. and there are risks: infection (germs thrive in that moist environment) severe dehydration rise in core body temperature possibly leading to infertility in men. an occasional steam bath for relaxation is ok; dry heat/sauna is better.
can eating too much protein cause dehydration?
eating too much protein does not cause dehydration per se however high protein load can put extra stress on the kidneys and it is important to make sure the person is well hydrated all the time. so drinking plenty of water is important when you are on a high protein diet
can you tell me how ephedra (not ephedrine) effect body organs?
ephedra consumption may include severe skin reactions irritability nervousness dizziness trembling headache insomnia profuse perspiration dehydration itchy scalp and skin vomiting and hyperthermia. more serious potential side effects include irregular heartbeat seizures heart attack stroke and death.
everytime i stand up i feel lightheaded & everything goes black. i have high cholesterol & i eat alot but i dont nessesarily eat healthy?
could bee low blood pressure when standing. need evaluation for laying/sitting and standing blood pressure. drink plenty of fluids in case of dehydration. so should get evaluation right away as you are close to passing out.
gastric sleeve 9/16/13. new side ache feeling pain on right 9/22/13 that wraps around back. dehydration/possible other issue? tolerable right now
several reasons; one likely dx is gallbladder disease. this is more common after weight loss surgery. see your doctor.
gastric sleeve 9/16/13. new side ache feeling pain on right 9/22/13 that wraps around back. dehydration/possible other issue? tolerable right now
this close to your procedure it is possible the two are related. you need to see your doctor to have this wuestion answered.
i'm on birth control pills and missed my period completely this month. neg hpt's. i had breast augmentation surgery last week wednesday. exceptionallynauseous. what's happening?
post surgical nausea vs gastrointestinal upset as you document both nausea and diarrhea. dehydration is likely a factor as well. being on birth control and negative pregnancy test limits chances of being pregnant. missing your period likely has a lot to do with the stress of having a surgical procedure. my concern for you is twofold - remote chance of clots as on bc pills and dehydration. see pcp.
following breast surgery does the body bloat and gain weight?
funny you should mention it. many of my patients describe this. this may be due to a variety of factors which include normal swelling and inflammation following any surgical trauma as well as constipation that occurs with dehydration or narcotic analgesic use. activity decreased narcotics and ly pharos massage may help.
what could be the cause of an exaggerated heart rate response to heat? i am fully hydrated but hr is very high (140's walking). i am elite athlete
tachycardia can be caused by many things. dehydration thyroid issues electrolyte abnormalities are just a few potential cause. you should see your physician and be evaluated.
have thyroiditis. did elliptical for 30 min heart rate was 130-135 felt fine. 20 min after started to feel like passing out dizzy and nauseous. ?
i presume that your hr reached 130-135 with exercise a goal just about right for your age. the symptoms described is unlikely to be related to thyroid problem but more likely from dehydration. consider having a sports drink prior to exercise next time. occasionally this may be a sign of coronary insufficiency (uncommon at your age) or exercise-induced anaphylaxis.
what could make me super dizzy when i wake up in the am from getting out of bed? i'm sure it could be many things? but what should i ask first?
we are very bad when it comes to proper hydration. usually dehydration will cause the symptoms that you described make sure to drink a lot of water 6-8 bottle in winter and 8-10 in summer make sure you drink water like propel or gatorade
what is tachycardia?
you also asked about carvedilol. tachycardia is heart rate higher than expected. before giving you medications your doctor will find out other reasons for fast heart rate: stress stimulants like coffee or decongestants anemia thyroid status dehydration fever infections lack of physical fitness etc
what causes resting hr (50-60) to jump to 90-110 today? i went to er they did ekg/blood. sent me home saying anxiety. hr still high at rest. am i ok?
resting heart beat can be elevated for several reasons including dehydration anemia anxiety heart problems. since ekg is normal snd blood work is normal i suspect there is no serious cause. to ease your mind you should fallow up eith your doctor for an evaluation to insure a the proper tests are done. take. care.
what can cause resting heart rate to change. it usually is 50-60 but it's 90-122 when standing. er was not concerned but it has been going on 2 days?
causes. dehydration anemia cold medicine asthma medicine anxiety etc. . follow up with your pcp or if become symptomatic return to er.
what can cause resting heart rate to change. it usually is 50-60 but it's 90-122 when standing. er was not concerned but it has been going on 2 days?
usually postural changes in pulse (or blood pressure) like yours are related to dehydration. . in the er environment this change can be related to anxiety. yet if you do not have symptoms such as dizziness when you stand-up this is something that can be corrected by increasing your fluid intake
what is the difference between orthostatic intolerance and postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome? i'm confused when reading about the 2. thanks.
ortho static intolerance is defined as the development of symptoms which occur when standing and relieved with lying down. this can acutely because of dehydration or abnormalities in heart rate and the central nervous system. pots syndrome is a type of central nervous system disorder that causes chronic ortho static intolerance.
what could be the reason that i have an elevated heart rate. my blood pressure would be normal and my heart rate is in the 90's.
sometimes chronic stress dehydration infection and anxiety can cause rapid heart rate. also if you smoke drink alcohol or caffeinated beverages try to cut down on your use. get evaluated by a dr. to see if you have a heart condition or thyroid problem. make sure you drink plenty of water daily.
woke with dry mouth heart rate 120 upon waking up severely weak for 6 days. was in er for dehydration 4 days ago and diagnosed with virus. help?
make sure you stay hydrated. drink lots of water. follow the directions the doctors gave you in the er. the best way for you to fight the virus is to eat nutritious food and drink enough fluids.
woke with dry mouth heart rate 120 upon waking up severely weak for 6 days. was in er for dehydration 4 days ago and diagnosed with virus. help?
it sounds like you still are/were dry and need better hydration. without more information can't speculate on additional possibilities talk to your dr.
what causes sinus tachycardia dizziness and rhythm changes when standing after eating a meal and after waking up? ekg and echocardiogram normal
most likely relative dehydration to some degree. there is enhanced blood flow to the gut after a meal. this means the same blood volume has to supply more to the gut leaving slightly less elsewhere. this can exacerbate borderline dehydration leading to compensatory higher heart rate and occasional symptoms. try drinking more water as an initial step especially in the summer heat.
would you think that one with hypertension (non-medicated) would tend to have a faster heart rate? would this go hand-in-hand in most cases?
usually separate issues unless dehydration is present from diuretics like hctz (hydrochlorothiazide).
why is my heart rate when i wake in the 70's one day and then the next in the 90's. this is worrying me. ?
dehydration deconditioning (lack of exercise) and overall sympathetic tone are some of the most likely reasons assuming you've excluded the much more likely scenario of postural differences (sitting upright vs laying down). a heart rate of 90 at rest is substantial for someone as (relatively) young as you are. have you seen your pcp lately to discuss?
what can i eat to lower my heart rate?
a frequent cause of increased heart rate is dehydration. water can sometimes help. decreasing caffeine can be effective as well.
what's most likely causes of a fast heart rate?
anxiety and stress and fear are most common causes. dehydration can also raise heart rate.
whats wrong when low variability of fetal heart rate?
non-reassuring fetal heart tones include loss of beat to beat or short term variability. they are commonly used to monitor fetal status and determine timing/mode of delivery although they have an exceedingly high false-positive rate in predicting actual neurological impairment in the infant. they can be due to: acidosis; hypoxia; drugs; infection; sleep cycle; dehydration; anemia; thyroidopathies.
why is my resting heart rate faster in the morning?
relative dehydration.
why did i get dizzy shakey and a fast heart beat all of a sudden?
but low blood sugar comes to mind. trauma emotional upset dehydration fever spike acute pain e. g a kidney stone or gout attack are other examples or possible explanations.
what causes heart palpitations and what do you do about it? i have had a problem for many years with heart palpitations. i know that caffeine is a real culprit and i try to stay away from it as much as i can. what else can i do?
a variety of abnormal heart rhythms or arrhythmias can cause palpitations. most causes are not dangerous and the most common are premature atrial or ventricular contractions (pacs and pvcs). this is when there is an extra beat from the upper or lower chamber of the heart which can be sensed as an extra beat or a skipped beat. but often times people cannot feel them at all. there are a whole variety of other arrhythmias though and many require specific treatment by a cardiologist. if you have had palpitations for years they are most likely not serious but you should be evaluated if you have not already done so. it would be important for your doctor to exclude potentially dangerous things. if you know caffeine is a trigger for your palpitations then avoiding it is the right thing to do. other common triggers are alcohol dehydration and fatigue. if your palpitations are frequent and bothersome your doctor may be able to prescribe a medication to help minimize them. of course this requires an accurate diagnosis first.
i take topamax (topiramate) 150 mg per day for headaches/seizures. is it possible those med adjustments cause my hypokalemia?
yes indeed topamax (topiramate) can cause infrequent side effects of dehydration low potassium (hypokalemia) and low calcium (hypocalcemia). severeal medical studies support this finding. definitely discuss this with your doctor and see if a different medication might be better for you.
is vasovagal syncope a "disease" or condition?
it is describing an event like fainting. it can but does not have to occur with cardiac issues carotid artery issues and dehydration. to name a few reasons.
i have an unusually fast heart rate for long periods of time. what is wrong?
what do you mean by "unusually fast hr"? causes of sinus (normal) tachycardia include:fever pain anxiety fatigue exercise dehydration caffeine asthma inhalers many other medicines and drugs hemorrhage anemia excess thyroid hormone; then there are abnormal rhythms such as atrial fibrillation or flutter pat/svt wpw and vt - there are many other possibilities. you need an ekg!
i fainted this morn due to pressurized bowel movements. had exlax last night. ekg xray urine sample are fine. now feel dizzy and breathless. why?
it's not possible to give you a simple answer without a thorough evaluation. you may have experienced vasovagal syncope. the after effects may be from dehydration. in the end you should see a doctor possibly a cardiologist for further evaluation.
i am 20 yrs old and i keep noticing my heart beat feels like a sudden "thud" its becoming more frequent. resting heartrate is also on the fast side?
one common reason for increased heart rate is dehydration. first make sure you are drinking more water (goal is 1/2 your body weight in oz). limit your alcohol intake and get plenty of rest. if this does not improve your symptoms then you need to get an ecg done by your doctor to make sure your heart rhythm is normal.
is pvcs znd tacycardia considered heart disease?
premature ventric contractions (pvcs) and rapid hr (tachycardias) are arrhythmias (abnormal rhythms); can occur with or without intrinsic heart disease. heart dis. usually from blood vessel disease. main cause is atherosclerotic buildup of plaque inside others: infection xs iron xs muscle etc. abn rhythms can be from xs caffeine tobacco alcohol meds cocaine dehydration fever.
is a precise mathematical relationship between pulse rate and systolic pressure?
ceratainly there is no precise mathematical relationship. if your blood pressure is low such as from dehydration or bleeding the pulse in general will speed up but even then the relationship is not precise.
i am 58 years old. i started having regular palpitations two weeks ago. i used to have them occasionally once or twicea month. if i am sitting still they calm down but as soon as i start moving they start again. it is worrisome. what should i do?
i would consider a glass of water just because is easy. at times dehydration might cause those symptom you describe. are you well hydrated you drink enough: if yes than you need to see a doc.
is rapid heart rate and low blood pressure with the shakes a sign of adrenal insufficiency?
however it can be a cause of literally hundreds of other things including anything that is causing dehydration. when we dont have enough liquid on board the heart speeds up blood pressure goes down and the body makes lots of adrenaline to counteract this causing shakes and anxiety. adrenal insufficiency can also do this. first thing get hydrated! second - call your doctor.
i have had muscle cramps in my calfs for a few weeks now. could it be blood clots or low potassium? should i see a doctor right away?
leg cramps are common for many people. yes leg cramps can be occuring as a result of a blood clot in the leg (whoch decreases blood flow to the lower leg causing pain) or an electrolyte imbalance (which can cause muscles to spasm). other causes can be overextertion peripheral vascular disease dehydration and nerve disorders. it is important to see your doctor to determine the causitive factor. also take a look at your foot and note if there are any changes in color. seek emergency medical attention for any change in color to the leg/foot and/or if you are experiencing unbearable pain.
if i went to the medic for dehydration hypoklemia (k+2. 9) and kidney and bladder infection was this a personal injury? i was in the emergency for dehydration hypokalemia (k+2. 9) and got a kidney and bladder infection. i would like to know how serious
it sounds like you had a kidney infection with dehydration and severe hypokalemia (potassium of 2. 9). hydrochlorothiazide causes low potassium. i am so sorry that this happened to you and would recommend that you follow up with the pharmacy. it should be a learning experience for them as it sounds like a mistake was made. please follow up so that they are aware of this.
if you have a rapid heart rate and unexplained shivering when you are sick is that dehydration or is that fever?
that may be a result of both fever and dehydration. fever left untreated will result in dehydration and they both (fever and dehydration) lead to tachycardia (rapid heart rate).
i am 19 years old. i have dizzy spells when i get up from bed and taking hot showers abdominal pains ocassionally rapid heart beat. what can this be?
might be as simple as dehydration or not enough water intake. see your primary doctor for further evaluation to be sure.
i am heat sensitive and have been for years it makes my heart beat fast and makes me feel tired and panicky thyroid normal am 37 low bp?
if you're heat sensitive tired with low bp consider dehydration. two major causes: sweating and not drinking enough? (if you have other fluid losses like diarrhea vomiting or bleeding they would also contribute to your symptoms). panicky does not fit- you may have two distinct issues. uncontrolled diabetes the rare entity diabetes insipidus and some drugs could contribute.
i keep getting faint and dizzy as well as fast heart rate and chest pain every time i do a cardio exercise. its only been happening last few weeks?
there could be a number of reasons why you are feeling this way from simple dehydration to something more concerning. please see your provider so that they can ask you more questions and figure out if your need testing.
i checked my moms blood pressure and pulse rate. her pressure was 114 over 74. her rate was103 bpm. what causes a high pulse rate?
medications- antihistamines especially anxiety dehydration anemia elevated thyroid poor oxygenation -- to name a few. the rate is not that high so recheck over the next few hours to see if it goes below 90.
if heart rate and bp are described as going the opposite way to each other on a tilt table test ie bp going down and heart rate going up what can it b?
this finding could be from a blood pressure control problem such as orthostatic hypotension or some of the early findings associated with some causes of syncope. some people with adrenal problems or dehydration can have similar results with the test.
i have pulmonary embloism my heart is beating hard and fast. the beat is so hard i feel in my neck is this part of the symptom or is this palpatation?
palpitation is any awareness of your heart beat so yes this is palpitation. fast heart beat can be due to many causes including low blood count low blood oxygen dehydration infection and many others. given your diagnosis of pe low oxygen is suspected and since blood thinners are used to treat it low blood count is also a concern. you need to see your doctor who can run simple tests.
i have low blood pressure & high potassium (blood results) i am fatigued with headaches sore skin and pains in my left leg? i am generally fit.
low bp and high potassium could be due to dehydration. certain medications can cause it. important certain hormonal conditions can cause it. eg adrenal insufficiency. consult endocrinologist
i get weak and sleepy after bowel movement for 2-3 hrs. specially if i have some constipation on prev day. what else cud it be instead of vasovagal?
a vasovagal reaction would not cause this. there is some other cause. you need a careful look over. is there something you eat take or do that is both constipating and making you tired? dehydration comes to mind. are you on a diuretic? are you diabetic and poorly controlled? clearly it's complicated and you need a full evaluation.
is this normal qt interval 335 and qtc 435 and heart rate 104? ecg showed sinus tachycardia
a hr of 104 at rest (sinus tach) is slightly higher than the normal range of hr's between 60-100 at rest. that said there could be plenty of reasons that this coud happen (like anxiety dehydration caffeine pain etc). also anemia hyperthyroidism breathing or pulmonary problems could result in physiologically appropriate faster hr's. inappropriate sinus tach considered if no cause seen.
i felt induce tachycardia and mild chest pain when im on workout after a month off with it. is it angina? or is it normal uncondition for workout?
doubtful you have coronary disease at 29 but nothing is impossible. may be a bit exaggerated for only one month without exercise - unless had been bed-ridden. many other causes as well dehydration acid reflux pulmonary emboli . as will all chest pain - if in doubt best to have it checked out at least once. hard to say without ecg further history and perhaps additional tests.
is a resting heartrate over 100 normal? it hardly ever goes down
"normal" heart rate is 60 to 100. but may also indicate dehydration anemia infection pain drug effect endocrine abnormality (high thyroid low blood sugar high adrenaline) or deconditioning. a general history and physical exam should reveal clues to almost all of these.
i think i have pots when i stand how much should my heart rate go up and how long until it goes down again? resting is usually 60-70 then stand90-100
further assessment is needed to confirm that diagnosis. that increase in heart rate can be caused by anxiety pots dehydration etc.
i'm 21 and since a bad flu 3 months ago i've been having tachycardia and extreme exercise intolerance. ekgs echo and troponins have been normal but potassium is low despite high dietary intake. what could be the causes?
data (ekgs echocardiogram cardiac enzyme studies) suggest a negative workup for cardiac injury. rapid heart beat (tachycardia) and decreased aerobic capacity may or may not be related to your earlier illness. in any event it sounds like you're already being evaluated for these symptoms & that's great! dehydration fever or simple loss of aerobic capacity due to the flu are all possibilities.
im 7 weeks pregnant and have period like cramps since i foundout. i feel faint dizzy and very weak. im also experiencing fast heart rate. what could?
this could be anemia dehydration or low blood pressure causing a fast rhythm; it could also be a supraventricular tachycardia causing you to feel dizzy and faint. please talk to your doctor first and if all checks out you may need a holter or event monitor. if you have a fast rhythm you may need to see a cardiologist or a cardiac electrophysiologist.
i've been having a lot of palpitations lately lasting up to 2 hours (-missed beat ). nothing i do helps. causes?
and mild dehydration can contribute to your symptoms.
i'm just wondering if you're anorexic can it be harder to get your heart rate up while exercising?
usually heart rate is higher in anorexia because of nutrition and relative dehydration.
i have always had high heart beat or palpitation problem. what should i do?
normal heart rate is 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). persistently fast heart rate needs to be evaluated while palpitations are relatively commonplace & don't have as much significance unless associated w/lightheadedness dizziness faintness shortness of breath etc. fast pulse can be due to anemia dehydration overactive thyroid medications etc as well as abnormal heart rhythm. get evaluation.
i woke up this morning with heart palpitations. i am 40 y/o in good health passed a heart stress test about 3-4 months ago. should i be concerned?
palpitations usually refer to rapid heart rate or irregular heart rhythm. there are many causes of both including anxiety sleep apnea caffeine some drugs fever anemia dehydration alcohol withdrawal etc. if this is a recurrent problem it may be helpful to explore this further with your doctor.
is weakness and tachycardia symptoms of dcm?
yes but it's not specific for dcm (dilated cardiomyopathy). bleeding anemia infection dehydration anxiety panic and many other things can cause the same symptoms.
im pretty sure i have a viral ear infection or something. dizzy drunk feeling heart beats fast etc. how can i treat it or when will it go away?
i actually would suggest prompt medical attention. the reason is that you feel drunk (mental status change? ) feel dizzy (may be dehydrated or other) & have rapid heart rate (? tachycardia due to dehydration? ). this could be an ear infection but i would err on the side of caution. take care.
i have lupus sle. i've been very dehydrated for over 2 mths causing my heart rate to spike to 148. i drink approx. 90 fl oz/day but only urinate once a day. what should i be concerned about?
your spike in heart rate is not due to dehydration. sle can involve the kidneys & heart & many more systems. regular check up of kidney functions needed. you need to be followed by a rheumatologigt if possible or a good internist.
i keep having funny turns were i go dizzy heart beats fast sweat profusely then black out it's happened twice today x?
a physician asap. have you check your blood sugar? are you alone? black out meaning loss of consciousness or near fainting episodes? if you have history of early am dizziness after weaking up you probably have autonomic dysfunction. dehydration could worse ad and give you the symptoms. another possibility is osmolar state low sugar infection heart attack. please call a friend a go to er.
i have muscle pain tinggling sensations increased heart rate and tiredness what could be the problem?
those symptoms can have a wide range of diagnoses. anything from simple dehydration and over-exertion/lack of sleep to more serious thyroid heart or kidney problems. you should be evaluated by your doctor and have blood work done.
i think i do have postural tachycardia syndrome. what should i do? what can cause this? can losartan do this?
the cause is unknown. losartan doesn't cause it. dehydration makes it worse. drinking fluids and eating salt makes it better. in time most people get better - may take a year for some.
i get bouts of tachycardia when overtired climb steep stairs/hills under stress or after hot showers. is this heart or asthma related?
there are many possibilities: dehydration anemia asthma medication (albuterol) the asthma itself an unrelated heart condition and others. best to sort it out in person with your doctor.
i have a fast heart and a slower heart beat at the sametime what does that mean?
by at the same time? low follow by fast? any other symptoms? a better history and physical exam needed by your physician. possible causes caffeine energy drinks dehydration hyperthyroid state anxiety/panic attacks or arrhythmias. get an ekg.
is a normal ekg 48 hour holter and echocardiogram enough to say my heart is functioning normally? even with tachycardia/ dizzy/ palpitations?
you are ok. at your age i will say the probability of you having a heart problem is almost zero. i will add a stress test to see how you react to exercise. also thyroid levels. causes are: excess caffeirne energy drinks cold medicines dehydration streets drugs like marihuana etc. are you having those palpitations after changing position from sitting to standing? like in pots. stay calm and.
i have a resting heart rate of 104 i am 16 and 125 lbs. i am female and i get very dizzy when i stand. some blurred vision?
i don't have your height but i am assuming your weight is within a bmi of 20-25 and you are not anorexic. my daughter is 17 and weight 122 at 5'4". many possibilities. excess caffeine and energy drinks dehydration malnutrition cold medicine street drugs like marihuana hyperthyroidism diabetes pregnancy dysautonomia. talk to your parents and seek medical attention asap.
i have a resting heart rate of 104 i am 16 and 125 lbs. i am female and i get very dizzy when i stand. some blurred vision?
temporary blurred vision and dizziness when standing points to orthostatic hypotension and then a compensatory increased heart rate (tachycardia). try avoiding dehydration and increasing your salt intake. if you have the opportunity to get your blood pressure checked while laying sitting and standing (with the school nurse maybe? ) that may be helpful.
i had an echo and a 2-5 min stress test wasnt long i'm 18 male excercise alot! heart rest rate is 100-130 usually high. cardiologist said i'm fine!?
your echo and stress test was negative. are you overweight? daytime sleepiness point toward sleep apnea. also can give increase hr. if heart ok then increase resting hr can happen b/c lack of physical conditioning excess coffee and energy drinks dehydration cold meds street drugs like marihuana hyperthyroidism arrhythmias anabolic steroids etc. stay with your primary care doctor.
i measure my blood pressure 3 times a day. however i get very anxious when reading. does anxiety cause blood pressure to rise? how much? heart rate g
blood pressure can be affected by many things including anxiety dehydration stimulants like caffeine. there is a phenomenon called "white coat hypertension" in which people look like they have high blood pressure but it's really the anxiety of being at the doctors office.
i woke up this morning to a heart rate of over 150. what would cause this?
would be a serious condition to rule out but also dehydration anemia hyperthyroidism. call your doctor to discuss when you should be seen.
is it normal to have a heart rate in the 120's when you're sick with bronchitis? mine has been in the 120s for about 15 hours now.
it's unlikely but possible. bronchitis itself should not do it. bit if you have fever dehydration or using certain inhalers as allbuterol may cause to increase your heart rate. it's important to find out asap what is causing your heart rate go up to 120 and return it to normal. it's dangerous to keep your heart rate at that high pace.
what else can i do for ice pick headaches other than use a beta-blocker?
there are many treatments both medical and nutritional to help with cluster headache or migraine. decreasing stress avoiding stimulants such as caffeine and nicotine and avoiding dehydration are a start. many people get rebound headaches from taking pain medication regularly. these can be severe like a migraine or a cluster cycle headache. lastly there are a number of classes of medication.
is an average heartrate of 98 to 110 beats considered high?
heart rate of 90 to 110 at rest is high could be secondary to stress excess adrenaline coffee or dehydration.
why does my heart rate stay elevated for 2-3 hours after exercise?
resting heart rate is mediated by your vagus nerve. an abnormal value for the recovery of heart rate is defined as a reduction of 12 beats per minute or less from the heart rate at peak exercise. persistently elevated heart rate after exercise may be a reflection of decreased vagal activity due to medications or medical conditions dehydration or heat exhaustion.
what causes tachycardia?
many things can cause tachycardia: medications lack of medications street drugs withdrawal from drugs hormone problems infections stress pain life heart disease dehydrations normal variant. . see your doctor to have the cause individually explored and treated as necessary. good luck.
what could cause an increase heart rate even w no activity with a 23 yr old?
many things can cause tachycardia: medications lack of medications street drugs withdrawal from drugs hormone problems infections stress pain life heart disease blood clot in lungs deconditioning dehydrations normal variant. . see your doctor to have the cause individually explored and treated as necessary. good luck.
what are the signs for having a heart palputations?
palpitation is a vague subjective term used when people feels the heart is going too fast in their chest. may be normal or abnormal. it may be caused by caffeine stimulants medicines bleeding dehydration real arrhythmias or diseases of the heart fever but it's very common in panic attacks or anxiety.
is it normal to have 109-126 heart rate in the 9th month of pregnancy? and blood pressure between:142/80-129/74?
it's normal to have an elevated heart rate in pregnancy especially toward the end. any blood pressure > 140 / 90 needs to be evaluated by physician but i'm assuming that your doctor already knows your blood pressure? make sure you're well hydrated (pee should be clear colored not dark yellow) dehydration can sometimes lead to an elevated heart rate. if on propranolol speak with physician.
which treatment works the best and fastest for tachycardia?
it depends on the type & cause. an ekg will determine the type of tachycardia. if it's occurs with normal conduction treatment is directed at reducing factors like fever pain infection anxiety dehydration etc. if it is an abnormal tachycardia originating in the atria or ventricles treatment varies depending on the specifics.
what would cause your pulse to remain over 100bpm at rest with no history of heart disease?
dehydration caffeine anxiety anemia high thyroid hormone levels are a few. meds like albuterol can also. amphetamines can cause tachycardia for over a day. it sounds like you might be most concerned with arrythmias like atrial fibrillation flutter or others. your physician will evaluate possible causes and treat or refer you to a specialist.
what would cause your pulse to remain over 100bpm at rest with no history of heart disease?
dehydration excessive thyroid hormone anemia. .
what would cause a sudden srapid hearbeat and pvcs?
many factors. stress medication sometimes no apparent reason. electrolyte imbalance dehydration hypoglicemia and so on just to name a few. mostly it is benign but a doctor visit should be warranted if this episodes have the tendency to repeat.
why might i have rapid heart rate and my blood pressure goes up i experiece rapid heart beat uncontrollable shaking dry mouth dehydration tired and chills and cold feeling and fear and anxiety
i'm a dds but you need to visit your md about your symptoms. you could be developing symptoms of acute or chronic anxiety disorder. all of the symptoms can be side effects of your body producing adreniline at times that aren't natural or when you dont need it. tell your md about possible recent new stresses in your life. good luck and there are meds that can help you immeditely. good luck.
why might i have rapid heart rate and my blood pressure goes up i experiece rapid heart beat uncontrollable shaking dry mouth dehydration tired and chills and cold feeling and fear and anxiety
you may be dealing with low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) medication/drugs side effects and/or a panic or anxiety attacks. you should visit your primary care provider for a complete work up diagnosis and treatment. all the best.
i recently felt faint after exercise. one of tye medications i take is bumetanide. i took this medication along with other anti-hypertensive medications?
faintness would likely be from dehydration from taking a strong diuretic in addition to multiple other blood pressure lowering medications. listen to your body and consider using life style change and frequent movement through the day to manage stress skillfully. stress is a potent cause of high bp. this will stabilize the autonomic nervous system and lead to improved health.
what can cause dizziness and lightheadedness and chest pains but ekg is fine as well as blood pressure? have totally passed out and couldn't see
this could be an intermittent dysrythmia/arrythmia and could also be a heart valve issue (less likley). it could also be dehydration anxiety and some other more obscure diagnosis. get over to your doctor or emergency room and get checked out. if this occurs again go to the er or call 911.
i was having sex earlier&when i came close to ejaculating i got dizzy and felt pressure in my head heart pounding fast i ejaculated & nearly fainted?
this is likely related to a vasovagal reflex caused by multiple factors. but you could be prone to it. dehydration that may be due to excessive alcohol or coffee drinking may predispose to it.
why is my blood pressure low but heart rate fast?
if your pulse is fast enough it would make your bp drop- usually over 150 in adults. how fast have you measured it to be? some things can make the pulse fast and the bp low like hemorrhage dehydration fever/sepsis heart attack thyroid excess out of control diabetes various drugs to name a few. how's your general health?
why is an elevated heart rate alone not always a valid indicator of effective aerobic-training?
we use target heart rate as guideline to tailor aerobic training and calculating of energy utilization. elevated heart rate is a poor indicator of effective aerobic training as many variable affects hr including deconditioning anemia pain euphoria drugs dehydration. how slowly the heart rate ramps up during aerobic exercise and how rapidly it declines to baseline are better predictor.
what would cause rapid heart beat dizziness and blurred vision when standing in heat a long time?
dehydration causes low blood pressure. the heart beats faster to compensate.
what can cause a rapid heart beat?
dehydration causes low blood pressure. the heart beats faster to compensate. normal exertion should increase heart rate. thyroid disease may cause it. and there are many abnormalities of the hearts electrical system that may cause a rapid heart rate.
why am i having rapid heart beat and breathing problems all of a sudden on stairs. i did ok a year ago at 60?
dehydration causes low blood pressure. the heart beats faster to compensate. normal exertion should increase heart rate. thyroid disease may cause it. and there are many abnormalities of the hearts electrical system that may cause a rapid heart rate. atral fibrillation is common in your age group.
what's the difference between a fast and slow heart beat in terms of indication of health?
slow hr could be due to physical conditioning and indicative of good health or it could be pathologic. fast heart rate almost always indicate some underlying issue and suggest either deconditiionibg dehydration anemia pain to name a few.
what are the causes of rapid heart beat on exertion?
dehydration causes low blood pressure. the heart beats faster to compensate. normal exertion should increase heart rate. thyroid disease may cause it. and there are many abnormalities of the hearts electrical system that may cause a rapid heart beats.
why does the heart rate increase when you have a cold?
stress of any type increases heart rate illness is on the stress list also fevers diarrhea vomiting cause dehydration low blood volume pump needs to speeds up to compensate.
is high pulse rate between 100-130 normal during pregnancy? i am in my 36 th week of pregnancy. how does it affect the baby? my bp seems to be fine
your heart needs to pump a tremendously increased amount of blood late in pregnancy. dehydration may be one reason your pulse is fast. make sure you are getting enough fluids. also your doctor should check for anemia and thyroid problem both not uncommon in young women. this rate of pulse will not affect your baby.
i've been having pvc's for the last 5 days in a row yesterday i had them all day. i am 4 weeks and 3 days pregnant. should i be concern or this is another sign of pregnancy? thanks.
this is a hard question without additional information. i would ask you to consult your ob. this is not normal. potential causes include too much caffeine nicotine (hopefully your not smoking and pregnant) dehydration and mitral valve prolapse. given this is pregnancy three for you i presume this is new for you. this too increases my concern. control for common causes and see an ob.
is it normal to have a rapid increase heartbeat and fast pulse when standing up or doing light activity?
dehydration and autonomic dysfunction are common causes of this. if increasing ones fluid intake eliminates the rapid heartbeat upon standing it suggests the former. however there are less common causes including anemia; therefore one should see ones doctor for a careful history and physical exam to elucidate the underlying cause of the heart rate increase.
why does your heart rate increase when you have a cold or the flu?
heart rate increases with fever. it increases with pain (which usually accompanies flu). it increases with dehydration which happens more quickly than normal if you have a fever and aren't drinking well enough. it increases with combinations of all of the above. rarely it happens because the virus that is making you sick effects your heart directly.
what would cause a? slow heart beat all of a sudden?
an abrupt onset of a slow heartbeat has many causes including a vasovagal reaction (fainting spell) a heart attack severe dehydration sclerosis of the electrical system of the heart digoxin toxicity to name a few. the key is to describe the situation in which it occurs. helpful studies may include an ecg an echocardiogram blood tests. a good history is essential. discuss with your md.
when i have a hangover and sleep i wake up suddenly with my heart racing. what's going on?
for heart or any organ also may lead to dehydration which may raise your heart rate.
what would make an anorexic person have high potassium (hyperkalemia)?
low sodium from induced vomiting or dehydration or abuse of diuretics.
what could be a reason that my pulse is high and my blood pressure low?
if your pulse is fast enough it would make your bp drop- usually over 150 in adults. how fast have you measured it to be? some things can make the pulse fast and the bp low like hemorrhage dehydration fever/sepsis heart attack thyroid excess to name a few. how's your general health?
what could be causing my elevated heartbeat?
elevated heart rate may be due to various causes including: fever pain anxiety drugs medications anemia dehydration & infection. there also may be intrinsic disorders of the heart rhythm called arrhythmias. if the condition persists an evaluation would be prudent.
why do i wake up with my heart racing?
tachycardia (fast heart beat) can be caused by stress anemia infection fever dehydration medication low blood sugar hyperthyroidism and many many other causes. some causes are problems with the heart others cause your normal to beat too fast. time to call your doctor and get checked out!
what could cause rapid heart beat and flushing after drinking alcohol?
alcohol causes many health problems such as dehydration that can cause a rapid heart rate. there also is a condition known as the holiday heart syndrome that happens the day after a heavy night of drinking this is usually a sign of mild withdrawels if these are happening to you see a doctor anyway to do an ekg and other tests to make sure its not more serous.
i have flu. i have no history of heart deceases. my heart rate is a bit higher as normal. is it normal during flu or is this a concern?
expected with rise in body temperature and dehydration. some adequate hydration will be helpful
what causes heart racing upon waking each morning?
mosr common cause would be mild dehydration but if adequate does solve this issue please see your physician for a more in depth evaluation.
what could cause irregular heartbeats and chest pains in a 20 y. o.?
mist likely premature beats which can be exacerbated by dehydration & stimulants. consider getting checked out so can get these symptoms resolved.
what could cause me to feel dizzy my heart beating fast and moody?
dehydration is one consideration but fast heart rates can cause dizziness. please consult with a physician.
what can cause fast heart beat?
benign things like dehydration or more serious causes. . please discuss with your physician.
in icu have protien on brain having sezieres heart rate goes up high when sitting up drs not sure what's wrong so what are some of the possibilities?
to say you have "protein on brain" probably means you've had an abnormal spinal tap - possibly implying infection demyelenation or immune-dysfunction mechanism. to say you have seizures means your brain is irritable from something. and high cardiac rate when sitting might mean dehydration or autonomic dysfunction. overall not a minor problem. work with people who can actually see you.
ive had some strange palpitations and my bp when lying down is 120/68 bpm 70 when i stand my heart rate goes up to 135 bpm and my bp is 94/64 causes?
your blood pressure change while standing is common. the body must adjust to keep blood flowing to the brain with gravity when you stand. brief dizziness may occur sometimes suggesting dehydration. need more info. on palpitations to better understand their relationship or cause. for example skipped beats beating out of rhythm rapid heart beat chaotic irregular rhythm hard beats?
what is the pulse rate for a man of age 48?
nl hr is 60-100. this is at rest. a variety of factors can impact on that in individual patients. a well-tuned athletic heart might have resting rates that ate lower and rate-slowing meds might expectedly slow a heart rate. physiologic factors like thyroid status can either slow (hypothyroid) or speed hr (hyperthyroid). anemia dehydration physiologic or emotional stress can also raise hr.
what might lead to tachycardia when standing and bradycardia when laying down?
i would be interested to know what the actual heart rates were when you stood. it would also be important to know if you had a blood pressure change when you stood and if you are becoming dizzy with standing. possible explanations for this scenario might be dehydration medication that causes low blood pressure or dysautonomia (e. g. pots). recommend discussing this with your physician!
what can cause heart palpitations?
dehydration stress arrythmia etc. get checked out.
if my heart rate laying down is 66bpm and sitting down it is 78bpm. which one of these is considered my resting heart rate?
both are. hr rises when upright to keep blood pumped out of legs and toward vital organs. if it stays more than 20 beats higher than when lying down it can mean dehydration. resting hr just means that you're not doing any activity.
is normal during a cold with very low fever to have diarrhea and high hr at rest (87 to 97). if yes how long it could stay? txs
diarrhea can occur with virus. diarrhea/ fever causes dehydration (increased heart rate)drink fluids- water alternate with gaterade/apple juice. avoid dairy. try white rice bananas toast apple sauce. consider probiotics ( saccharomyces boulardii). if > 8 watery bm a day > 2 days increasing fever worse abdominal pain bloody diarrhea see a doctor/er/ urgent care. avoid asa products
i have the cold/flu and usually my resting heart rate is 54-55 (i'm 23) now my heart is 95-100 lying down. i feel weak i'm worried i rarely fallsick?
fever can increase heart rate. try taking ibuprofen to lower the fever. additionally dehydration can cause increased heart rate. it sounds like you need to be evaluated by a doctor and treated.
why do people with addison's disease have low cortisol and high potassium?
low cortisol is the definition of adrenal insufficiency. high k is due to a combination of aldosterone deficiency in true primary ai (addison's) and dehydration.
i have been monitoring my heart rate closely at home. my standing heart rate is 145 and 5 minutes later my resting heart rate is 88. am i ok?
for some reason you are orthostatic - when heart rate increases with sitting or standing up. this is usually associated with low blood volume - bleeding dehydration (diarrhea vomiting) or internal volume loss (fluid in the belly usually due to low albumine state). if this is sudden (started within last week) - seek urgent care. if that been going on for a long time see your doctor.
i am extremely tired. my resting hr is 108 and will not go below 90. it has been four hours after i was active and i am still tired. causes?
something is keeping you in a hyperactive or agitated state and it needs to be addressed via labwork ekg and physical examination. possibilities include anemia dehydration hyperthyroidism hypoglycemia (after exercise) anxiety and/or malnourishment. please get medical attention to address this as soon as you can. take care.
is it normal for a heart rate to jump 30 bpm from laying down to sitting up? (ie: 72 to 102+) and stay elevated from walking around & eating? i am 28.
craig this is called a postural tachycardia and is usually due to dehydration. be sure to drink plenty of non caffeinated fluids. other conditions such as anemia can also cause it so if it doesn't go away or you get lightheaded with it see your doctor as you may need lab tests. hope this helps!
is it normal for a heart rate to jump 30 bpm from laying down to sitting up? (ie: 72 to 102+) and stay elevated from walking around & eating? i am 28.
no this is not normal. this may indicate a postural blood pressure drop and your heart is trying to compensate. this may occur with dehydration and salt depletion. it may occur with venous disease in the legs. this requires some action. start with extra hydration and extra salt intake. also measure your bp lying then standing. repeat several times. if persists see a doctor.
i do light exercises like running 4. 0 mph on the treadmill and my heart rate is always in 190-200 why? . i am 19 years old
most common reason is being out of shape. when body isn't accustomed to activity it struggles to keep up. persistent &gradual increase in activity results in better conditioning &slower heart rate. other causes are caffeine &other stimulants dehydration hyperactive thyroid abnormal heart rhythms &dysautonomia. these usually cause higher than normal heart rate at rest too. talk to your doctor.
i have mono and i can see my pulse in my stomach also i'm having a hard time focusing on things is this normal? my chest also feels tight a lot and
may be able to see their pulse in the abdomen when lying down but usually this suggests that the heart is beating more dynamically which would happen with fever or dehydration or an adrenaline surge if you are anxious. push fluids even though you have sore throat. if unable please let your doctor know about your symptoms especially if your tight chest and focusing don't improve with fluids.
why does alcohol cause heart palpitation?
it depletes the body of magnesium which is essential for normal heart rhythm. because it is a diuretic it can lead to dehydration which adversely affects the electrolytes necessary for proper heart function.
why does innapropriate sinus tachycardia occur? i'm ill with mine on bisoprolol 10mg highest dose just want a cure so i can be normal and go to work!
inapproriate sinus tachycardia typically signals in imbalance in the sympathetic nervous signals --the "fight or flight" reflex. it is a sinus rate that is excessive without provocation. it is important to make sure that reversible causes of sympathetic nerve stimulation are ruled out--such as dehydration anmia excessive thyroid hormone anxiety. beta blockers first. clonidine might help too.
i have a pulse rate that varies between 108 and 120 while resting in bed. is this normal? help?
normal pr is 60 - 100. but if ur pr is high lying in bed it must have a reason e. g. : anxiety dehydration anemia or less likely chf. so check with a cardiologist.
i have normally low hr at rest (55 to 65) im not athletic. since yesterday my hr at rest is 105 to 120. what should that mean? 4days before ekg ok. txs
something's up. if your hr remains >100 an ekg should be done to confirm normal mechanism. if nl then a search for non-cardiac causes is indicated: fever pain anxiety infection hemorrhage stress dehydration etc. if your hr has returned to normal i wouldn't pursue it.
what should be the resting heart rate for a 31 yr old?
normal resting heart rates are designated as being 60-100. deviations from this can occur under various physiologic states however and might not indicate any cardiac abnormality (example increased vagal tone as seen in episodes of nausea might slow hr below 60). anxiety dehydration anemia fever and pain might make a resting heart rate >100. thyroid issues (hypo w slow hr hyper w fast hr).
why would my pulse be 127. per dr records it has been running like 110 the last ten months. my blood pressure is fine. i do believe i have bad anxiety?
your pulse can respond to exercise anxiety medications dehydration thyroid problems heart arrhythmias and many other things. you could also be anxious in the doctor's office where you got the 110 pulse rate multiple times. if it's now sustained at 127 at home and you have not been using medications or exercising please contact your physician for a fuller evaluation.
what would cause a fast heart rate and dizziness when standing up?
without examining you or having any testing the most likely diagnosis is orthostatic hypotension. it can be related to simple dehydration or sometimes something more serious. you should see you doctor. they can get some information by checking your vital signs while laying down sitting and standing. after that and a good history and exam you'll have a better idea.
what can cause severe dehydration and low potassium even when you can eat normal and haven't been sick?
abnormal fluid losses from your gi tract or urine can lead to this. not sure if you have been having vomiting or diarrhea; if not a careful review of your medications as would other tests including urine studies are in order. your doctor can help sort this out after taking a complete history and physical exam. in the meantime stay well hydrated and liberalize dietary potassium. best of luck!
what can cause severe dehydration and low potassium even when you can eat normal and haven't been sick?
dehydration and low potassium (hypokalemia) can be caused by multiple things: medications laxatives diuretics magnesium deficiency excessive etho use (in sickness: vomiting diarrhea renal disease advanced diabetes and more).
i had an appendectomy almost 3 weeks ago and now i'm having diarrhea. i have also been having trouble with a racing heart beat.
diarrhea after any abdominal operation can result from many reasons medication side effects residual infection in abdominal cavity (abscess leak etc) secondary infections like cdiff and more. racing heart beat can result from pain anxiety infection ( leak abscess etc) dehydration electrolyte abnormalities etc amongst others. combination of two is worrisome. talk to your surgeon asap.
i'm 23wks preg and i'm having headaches heartrate ranges from 98-111bpm heartburn is increased and baby is kicking is it normal? i take 2ltrs+ water
heart rate can increase in second trimester due to increase in blood volume. headache may be migraine ( more common first trimester) tension stress hormones. dehydration or foods keep a diary. do you have ankle swelling? blurred vision? since you are > 20 weeks check your blood pressure and urine for protein you may have pre-eclampsia. see your doctor/ ob over next 24 hours.
what causes strong bounding palpitations? ekg came back normal. doc ordered chest 1v.
i like to distinguish between a strong heart beat vs. fast or irregular heart beat. the second often requires monitoring which a doctor can order to see exactly what's going on. if it is a strong heart beat but normal pulse then sometimes it can be from excess adrenaline (catecholamines). this can be from coffee anxiety dehydration. i usually check thyroid function too.
who can help answer questiosn or provide me with infomration about a rapid heart rate?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
what is the treatment of rapid heart rate in infants? please help.
first you must define rapid as an infant may normally run rates of 90-180/min in various states of activity. if the rate is high for the activity you identify the reason for a rapid rate and fix it. for dehydration you give fluids for fever you reduce the fever. for infection you treat the infection. for a heart related issue you must identify the problem to treat it.
why is it with minimal activity my heart races? ekg normal i do have strong bounding pulse.
heart rate increases to supply more blood to tissues. this can be exaggerated by dehydration; anemia; increased demands - such as infection endocrine disorders; certain medications; lung disease; circulation disorders; and several others. the most common cause in our society is probably deconditioning. if no other symptoms than fast heart rate and all else checks out incr. exercise.
i saw my heart doctor yesterday he up my beta blocker but i am still having fast heart beats is there anything else i can do to help me?
make sure underlying cause of fast heart rate have been ruled out and treated such as hyperthyroid dehydration? beta-blockers ometimes simply mask underlying cause which ought to be addressed.
i did echocardio i have mvp & extrasystole. i take magnesium. small effort my heart beating 120 min and 2-3 extrasystole. can i do sport? dangerous?
mvp is generally not dangerous. relatively increased heart rate with very mild exertion can be signs of dehydration anemia (low blood count) or thyroid issues and a high adrenalin state related to stress and anxiety. also could be a sign of being out of shape. would address above issues with your doctor. hydrate start exercise slowly and add stress reduction eg breathing yoga meditation.
what are reasons for tachycardia?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
what is the normal heart rate for a fetus at 37 weeks. my daughter's heart rate has usually been 130-140 max. now its 160-163. ?
the normal fetal heart rate for a fetus is 110-160. if you are having the heart rate checked at your obs office they might have just caught the heart rate during an acceleration. maternal fever or dehydration can cause a baseline change in fetal heart rate but this will correct with reduction of the fever or rehydration.
i have heart palpitations. ekg was ok. low iron (not anemic anymore though). could it be mild dehydration? seems to improve after excess water intake.
dehydration is very bad for your body 80% of your body is water also water is essential for all chemical reactions in your body. so it is dehydration the cause of this heart palpitations
i'm 7weeks pregnant very weak can't keep anything down not even water very shaky and my heartbeat has been very fast can't do anything but lay down.
please get to either er or urgent care right away. it seems that you are getting dehydrated and need immediate attention to treat dehydration and also to help with your other symptoms of nausea and vomiting.
i'm 7weeks pregnant very weak can't keep anything down not even water very shaky and my heartbeat has been very fast can't do anything but lay down.
the nausea and vomiting of early pregnancy can cause dehydration and electrolyte problems which can be serious. as severe as yours sound you need to get in touch with your doctor. you may need iv fluids and prescription meds. in milder cases frequent small meals the avoidance of spicey foods and foods with strong smells ginger dry crackers and accupressure bands can help.
is a fast heart rate normal with stomach flu? 99. 8 body temp and drinking plenty of water. pulse 90-100.
both fever and mild dehydration may cause tachycardia or a fast heart rate.
why would it be that my pulse is so high constantly?
high pulse typically occurs in response to physiologic stressors. some of these can be apparent (pain anemia dehydration excessive thyroid anxiety) and some can be inapparent (excessive sympathetic tone arrhythmia inappropriate sinus tachycardia). an ecg or an event monitor might help along w a doc to review all the data.
what causes taccycardia? i don't do drugs.
it varies from benign conditions like sinus tachycardia from exercise toconditions with dehydration or anemia hyperthyroidism and cardiac arrthymias. get checked out.
how can i cure palpitation and fast beating pulse at age of 20 unmarried female?
have to know exactly what type of heart rhythm you have to be able to say how to fix it. if its just fast but regular common causes include anxiety hyperthyroidism and dehydration. if it comes only in discrete episodes common causes include panic attack and less commonly genetic heart rhythm problems or rumors that make adrenaline. rule out the common causes first with your pcp.
if you bp is lower than average normally what night cause a sudden drop resulting in feeling faint weak or dizzy. or could anxiety be the cause?
there are various reasons for your bp to drop below a normal range (dehydration anemia infection orthostatic). i am not sure how low your bp was or if you actually checked it during this episode that you described. anxiety would not lower your blood pressure. hope this helps.
while in icu w/irregular heartbeat &chest pain i had a thrusting heartbeat. while trying to draw blood they was never able to get blood? why
number of possibilities- low blood pressure/ dehydration difficult to access vessels or vessels that move or easily blow once found inexperienced staff attempting to isolate the vessel- just to name a few. may oral not have been related to your irregular heart beat/ chest pain.
why does water lower my heart rate?
if you're dehydrarated which causes a faster heart rate drinking a lot of water and correcting your dehydration will correct and slow your heart rate.
what would cause my irregular heart beats to be worse and more often when laying down on my back?
first we need to know what you mean by irregular hr. most common cause at your age will be extra beats in the form of premature atrial or ventricular contractions. due to caffeine energy drinks dehydration drugs like otc cold meds or streets drugs like marihuana hyperthyroid state anxiety/panic attacks. how was ur ana test? doubt heart problem but ekg stress test indicated. see a doctor.
what would cause a very fast heart rate when standing or walking even at a slow pace? it doesn't happen every day but when it does my pulse is 120+
other symptoms associated like chest pain dizziness sweating tremors headaches fear sensation? possible causes at your age are: coffee and energy drink dehydration cold medicines street drugs like marihuana hyperthyroidism arrhythmias anxiety attacks and etc. please see a physician or write back to talk more.
what heart conditions can cause ectopic heart beats?
conditions can cause it. like coffee and energy drinks dehydration alcohol smoking cold medicine street drugs like marihuana lack of physical conditioning/ obesity hyperthyroidism anxiety attacks to mention few. heart conditions like angina hypertension conduction delays etc. or just can be normal for a person. i get pvc's after exercise. normal echo and stress test. see your physician.
heart palpitations from potpourri-incense. is that possible?
there are a number of things that can cause palpitations mostly they are things that are stimulants such as caffeine and ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate). however other factors can cause palpitations such as dehydration and fatigue. so although unlikely it is possible that incense can cause these.
i worked out for 8 mins n then took a rest. i felt like i'll faint. had headache. why is this so? is that due to lack of nutrition or something?
can be due to a wide variety of reasons including de conditioning from a sedentary lifestyle relative dehydration pregnancy anemia thyroid disorders heart/ lung problems and many many other things. your personal physician can help you sort this out!
how to get a fast heart beat besides exercising and drinking caffeine?
thinking about things can raise hr - or lower. pain fear. many stimulants and meds can raise heart rate. peripheral vasodilation as in heat exposure. low inhaled oxygen content. a good burn or a good anemia. a pulmonary embolism or dehydration or heart attack. none of these are as good as exercise and coffee.
how to get a fast heart beat besides exercising and drinking caffeine?
fever anemia pain anxiety panic/fright asthma inhalers amphetamines cocaine hemorrhage excess thyroid hormone infection epinephrine dehydration congestive heart failure carbon monoxide poisoning - there are many more: i can't think of them all!
intense palpitations. heart rate ct scan ekg w/pvc blood work normal only slightly raised d dimer also been sick with virus. any ideas o/than anxiety?
left wrist on thumb' s side. get a rate count over 1 minute or half a minute. also feel if regular/ irregular. your symptoms suggest mild dehydration if you had a recent viral illness. tachycardia or a fast heart rate is expected in febrile states and/or dehydration. anxiety will make it worse. stay well hydrated talk to your doctor about your symptoms have numbers for your pulse.
when i stand my heart rate goes up to 120. i get weak and achy and my body sways. could this be because i haven't exercised? i'm scared to.
it is not normal for an otherwise healthy 20 year old to have a sustained heart rate of 120 especially with the symptoms of fatigue noted. this should be evaluated by a health care provider to check for a type of anemia dehydration or thyroid disorder to name a few possibilities that may require treatment.
why do i constantly feel faint & headaches when i sit up or even walking around from a laying position. this has been happening for at least 3 months?
you probably have a low bp -- and that can be caused by dehydration malnutrition drug abuse and other sickness -- please see your doctor for help!
how come the breathing and pulse rate increases as the length of exercise increases?
with prolonged exercise breathing rate increases to meet the oxygen demands of working muscle. heart rate increases but it does not plateau. a steady increase in heart rate is seen with prolonged exercise due to 'cardiac drift'. the heart rate increases in order to maintain your cardiac output in the face of decreased 'preload' due to dehydration and blood diverting to skin for heat loss.
how can i prevent hypovolemic cardiac arrest?
hypovolemic cardiac arrest is rare - usually from trauma (alot of blood loss all at once). in general a person should try to stay "euvolemic" - not too much fluid on board and not too little - dehydration. but even a fairly dehydrated person is more likely to have cardiac issues from blood electrolyte issues and not from hypovolemia.
why does my blood pressure and heart rate go up when i haven't eaten or eaten enough?
minor variations in blood pressure are very common and usually physiologic. when someone eats less it would be more likely to have lower blood pressure due to less salt intake as well as some dehydration.
what is the bpm for rapid heart beat?
a heart rate (hr) over 100 bpm is rapid or called tachycardia. this alone does not mean it is dangerous. many conditions will cause you hr to increase. with exercise or activity your hr will rise over 100. at rest your hr may increase for reasons that are not related to heart problems. ex: a fever or are in pain. also medical conditions like anemia dehydration thyroid etc. check with your doc.
how i can prevent svt attack(super ventricula techacardia)?
svt is an intermittent short circuit in the electrical conduction system. adrenergic states can activate it (illness dehydration etc. ). this is treatable with medicines or ablation & vagal maneuvers can break svt. talk to a cardiologist to examine your options.
i have sinus probs for 4wks now. i noticed my pulse rate has gone up to 110. do i have infection? not on antibiotics doc gave me irbesartan 2wks ago.
sinus problems could be due to a number of things like infection allergies non allergic rhinitis polyps etc. if you are using decongestants that could explain your elevated heart rate. caffeine stress or dehydration can be adding to your tachycardia. irbesartan is for blood pressure control but does not slow down a rapid heart beat. contact your doctor asap to let them know you are having issue
white pigment & sml lump under left eye wrinkled appearance of fingertips sore hip with leg pain sore lymph nodes& tiredness low potassium diarrhe?
a thorough exan and blood test. there are multiple possibilities including a stye viral infection muscle strain dehydration kidney / adrenal problem etc. take care!
when standing my head has a huge pressure feeling and hurts bad and my heart skips and beats hard. why is this? low bp and sinus tarchydia.
if your blood pressure drops and heart increases on standing this is concerning. it can be as simple as dehydration or complex diagnosis of autonomic dysfunction where you body doesn't responds properly. you may wanna consult you doctor and get bp checked in different positions.
how do palpitations affect you?
palpitations could be normal responses or abnormal from pathological condns. it is unpleasant awareness of your own hear beats. pregnancy pain fever fright fear anxiety are physiological condns. but extreme anxiety -panic attacks medication side effect with palp. cardiac conditions anemia throid excess low bp blood loss with shock dehydration -extreme are common conditions with fast hear rate.
i also experience extremely fast heart beat when i'm resting. sometimes it wakes me up and i have to catch my breath. 35yrs old rate never under 98.
normal heart rates are 60-100 beats per minute. if resting heart rate consistently over 100 then you may have: a) thyroid problem b)dehydration c)be taking some medication that drives up heart rate such as adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) caffeine or c)a disorder named syndrome of inappropriate sinus tachycardia.
i took a 1 does 40mg prednisone 10 hrs ago for ear fluid and my heart is pounding. hr is 97. bp is normal. is this normal? will it return to normal?
prednisone can cause palpitations. it also can cause dehydration and excess urination. try to rest and push the fluids. follow up with your doctor if you are on a prednisone taper. he may want to switch to a medrol (methylprednisolone) dose pak which may be better tolerated.
what can constant dizziness be from? i had an ekg bp and vitamin deficiency tests all normal. it's a faint feeling and sometimes a sudden spinning.
we try to distinguish between vertigo (spinning) and lightheadedness or "faint feeling". vertigo often is caused by a problem with the semicircular canals in the inner ear; lightheadedness often is the result of dehydration and other causes of a low blood pressure typically upon standing. checking ones bp sitting and standing can detect the low bp and it responds to an increase in fluids.
what could be the cause of chronic dehydration with slightly low potassium and sodium? i drink 90oz of water a day and put salt on almost all my food.
the explanation may be complex. albuterol in high doses can cause low blood potassium. otherwise if you are drinking over 90 oz fluid per day and adding salt and are still appearing dehydrated to your practitioner then you must be losing fluid and some na and k from your body somewhere. possibilities are gi skin or kidneys. some kidney dz cause just that: fluid loss na loss and k loss.
what could be the cause of chronic dehydration with slightly low potassium and sodium? i drink 90oz of water a day and put salt on almost all my food.
you're not dehydrated you're diluted. your excessive fluid intake is causing your electrolyte imbalance. eating salt will not raise your serum sodium for physiologic mechanisms that can't be explained here. this is called "dilutional hyponatremia" - you can google it.
heartdoctor says my heart skips bc it's sensitive. i stay away from stimulants. it still skips. chest pains and panic. could it be something he missed?
are common in many people but only a small percentage of people are symptomatic. these are usually benign but inconvenient. stress or stimulants can contribute as well as things like mild dehydration. talk to your physician about possible ways to prevent or treat (if required).
how does dehydration decrease blood pressure and increase heart rate?
in bp is due to the decline in plasma volume. the increase in hr is compensatory to meet the body's needs in this state.
how does dehydration decrease blood pressure and increase heart rate?
dehydration occurs when you have a fluid deficit. either you are not taking in enough fluid think of being on a life raft in the middle of the ocean with no water on board. or you have excessive fluid losses when you have diarrhea. the lack of volume in your arteries causes low blood pressure. your heart has to pump more rapidly to pump out a smaller volume of fluid to the rest of your body.
what to do if heart palpitations after donating blood?
you are most likely suffering a bit of dehydration. you could also be anemic but they should not have let you donate blood if you were anemic. drink extra fluids and add some salt or electrolytes to the water. avoid overexertion for a day or so.
i took 3. 5 grams of niacin yesterday now in severe nausea and tachycardia?
the nausea is most likely a consequence of the niacin and the tachycardia is most likely as a response to your nausea mild dehydration vasodilatation from the niacin and anxiety about the event. this will resolve. check with your health care provider regarding the proper dosing for you for the future.
i am curious of effects this sweetner may have when consumed regularly in gold's standard whey protein powder. high pulse weight loss dehydration?
your question as submitted makes no sense. as docs we don't keep a list of every product sold and their contents. the public site is not a chat room so future submissions are not linked. you can re-submit the question but go back and find out what the sweetener is first.
i woke up with a fever of 101. 2 my blood sugar was elevated i am a diabetic and my pulse rate was 113 is that normal when somebody has a fever thank you?
you need to see a doctor or go to the er. fever indicate infection. infection could make your sugar become really high. your fast heart rate indicate dehydration and sepsis. so go to the er or call your doctor. it could turn serious.
why do i pass out when i have gastrenteritis? i usually suffer from very serious arrythmias chest pressure and fainting spells. what may cause that?
dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities are likely culprits. if you have chronic fainting problems gastroenteritis will likely worsen them.
how can coffee cause palpitations?
caffeine is a stimulant. that means it causes the heart to beat faster; can cause the blood pressure to rise; and also leads to loss of funds and dehydration. these three facts can be dangerous to a person prone to cardiac events.
heart rate 115 otherwise ecg normal what does this mean?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
hoping you can tell me is high heart rate dangerous?
high heart rate more than 100 beats per minute can be a sign of lack of physical conditioning endocrine disease like hyperthyroidism sign/symptom of heart disease dehydration lung disease like asthma/copd drug induced like to much caffeine/ energy drinks chronic disease like liver and renal insufficiency etc. you need a history and physical to evaluate the reason.
i have been dealing with a strong icy feeling like when you eat a strong mint in my throat and chest. i am also dealing with heart palpitations. i had an ekg done on monday that was normal but i am really getting nervous. for the past few months i h
heart problems are very rare at age 28. most common cause of palpitations are anxiety attacks caffeine use smoking sleep deprivation dehydration anemia and drug use. other problems that can present like heart problems include gallbladder attacks heartburn ulcer disease and spasm of the esophagus. the original post was cut off and more information would narrow it down.
what are some of the reasons someone's resting hr could range from 80-100 bpm?
normal heart rates vary considerably from person to person. we consider a normal hr as 60-100 bpm. aerobic conditioning (or lack thereof) fevers or intercurrent illness volume status (ie dehydration etc) all can play a role in the heart rate response as well. 80-100 is in the normal range.
heart beats fast after i stand up and move around. what could be the cause and who should i see?
there are many possible causes from dehydration to anemia to poor conditioning to abnormal heart rhythms. you should see your regular medical doctor for evaluation and if needed a cardiologist.
how long is it ok for a resting heart rate to be at 115?
115 for long time depending on the reason. sinus tachycardia vs supraventricular tachycardia if regular rhythm. if irregular rhythm then it's a more severe arrhythmia. need more info to help you. dehydration hyperthyroid heart attacks anxiety/panic attacks drug induced physical deconditioning obesity few causes. see your doctor for better assessment soon.
heart rate 67bpm i feel flutters in my chest near heart every few minutes for hours at night. i also feel flutters in my abdomen at times too. ?
the flutters that you feel are what are known as palpitations. there are certain tests that your doctor can do to determine what is causing the problem. first you should eliminate any caffeine from your diet. second avoid dehydration. third do not take decongestants like sudafed. fourth sleep deprivation should be avoided. fifth emotional stress should be minimized. also see your doc!
i want to know if protein supplements can damage my liver if my ldh levels are higher than normal? or if i have tachicardia thanks.
safe even water which is the majority of our body molecules/mass; too little we die of dehydration too much we die of edema. similar for everything else thus the concept of dose per unit time. yet differences in individual situation/characteristics is always another big issue. study: <link> your primary medical decision maker is always yourself.
what makes heart rate increase during exercise besides epinephrine?
humidity altitude oxygen tension thermal are just a few examples. dehydration as well as increasing the core body temp are very influential on raising your heart rate. how good your fitness level is also important.
how does brain damage cause taccycardia? how is it treated?
while severe brain damage might cause tachycardia this would be most unusual - tachycardia is mostly associated with issues in the heart or metabolic problems with the body an example would be dehydration along with a number of others.
heart rate goes up upon standing. severely weak. just got over dehydration in the hospital 3 days ago. why am i still weak and dizzy? /my heart rate?
given what you provided you may still be somewhat 'dry'. some of your meds can cause or make worse the dizzy symptoms of dehydration. try aggressively increasing your fluid intake. generally it takes several liters of fluid to decrease dizziness when you are dry.
hr 75 laying 120 when up! feels muscle weakness and lightheaded off balance. no anemia no thyroid prob. no dehydration ekg normal no diabetes <negative_smiley>?
if you heart rate increases that much when you sit up the most common cause is dehydration. there are other less common causes including adrenal insufficiency and autonomic neuropathy. you should see a doctor.
help! what can be causing symptomatic sinus tachycardia?
"symptomatic" means that you can feel the heart. the sinus node is the area in everyone's heart where the normal electrical heartbeat is generated. that is "sinus. " a rapid heart beat is "tachycardia " so symptomatic sinus tachycardia is a normal rapid heartbeat that is felt. common causes include: anxiety anemia dehydration excess thyroid hormone and stimulants (caffiene or some medication).
my 14 yr old son has rapid heart rate. it happens only periodically but really races when it does. should i be concerned? he's healthy & active.
the most common causes of racing heart rate in children is stress/anxiety. also common is supraventricular tachycardia (svt) which is a racing heartbeat that starts suddenly often with no obvious trigger. other arrhythmias (abnormal heart rhythms) are rare but occasionally occur. dehydration overexertion and many medications can also cause a racing heartbeat. a cardiologist can sort it out.
my son who is only 36 months old has a very fast heart beat. his stool content partial blood strain after defication.?
the fast heart beat and blood in his stool may be related or two very distinct and separate signs. i would recommend that you take him to his pediatrician and have him evaluated for his bloody stools and to determine if he has a normal but fast heart rhythm (due to dehydration anemia stress etc. ) versus a truly abnormal heart rhythm (much less common).
my pvcs only happen when my heart rate is over 100 what would cause that?
hyperthyroidism caffeine dehydration irregular conduction in your heart anxiety tumors causing high levels of epinephrine in your body.
my heart beats fast --why?
tachycardia (fast heart beat) can be caused by stress anemia infection fever dehydration medication low blood sugar hyperthyroidism and many many other causes. some causes are problems with the heart others cause your normal to beat too fast. time to call your doctor and get checked out!
my blood pressure is 67/66 & my heartrate is 105 is that normal?
a heart rate of 105 at rest is high. some of the causes include deconditionong obesity diabetes anxious disposition anemia smoking hyperactive thyroid dehydration fever certain medications such as vasodilators or a heart rhythm abnormality to name a few. a blood pressure of 67/66 is an incorrect measurement. if you mean 167/66 it is high and needs to be addressed.
what causes fast heart rate with nausea?
certainly if you are in any kind of gi distress causing nausea your heart rate can go up simply because you are anxious. increased heart rate can also be a result of dehydration. if you have vomited from your nausea that could lead to dehydation and inability to keep in oral liquids exacerbating your fast heart rate.
why upon standing do i get dizzy been happening for over two months. i have been on atenolol 25mg. once daily for tachycardia?
you could be having an adverse reaction to your medication and perhaps orthostatic hypotension. but you could possess anemia hypothyroidism dysautonomia and even a migraine equivalent. dehydration could cause this but usually resolves on hydration.
what is sinus tarchaydia? according to my medical records i have/had that while recently in the hospital? what causes it?
sinus tachycardia means your heart rate is fast but regular. this happens during any time of stress or injury or illness or dehydration or even excitement. it is not indicative of much other than an appropriate response during an illness. if your resting heart rate is high (over 100) then you may need more aerobic exercise and it can rarely be abnormal.
if your resting heart rate is 108 and you feel dizzy should you lay down and sleep or go to urgent care?
it is not possible to give specific advice on an important question like that in this tiny space. in general if one is otherwise healthy but has tachycardia and dizziness it could indicate dehydration (or many other conditions. ) if you want advice on your particular situation consider a consultation with an md here on healthtap (or in an office or a clinic) so that we can go over the details.
i woke up with tachycardia which only got worse after i stood up and went to take some fressh air. after 5 minutes it went away. should i e concerned?
the #1 cause of postural tachycardia is dehydration. as u had been sleeping all night you probably were not drinking water then too and typically one is thirsty on awakening. further given that it resolved so quickly speaks to it likely have been a normal rhythm just fast as u r young and likely don't have any structural heart disease.
my mother had a heart attack on friday. can that cause an elevated creatinine level? she also went into dka could that cause it?
not knowing what her creatinine is at usual baseline years of diabetes can damage kidneys so this could be the result of her diabetes. she is very ill. without knowing details poor blood circulation because of heart attack and dka could cause kidney damage that can sometimes improve tho i don't know your mom's case. dehydration cause could improve with hydration. hope she quickly recovers.
my mother had a heart attack on friday. can that cause an elevated creatinine level? she also went into dka could that cause it?
creatinine can rise with dka and dehydration as well as being related to underlying diabetic kidney disease. heart attacks don't typically cause the creatinine to rise unless there is shock associated with it. if a cardiac cath was performed to treat her heart attack the dye used can cause elevated ceratinine especially in diabetics.
what could cause a headache & heart racing when i wake up?
most of these complaints are due to normal reaction of the body with position adjustment after a prolonged period of rest. however early morning headache may indicate elevated blood pressure. you need to be evaluated. also stay hydrated-headaches are often a symptom of dehydration that happens even in colder climate due to dry air.
my pulse is fast and strong. more than 100 bpm can feel heart beat rapidly even when im resting. i don't think its anxiety. should i be worried?
rapid heartbeat can be a sign of anxiety but more worrisome causes include thyroid disturbances chemical imbalance in the blood low blood counts complication of medical therapy or dehydration. see your doctor and get checked out. and don't wait around. some of these problems can be serious.
my resting heart rate is 98 bmp. it is usually about 60 bmp. is this a bad thing?
probably normal variation. change in heart rate can be caused by dehydration by your internal hormonal tone your emotional state among a few others causes.
what could cause a high resting heart rate like 100 to 110 while resting?
dehydration &/or meds &/or obesity. if you haven't got one you need a12-lead ecg to determine what is going on. there is a nerve-based pathway in the heart that looks like an upside-down tree. the pacer is the sinus node. it shoots electricity to the av node where the left and right bundle branches originate. then the pathways branch over & over. "ectopic"/extra sites misbehave & cause this too.
how to describe a sinus arrhythmia and what does it signify?
sinus tachycardia (> 100 bpm) could be fever dehydration etc sinus bradycardia
heart rate goes from 50 when sitting to 116 when standing up. then within 40 seconds my hr goes back to normal. recovery hr when excersising is 60/70?
when your heart rate goes up that high with standing you need to strongly consider dehydration. check your blood pressure sitting and standing as well to confirm. i would recommend drinking zero calorie gatorade nuun with water or any other electrolyte rich fluids. remember if you sweat (you loose salt). need salt replacement not just water!
my hemoglobin came back elevated again (17. 5) im feeling extremely tired short of breath rapid heart beat and abdominal fullness. why?
dehydration can cause it. but some other infrequent causes are: advanced lung disease (for example emphysema) certain tumors a disorder of the bone marrow known as polycythemia rubra vera and abuse of the drug erythropoietin (epogen) by athletes for blood doping purposes.
my heart beats fast most of the time is that normal?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
in a pots flare & having a lot of gi issues extremely lightheaded. bp in 80s/40s despite fluids &salt. missed 2 days of work. any other tips?
are your gi issues causing nausea and vomiting which might lead to dehydration worsening your condition? if so need to rehydrate. if not need to see dr. treating your condition as your treatment needs adjustment. best of luck with this.
my resting heart rate is about 80. i work retail and do a lot of standing and walking not brisk walking. my heart rate goes anywhere from 109-130 ok?
a healthy resting heart rate would be under 60 bpm and for light exercise it shouldn't go over about 110. that is a good measure of fitness but can also be affected by medications caffeine dehydration and lack of sleep.
my pulse rate has been ranging from 110-130 lately. why would that be?
lots of possibilities including but not limited to anemia hyperthyroid poor conditioning hypotenuse dehydration excess catecholamines. .
my heart rate is 70 to 80 normally but at random times i have a weird feeling in the heart area so i check it and it between 100 to 120. why?
if you have asthma treatment with beta agonist inhaler may increase your heart rate. dehydration may increase your hr. are you having any associated symptoms with the palpitation like chest pain shortness of breath ? occur you changes in position like sitting/standing position? do you drink coffee soft drinks with caffeine energy drinks? all above can increase your hr.
my blood pressure from lying to standing is 94/59 lying to 8<negative_smiley>57 standing and heart rate from 69 to 117. why?
either an error in measurement dehydration change in vascular tone or hear output or medication effect.
my heart rate is at 118 bpm is that bad?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
my resting heart rate is really high. is this indicative of anything?
lots of possibilities including but not limited to anemia hyperthyroid poor conditioning hypotenuse dehydration excess catecholamines. .
my resting heart rate 107 am i at risk of any serious health problems?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
what are the causes of tachycardia and low blood pressure? i. e 8<negative_smiley>58 mm hg and heart rate 110 bpm
the most common cause of combined low blood pressure and high heart rate would be dehydration. anemia could also cause a higher heart rate but not likely the low bp. other less common causes might include hemorrhage or significant blood loss abnormal magnesium or potassium levels. it is normal for the heart to beat faster when the blood pressure drops.
how can i control my high pulse rate and palpitations and why it happens?
the #1 benign cause of fast heart rate is dehydration. it is very important to drink lots of water and by that i donot mean coffee and tea (which have a diuretic effect). cardiac output is hr x stroke volume so if you are dehydrated your heart rate is going to go up in order to maintain an adequate c. o. beside this of course primary electrical abnormalities would be in the differential.
increasing fatigue and flu symptoms week before period. last month i felt nausea and fainted while working. i am not able to afford this pms "illness"?
i understand your distress feeling overwhelmed and frustration. these symptoms are likely due to premenstrual dysphoric disorder (pmdd). fainting may be due to emotional stress pain dehydration heavy sweating exhaustion or other medical problem. avoid caffeine alcohol and smoking see your gynecologist and psychiatrist for diagnosis medication. therapy breathing relaxation meditation.
if echocardiogram full blood count and bnp are normal & there has been no swelling is heart failure unlikely even if other symptoms are present?
heart failures. but it is pretty unlikely with all of those being normal. high thyroid severe thiamine deficiency severe dehydration can cause heart failure but i think they would still show something (like elevated bnp).
i read being dehydrated can be a cause of heart palpitations. so then how many ounces of water a day for adult female lightly active 130lb?
while dehydration may? heart rate & sensations especially for those already demonstrating these behaviors it is not a primary cause only another variable. in comfortable environment young people in fairly good health can get by indefinitely on as little as 0. 5 liter/day up to as much as 25 liters/day a 50-fold range of liquid intake (all liquids most of which=water). no reliable answer.
my resting heart rate is 110 bpm/i was drinking too much last night is my situation so bad? and is this related to drinking? !
because you are binge drinking excessive alcohol causes dehydration and is poisonous to your body. it is bad all around please stop doing it. drink plenty of fluids and if you have vomiting abdominal pain or yellowing of the eyes seek help right away. please read this <link>
my doctor simply said i have chronic orthostatic tachycardia is this the same as dysautonomia? should i wear a medic alert bracelet?
probably not. dehydration should be evaluated as well as cardiac and neurologic status.
my doctor told me my heart palpitations are benign but they have gotten worse since then. they even keep me up at night and cause difficulty breathing?
that decision? ekg holter test stress test thyroid test? are you having anxiety attacks? here is few causes of benign heart palpitations: excess caffeine energy drinks cold medicines dehydration pots( palpitations appearing after assuming standing position from sitting) streets drugs like marihuana asthma/allergies hyperthyroidism (associated with sweating tremors headaches).
having cold sore throat and rapid heart rate since 2 days along with fatigue. is rapid heart rate a cause of worry?
hi. usually that's due to some degree of dehydration. do you have a fever? it could be bacterial and not viral although viral is certainly more likely. if bacterial you may need antibiotics. in any even drink plenty of fluids. good luck!
have had palpitations and tachycardia (up to 174 bpm). get very lightheaded nauseous weak and shaky. could this be svt?
it's very possible that this is an svt they can be exacerbated by dehydration pain infection caffeine stress etc if so - you should have it seen by a cardiologist/ep and consideration towards an event/holter monitor for diagnosis.
i have been having chest pain. last night i was breathless for 1 hour after doing exercise for 10 minutes there was dry cough as well?
are you drinking enough water? your body requires 1/2 your weight in oz of water minimal. dry cough is sign of dehydration and intestinal issues. did you eat too late before you exercise. how is your digestion? do you have bloating? you may also be vitamin d3 deficient. taking vitamin d3 will help your intestine in turn will help your lungs.
i'm 24 year old female 140 lbs 5'7. i've been diagnosed with sinus tachycardia. doc says due to anxiety which i dont have. should i get an echo done?
commend yourself if you do not have anxiety due to stress. . sinus tachycardia is usually a response to normal physiological situations-stress anger exercise. other causes can be: •intake of stimulants such as caffeine nicotine cocaine or amphetamines •pain •fever •anemia •hyperthyroidism •dehydration see physician for diagnosis status of your heart; discuss need for echo and treatment.
is it normal to have tachycardia while standing and bradycardia once i lie down?
doctors & nurses check vital signs (blood pressure & heart rate) in lying sitting & standing (orthostatic) positions to assess if whether a patient's blood volume is decreased eg. from dehydration or from bleeding. other factors can also influence the orthostatic response including normal and abnormal ("pots") reflexes. for help with your own situation get a cardiology consult on healthtap.
i have experienced dizzy and fainting spells twice this week. i work at a hospital and my blood sugar and blood pressure has been checked and is fine?
dear shelby you are right dizziness and fainting spells can be caused by low blood sugar or low blood pressure. medication side effects dehydration irregular heart rhythms and neurologic problems can also be the cause. since it has occurred more than once would best to be evaluated by a healthcare professional for further recommendations and an exam.
my heart rate is lower during the day when sitting upright when laying down my heart rate is higher. is this normal?
heart rates vary through the day under precise control by a nerve network and by adrenaline levels in the blood. many things can increase the heart rate including exercise emotion dehydration and even paying attention to the heart rate. if you feel palpitations or other symptoms when your heart rate is fast a heart monitor can help figure out if you are having any abnormal heart rhythms.
my bp has been all over 136-144/97-113. highest 143/113. now seems to be running low 105-112/83-78. today 10<negative_smiley>81. resting pulse runs high 106-119. ?
the high heart rate merits a careful evaluation. one should have a careful exam including a history and physical exam blood tests including thyroid function (tsh) blood counts kidney function and a urinalysis. hyperthyroidism dehydration infection heart valve abnormalities and less common a pheochromocytoma can all cause a high heart rate.
when i go from sitting or laying down to standing up my hr goes from 88 to 131 and i feel really dizzy this is affecting my life why is this happening?
due to dehydration possibly anemia. hr routinely? es on standing due slowed blood return from veins below heart (gravity) which promptly lowers heart stroke volume resulting in brain promptly? ing heart rate to partly compensate/maintain heart output. typical rate?
is it possible to fully faint due to only sinus tachycardia?
doubt it unless your s. t. is related to dehydration or low blood pressure.
i have been feeling light headed for the past 5 days. have had various single strong heartbeats before a pause before the best. taken ecg at home?
dear stuartg make sure you are well hydrated dehydration can cause lightheadedness and your heart might beat faster. however if you have cardiac risk factors like smoking or family history of heart disease i would consider going to the doctor for formal evaluation. i don't know of technology to take an ecg at home. i hope you feel better soon.
i'm on bisoprolol 7. 5mg and 7. 5mg ivabradine twice a day. my resting heart rate is about 120bpm. why is the medicine not helping? is this normal?
lots of possibilities including but not limited to anemia hyperthyroid poor conditioning hypotension dehydration excess catecholamines. . ask your doctor what is going on.
i have svt; infrequent episodes w/ no evident causes like dehydration stress etc. i have never drank alcohol. is it safe for me to try alcohol?
response to alcohol consumption widely varies among people. in life reality you may try it but with caution just like taking any new drug; of course avoid falling to its overuse & abuse for which go to <link> more on life reality? to lists of facts of life-1 2 &3 by clicking button on the left of home of www. formefirst. com.
is iv saline a good treatment for pots?
if pots is due to dehydration or if dehydration is contributing to blood pressure instability then iv saline is a good starting point. however if symptoms persist despite adequate (re-)hydration then you have to look to medications - florinef (fludrocortisone) midodrine - and other interventions (compression hose - it's actually the most effective in controlling pots symptoms but people don't like to wear them
why could someone's heart beat really fast after they wake up from a nap?
lots of possibilities from dreams to dehydration through anemia and paroxysmal tachycardia sand endocrine disorders.
hi i have had a resting hr of 155+ i have recently suffered from a virus and have had dizziness lightheadness headaches possible for me to have pots?
pots is only one possiblity for a fast resting heart rate. my suspicion would be more towards dehydration from your recent illness as the main culprit without my knowing any other information. the best step would be to see your pcp sooner rather than later to investigate all possibilities.
my friend is 18 and her heart rate increases rapidly when she stands up what could be wrong?
first does she have symptoms when this happens - dizzy palpitations sweating? how is her diet? dehydration and/or poor nutrition might be a cause. what happens when she exercises - fatigue other symptoms or no problem? two rare problems pots and inappropriate sinus tachycardia are considerations. i would recommend seeing her doctor and review her complete story to determine next steps!
my heart rate when i sit down is 55-60 and then when i rise up its 85-98. do i have pots?
what you describe is orthostatic intolerance. there are other things besides pots that can cause this. you are on a medication verapamil that can effect heart rate and blood pressure so this symptom might be from the medication. other things that cause the heart rate to go up like this include: dehydration and mitral valve prolapse. you should see your doctor for further workup.
my heartbeats have been getting to >100bpms-was about to faint twice. ecg showed sinus tachy. got high fever for 24 hrs once. is it serious?
sinus tachycardia can be a response to many things ranging from infection to exercise to dehydration among a lot of other causes. if this is recurring see your physician who should be able to help you find the cause and the solution to this problem.
my ecg says possible st/t abnormality. normal enzymes though.
many st-t wave abnormalities are nonspecific. by themselves they may not represent any problem because a variety of unrelated issues can cause them - for example electrolyte abnormalities from dehydration hyperventilation from anxiety and other non heart related problems are possible causes. so they don't necessarily indicate a heart problem. talk to your doctor about possible causes for you
sometimes my heart beats really fast and other times it skips a beat. am i having a heart problem?
anything involving your heart is worth checking out. consider thyroid or adrenal diseases dehydration medications chemical imbalances. too much caffeine nicotine alcohol drugs stress and not enough sleep are other big causes. sometimes there is a "wiring" problem in your heart that makes it go out of rhythm. see your md.
shortness of breath and rapid heart beat. only 63. female on estrogen. what is happening?
dehydration causes low blood pressure. the heart beats faster to compensate. normal exertion should increase heart rate. thyroid disease may cause it. and there are many abnormalities of the hearts electrical system that may cause a rapid heart rate. atral fibrillation is common in your age group.
when i am standing up the heart rate is always above 100 and sometimes even 120. weight is 50 kg and height 6 feet?
so i'm curious. why did you use 2 different unit systems? usually we think in pounds & feet or kilograms & meters. anyway your bmi (<link> calculates to 14. 9 which is grossly underweight (less than 18. 5). this dehydration & medications (caffeine? ) can make your heart rate fast (tachycardia). go c ur doc
how could overuse of pseudoephedrine produce a lasting (years) affect on the sympathetic nervous system? y wont my tachycardia and other symptoms go?
effect last 6 hrs anything beyond next day is due to anxiety dehydration or any other medical reason
i get faint/light headed after getting up from sitting for a long period of time. it doesnt always happen. i have had abnormal ekgs in the past. i?
becoming lightheaded when standing is often related to a transient drop in blood pressure. this can be more obvious if standing quickly from a supine or seated position because the body needs time to adjust for a change in position. it can occur more often with dehydration or if on blood pressure lowering meds. keeping well hydrated & moving slowly can help. not usually a significant worry.
sever lower/middle abdominal pain off and on throughout day heart rate between 110-152 little urination no known fever dizziness?
there are many different diseases that can be causing your symptoms all of which require face-to-face evaluation and testing to get to the bottom of this. tachycardia (fast heart rate) and a low urine output are both signs of severe dehydration--add to that "severe" abdominal pain--you need to be seen and treated at once. i hope you feel better.
my 15yr old son was diagnosed with postural orthostatic tachycardia. in addition to dizziness when exercising he has memory problems. related?
this may need medications. slow posture change is always recommended. avoid dehydration and hypoglycemia.
my dr lower midodrine cause my bp is running on the high side now my bp running a bit low heart rate is 120 at rest and when i stand it's 140 any idea
posturral chronotrophic changes (changes of heart rate associated with changes of position) are either vein incompetence or volume dehydration.
my 2yr old son has a faster heart beat crying sleeping alot/tired. he only eats/drinks a little bit. his temp is 102 for the past 2 days. what do i do?
your son needs to have a complete history and exam by his physician. might be viral but hard to tell without examining him. his fast heart rate may be partially from dehydration but having a fever makes the heart beat faster as well. push fluids and you can give a dose of motrin if he is 20 pounds you can give him a teaspoon for fever pain.
symptoms are high blood pressure rapid heart rate nausea vomiting right side abdominal pain elevated liver enzymes blood in urine weight loss?
you need to get to an emergency room for an evaluation for all of your seriious complaints. your nausea and vomiting could be related to the cause of your elevated liver enzymes. you rapid heart rate may be symptom of dehydration and given the list of complaints you have some of which are serious you need to head for the nearest er as soon as possible to prevent a serious event from developing.
seizures(about 5) for the last 6 mo. rapid heart rate chest pain directly between breasts dizziness daily dehydration and head aches. any ideas?
you really should be seen in an er if you have a rapid heart rate (r). you need to be evaluated for hyperthyroidism and/or a cardiac problem. the next time you have one of these r's get to an er as quickly as possible. if it's present when you are examined an answer may be found. if not you will blood work sent off and be sent to the proper physician for treatment and a cure. good luck.
seizures(about 5) for the last 6 mo. rapid heart rate chest pain directly between breasts dizziness daily dehydration and head aches. any ideas?
are these "non-epileptic seizures" as i do not see usual anti-epileptic meds. i too am concerned regarding cardiac status and your symptoms and agree with need to get properly diagnosed and subsequently treated.
why is it every morning when i wake up and start to walk my heart rate goes over 156 bpm?
of autonomic dysfunction disorders that can account for your symptoms. in addition simple dehydration could also produce this. ask your health care provider to evaluate you for autonomic dysfunction.
heart not well. winded at rest 120 bpm just standing up. echo/ecg/cxr ok cbc ok. could this be hormonal? dysautonomia? metabolic? thnx 4 any clue
but really unlikely dysautonomia (winded heart up it's moving in correct direction). impairment of ability to move: obesity lack of exercise dehydration muscle dysfunction thyroid adrenal many other possibilities.
had 1 min of pvc during exercise with dizzy. went to er and doctor wasn't worried. all tests at cardio very good. so i guess some people have this?
first hydration keep drinking gatorade or propel with your water during exercise and on a daily bases we need 6-8 bottle of water a day in winter and 8-10 in summer. where do you fit in this equation pvc happen as result of low potassium or dehydration. i agree with your doctor about nothing to worry about regarding the frequency of your pvc
my heart beat reached 115 per minute. . what are the possible causes?
fever dehydration anxiety stress exercise deconditioning are just few of the many reasons. you have to make sure that your heart beat was regular. see a physician asap.
my pulse rate is too high and i'm only 20. possible causes?
lots of possibilities including but not limited to anemia hyperthyroid poor conditioning hypotenuse dehydration excess catecholamines. .
should i be worried? heart rate too high at 117 bpm resting?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
when i change my position suddenly or go down of bed/get up from sitting to standing position my heart beats with force for few seconds what is this<negative_smiley>?
this is a physiologic reflex as the venous return of blood to the heart is suddenly shifted by gravity as you change position. in some people this reflex is accentuated and can cause symptoms. dehydration can accentuate it a lot.
hot places (shower car room etc) cause dizziness nausea upset stomach heart racing feel faint weakness. was not often now quite frequent.
although decreased plasma volume or dehydration is a possible cause thyroid hyperfunction or a heart arrhythmia are also possibilities. i suggest you have an evaluation by a general medical doctor.
i have sinus tachycardia what treatment options are out there? what is sinus tachycardia? could this been caused by reaction to mobic?
means your normal heart beat is faster than 100 bpm. this can be normal as the range of normal is 40 to 120. it is unlikely to be caused by mobic however pain can cause the heart rate to increase so the reason you are taking mobic might be the reason you are tachycardic. treatment is to address the cause not the rate. fever dehydration anxiety anemia pain can all cause this.
i'm sick i either have bronchitis or pneumonia. is a resting heart rate of 100- 111 normal?
a fast heart rate of 100-110 is normal in the face of fever illness dehydration etc. . make sure to stay hydrated. see your doctor about treatment for bronchitis vs pneumonia.
i got fast heart beat or heart rate without exercising my heart rate is 106 is that normal for my age at 21 can fear cause heart problems?
a heart rate of 106 can be a normal response to fever illness dehydration fear exercise etc. . if you have a personal or family history of heart disease chest pain palpitations shortness of breath easy fatiguability then consult your pcp for further testing. good luck
my resting heart rate is 101 blood pressure is 92/60. feel fatigued and slightly dizzy. thyroid in normal range. what else could be the problem?
some causes can be dehydration pregnancy heart disease blood loss severe infection or allergies lack of b12/folate in diet. consult your doctor.
my heart rate always in 110 what i do now it is normal and now. 105dpm?
high heart rate. . can be because of panic attack anemia heart disease dehydration infection thyroid over activity. not knowing your age and meds. se your pmd.
should i be concerned my heart rate is 115 resting but i have a cold wondering if that's why?
if your rate is fast but regular it may be due to some dehydration which may be due to having a cold and not ingesting enough food and liquid. if it's fast and irregular that needs to be sorted out and soon. you may have atrial fib or some other abnormal rhythm. if this persists or is irregular you need to notify your doctor especially if you have other symptoms such as dizziness or pain.
since yesterday i've been having regular heart palpitations. is this concerning?
palpitations can be due to an irregular or rapid heart beat and it merits a careful history and physical exam to determine the cause. see a physician who can do the exam take an ekg and send blood tests. common causes include an overactive thyroid infection and dehydration. rarer causes include a neuroendocrine tumor called a pheochromocytoma.
sick to stomach heart racing blurred vision sweaty?
see the dr. as many things including but not limited to dehydration low blood sugar viruses various infections etc. can all be possible.
what is it when you feel weak shaky heart rate is up can't stand for too long urinating frequently and short of breath?
things from simple dehydration or low blood sugar to diabetes adrenal problems heart problems blood clots etc. you need to see a doctor or walk in! keep a record of when this happens to you what you have eaten what you were doing when it came on. stay very well hydrated and don't stand up quickly. good luck!
what would cause low bp tachycardia and ectopic beats in the mornings?
the number one cause of all these symptoms in a. m upon rising would be dehydration. please keep a glass or 2 of water by your bedside table and drink water before assuming the upright position. failing that other causes can be looked at such as autonomic dysfunction. but most likely answer is simple thirst.
why do i keep fainting?
causes include dehydration vasovagal reactions to pain or foul situations anemia low thyroid cardiac problems low blood pressure autonomic syndromes medication reactions use of recreational drugs (and maybe not fainting but instead epileptic events). see a doctor and get evaluated.
headache. shaky hands. tiredness. pain in right chest and sometimes in left as i breath. high pulse rate now and then.
the symptoms described are concerning but also too general to make a determination. these symptoms can result from simple causes such as lack of sleep diet and dehydration. however much more serious conditions are possible. a physician needs to examine you and get more information in order to make the correct diagnosis. if you consume coffee alcohol or other substances best to stop until seen
have lupus & pots. having low blood pressures lightheaded nightsweats extreme nigttime polyuria. md ordered 24 hr urine sodium collection. why?
in prerenal failure like from dehydration sodium will be too low in the urine. in true renal failure like that can happen in lupus you will not be able to conserve the sodium and will leak. so by this test doctors can learn a lot
high wbc 12. 9 high neutrophils %91. 9 low lymphocytes% 2. 3 in hosp. for vomiting and diarrhea fainting. er said they didn't know why. help?
gastroenteritis: typically presents with vomiting diarrhea and diffuse cramping abdominal pain. those can cause severe dehydration that can cause the patient to faint. slight increase in wbc cld be seen. in most cases patients are treated with iv fluids to replenish their hydration status while it settles down on its own. sometimes antibiotics are needed. for specifics consult your doctor.
had stress test echo ekg's all normal. cardio doc not concerned but still have palpitations lately more frequent. can they have missed something?
without knowing full details the differential diagnosis for palpitations includes non- cardiac causes such as hyperthyroidism dehydration etc. cardiac causes in addition to ischemia which is what appears to have been ruled out includes primary arrhythmias consider 24 hour holter if palpitations more frequent.
i have tachycardia when standing up and my blood pressure spikes. what could this be? usually the blood pressure drops in pots but mine rises.
normal when you stand up your bp should go up along with slight increase in heart rate. tachycardia is not normal and may simply be due to dehydration(try drinking more fluids! ) or deconditioning. you may do well with a supervised exercise program! hope this is helpful' dr z
i'm 17 and skinny and every time i stand up i black out for a second. why?
may be a delay in adjusting your blood pressure autonomically when going from lying to standing. when you stand blood pools in the lower extremities therefore there is less for the brain until the vascular system constricts. make sure you are hydrated- dehydration worsen this stand up slowly. f/u w/ cardiologist regarding autonomic function ekg for qt interval arrhythmia echo for ash
my bp is 122/68 and pulse rate is 95. is this normal?
bp is fine pulse is a little high could be dehydration heat exercise stress anxiety pain. would hydrate relax and repeat. note pulse and bp change second to second so would not worry some people have baseline higher pulse occasionally high pulse is due to thyroid issues very very rarely clot in lung if associated breathless and chest pain f/u with doc check thyroid d-dimer
my resting hr is 98-120 and gets faster when i stand up and i sweat more than usual. this all started when i woke up this morning. what could i have?
i don't anything about you so this may not apply but typical causes are: dehydration fever thyroid excess anxiety caffeine nicotine alcohol withdrawal pain from any source anemia infection. do any of those apply to you?
please tell me could a sinus infection cause heart palpitations?
any kind of infection can cause heart palpitations. the most common reasons for palpitations associated with infections include fever and dehydration. treatment of the infection and adequate rest and fluids are helpful in preventing palpitations. some sinus medications (those with pseudophed) can also cause or worsen palpitations and should be avoided if palpitations are present.
taking dilitiazem 120mg 1xday raising heart rate to 125+. bp got higher. same thing when i took metoprolol. taking for arrythmias. suggestions to try?
it depends on the type of arrythmia. in general diltizem dose can be increased above 120 metoprolol can be gradually increased. verapamil or carvedilol can be considered. if the arrhythmia is atrial fibrillation could also consider digoxin. some can be taken in combination. need to make sure there is not other underlying cause for fast heart rate such as high thyroid anemia or dehydration.
husband is new to taking lasix (furosemide) due to afib. experiencing severe tiredness. is there a different diuretic with less side effects?
your question suggests that the patient may be losing too much potassium as a result of lasix (furosemide) and that may be making him weak. low potassium makes muscles weaker. a second possibility is that the lasix (furosemide) is causing too much water and sodium to be lost causing dehydration and that is why he is weak. i suggest meeting with a cardiologist. hope this helps.
i'm a high level athlete. hr increases from 85-125 laying down to standing. but then after about 30 seconds recovers down to 105-110. is this pots?
yes see cardiologist to be sure if goes 40 beats higher for your age from lying to standing true but be sure not low blood volume dehydration drink more salty fluids and volume of water get ekg still for athlete should have lower heart rate like 50-60's be sure not anemic get labs thyroid cbc iron levels cmp.
i'm a high level athlete. hr increases from 85-125 laying down to standing. but then after about 30 seconds recovers down to 105-110. is this pots?
like pots. the heart rate would not recover in 30 seconds if you remained standing. it would remain high or even go higher. this sounds like simple dehydration.
i am experiencing dizziness (better by: drinking fluids rest) (worsened by: changing head position dehydration (fluid loss) exercise or physical.
new onset of dizziness requires medical evaluation. you could have dehydration labrinthitis (inner ear infection) or benign vertigo. but it could be something more worrisome. seek a consultation with healthtap prime your primary doctor or an urgent care.
my heart rate was elevated for several hours when i was just laying down. it was between 96-104bpm?
heart rate varies depending upon activity & health. anemia caffeine dehydration & hyperthyroidism can increase heart rate. electrical problems inside heart can also do this. bottom line see your family doc who can start evaluation w/blood tests & ekg. may need holter monitor if occurs regularly or event monitor if infrequent. then referral to cardiologist as appropriate. and avoid stimulants!
my heart rate was elevated for several hours when i was just laying down. it was between 96-104bpm?
high even at your age. many things could contribute to this including stress caffeine fever and dehydration. if it recurs and there is no obvious explanation then you could ask your health care provider to give you a monitor to wear and confirm there is nothing serious present.
my 5 1/2 yr old son has complained this last week that his heart is beating fast. he did have strep throat the week before and was on amoxicillin. when i take his pulse for 10 secs and multiply by 6. it's been anywhere from 85-120. he feels this rapid
this is a normal heart rate for a 5 and half years old child. now a common reason for fast heart rate in children is fever common colds and dehydration. children tend to drink and eat less when they are not feeling well and eventually become dehydrated. make sure that your child had adequate fluid intake control fever if any with tylenol (acetaminophen). if the problem persist then consult with his doctor
pvcs and sinus tachycardia. feel short of breath and faint and chest pain daily. what can be the cause of sinus tachycardia?
could be any of several causes such as anemia dehydration or even too much caffeine. pvc's are common and although you feel bad they usually are not a bad sign. some of this may be stress related or pain related. if your evaluation has been negative then try drinking more water and eliminate caffeine from your diet. also follow with your regular physician.
thyroid echo stress basic labs weight ekg normal not anxiety. hr@103-111resting for past 10 days. cardio says just hyperactive heart. 33yrs history mi-causes?
low blood volume dehydration increase in adrenaline. these are three. in addition there is always deconditioning or being out of shape.
what could cause an overly strong heartbeat? sometimes walking up one flight of stairs hr will go up to 150. i'm in great shape. uncomfortable pounding
if your heart rate increases a lot with minimal activity it could be a sign of low blood pressure from anemia (like with heavy cycles) dehydration (not drinking enough water) or hormone imbalances (diabetes thyroid adrenal or female). could be stress too. you should see a primary care physician for exam and blood tests. if all normal then see cardiologist for ekg echo and holter monitor.
having high heart rate 130 faster when i stand vision starts blurring as heart rate climbs i get dizzy when i have a skipped beat i gasp for a breath?
you may have severe anemia dehydration an infection or excess thyroid hormone or a heart arrythmia. go to the er now for immediate help.
i havhad problm 4 awhile help sometimes standin up lighthead ringing or muffled hearing & hear heartbeat have to lean on somethin or head between legs?
this could be a number of different things from effects of medication to dehydration to cardiovascular issues. the best way to evaluate is to be seen by a physician who can examine and understand the circumstances of your symptoms in detail.
is pots caused by alcohol? if so how much alcohol would it take to cause this? i've been a heavy drinker for 3 years
pots is a poorly understood diagnosis. it is generally accepted as being a consequence of damage to the autonomic neurons (nerve cells) which regulate blood pressure & heart rate. alcohol is known to cause neuropathy or nerve damage. in different people it damages different organs & nerves first. regardless it can worsen symptoms by dehydration. www. dysautonomiainternational. org/page. php? id=44
low blood pressure with high heart rate and fatigue today?
it is common for heart rate to increase when blood pressure falls. this combination can have a variety of causes. it may rise from dehydration (from protracted vomiting and diarrhea); low blood volume (internal bleeding) or adrenal hormone deficiency. fatigue may result from the low blood pressure.
my bp is normally 96/70 after walking on treadmill for 60 min (heart rate at 105bpm) my bp was 87/74. why the drop after exercise? hydrated & ate
your low blood pressure is concerning. please have a doctor recheck your pulse and pressure manually since electronic monitors can give inaccurate results. go to the er if you are dizzy short of breath or have chest pain. also it can take hours for the blood pressure lowering from dehydration to resolve with oral rehydration and this may be the effect you are noticing.
my heart rate goes up really easily. it was 170 when exercising one hour later it is 110. is this normal? should i be lower by now like at least 75bpm
for your age your max heart rate during exercise should be around 160 so 170 isn't far off. however you should be expected to return to your rating heart rate within an hour. the faster your heart rate recovers the better shape you are in. make sure you are well hydrated since dehydration can cause an elevated heart rate. if your heart rate persists at 110 please have a medical evaluation.
male 83. bp flux 65/35 to 100/65 in a matter of minutes. pulse consistent between 60 and 65. blood oxygen level 95. medication for beta blocker?
low blood pressure can be life threatening. causes include poor heart function dehydration or too much medication to name a few. you should be examined immediately and find out if those measurements are correct. go to the er or an urgent care now.
recently diagnosed with supraventricular tachycardia. what foods should i avoid? what foods are crucial to my heart health? thanks.
stimulants such as caffeine and some decongestants can trigger act in some people. dehydration illness and stress are other common triggers.
rapid heart beat at rest due to tea or heart?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
recently while exercising like bike riding. my heart rate goes to 185 and pounds. i feel nausea and pain in my stomache. what could be wrong?
it is possible that you are overdoing it but many people your age can sustain a heart rate of 185. a likely culprit is dehydration which can cause both stomach pain and nausea. alternating between water and powerade can be very helpful. good luck.
sometimes pvcs sinus tachycardia. holter monitor and ekg. doctor thinks dehydration and blood volume issues from enalapril. other causes?
potential diagnoses that could explain sinus tachycardia (autonomic dysfunction inappropriate sinus tachycardia medication effects anxiety dehydration etc. ) we all have occasional pvcs. you live near a university health care facility so make an appointment with a cardiologist there for a second opinion.
high heart rate 100-135 and dizziness when it happens. what should i do? it comes and goes only. it's been like this over a month.
first thing to figure out is whether ur rhythm is regular or irregular at those high heart rates. the fact that u feel dizzy is of some concern. u need a n ecg at a minimum complete history and physical exam. in the meantime make an effort to avoid dehydration and see if the episodes of high heart rate stop.
hard run today@practice. after we did air squats. even 20 reps would shoot my hr to 170 felt very lightheaded. 2 1/2hr later hr still not below85. im17.
could be from fatigue and dehydration. drink plenty of replacement fluids and rest. resting tachycardia is a sign of overtraining and the likely culprit. tell your coach about is so they can adjust your program a bit.
hve pots syndrome & have exercised for years & am not deconditioned. i have to lay down & sleep after exercise or i'll black out. will this ever improve?
if your fatigue mainly becomes an issue after an exercise it may be related to a dehydration or low sugar following your exercise so ensure you are plenty hydrated with salty beverage and a snack right after the workout. also if not already ruled out get a cardiac echo to ensure no mitral valve prolapse is present that can also cause fatigue. try the above and talk to a neurologist afterwards
how safe is golytely bowel prep in patients with pré existing ventricular arrhythmia?
studies show any bowel prep can lead to dehydration and electrolyte imbalances such as hypokalemia and hypomagnesmia which can lead to tachyarrythmias including torsade de pointes. stay hydrated and prep with your cardiologists instructions.
having heart palpitations (skipped beat) for a few days everyday. under lots of stress. could that be the cause?
stress can cause palpitations. others caused include caffeine and nicotine. dehydration can also contribute. if you have no prior history of heart problems these are very likely benign.
im 20 years old and my heart rate is 86 is that normal and what should i do to make it lower?
heart rates vary during the course of the day with activity with emotion with dehydration. 86 can be normal. drink plenty of water and exercise regularly. good luck!
i just had a stomach attack. sharp pains ran to bathroom. got a wave of hot flash and light headed like i was going to pass out. quickly ran to bed t?
you need to drink a lot of fluid water ginger ale for example. small amount but often to avoid dehydration. lightheadness can be presentation of this. be careful with changing the position from prone to standing. even sitting to standing. and very light diet for first 24 hours. if stomach pain is severe you need to go to er.
i feel like i've had the body flu for awhile now. there's blood in my stool and mucus when wipe. i always feel light headed like i'm gonna pass out?
blood in the stool is a reason to get prompt medical evaluation. also if you have a gastrointestinal bug which causes bloody stools again is a reason to go in for an evaluation. only a few causes of gastroenteritis have bloody stool as a finding and may need antibiotics. lightheadedness/almost passing out could represent blood loss or more commonly significant dehydration.
i know normal resting hr is 60-90. i have had a sudden and consistent increase to 80 from 55 over 2 wks. also it spikes upwards of 120 with standing.
various conditions can alter resting heart rate- acute or chronic illness inflammation hydration status anemia thyroid conditions deconditioning-- just to name a few. given a sudden increase in hr with positional change one would initially consider a decreased intravascular volume ("dehydration") especially if recent. may consider increasing fluid intake. if no change may need evaluation.
i have tinnitus vomitted numbness in both arms used bathroom 3 times fainted. what are these symptoms a sign of?
please see a physician since you mentioned "fainted". the way your question is phrased the cause could be dehydration due to gi infection heart issue or brain issue.
lightheadedness occurs usually when stressed or neg thoughts. ekg in feb fine. ldl is fine. in h for dehydration last month heart was fine. anxiety?
anxiety since physically other things have been ruled out. we're you checked for lyme? it can impact on neurological issues. contact a psychologist and start working on anxiety and negative thoughts. be sure to check lyme as well.
my father 72 hypertensive with paroxysmal afib his s creatinine increase from 1. 7 to 2. 1 within 2mon after taking eliquis 2. 5*2 is it the cause?
27 m from bagdad says 72 father with hnt and fib has had increase in cr from 1. 7 to 2. 1 after starting eliquis 2. 5 x 2. asks: is this the cause? ans: not likely. most likely cause would be bp meds and/or dehydration esp if he is fasting during ramadan and it it is hot there. recommend reviewing bp levels recently and meds and discuss with his dr.
my heart rate at resting is 71 but when i get up and walk or do housework it does up 120 sometimes above. is that normal?
if your heart rate increases a lot with minimal activity it could be a sign of low blood pressure from anemia (like with heavy cycles) dehydration (not drinking enough water) or hormone imbalances (diabetes thyroid adrenal or female). other possibilities are heart condition or stress. you should see a primary care physician for exam and blood tests. you can make appt to see me in dc.
my daughter is eight and has been on vyvanse 20 for 6 months. the last two visits her heart rate was 124bpm. is this high? could it be the medication?
that is mildly elevated for an 8 year old. it could be the vyvanse but many other things can cause high heart rate too. anxiety activity dehydration. have you taken her resting pulse at home? pulse without vyvanse? is she resting when her pulse has been taken in the office or playing? the best way to monitor is to periodically check pulse and see a trend with and without the vyvanse.
my hr rarely went below 77bpm last night sleeping--majority of night over 80. barely slept. i'm an athlete. when stood up this morn hr120-135. ?
may have developed an arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation. otherwise something is driving your heart rate like anxiety fever dehydration or infection. it would be worthwhile getting checked out to confirm the absence of a treatable cause for the heart rate elevation.
no health problems. frequent peeing dehydration rapid heart rate stress weakness. could stress and anxiety cause dehydration? i've had 4 ivs.
i don't what types of tests you have had but diabetes insipid us and diabetes mellitus need to be ruled out. also other endocrine abnormalities including pituitary tumor needs to be ruled out.
no morning sickness at all and urination has decreased. fetal heart rate of 120 @ 6w2d. i'm 7w2d. should i worry? i have appt in 1 week.
no morning sickness. . good for you! if the fetal heart rate is normal then you are one of the lucky mothers without morning sickness! low urine output could be a sign of dehydration so try to drink more during the day.
resting(sittng) bp - 117/75 heart rate is 75. while standing bp is 95/72 and heart rate is 98-105. why is it so?
this much change in bp between sitting and standing is known as orthostatic hypotension. orthostatic hypotension can be caused by some disease states or by certain medications. the most common cause is dehydration. you should drink plenty of fluids (without caffeine or alcohol). if you remain orthostatic you should see medical attention. in the meantime be very careful when standing up.
resting pulse is n the 90s i'm taking chlorthalidone and xanax (alprazolam). work limited to 4 hrs day but is it safe to work with pulse rate so high i'm cashier?
of 90 poses no immediate threat. i'd want to find out why the resting hr is a bit elevated ( dehydration medication side effect thyroid problem caffeine benzodiazepine withdrawal etc)
she is feeling weak and her mouth is dry. she has a fever but is feeling cold. she is experiencing palpitation & nausea. what is it&what can be done?
generally speaking this can be signs of dehydration severe infection hypothermia heat exhaustion or shock. these type symptoms require evaluation at an emergency room or urgent care recommend seek immediate medical attention
serum creatinine level 2. 56 to 1. 59 in 2 weeks after starting on prednisone and discontinuing benicar (olmesartan). is this artificial due to 10% weight gain?
creatinine is muscle breakdown product that is excreted through kidneys. it is affected by muscle mass or renal function decline but weight gain does not affect it. dehydration or hydration can make bun go up or down but creatinine stays the same. therefore both the numbers are important to make right assessment.
serum creatinine level 2. 56 to 1. 59 in 2 weeks after starting on prednisone and discontinuing benicar (olmesartan). is this artificial due to 10% weight gain?
without knowing your full history we can only speculate but the drop in creatinine is good news all around. severe dehydration can lead to increased creatinine but the effect isn't all from concentration. your 10% weight gain is probably mostly water weight and to the extent it represents increased intravascular volume means greater blood flow to kidneys and thus improved function.
what would it possibly mean when an 18 year old's pulse rate is at around 120?
tachycardia is usually a result of exercise or increased metabolic needs lack of oxygen in the blood high blood pressure stress hyperthyroidism dehydration acidosis with compensation and many others. you need a history taken a thorough physical exam and some blood work among other diagnostic tests to begin to find an answer to such an open-ended question
what could be the cause of fainting- tilt table test today and didn't make it passed 3 min before passing out. recent wt gain constant exhaustion?
first step in women of childbearing age is a pregnancy test. passing out" may refer to syncope of which the most dangerous cause is cardiogenic but may also include seizure disorders thyroid and endocrine disorders anemia or dehydration. orthostatic hypotension is common you had a normal ekg and tilt and your vital signs are normal lab tests will be run to continue the work up. good luck.
heart rate laying down 80-85. jumped to 125 upon standing. but then decreased after about a minute. not lightheaded. hydrated.
it is normal for your heart rate and blood pressure to change as you change your activity. but 125 is high. you are right dehydration could cause that. so could bleeding being out of shape injury and pain. if you feel bad you should see a doctor.
how to avoid fainting. what should i do / eat and should not?
people faint for many reasons. proper treatment and recommendations depend on the underlying problem causing the fainting. you could have dehydration anemia heart arrhythmia or some other problem. proper evaluation by your physician will lead to the proper recommendations. i hope that your problem is easily remedied- good luck!
how can i safely use a fleet enema for constipation if i have chronically low potassium?
fleets enema: commonly used ~4 oz saline laxative; sodium phosphate-based; can cause adverse reactions in certain individuals (age >55) with certain pre-existing conditions (e. g. dehydration impaired kidney function congestive heart failure abnormal electrolytes) if used too often (>3 days or >1 dose/24 hrs). i recommend you ask your md about proper dosing and alternatives.
last night i woke up to go to the restroom and as i was walking i felt really dizzy and my pulse was fast. i went back to sleep after what could it be?
it could be dehydration change in body position and dehydration will create fast heart beat and dizziness. make sure you drink a plenty of water every day.
little sore throat 102 temp tired weak heart racing. felt like going to pass out. he has no other symptoms. what could it be?
it may be a viral disease like infectious mononucleosis or a strep pharyngitis or other bacterial pharyngitis. keep your body hydrated and see a physician for accurate diagnosis. high fever and dehydration can cause palpitation.
last night i woke up all of a sudden with a fast heart rate and had diarrhea and sweats. and still hasnt went away. is it panic attack or stomach flu?
your persistent tachycardia is from dehydration from the diarrhea ash sweating. hydrate with electrolyte containing solutions.
my heart goes to 104 to 111 just walking around i had thryiod check ecg chest ex ray and abdominal ct scan all normal does this mean my hearts fine?
there could be some simple answers for your tachycardia including dehydration and deconditioning but the work-up seems incomplete. some more blood testing may be helpful (rule our anemia to name one) and perhaps a treadmill-based stress test.
my resting heart rate was 205 can this be caused by dehydration?
many things in life are possible but heart rates above the 170's usually mean something else is wrong. dehydration means different things to different people and comes in varying severities. teens and adults with a little bit of dehydration due to minor illnesses or moderate dehydration due to bad stomach flu are not likely to get up to the 200 heart rate range.
my husband fainted last night. think it's due to dehydration and fatigue. today still lightheaded when he moves a lot. normal? what to do?
fainting in a 38 yo otherwise healthy male is not normal. there is a long list of causes including irregular heartbeat severe dehydration anemia (low blood count) low blood pressure hypoglycemia etc. he should seek medical attention promptly.
my mother is experiencing less frequent urination. the following also describes her: rapid heart rate. what should she do?
there isn't very much information here. however rapid heart rate with decreased urination might be associated with dehydration. so hydration might be helpful. however without evaluation - can't provide definitive recommendations. take care.
negative tilt test but bp dropped 71/54 after stress test at about 18 min recovery sitting down. hr was still at 110. hands tingling lightheaded
symptoms are most consistent with dehydration. although you may have autonomic dysfunction it is more likely to be simple dehydration. tilt table testing has a moderately low sensitivity and specificity. 57% and 83% respectively. a negative test is not definitive. treatment is pretty much the same regardless so eat more salt and hydrate more rigorously and see if you get better clinically.
on xifaxan (rifaximin). i took zofran slept woke up everything looked blurry. heart racing very fast agonizing cramps. is it dehydration reaction or anxiety?
you are taking more than one drug and the side effects can overlap. why are you taking xifaxin this is usually for liver disease or people with travelers diarrhea. can also cause diarrhea of itself. both drugs can cause nausea and either can cause cramps. i would eliminate the zofran (ondansetron) as this is very expensive and used mostly for people on chemotherapy. heart racing may be anxiety best wishes
orthostatic hypotension. when i stand up i go blind. several times my whole body has twitched. failed table tilt test as well. low bp & high hr. help?
sounds like pots. . please see an electrophysiologist for counseling and treatment. other than avoiding dehydration medicines such as florinef (fludrocortisone) or midodrine or beta-blockers may be indicated. but you need to be evaluated and under the care of an electrophysiologist.
sudden dizzy spell room wasn't spinning but felt like my head was lasted 30 seconds should i be worried?
there are so many factors that could explain this symptom that i would not worry too much. dehydration heat exertion prolonged rest prolonged activity: it's endless. if the symptom ("dizziness") keeps occurring or if persists for more than a few days then that is something that warrants medical attention. keep track of what position you were in your bp (if avail) & time of day when sx happ
since waking up my husband is getting severely dizzy with increased heartbeat (goes up 30 plus bpm) when standing better when laying down; bp is ok.
this suggests either decreased blood volume (as in dehydration blood loss diarrhea) or effective volume (eg vessel dilated from infection food poison medications alcohol or poor heart circulation) see doctor asap if fluids like gatorade or soups did not help. urgent red flags include: chest pain shortness of breath other neural problems headache nausea blood pain or heart/ulcer history
sharp pain under left breast like air pocket. worse when i breathe in. been under a ton of stress. no racing heartbeat. possibly dehydrated. stress?
sharp pain under left breast like air pocket. worse when breathing in. under stress no racing heartbeat possible dehydration. need to have an office visit. could be very serious like blood clot or possibly anxiety which could be treated successfully with medication. need labs xray. please get medical attention soon.
trying 2 conceive. last n. i passed out onway to bathroom. hus thinks i'm dehydrated. period due mar 5th. could fall or dehy have hurt baby this early?
dehydration can hurt you. the most important action you can take to protect your baby when you do get pregnant is to take care of yourself. i strongly recommend dequate fluid intake prenatal vitamins and a visit to your doctor to find out why you passed out. best wishes. dr. anne
very short dizzy spells. comes about like a wave immediately followed by tingling in my left arm and fingers. heart palp also. started no sugar diet.
this is probably just dehydration at your age. drink plenty of water. if it is real dizziness it is likely bppv benign positional postural vertigo. when you get dizzy you breathe fast because you are scared and the extremities get tingly. this is very common. if the dizziness persists see am ent. good luck and feel better!
vision goes blk dizzy buckling/weak legs after standing up. lasts a few seconds. mild blk vision happens often when getting up. recent ekg normal.
feeling faint when getting up or standing from a seated position is usually related to orthostatic hypotension. the postural reflexes (baroreceptors) that cause the heart to pump blood to the brain are slowed and there is insufficient blood pressure. it is caused by blood pooling in the lower extremities. dehydration bedrest low b12 levels anemia and medications may be playing a role.
very fatigued for months. higher hr resting (80bpm vs 60). hr high walking up 1 flight of stairs. lightheaded standing. visible heartbeat chest/stomach?
you need an evaluation. many things could cause this: dehydration anemia hormonal abnormalities heart issues.
what causes atrial tachycardia w/aberrant conduction in a young person?
causes of atrial tachycardia in a young person but most likely this is a physiological response to some form of stimulation. anxiety excitement dehydration fever can all be associated with this. the aberrant conduction is a reflection of normal physiology if the heart rate is fast enough or could represent a minor abnormality of the conduction system.
what actually causes low blood pressure?
some folks have low pressure as their normal. if a patient with an established higher normal begins to have low pressure then some causes are fever dehydration infection hormonal changes and other possibilities. if pressure is too low it can affect critical organ functions.
why am i getting dizzy several times a day after standing up or when i bend over i get dizzy its hard to breathe and my heart starts beating faster. ?
anemia dehydration low blood pressure instability of the autonomic nervous system to cite a few of the many possibilities. your description warrants urgent medical attention. please see your doctor tonight or go to the er.
when stand for a long time my legs feel pressure and i get neck pain/light headed and vision dims (like when standing up) - heart normal. causes?
like dehydration and you need to reallychug the water. how did you get this way and for how long? you should be evaluated!
what is vasovagal syncope and what causes it?
vasovagal syncope is the most common type of fainting that occurs when the blood pressure drops suddenly reducing blood flow to the brain. it is often caused by dehydration or becoming overheated. stress and anxiety can provoke it as well.
when i stand up from lying i hear blood flow in my ears and also hear heart beat in head. what can it be?
include problems with blood pressure anemia dehydration. if you feel dizzy or faint or the symptoms persist more than a few seconds it may be worth getting checked out by your physician. good luck.
wht would cause me to blackout while jogging on treadmill? didn't pass out just had blacked out vision. how can i prevent this in the future?
it may be as simple as dehydration. next time keep yourself well hydrated before during and after running.
what happens when a man with a heart condition take to many laxatives?
"irritant" purgatives cause: melanosis coli cathartic colon ("floppy" colon with limited muscle tone) ; soap or chemical colitis (acute inflammation within hours of "cleansing" enema). abusers get dehydration electrolyte shifts chronic diarrhea crampy abdominal pain edema nausea/vomiting muscle weakness bone pain lassitude kidney stones skin changes kidney disease ; more.
what are symptoms of mild to moderate dehydration? i realized today i've barely had any water or liquids over the last few days and am experiencing heart palps s& fatigue. should i get gatorade?
dehydration - dry mouth eyes skin gets dry and when you squeeze the skin on the back of your hand it may stay tented up when you let go. it can cause rapid heartbeats dizziness and feeling faint. normally i would say drink 1-2 bottles of gatorade or similar and see if this helps - you should check your temperature and see if you have other symptoms.
what are symptoms of mild to moderate dehydration? i realized today i've barely had any water or liquids over the last few days and am experiencing heart palps s& fatigue. should i get gatorade?
please look up the following link: <link> mayoclinic. com/health/dehydration/ds00561/dsection=symptoms.
what could be causing dizziness blurred vision ringing in ears fainting and low blood pressure while pregnant?
any number of conditions can cause these symptoms and all must be taken seriously in pregnancy. . dehydration anemia infection arrhythmias inner ear disturbance neurocardiogenic syncope thromboembolism irregular rhythms etc. definitely discuss your symptoms and concerns with your ob and internist.
what does it mean if you have 108 heart beats per min?
sinus tachycardia. not more info about you but commom causes are lack of physical conditioning/obesity dehydration caffeine and energy drinks hyperthyroidism drugs and/or streets drugs heart problems like arrhythmias and conduction delays. i will recommend a good history and physical by your doctor.
what reason would a teenagers blood pressure drop?
the most common reason: dehydration - usually from sweating. second reason: vasovagal reaction. (this is the reflex that causes people to pass out when stressed like seeing blood). third reason: bleeding (for example very heavy menses or an injury). fourth reason: sepsis (life threatening infection). i hope the 4th one isn't the case.
what happens if you take two atenolol-chlorthal by mistake?
in low bp or heart rate or relative dehydration depending on dose.
wat would cause light headed and dizzy when u stand up & walk around? dehydration? bp is 9<negative_smiley>57. p 110. standing. sitting its 106/61. p71. blood wrk ok
you blood pressure and more important your pulse change when you stand up. your pulse increases by about 50% and your bp falls. you may be dehydrated and if you were when you blood was taken you would not have normal labs. i would go to an er and get assessed. your rapid pulse when you stand could be the sign of some significant fluid volume deficit or some anemia.
wat would cause light headed and dizzy when u stand up & walk around? dehydration? bp is 9<negative_smiley>57. p 110. standing. sitting its 106/61. p71. blood wrk ok
how long have you felt like this? any recent illness like flu diarrhea vomiting etc. your numbers are suggesting that you body is not able to keep up with postural adjustment. decreased body fluid (volume depletion) is common cause but there are others. start with increased fluid intake electrolyte solution and see an md asap. if you feel really bad er is the way to go.
way would cause it eyes to not dilate to light? dehydration or anxiety cause it? freaking out. bp is 125/62 pause 70. just feel bit light headed.
the pupils constrict in light not dilate.
way would cause it eyes to not dilate to light? dehydration or anxiety cause it? freaking out. bp is 125/62 pause 70. just feel bit light headed.
your eyes are not supposed to dilate when exposed to light. they are supposed to constrict or get smaller.
what is the technical definition of postural hypotension and what's it got to do with the spinal cord injury?
postural hypotension can be from many things. one is dehydration. sometimes you can get hypotension from medications you take. you need to ask your doctor what he thinks is the cause of your hypotension. but usually spinal cord injuries have little to do with this. i suppose you might get muscle atrophy from the spinal cord injury and you could have reduced blood going back to your heart.
what might lead to low blood pressure and how to make it normal without medicine?
one of the most common in otherwise healthy people is dehydration. this is remedied be increacing fluids. i often tell people to drink a large gatoraid for a day or two. if your low bp is causing you to get dizzy or feel like you are going to pass out see your doctor.
what bad effects does too much salt have besides increasing blood pressure?
besides causing high blood pressure too much salt can cause hypernatremia or excess salt in the blood. this can cause intracellular dehydration which is a serious problem if not corrected.
what causes a sudden drop in blood pressure?
sudden drops in blood pressure can be due to bleeding dehydration pain medications and in a 32 year old more likely enhanced vagal tone. check with your doctor as sometimes more testing is needed.
what is the purpose of administering iv nacl to an elderly person who passed out from low bp then spiked up?
giving salt water for low bp is common and appropriate practice. causes of low bp in elderly are numerous and can include dehydration infection overmedication etc. the first approach is maintenance of perfusion of organs and volume expansion (in the vessel). commonly used solutions are sodium chloride(nacl) or ringers lactate that have other additives besides salt.
what can help dizziness? what do i do while dizzy to make it go away?
there are man forms of dizziness. treatment depends on cause. dehydration bleeding inner ear infection cardiac arrhythmias medications are all common causes. try to be a good observer: do certain positions or movements cause it? do you get other symptoms during the dizziness? then go see your doctor and help him/her help you!
what can cause low blood pressure?
several possibilities but here are some: dehydration esp in the summer when we can loose more water than we realize. medications (lots-best to talk with your doctor). infections mainly serious ones. heart problems. endocrine problems. kidney problems. more. for some people a lower bp is normal. because the list is long and complex i'd encourage you to have a eval & discussion w/ your doctor.
what can cause low blood pressure?
if you have no symptoms then there is no worry. if you have symptoms you could be going into shock adrenal insufficiency dehydration etc. see your internal medicine doctor.
what is the heart doctor going to do if i get weak sometimes in heat at 92 (on lisinopril only)?
at 92 and only on one pill is a great accomplishment of your health. as we get older the ability to cope with environmental changes decreases; excessive heat/cold can bring trouble. the most effective treatment is to avoid excessive heat and keep yourself well hydrated. dehydration and excess heat can bring on heat stroke rather quickly at 92. so always take precaution whenever you can. good luck.
what can cause a heart murmur to suddenly get worse?
i agree with dr villaplana that one of the concerning causes is the "doors" (valves) between the "rooms" (chambers) of the heart have changed (gotten thicker or weaker) or have been damaged or even infected. in some of these cases symptoms would become severe such as chest pain dyspnea. other causes are anemia dehydration exercise other diseases. good exam and echo can help find cause.
why can hypovolemic shock lead to renal failure?
hypovelemic shock can cause renal failure from either the body conserving free water due to severe dehydration and producing a low volume of highly concentrated urine or from a lack of blood flow and oxygen to the kidneys producing intrinsic kidney injury and renal failure.
why am i waking up to a pounding heartbeat after i drink a lot?
if you mean drinking a lot of alcohol the most likely reasons are dehydration low blood sugar and/or that alcohol for all its pleasant side effects is still a kind of poison. asian & first nations heritage also holds a genetic defect that makes alcohol even more toxic. it also does not play will with other medications especially for depression or anxiety. ask your doc. don't drink until then.
what are the common triggers of syncope?
the triggers for syncope depends on the type of syncope. for vasovagal or neurocardiogenic syncope the common triggers are dehydration and stimulants like caffeine nicotine decongestants and dietary aides or supplements. as always talk your doctor for more details.
what could be the issues with nausea stomach pain then followed by passing out. once was told it was dehydration. ?
any condition of sufficient severity to cause you to pass out should be evaluated by a physician. you may be dealing with something life-threatening here. causes associated with nausea and stomach pain included dehydration peptic ulcer with bleeding abdominal perforation (in women) ectopic pregnancy various cysts tumors or abscesses or severe colitis.
what is the biggest consideration in administering the furosemide iv?
intravenous administration can lead to same side effects as oral administration including electrolyte disturbances like low sodium low pottassium. it can also lead to dehydration more quickly than oral if not carefully dosed. rarely allergic reactions occur like any other medications.
what are the tests for hypovolemic shock?
hypovoemic shock is due to loss of circulating blood volume- may occur in severe dehydration acute blood loss severe sepsis. symptoms/ signs are dizziness fainting low blood pressure. treatment- fluids blood or antibiotics etc depending on the cause. tests depend on the cause blood work monitor bp swang ganz catheterization in some case.
what is wrong with me? okay so i have been really sick feeling lately. earlier this year i was fainting and getting dizzy. and now this week i have been feeling really week and stuff and today i went to the nurse bc i was light headed and she said i was
hello. i can't diagnose your symptoms but problems with headaches feeling dizzy fainting can be due to low blood pressure. problems with fainting headache feeling weak dizziness being tired can be tied to dehydration. problems with dizziness feeling weak being tied can be due to anemia. it wouldn't be appropriate to try to provide you with a diagnosis in this format but i would recommend that you be medically evaluated to determine the source of symptoms. would recommend a complete blood count as well as tilt blood pressure and pulse. that is all i can offer you. take care.
why is my blood pressure so low? under 110
it's perfectly normal for healthy people to run a low bp even as low as 80 or 90 (top number). young women and children often do. if your bp is normally high low bp could indicate a problem but if you're otherwise healthy it's ok for you. typical causes of bad low bp are: gunshot knife wound other combat injury dehydration sepsis (blood infection) anaphylaxis (severe allergy) & rare things.
why did i almost faint out in the middle of nowhere? didnt know what to do.
hypotension may be caused by dehydration or something more serious. you need to see a doctor so that he/she can look at this in the context of your overall health. for example if you treat it as dehydration and drink a lot of water that would be bad if you have underlying heart failure. so see your doctor and get a plan.
what should i do about my fainting? ever since childhood (i'm in my late 20s now) i've fainted at least once a year. the reasons for it vary from dehydration to low blood sugar to low blood pressure. most of the time though the reason is unknown an
i am so sorry that this keeps happening to you. i can understand your concern and frustration. i am glad that you had an eeg and 24-hour eeg. i would recommend that you see a cardiologist to evaluate you for a cardiac problem such as an arrhythmia. that would be the next reasonable thing to do. the only things you can try to do which you are probably already doing are eating small frequent high protein meals 4-5 times a day and stay well-hydrated. but please see a cardiologist next for an evaluation.
when your blood pressure is normal when you resting what makes your blood pressure when you stand up drop real low and you become very disorientatated and dizzy?
what you are describing is called orthostatic hypotension. i've attached a website below that give lots of helpful in-depth information on orthostatic hypotension. dehydration is the most common cause for this symptom though heart problems or neurological problems can cause it too.
what can be done for a racing heartstrings after too much caffeine? i tried the bear down method has not stopped racing heart.
caffeine nicotine fever dehydration anemia can all aggravate a tendency to get a rapid pulse. there are also problems with the electrical control of the heart that may need to be treated with medicine or sometimes other procedures. see your doctor for testing. try to count the beats per minute when you have the symptoms to determine the actual rate notice if it's irregular.
what is fainting?
loss of consciousness is fainting. typically from transient inadequate flow to the brain. can be caused by dehydration vasovagal syn cope trauma intracranial bleeding etc.
why do i faint or fit whenever i have contact with needles. e. g. getting something pierced blood tests?
it's very common an exaggerated reflex which causes the hr to slow and bp to drop. caused by pain fear emotional stress dehydration illness. only thing to do is avoid those circumstances as well as possible or if it can't be avoided lie down with head below level of heart if possible.
what causes ischemic colitis and how do u treat it?
this can result when the flow of blood and nutrients to the intestines is less than what is needed. this can occur when the intestines have higher than usual needs as with infections often associated with diarhea. this can also occur when the flow is low from an arterial blockage or from dehydration or low blood pressure. initial treatment is bowel rest if severe surgery may be needed.
what causes dizzy spells while sitting?
dizziness can be a heart rhythm problem dehydration thyroid problem or an inner ear problem. i would suggest speaking to your primary care doctor.
what causes a sudden dizziness?
many things cause sudden dizziness. it could be an inner ear problem heart condition low blood sugar vagal response nerve condition or simply dehydration. if it is a recurring thing it is time to see your doctor and have it examined further. one time episodes can be a sign of something worse so unless you are generally a healthy person evaluation of your dizziness is important.
when could cardiac output decrease?
cardiac output is related to the heart rate and volume of blood the heart can pump with each heart beat. a low cardiac output occurs when the pump function of the heart is compromised by an event such as a heart attack or when the blood volume is reduced by and event such as dehydration or bleeding.
when could cardiac output decrease?
cardiac output is made up of stroke volume and heart rate. decreasing heart rate decreases cardiac output. also decreasing stroke volume (dehydration or anemia) can cause decreased output. there are also other hemodynamic states that may cause a decreased cardiac output.
what to do for low blood pressure?
low blood pressure might be a good thing. people live longer. it's just a number. if you feel fine it is unlikely a problem. now if you are sick and it is low the treatment depends on the cause. for instance bleeding. stop the bleeding and give blood transfusion. dehydration. give fluids by mouth or intravenously. infection. give antibiotics. adrenal insufficiency give hormone replacement.
what are treatments for hypotension?
in surgical practice the 2 most common causes of hypotension are fluid/volume depletion (e. g. dehydration) and acute blood loss. these can be treated by the administration of intravenous fluids and blood transfusions respectively.
what are the chances of someone getting hocm?
hocm is hereditary and mostly is familial (with variable inheritance patterns including dominant transmission in some). if one has along with a fh of sudden cardiac death severe lvh on echo ventricular arrhythmias or early syncope one might be at high risk (warranting consideration for a defibrillator). meds to reduce contractile state avoiding dehydration. assays for genetic testing.
what causes hypotension when someone has malaria?
excessive sweating lack of drinking and fever all lead to dehydration and low blood pressure. falciparum infection the most severe form also causes low platelets and disseminated intravascular coagulation (dic) with bleeding resulting in low blood pressure and shock.
what can result in a decrease in cardiac output?
1) afterload (high bp or stiff valves) - the heart is pushing blood against a tougher obstacle 2) preload (sepsis shock or dehydration) - not enough blood to pump 3) low hr (less beats total) 4) low inotropy (heart failure heart attack or inflammation) - the heart squeezes less forcefully with each beat. ok - a bonus 5th - shunt: the heart swirls blood around w/o it going anywhere.
what is used to treat hocm?
hocm treated w education avoidance of high stress physical activity meds. meds to lower force of contraction in heart (like beta blockers calcium blockers) and allow heart to optimally fill (slowing heart rate avoiding dehydration) can help.
what is used to treat hocm?
usually beta blockers are used to slow the heart rate and the patient is advised to avoid dehydration; however as hocm progresses one can have surgical myomectomy alcohol septal ablation or heart transplant.
what does it mean to have postural hypotension?
postural hypotension means that the blood pressure drops when going from seated to standing position. can be result of neurological problems medications but more commonly dehydration. often it is accompanied by dilation of blood vessels such as from drinking alcohol.
what does the term heat syncope mean?
any person having syncope while exposed to the sun or warm temperatures. this is associated to the vasodilation to the perspiration o lack of perspiration associated to dehydration fasting or to exertion. if severe could cause signs of stroke then called heat-stroke.
why might someone faint when playing sport?
if you faint while playing it can can be something dangerous. if you faint while standing afterward it is more likely dehydration over-exertion. see your doctor.
what is causing my orthostatic hypotension?
just kidding! dehydration certain medications or an imbalance in the autonomic nervous system (affects blood pressure and pulse) are common causes of orthostatic hypotension (low blood pressure on standing). your doctor can do tests to determine the cause in you.
what is the significance of blood pressure?
it is the pressure in your arteries. if it is too high it can cause complications such as stroke. it can also be too low for a number or reasons such as bleeding or dehydration.
what causes hypotension?
lack of blood (bleeding) lack of fluid (dehydration) dilated blood vessels (drugs toxins venom poisons sepsis and certain nervous system disorders) or poor pumping (for example a heart attack).
what does a lower diastolic pressure means?
if you do not have any symptoms and is it is between to 60 mmhg it is probably normal for you. it is hard to diagnose someone just based on a number may things can cause a drop in the diastolic bp infections dehydration hormonal problems heart problems pregnancy blood loss lack of nutrient among many others.
what are some of the causes of hypotension?
volume depletion/dehydration medications sepsis infection blood loss cardiac shock and many others.
what is the significance of essential hypotension?
essential means that it is not secondary to some known cause such as bleeding dehydration or an underactive adrenal gland. so if your blood pressure is lower than average it might be said you have essential hypotension. if you feel well no problem. in fact those with a low bp live longer. there may be some who just feel weak and dizzy with low bp. sort of a vague not well understood problem .
why is flying for long distances associated with dvt?
immobility is most important as dr. belilovsky said but it is also the relative dehydration that many people experience while flying because they don't drink enough water and often drink alcohol instead.
what is the normal diastolic pressure for the pulmonary artery?
normal pulmonary diastolic pressure is 4-12 mm of mercury. there are many conditions that may raise this pressure. low pressure readings may indication volume loss (ie loss of blood or dehydration).
what can be used for low blood pressure?
depends on the cause of your low bp. dehydration? blood loss? diabetes? medications? check with your doctor but if you are symptomatic and all major problems are ruled out then increasing salt intake or taking a steroid that increases salt and water retention like fludricortisone (florinef) can help just don't stop taking it abruptly! and take it under doctor supervision w/ a prescription!
what are treatments to aid postural hypotension?
this can be due to meds nervous system disease heart disease dehydration aging or other. treatment for each of these can be different. postural hypotension occuring after eating can be avoided by eating small meals low in carbohydrates. for all causes stand up slowly rather than quickly to allow the body to adjust. fludrocortisone can be used in some cases. please check with your doctor.
what are treatment options for orthostatic hypotension in an elderly male?
treatment depends on the cause. orthostatic hypotention can be caused by dehydration medication(s) side effect blood loss infection or heart disease to name a few. once the correct cause is identified then the proper treatment can be initiated.
what are treatment options for orthostatic hypotension in an elderly male?
the cause has to be deciphered prior to treatment. dehydration is treated by hydration and avoiding diuretics. medication induced can be adressed by stopping the medicine. mineralocorticoids can be used as well as modifying with caution for subsets of patients.
what is the treatment for a heat stroke dr. gave me mag oxide and potassium. should he have done a blood before giving the meds? i meant blood panel
treatment for a heat stroke include cooling the body to normal tempurature by either immersing the person in cool water or applying ice packs to the skin. also dehydration is one of the clinical manifestations of heat stroke. it is importnant to hydrate the patient with iv fluids and replace fluids. the hydration fluids may have been given intravenously and contained the electrolytes you mentioned (magnesium and potassium). if dehydration was suspected by the physician it is because you were experiencing physical signs of dehydration such as hot skin rapid breathing and heart rate and poor skin turgor. it is not always necessary to do a blood test to detemine a need for hydration and need for electrolyte replacement. however if you have questions about your medical treatment call the hospital or risk mamagement department in the hospital to help facilitate medical record review.
what do i do if i get light headed a lot?
though lightheadedness might be due to relatively harmless causes like dehydration there is a chance it could be caused by a heart abnormality or arrhythmia. you should go to see your doctor to get checked out to be sure there is no dangerous underlying cause.
what causes a salty taste in the mouth? this started about 3 weeks ago. i am hypertensive and take generic medications for all my prescriptions except one. i take aldactone tabs hydrodiuril tabs cardura tabs . norvasc tabs tenormin tabs and tekturna t
yes it can be a side effect from your medications. other possibile causes of salty taste in the mouth are sinus problems salivary gland problems or dehydration.
what causes a salty taste in the mouth? this started about 3 weeks ago. i am hypertensive and take generic medications for all my prescriptions except one. i take aldactone tabs hydrodiuril tabs cardura tabs . norvasc tabs tenormin tabs and tekturna t
many possible causes: dehydration. review your diet. excessive intake of alcohol or caffeine can cause fluid loss resulting in dehydration which can make saliva saltier. side effect of certain medications such as anti-thyroid medications and chemotherapy drugs. salivary gland diseases such as sjogren's syndrome or bacterial infections or post nasal drainage.
why im so dizzy?
dizziness can be caused by so many different things like dehydration benign positional vertigo viral illness neurological or cardiac problems. can you provide more specifics?
why my heart pound when sleep?
when we are laying down to sleep we notice our heart rates more than while we are moving around during the day. if your heart rate is going fast that could be from different reasons like medications dehydration stress/anxiety thyroid disturbances. if there is any associated chest pain or problems breathing see your doctor for evaluation.
what could be wrong if you get dizzy very often and sometime faint too? feel tired most of time n not hungry?
these symptoms definitely warrant a medical evaluation. you could be dealing with hypotension (low blood pressure) hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) vertigo dehydration anemia thyroid disorder etc. therefore a complete history physical and diagnostic testing are in order. in the meantime make sure you maintain adequate hydration. best of luck.
why am i suddenly faint?
if it happened only once may be nothing. but if this happens repeatedly you should get an evaluation. it could be vasovagal episode heart rhythm problem medication effects dehydration anemia or any number of things.
why am i suddenly faint?
the feeling of faintness is a sign that not enough fuel is getting to the brain. there are many potential causes a sudden drop in blood pressure for a variety of reasons dehydration low blood sugar anxiety and others. the likelihood of different causes vary by age and the setting in which the feeling occurs. you should see you regular doctor to discuss this further.
what would cause my heart to pound rapidly when reasting?
a heightened sensation and fast heart beats from an adrenergic state (fear anxiety deconditining obesity anemia dehydration stimulants such as excessive caffeine overactive thyroid). rhytm abnormalities such as premature beats fast heart beats from upper chambers (supraventricular tachycardia) or lower chambers (ventricular tachycardia) are other causes. heart monitor helps.
what could cause me to get light headed frequently i am not a diabetic.?
people often feel lightheaded when there's a sensation that your brain isn't getting blood fast enough- so if you don't have enough red blood cells (anemia) blood volume(dehydration) not enough blood pressure (blood vessels not tightening fast enough when you go from sitting to standing) or oxygen you can feel lightheaded. any med prob that can cause the aove can make you lightheaded; see md.
what are the causes of renal failure?
there are many causes of renal failure. there is dehydration medication causes especially diurectics and ace inhibitors and kidney stones. also an enlarged prostate can lead to renal failure. there are other specific kidney problems such lupus membranous nephropathy and minimal change disease that lead to renal failure. however these diseases need special testing by your doctor.
what can cause very very bad calve pain while sleeping that at awakes me and put me. ?
this might be something as "simple" as a muscle cramp possibly from dehydration. or it could be something much more urgent like a deep venous thromboembolism (blood clot dvt). only an examination and workup will be able to determine the cause. is your calf swollen especially hot or cold or hardened (as opposed to soft)? if so you should probably make your way to your local emergency room.
what can cause very very bad calve pain while sleeping that at awakes me and put me. ?
poor circulation in legs; muscle cramps (possibly due to low potassium/magnesium or dehydration; a blood clot in the deep veins (usually accompanied by swelling & redness). if the latter seek medical help right away (er); otherwise see your fp/pcp for evaluation & treatment.
why am i going pale and passing out for no reason?
several cardiovascular and neurological problems can cause this. some of the more concerning of these are seizures small strokes and heart problems. less concerning problems include dehydration/malnutrition and low blood pressure. there are several things that need to be looked into involving syncope (passing out). talk to your primary care doctor. they will know where to start.
when i get up i almost black out what could this be?
when you feel like you are going to pass out after a sudden change in position you could be experiencing a rapid drop in your blood pressure. this can be due to dehydration anemia medication problems heart problems or other issues. you should be seen by a physician to have this evaluated and get some blood tests run.
what are the effects of dehydration?
depending on the degree of dehydration effects can be multiple. fatigue dizziness low energy passing out loss of urine output are among them.
what are the effects of dehydration?
acute kidney failure rapid heart rate low blood pressure sodium problems and others.
went to hospital for dehydation sat now having panic/anxiety attacks every evening . feel faint . disoriented. sweaty palms. arms feel heavy from forearms to finger tips. no pain anywhere. very scary. head feels funny can't focus. all i recieved a
the symptoms you are experiencing are serious and should be addressed. it could be as simple as anxiety or further dehydration but it could be a significant medical problem as well including thyroid problems. i would consult your doctor.
what auses low blood pressure and difficulty breathing?
heart is the pump which is responsible for maintaining blood pressure. when it is weak it will lead to low bp. pulmunary embolism will do both the things also. but sever dehydration and failure to thrive status also. more info about person needed.
what causes a renal vein thrombosis?
blood clotting disorders dehydration hormones tumor blunt trauma and pressure from aortic aneurysm.
why does your heart beat so fast after you have been drinking a lot of wine?
an alcohol induced heart arrhythmia (electrical abnormality in the heart triggered by alcohol) or simply dehydration are reasons that come to mind. there are other possibilities so i would be seen by your doctor to further deliniate. would recommend heart tracing or holter monitor. meanwhile i would stop drinking/wean off alcohol until this is worked up.
what would cause ventricular irrability?
some of the causes that may increase irritability include anything that results in high adrenaline levels (fear anxiety dehydration pain anemia severe other illness etc. ) low potassium and magnesium levels high calcium levels medication such as cold remedies with decongestants excessive alcohol and caffeine inflammation or injury to the heart muscles as in heart attack and myocarditis.
why do some people get intestinal ischemia and others don't?
usually ischemia of the bowel is associated with low blood flow from dehydration however most commonly occurs in the elderly who have peripheral vascular disease or narrowing of the vessels and when their blood pressure drops for numerous reasons there is inadequate blood flow to the bowels. acute weight loss or blood clots can also cause this. it is a serious condition and potentially life thre.
what causes hypotension and what are the symptoms? do you just faint?
there are many causes of hypotension from dehydration to bleeding or an overwhelming infection or sepsis. often people with significant hypotension can pass out so the first treatment is to lay the patient flat in order to keep the blood going to the brain. also patients are given lots of fluids to expand the volume.
what could my orthostatic hypotension be caused by? varicose veins?
low blood volume due to bleeding dehydration. medications used for cardiac problems hypertension. quick changes in position going from sitting/lying position to standing especially in the elderly varicose veins can cause leg swelling burning stinging sharp pain itching restless legs symptoms cramping and is not a frequent cause of orthostatic hypotension.
what are the common causes of a stroke in infants?
strokes are rare in infants but risk factors include: congenital heart defects dehydration infection brain malformations arteriovenous malformations and blood clotting disorders.
what is the difference between hemorrhagic and hypovolemic shock?
hemorrhagic shock is from bleeding usually due to a wound from trauma which can have excessive fluid loss. hypovolemic shock can have many causes like not drinking or dehydration from diarrhea and also hemorrhage. this is usually less severe but some examples of diarrhea can be excessive. both can be seen on the same spectrum of shock or fluid loss with hemorrhagic more severe/urgent.
what do you do after almost fainting running on an empty stomach?
i would recommend drinking gatorade or such and cooling off. it is generally dehydration that causes many symptoms. you shouldn't run on a full stomach but not while fasting either. if symptoms occur often a medical evaluation is needed.
what all can be the side effects of lasix (furosemide)?
side effects include electrolyte disturbances like low sodium low pottassium. it can also lead to dehydration if not carefully dosed. rarely allergic reactions occur like any other medications.
what all can be the side effects of lasix (furosemide)?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium >
what are the symptoms of hypovolemic shock?
hypovoemic shock is due to loss of circulating blood volume- may occur in severe dehydration acute blood loss severe sepsis. symptoms/ signs are dizziness fainting low blood pressure. treatment- fluids blood or antibiotics etc depending on the cause.
what side effect of tablet furosemide?
furosemide is used to reduce salt/water in body and thus treat edema heart failure or high bp. chief side effects include low potassium levels gout (from high uric acid level) and dehydration/volume depletion.
when is a dull ache in your legs (mostly calves) while resting a sign that you need to discuss it with the doctor? when is it pad? i'm 32 yo female.
aching occuring while at rest is most likely not related to arterial disease (pad) especially in a young patient without any prior history. it may be related to muscle pain from dehydration or an electrolyte abnormality. typically pad presents with muscle cramping or fatigue while exercising as the muscle uses up its oxygen supply and cannot replenish it fast enough.
what could be cause of a pounding heartbeat?
there are many reasons anxiety being the most common. however anything involving your heart is worth checking out. consider thyroid or adrenal diseases dehydration medications chemical imbalances. too much caffeine nicotine alcohol drugs stress and not enough sleep are other big causes. see your md.
what could be the cause of low bp in a 25 year old woman?
conditions that reduce blood volume reduce cardiac output and bp meds are the main causes of low bp 1 dehydration addison diseaes 2 moderate oe severe bleeding 3severe inflammation of organs and sepsis 4weak heart muscle mi 5pericarditis 6pulmonary embolism 7bradycardia-slow heart rate 8heart block sick sinus syndrome 9tachcardia 10drug toxicity 11 and finally meds used to treat high bp-quite comm.
what causes feling faint and dizzy? as well as feeling like you're in a fog? simliar to the feeling of pain kllers. only im not taking anything.
many things can cause this including dehydration sugar issues thyroid disorders and even psychiatric issues such as severe depression etc. you need a thorough evaluation with your doctor.
what causes low bp?
conditions that reduce blood volume reduce cardiac output and bp meds are the main causes of low bp 1 dehydration addison diseaes 2 moderate oe severe bleeding 3severe inflammation of organs and sepsis 4weak heart muscle mi 5pericarditis 6pulmonary embolism 7bradycardia-slow heart rate 8heart block sick sinus syndrome 9tachcardia 10drug toxicity 11 and finally meds used to treat high bp-quite comm.
what does having a? heart murmur mean?
the most specific meaning is turbulent blood flow from the "rooms" of the heart (the chambers) through the "doors" (the valves). many causes exist. the can be from problems or changes in the valves or heart or from things that effect the blood flow (anemia exercise dehydration). some causes are benign(flow murmur sometimes prolapse venous hum) sometimes more serious like valve failure or blockage.
why is it after i drink alcohol my heart beats faster?
alcohol is well known for increasing the risk of heart arrhythmia (when the heart beats irregularly). if you are getting heart arrhythmia (such as a faster heart beat) after each alcohol consumption you should probably either cut down or just stop drinking. the exact mechanism of why alcohol affects the heart is not fully understood but it may be both neural or dehydration induced.
what is the relationship of a heart murmur to a hole in the heart in a child?
is an extra sound the heart makes nothing more. sometimes it means something is wrong (like a hole) and other times it does not. children may have meaningless "benign" heart murmurs with fever dehydration or at different ages. a hole in the heart is one of many possible causes of a murmur. it might be a tiny hole that closes on it's own or it might be one that needs to be fixed.
what is the toxic dose of furosemide for humans?
too much furosemide can cause overdiuresis with too much urination and dehydration and therefore low blood pressure -(orthostasis) as well as too low a potassium. too much diuresis or dehydration of the kidneys can also lead to kidney failure. if one already has low kidney function then the dose is much lower than for a normal kidney. it depends over a whole range of factors.
what can cause a fast heartbeat and dizziness?
anything from anxiety or dehydration to a serious abnormal heart rhythm. a fast heart rate and dizziness is something that should be evaluated right away unless you know it's due to anxiety or it's from dehydration that you can fix by drinking fluids. it can be useful to measure your heart rate and to find out whether it's regular and steady irregular with a pattern or completely random.
what are the causes of random hard heart pounding pains on a daily basis?
tachycardia (fast heart beat) or palpitations (being able to feel your heart beating) can be caused by stress anemia infection fever dehydration medication low blood sugar hyperthyroidism and many many other causes. some causes are problems with the heart others cause your normal to beat too fast. time to call your doctor and get checked out!
why am i feeling faint and dizzy during rugby practice?
dehydration over-exertion stress and anxiety and last but not least how many times have you been hit in the head? seriously though the other thing to be concerned about is your heart rate and rhythm. if your pulse is in any way irregular you need to see a doctor and have this checked.
whenever i wake up after taking a short nap i can feel my heart pounding heavily throughout my body. is this normal?
tachycardia (fast heart beat) can be caused by stress anemia infection fever dehydration medication low blood sugar hyperthyroidism and many many other causes. some causes are problems with the heart others cause your normal to beat too fast. time to call your doctor and get checked out!
what are some of the possible side-effects of a doubled lasix (furosemide) prescription?
low potassium low magnesium dehydration low blood pressure (especially when standing) weakness fatigue kidney dysfunction to name a few.
what are some of the possible side-effects of a doubled lasix (furosemide) prescription?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium >
what is the significance of being short of breath in the shower?
mist likely cause is reactive tachycardia secondary to vasodilation. . this would be worsened by dehydration.
what can cause a deep vein thrombosis?
dvt occurs when virchow's triad is satisfied: hemodynamic abnormality (stasis turbulence) endothelial damage and hypercoagulability (abnormality in blood due to malignancy increased risk in clot formation). family history (thrombophilia) surgery trauma dehydration prolonged bed rest congestive heart failure kidney problems are risk factors.
what could cause low blood pressure?
for the average person the most common cause of low bp is from dehydration--not getting enough fluids/foods. for elderly this is even more common. also medications can also do this. autonomic dysfunctions as in parkinson disease or advanced diabetes; heart failure liver failure rapid blood loss/bleeding etc. are other major causes. if you have problem consult doc. good luck.
what could cause me to frequently feel dizzy and faint?
the most frequent cause is mild dehydration. other causes could included heart disease or rhythm disturbance too man y medications autonomic dysfunction and other issues. if drinking more water and less caffeine and alcohol doesn't fix this in a few days or if you pass out you should see a doctor soon.
what can i do to combat low blood pressure besides caffeine?
adequate hydration is key. caffeine is not effective & will lead to further dehydration.
what causes low blood pressure?
either low cardiac output due to low or high hr's/low stroke volume or excessive vasodilation. hormonal problems (like adrenal insuff) could rarely be a cause. infection/sepsis/anemia or acute blood loss dehydration or cardiac pump/rhythm problems could cause.
what sorts of problems make you feel light-headed or unable to think?
several possibilities come to mind including anxiety -- either temporary like having to give a speech or more chronic like an ongoing anxiety disorder such as generalized anxiety d/o or panic d/o. intoxication with alcohol or other substances is another. dehydration and medications which lower your blood pressure -- and standing up quickly with these on board.
what causes people to get dizzy and pass out?
dehydration is a common issue but other issues include autonomic dysfunction heart rhythm issues heart valve issues and heart valve problems. occasionally medications could be involved as well.
why do i get headaches about 5 to 10 minutes in to my exercise?
your headaches could be coming from tension dehydration lack of sleep/poor sleep skipping meals stress teeth grinding sleep apnea/snoring or chronic sinus problems among other things. see a doctor to get checked out so you can get som ehelp for your headaches.
what are the causes and effects of low bp?
but most common is dehydration. symptoms are fatigue dizziness or feeling faint or higher heart rates.
what vitamin or vitamins help one urinate excess fluid like lasix (furosemide) would?
vitamin b6 has diuretic effects and rids your body of excess fluids in the form of urination. vitamin c is not stored in your body and can also have a diuretic effect. be sure you check with your doctor. avoid dehydration.
what could cause a 92 yo to slip from chair? found sitting on floor. no recall. bp high 4hr later. speech odd week before. prior cva and fall/fracture
new stroke tia cardiac arrhythmia drug overdosage dehydration and hypotension seizure? sounds like there was a loss of consciousness. if there was an arrhythmia she might need cardiac monitoring. if a new onset of seizure we have to r/o brain mass or metabolic abnormalities. tia warrants other evaluations since it might be a harbinger of a full blown stroke.
why is my heartbeat beats fast eventhough i'm sitting?
fast heart beat is called tacycardia. there are several causes: including fever coffee stress dehydration anemia etc. serious conditions like cardiac arrhythmias needs to be excluded blood pressure checked etc. hence evaluation by a physician is necessary including blood work ecg and stress test if necessary.
what's the difference between heat stroke and exhaustion?
heat exhaustion refers to a situation where the body is overheated and there may be nausea and muscle cramps. there is profuse sweating and dehydration can result. if the process continues then the body temp can increase to 106f with vascular collapse. this is heat stroke which is a medical emergency which can be fatal if not aggressively treated with iv fluids and cooling of the body.
what causes giddyness when getting up or laying down bending over etc sometimes i feel that i will fall if i don't hang on to something?
usually dizziness on standing equals not enough blood flow getting to the brain. . not unusual when mild. gravity pulling it down to the legs and not enough pressure to go upward from heart to brain against gravity. bending over.? related to cardiac output obstruction aortic valve disease. common dizziness on standing causes: dehydration bp meds neuropathy parkinson's.
what kind of a blackout is it when you faint for a bit?
many things cause people to faint. . usually the primary cause is a general lack of blood flow to the entire head. often this is standing up too fast which doesn't allow for bp accommodation dehydration heart valve or squeeze issues medications diabetes (excess urination due to high sugars then causing not enough blood to brain or nerve damage due to high sugar). many other causes. heart.
will taking lasix (furosemide) lead to dehydration?
lasix (furosemide) is a drug meant to remove excess fluid and sodium from the body. if too much is taken or intake drops substantially it can cause dehydration.
will taking lasix (furosemide) lead to dehydration?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium
what can cause orthostatic hypertensn+tacyda? hr= 130-145upon stndg. coldfeet+hands dring episode. urine/bmalso incrbp/hr. breathless + headrush feelg?
your blood pressure supposes to go up a bit from laying to sitting to standing up to provide adequate pressure to get blood to your brain (mostly by increase in heart-rate-heart pumping more blood). . with orthostatic hypotension your bp actually may drop when you stand up causing dizziness/fainting etc. causes: dehydration meds use infections autonomic dysfunctions and++. consult doc. good luck.
what is the definition or description of: feeling faint?
faintness is a description of the initial manifestations of a syncopal spell where one loses consciousness for a few seconds usually. this is often due to drop in blood pressure provoked by a noxious stimulus but can be seen in dehydration. initial general malaise light-headedness dizziness contraction and darkening of vision responding to recumbent posture. otherwise loss of consciousnes.
what can i drink to help with my constipation if i have diabetes high blood pressure and gastritis?
most common cause of constipation in diabetes are high sugars causing excess fluid loss; dehydration even modest leads to constipation. so keep sugars controlled drink lots of fluids to keep urine dilute!
what are the causes of isolated diastolic hypotension?
usually it is due to dehydration and electrolyte deficiencies in young adults. rarely it is due to leaky aortic valves. sometimes it is due to certain hormone deficiencies or anemia. you should see your doctor for lab tests and to see if you have leaky valve (murmur on exam) and if further evaluation with echocardiogram is needed.
what is the definition or description of: syncope?
syncope results from decreased blood flow to brain due to cardiac problems hypotension anemia vasovagal reactions (sight of blood foul aromas etc) dehydration. starts with light-headedness narrowing and darkening of vision malaise. then loss of consciousness for a few seconds and arousal without confusion but nausea chills sweating.
what causes high glucose serum calcium serum albumin serum total cholesterol ldl cholesterol calc vitamin b12 but low sed rate westergren?
as a pathologist who's devoted a lifetime to lab medicine my teammates and i are always reminding people that lab results mean nothing whatever in the absence of a history & physical exam. please don't take this the wrong way and i appreciate your proactive approach to health. but no one can do anything with this. ask instead "could high albumin out-of-range be from dehydration? " etc.
what can be the cause of my lightheadness/dizziness when j get up from a squating position or fron bending over.? i being feeling as if im faint.
bending or squatting "kinks" the inferior vena cava it being a lower pressure system than the aorta thereby decreasing venous return to the heart. if low blood volume due to dehydration anemia etc. this decrease can be enough to prevent outward blood flow and cause syncope or near-syncope. impaired response time to this change can also occur w/ increased vagal tone like in vaso-vagal syncope.
what causes decreased thirst/fluid intake?
thirst is controlled by a center in the brainstem. that center is sensitive (exquisitely so) to the concentration of sodium in the blood. so from that you can gather the two simple answers. if the sodium level is too low for any reason it would require more than usual dehydration to raise it to the level triggering thirst. if the center is less responsive (old age) the thirst signal is weaker.
what causes instant fatigue profuse sweating and nausia?
the list of possible causes includes dehydration fever food poisoning drug reactions low blood pressure low blood sugar and many other things including rarer things such as spider bites and other toxic exposures.
what are the main causes of fainting in adults?
in general fainting is caused by a drop in blood flow to the brain. this can be caused by a number of reasons. it can be caused by a sudden drop in heart rate an erratic ineffective heart rate. drop in blood pressure caused by ineffective constriction of veins that sometimes is caused caused by dehydration or sudden standing. these are just some of the causes.
when i get up from a sitting position i feel shaky and get a "passing out type of sensation". lasts 5-10 secs then goes away. even when laying down.
you more than likely have ortho static hypotension. there are multiple reasons including medications dehydration and autonomic dysfunction.
what causes low blood pressure and how can i make it higher?
heart failure adrenal insufficiency unstable cardiac arrthymias (abnormal rhythms) sepsis with septic shock neurogenic shock cardiogenic shock and most commonly dehydration. it depends how low it is if low normal and you are not symptomatic you shouldn't get it higher. smaller patients tend to have lower blood pressures as a whole.
what can be the home remedy for low blood pressure? should we cardiologist if we face very low blood pressure and it seems everything is blackout?
heart failure adrenal insufficiency unstable cardiac arrthymias (abnormal rhythms) sepsis with septic shock orthostatic hypoten neurogenic shock cardiogenic shock and commonly dehydration can cause low blood pressure. it depends how low it is if low normal and you are not symptomatic you shouldn't get it higher. if you are blacking out you should goto the ed or see a doctor to be evaluated.
why i always feel a back neck pain when i wake up in the next morning if i don't had an exercise a day before? is it cholesterol?
not related to cholesterol but to joint inflammation and dehydration. drink more water at bedtime for less morning stiffness.
why am i almost passing out every time i stand up?
fainting episode or syncope can be caused multiple reasons the common ones are anemia dehydration arrhythmia certain cardio vascular and neurological conditions. simple test like hemoglobin and ekg can yield valuable information. although syncope work up includes holter monitoring eeg and a ct scan or mri. consult your physician asap.
what can cause fast heartbeat breathing difficulty cold body and dizziness?
one could begin with common causes such as dehydration extreme anxiety or fright asthma abnormal thyroid function and some unusual problems such as rare tumors which secrete substances which can affect heart rate and blood pressure. the list is very long. however were you to undergo a thorough medical examination with appropriate blood and urine testing an answer would likely be found.
what does it mean if i have a fast heartbeat all the time?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
what happens to a patient with a coronary artery disease if he is given 1 liter of intravenous fluids in just 2 hours?
this is a bit more than a usual beverage and you state it is iv. most will respond by urinating. someone with a low blood pressure to rise or dehydration will feel better. if the person is already overloaded or in heart failure they may feel worse or get short of breath and need medication. for someone in shock this may not be enough fluid. so it depends on more than coronary disease.
why does hypertension cause polyuria?
hypertension can cause polyuria when the renal vascular has not begun to obstruct. the higher pressure head can push filtration pressure up and cause polyuria until relative dehydration results. htn can also be associated with diabetes and its polyuria. when hypertension is long standing and renal changes have progressed the situation changes as filtration pressures and sodium retention result. .
what should i do to combat low blood pressure besides drinking coffee?
coffee has diuretic properties and can lead to dehydration. staying plenty hydrated by drinking water regularly may help. if your blood pressure drops when you change from lying down to standing (drops) this is a sign of dehydration.
what causes low blood pressure and if it all of a sudden becomes low what can you do?
there are multiple etiologies to low bp including low volume status (i. e. dehydration acute bleeding etc) versus infection (causing vasoplegia) or heart failure with low cardiac ouput. the most common caue of acutely low blood pressure can be vasovagal in nature ( a reflex that happens briefly) that can be interrupted by quickly squatting down and squeezing both hands.
what exactly does it mean when your heart speeds up?
most resting heart rate normals are 80 to 100 bpm. some people's resting heart rate is higher. abnormal reasons for higher resting heart rate include anemia hyperthyroidism fever ongoing inflammation or infection dehydration and there is also a pathologic sinus tachycardia condition. you'd need to see a dr. and be evaluated if you're worried about your resting heart rate.
what can my orthostatic hypotension be caused by?
lots of causes from dehydration dysautonomia poor venous tone poor cardiac function thru others need to work with your doctor to diagnose and treat.
what can cause the disease deep vein thrombosis (dvt)?
there are many factor which cause dvts: dehydration stasis of the blood in the legs smoking trauma family associated hereditary disease (thrombophilia) injuries inactivity including hospital stays long flights without activity obesity. certain surgical procedures can also predispose a person to dvt as well. i recommend you to speak to your physician if you are concerned.
what can cause the disease deep vein thrombosis (dvt)?
dvt can be multifactorial but there is usually some combination of factors: dehydration stasis of the blood in the legs family associated hereditary disease (thrombophilia) injuries inactivity long flights without activity obesity amongst other predisposing factors. certain surgical procedures can also predispose a person to dvt as well. best to speak to your physician if concerned.
what are the causes of low blood pressure?
genetics dehydration anemia autonomic dysfunction vasodilator medicines.
what side effects are commonly associated with diuretics?
diuretics cause fluid to be excreted through the kidneys. this can contribute to lower blood pressure electrolyte problems dehydration and extra stress on your kidneys over time.
what exactly does it mean when you have low blood pressure?
low blood pressure in general is desirable. but if you are having symptoms such as significant fatigue or low (or high) heart rate it may be a sign of other condition such as a heart rhythm problem thyroid dysfunction adrenal gland problem medication side effect or dehydration.
was leaning over on my phone for a few minutes when i stood up 3/4ths of my vision blacked out. was this just orthostatic hypotension and is it benign?
this is orthostatic hypotension which in a young person usually indicates some degree of dehydration. this is much more likely if you are in a hot environment. be sure to drink enough water so that when voiding the urine looks like water to be sure that you are not dehydrated at all. changing posture a little more slowly will also prevent this by giving more time for adjustment of the bp.
what can cause your blood pressure to drop?
blood loss dehydration acidosis cardiac failure peripheral vasodilation cardiac outflow obstruction valve dysfunction. .
why does low bp occurs?
low blood pressure is good unless you're faint lightheaded or dizzy etc. abnormally low bp (hypotension) can be due to dehydration blood loss severe infection heart attack or even taking excess blood pressure medication. check out <link>
what could cause ccasional dizziness and sometime low blood pressure?
it may be a sign of other condition such as a heart rhythm problem thyroid dysfunction adrenal gland problem medication side effect or dehydration.
what can it mean if i have low blood pressure?
it depends if you have symptoms or not or if you are on medications to control elevated blood pressure or if you have underlying cardiac conditions. for some underlying abnormal conditions: consider dehydration heart failure anemia low thyroid or low cortisol.
why do i have high cpk levels and why does my chest hurt when i take hard steps? why do my legs get very weak when i get upset in any way?
cpk is non specific and could be elevated in muscular liver kidney and heart problems. the isoenzymes may help in narrowing down the causes. heavy excercize and dehydration can cause elevation. follow up with your doctor.
what causes a sudden drop in blood pressure after eating?
eating is known to decrease bp for an hour or two. blood is routed to the intestine and liver and that reduces overall bp. dehydration and some medicines may make this meal induced change in bp more obvious. i would not worry too much but i would be careful to avoid sudden changes in posture or exposure to very high temps after eating.
when is low blood pressure considered dangerous?
when your blood pressure is too low you do not get enough oxygen to your brain and people feel lightheaded dizzy or like they are going to faint. that is dangerous but the most common cause of low blood pressure is not enough fluids or dehydration. if you are still having low blood pressure and feeling dizzy after drinking at least 64 oz per day then you should see your doctor.
what is reason of fainting with lot of sweat on standing for long time?
dehydration. try to drink 8-10 glasses of water a day. more if you are doing very strenuous work or exercise.
what can cause shakiness weakness light headedness and sudden tiredness?
reaction to medication hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) anxiety cardiac arrhythmia middle ear infection labyrinthitis panic attack anemia and dehydration are few conditions. if these are frequent symptoms should consult physician for physical exam and perhaps testing.
what causes high blood pressure or low blood pressure please b pascifec?
high blood pressure is often idiopathic meaning we don't have a reason for it. cardiovascular disease renal disease and some endocrine diseases can cause it. pain anxiety and medications such as various stimulants can raise bp as well. low bp can be idiopathic or caused by cardiovascular disease endocrine disease anemia and dehydration.
would systolic pressure drop from 130 to 100 cause fainting? hr increased to 115 normally 65 loc 1min refused hospital visit hit head what 2 watch for?
bp shouldn't cause syncope but taken in conjunction with increase in heart rate suggests relative orthostasic hypotension. . consider dehydration.
what are the first signs of heat stroke or exhaustion?
fatigue dizziness slow motion imbalance confusion fever. the problem is dehydration and well as overheating. get them to drink more (with electrolytes) get out of the sun and lie down until recovered.
what precautions should be taken when someone has pph? is the recovery possible?
one should avoid dehydration or reduced blood volume due to anemia diuretics or vasodilators. there are many new drugs available for the treatment of pph but it remains a serious and worrisome syndrome that requires management by experts who specialize in it's evaluation and treatment.
will dehydration cause swollen feet?
swelling is usually associated with excess fluid. dehydration is not a cause of swelling in the feet. malnutrition though may cause swelling.
what would cause someone to all of a sudden have problems staying hydrated to the point it effects the bp?
sudden dehydration may be sign of a variety of illnesses in order of frequency: excessive exercise allergic reactions internal hemorrhage use of diuretics heart diseases (complete heart block eisenmenger's syndrome) days after a major surgery and a rare poisonous like snake bite. with your history of heart disease start by seeing your cardiologist as soon as possible.
what is the largest difference between fainting and seizures?
i agree with dr. neish. i'll add that a seizure occurs due to abnormal brainwave activity. and fainting will typically have normal brainwaves. fainting can be due to many causes: abnormal heart beat low blood pressure emotion dehydration low blood sugar etc.
what causes dizziness chest pains upper back pain lightheaded can't maintain balance for a long period of time muscle ache nauseated feeling?
this can be a number of things including dehydration. but the more worrisome conditions such as diabetes another endocrine disorder or a heart condition are also possible.
why is there a reduced cardiac output in diabetic ketoacidosis?
the reduced cardiac output is largely due to the dehydration and volume loss from the polyuria (increased urination) and often times nausea/vomiting. cardiac output is determined by heart rate times stroke volume. the heart can only compensate so much by increasing the rate when you don't have the blood volume to pump. eventually a decreasing ph also prevents the heart from contracting as well.
what is pots?
postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. this is when a person arises from supine to upright the heart becomes very fast and low bp occurs which is the main cause of the two is unsure as low bp does cause high heart rate as in dehydration and tachycardia causes lowering of bp. this is supposed to be an autonomic dysfunction though as in nerve response problem.
what does it mean if your blood pressure and pulse go from 106/68 98 to 9<negative_smiley>48 130 just by standing up?
you should wait a couple of minutes after standing up and then recheck your blood pressure and pulse. if heart rate remains elevated and/or blood pressure drops as mentioned you should be evaluated by your doctor especially if having symptoms such as dizziness. the cause of such changes may be dehydration hormonal neurologic medications etc.
what are possible causes of low blood pressure based on the factors that maintain normal blood pressure?
the body regulates blood pressure to prevent too much drop. this regulation and counter measures may be inadequate in certain conditions such as severe infections/inflammations dehydration or blood loss severe heart disease neurologic disease toxicity etc.
what can cause an acute change in gfr? mine dropped from normal range to 42 over 2 month period. cr is 1. 5. lupus patient. trace protein. norm bp.
increased creatinine in lupus could be sec to medications dehydration lupus flare. creatinine must be rechecked urine analysis should be done to look for blood and protein lupus blood tests must be done to look for lupus activity. may need kidney biopsy if none gives the answer.
what are common reasons for low blood pressure in adults?
dehydration is the commonest cause. addison's disease is a rare cause. sepsis is an ominous cause. cardiogenic shock is a terminal cause. low bp can be completely normal in some people too!
why does a patient with diabetes ketoacidosis have low blood pressure (90/60 mmhg)?
the degree of dehydration associated with dka is comparable to severe dehydration.
would taking potassium spearing diuretic such as spironolactone in addition to hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) aggravate or slow the healing of anal fissure?
diuretics has no effect what so ever on anal fissure better or worst saying that if the diuretics will end up causing dehydration bad enough to cause constipation then yes that could cause the anal fissure to be worst saying that we do treat the anal fissure with vasodilaters a medication that is used to treat hypertension and that have been very helpful.
why in the am am i lightheaded & dark urine? blood work all normal today inc. kidneys - orthostatics normal heart work up too. house very dry. ?
lightheaded spells should be correlated with blood pressure measurements lying then when getting up checking for drop. dark urine may imply concentrated specimen due to dehydration. perhaps first voided urine sample should be checked for specific gravity etc. try drinking couple glasses of water prior retiring at night.
why in the am am i lightheaded & dark urine? blood work all normal today inc. kidneys - orthostatics normal heart work up too. house very dry. ?
most commonly it is slight dehydration. these two symptoms commonly mean the kidneys are concentrating the urine to conserve fluid.
why in the am am i lightheaded & dark urine? blood work all normal today inc. kidneys - orthostatics normal heart work up too. house very dry. ?
clinically you are describing dehydration. your urine is "dark" because it is concentrated. we should all be constantly "hydrating" ourselves with the goal of at least 2 liters of urine (output)/24 hours.
will dehydration cause a droopy eye and low blood pressure?
your history says you've received iv hydration are hypotensive dehydrated and depressed. you can have high hr too depending on how dehydrated you are. as for droopy eyelid (ptosis) that's not caused normally from dehydration but if you're tired exhausted from being dehydrated it may seem to you that it is when it's not functionally related. iv hydration doesn't usually change droopy eyelids.
will dehydration cause a droopy eye and low blood pressure?
dehydration can cause a low blood pressure and sunken or droopy eyes.
what can cause me to get light headed a little short of breath and feel like i'm going to pass out after a mild workout?
at your age you should be able to exercise without restrictions. there could be multiple reasons for this weakness and pre-syncope. it could be anywhere from dehydration to structural heart disease. you may wanna go to pcp and get evaluated.
what is heat stroke caused by?
heat stroke results from prolonged exposure to high temperatures -- usually in combination with dehydration -- which leads to failure of the body's temperature control system. the medical definition of heat stroke is a core body temperature greater than 105 degrees fahrenheit with complications involving the central nervous system that occur after exposure to high temperatures. call 911 if susp.
what is a normal pulse pressure? what is to narrow and what is to wide? sometimes my pp is 25-35 and sometimes its 45-65. 25-35 standing and 45-65 llying down.
the difference between systolic and diastolic bp is called pulse pressure. the normal range is between 30 - 60 mm. it can be widened for example in dehydration and certain valvular and muscle diseases of heart and also in senior citizen.
what might cause toes to curl up and seize during sleep or when horizontal. may be accompanied by numbness & tingling (poor circulation? )?
toe curling is more often caused by muscle cramping. this is usually from fatigue from poor support or faulty biomechanics. sometimes dehydration or electrolyte imbalance is to blame. poor circulation will usually cause pain when active rather than at rest. see your podiatrist for a full evaluation.
when i stand in lines for something like a roller coaster my heart beats really fast until i feel like i'm going to pass out. that isn't normal.
prolonged standing in line can pool blood towards the legs and hence result in relative dehydration and low blood pressure. both of these can result in fast heart beat and dizziness. anxiety and hyperventilation can also have these symptoms. if symptoms persist despite maintaining hydration and breathing calmly then medical attention should be sought.
what would cause postural hypotension triggered by heat in healthy 15 yr old girl. not dehydrated good diet slim exercise reg. deficiency? vitamin?
postural hypotension occurs when something interrupts the body's natural process of counteracting low blood pressure. occasional dizziness or lightheadedness may be relatively minor — mild dehydration low blood sugar or too much time in the sun or a hot tub. it may also happen when you stand after sitting for a long time (class concert church). if only occasional not cause for concern.
what to do if i am bulimic and ive noticed some dizziness on bad days does this mean my heart is being affected?
it could be the case but it could be related to dehydration or an electrolyte or acid-base imbalance. or under-nutrition. you have to get that treated.
what do you suggest if my heartbeat is so irregular i can't count it! symptoms of a caffeine od?
irregularly irregular heart rate can be due to atrial fibrillation an unstable rhythm that needs to be treated. other rhythm disturbances may occur as well. caffeine alcohol tobacco stimulant drugs other meds lack of sleep dehydration other factors may cause or aggravate. see md
why are serum calcium and ace levels increased in sarcoidosis?
no one knows exactly why high calcium levels occur in granuloma-forming disorders such as sarcoidosis. contributing factors may include dehydration increased uptake of oral calcium and/or decreased calcium excretion especially if the kidneys are not 100% functional. ace activity is also increased but again no one knows exactly why. ace is thought to be produced by cells in the granulomas.
why do i wake up having to urinate every 3-4 hours profusely sweating and heart beating rapidly with anxiety? eyes & lips are severely dry as well.
you need an eval as paradoxically you are urinating more yet have some symptoms of dehydration to. get an eval for underlying conditions like diabetes thyroid disorders dehydration uti's etc. best wishes.
what causes hypotension during exercise or during exposure to heat? not dehydration thyroid cardiac pulmonary or endocrine. bp normal otherwise.
hypotension is by definition low bp and while bp may be normal you may experience lower bp relative to your normal when your vessels dilate in response to a rise in internal temperature. cardiopulmonary endocrine anemia dehydration and infection are potential causes as are medication side effects. note that you can be volume depleted -- with these symptoms -- and not technically dehydrated.
what causes hypotension during exercise or during exposure to heat? not dehydration thyroid cardiac pulmonary or endocrine. bp normal otherwise.
do you just want to know such phenomenon or do you personally experience symptoms such as dizziness at fast standing-up during exercise? both exercise and heat exposure normally dilate all blood vessels so to lower blood pressure but usually autonomic nerve system can automatically regulate the degree of vessel dilation so to maintain circulation to the brain adequately. but few cannot do so.
what are the causes for low blood pressure?
well if low blood pressure is not causing any symptoms then i wouldn't be worried about it dehydration heart disease anemia medications adrenal and thyroid dysfunction pregnancy.
what kind of heart issues can happen with high calcium levels?
high blood calcium can elevate blood pressure can cause dehydration and kidney injury can cause kidney failure and can cause heart rhythm problems.
what does a ck level of 2700 mean?
be in the presence of symptoms like muscle pain bloody appearing urine and dehydration a sign of rhabdomyolysis. other causes of elevated ck include renal diseases and muscle injury or inflammation. seek help
what can cause dizziness when your head lowers eg when bend down to pick something up rather then the usual low bp from sit to stand?
a feeling of dizziness may mean a lot of things. do you feel movement? peripheral vertigo causes us to feel movement in excess relative to our movements. it is common with bending over and picking something up. it may improve with sitting or lying still. it also gets worse with turning the head sometimes. sometimes other causes could be involved- low blood count dehydration are examples 2
why would someone with moderate hypertension also suffer from postural hypotension leading to near many near faints? what treatment would you suggest
postural hypotension occurs when your natural processes don't kick in to maintain your blood pressure when you stand up. causes include dehydration (low blood volume) pump (heart) problems diabetes/other endocrine problems nervous system disorders. taking certain blood pressure lowering medicines can contribute. review meds with your doc stay well hydrated stand up slowly compression stockings
what is best way to evacuate the bowel once focal ileus has been diagnosed and pt has become nauseous vomits bile dehydrated hypotensive ?
if the patient is hypotensive the ileus becomes secondary. nasogastric tube will be helpful in decompressing the bowel proximal to the ileus or obstruction but the dehydration and hypotension is more important at this point.
what can cause orthostatic hypotension?
lots of causes from dehydration dysautonomia poor venous tone poor cardiac function thru others need to work with your doctor to diagnose and treat.
what happens if the sodium in the blood is high but the blood pressure is low?
the blood level of sodium is often high in the face of dehydration and this may or may not correspond with a change in blood pressure. if one is volume depleted the blood pressure may be low. however some may have severe weakness of their heart muscle and the blood pressure and the sodium may both be low. it is important to correlate the medical issues involved to interpret these levels.
what happens if you take too much blood pressure medicine?
depends upon the type of blood pressure medication. all can cause low blood pressure - and - generally with the beta blockers and calcium channel blockers you can see very low heart rates and syncope. overdose of diuretics can cause dehydration and kidney damage. overdose of acei / arb can cause kidney damage. there are many other meds to be considered but not enough space to detail here.
what does it mean if my blood pressure was 139/92 and i also feel light headed?
it means you need to recheck your blood pressure a couple more times. are you pregnant because then we're playing a whole different ball game. if not lightheadedness can be caused by multiple possible issues like dehydration anemia severe high blood pressure vasovagal reactions low blood sugar & a few other things. time to get an exam & blood tests. meantime stay hydrated & eat regularly.
what medical condition causes a heat stroke and seizure?
dehydration occurs with prolonged exertion in hot conditions. this can cause loss of consciousness heat stroke or even seizure. infection and high fever may also cause a seizure but not heat stroke.
with heart failure do you get dizzy from low blood pressure or something else?
low blood pressure can occur with heart failure whether due to medications of the heat failure itself. patients with heart failure are commonly treated with diuretics also which can cause dehydration and low blood pressure. your treating physician can best guide you
what is vasoconstriction? what is the real cause of it and how to avoid from getting it?
vasoconstriction refers to periodic narrowing of arteries. this is most commonly precipitated by cold weather dehydration certain medications caffeine and some disease conditions. it is generally a reflexive response of arteries to cold weather etc.
why do high blood pressure medications tell you to stay out of the sun?
some antihypertensives can sensitize the skin to sunlight and make sunburn easier. by lowering the peripheral resistance the bp meds can make on more volume sensitive and make dehydration easier and more serious in the heat.
what could happen if someone took 25 40mg tablets of furosemide?
"could" cause overdose w/lasix (furosemide) can cause dehydration hypotension electrolyte imbalance hypokalemia and hypochloremic alkalosis. the acute toxicity of lasix (furosemide) has been determined in mice rats and dogs. in all three the oral ld50 exceeded 1000 mg/kg body weight while the intravenous ld50 ranged from 300 to 680 mg/kg.
should i see a specialist for postural hypotension or can my regular doctor take care of it?
there are many thing your pcp can do for orthostasis. review of the medicines re check your blood pressure. suggest to wear elastic support stockings get lab tests for cortisol level renal function to rule out dehydration or low sodium etc.
why does caffeine put me to sleep but alcohol makes my heart race at a resting rate of 135-150 bpm (and not from dehydration)?
alcohol is a sympathetic stimulant which can increase heart rate. but your recorded response is abnormaly high and suggests autonomic nervous system imbalance. at your age. many medical conditions could be considered (i. e. hyperthyroidism inappropriate sinus tachycardia and more). but the overall suggestion is that the autonomic n. s. is abnormal. this could explain your caffeine also.
should i seek medical care after hitting my head earlier today? this morning as i was getting out of the shower i passed out and found myself on the bathroom floor upon "waking up. " i did self-harm in the shower but i don't believe that i lost a lot of
unexplained loss of consciousness has different causes depending upon age and medical conditions. can sometimes be "benign" related to dehydration and hot water but sometimes sinister and related to an underlying heart rhythm which may recur. seizure often causes a period of confusion after the event. see your doc at next available appt to consider further testing.
whenever i run i have a hard time breathing and my body tends to start shaking and feel hot. i sometimes feel dizzy. what's wrong with me?
there is a form of asthma called exercise induced asthma. this is easily treated but you need to see a doctor for some testing. dizziness can be caused by many things such as dehydration anemia and inner ear problems. it would be good for you to see a doctor and get and exam and some testing. in the mean time drink plenty of water and avoid caffeine and alcohol.
so must i call my doctor if i have syncope?
syncope is common. common causes: emotion dehydration medications. abnormalities of heart rhythm increase with age. cardiomyopathy is rare but possible in younger patients. if first episode and there is a clear precipitant it is probably not necessary to see doc right away. but if recurrent or no clear explanation see doc soon.
sun stroke gives you diarrhea does it?
generally sun stroke is accompanied by significant dehydration and should not give you diarrhea.
side effect of water retention tablets as i m on that tablet for 2 years now. many times my heamoglobin goes up n down is it cause of this tablet.?
water retention tablets (or diuretics) that you got from the doctor or in supplement form shouldn't cause big fluctuations in your hemoglobin. in mod to severe dehydration and rehydration the hemoglobin will change. but if you're noticing it i would look for other causes of the anemia first.
can alcohol bring on an episode of svt?
alcohol can be directly toxic to the heart in sufficient quantities. excessive drinking can cause any number of cardiac problems including svt. *i agree. in addition alcohol can lead to dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities - both of which can also contribute to arrhythmias. *.
could baclofen from an implanted pump cause transient tachycardia?
anyone receiving intrathecal baclofen for spasticity likely also has autonomic dysfunction including abnormalities in regulation of heart rate and blood pressure. baclofen may decrease blood pressure and cause reflex tachycardia but if given by a pump should not cause fluctuating changes. see a sci specialist for evaluation; changes in posture dehydration anxiety or other condition possible.
can dehydration cause heart palpitations?
dehydration causes decreased blood volume of circulating blood. for the heart to keep pumping the same amount of blood (cardiac output) the heart has to speed up therefore causing increased heart rate (tachycardia). when dehydration is extreme heart rate can be very fast (>>100 bpm) causing 'palpitations'. i. v fluids may be needed to quickly restore blood volume or vascular collapse will occur.
can dehydration cause heart palpitations?
if you dehydrated or have "low fluids volume" in blood vesles - heart is increasing rate to circulate blood to vital organs and it may feel subjectivly as a "palpitation". whatever is the reason for dehydration - volume has to be replaced asap.
can a pounding heart be caused by dehydration or does dehydration cause a weak heartbeat?
dehydration can produce an elevated heart rate giving the sensation of the heart pounding in the chest. extreme dehydration can produce hypovolemic shock which if uncompensated manifests as low blood pressure and possibly a weak pulse.
child with fever heart racing 2 yr old daughter. rectal fever 105. third day with fever. during day she plays seems fine. been on steady doses of tylenol and motrim. currently doing cold presses popsicles. should we be at er? her heart rate was at 150.
since your child's temp is up around 105f you should either call her doctor or go to the emergency room. fevers for the most part aren't dangerous and are just the body's natural reaction to fighting off an infection. most of these infections are viral and may be accompanied by runny nose sore throat congestion mild rash or nothing at all. since fevers aren't dangerous we usually treat the fever with acetaminophen or ibuprofen just to make the child more comfortable as their body fights the illness. "red flags" that we look for with fever to indicate something more serious is going on are: -fevers that last 5 days or more -fevers persistently above 104f orally or 105f rectally -a child that acts very sick - very irritable or difficult to wake -difficulty breathing -vomiting diarrhea refusal to drink or dehydration -a purple rash esp on the legs -stiff neck -any complaints of pain such as the ear throat stomach or a joint as always use your judgement. if you think that your child is ill err on the side of caution and call your child's doctor.
