zyprexa seroquel risperdal abilify all can have porential risk of raising blood sugar. does latuda (lurasidone) carry this risk also. not to familiar with it?
lurasidone is a newer second-generation antipsychotic that is also approved for use in bipolar disorder/bipolar depression. it has the risks described above like all of the others. psychiatrists have more limited experience with lurasidone as it is newer. the risks with lurasidone appear to be on the low end compare to others although this view may change as we gain more experience with the drug.
zoloft (sertraline) helped with normal ocd but caused intrusive unwanted thoughts after a month. what can i do now? best anti-psy/ssri combo and no wt gain? !?
intrusive thoughts are often part of ocd so it's not clear whether zoloft (sertraline) "caused" them or they were occurring from your ocd at the same time you were barely getting started with zoloft (sertraline). all antidepressants require at lest 6-8 weeks' trial and people often need higher doses of ssri's for ocd than for depression. hoping you'll confer with your psychiatrist about this and not give up!
zoloft (sertraline) dose up to 100mg and takin klonopin 1mg twice a day. will this balance my anxiety feel like my doc is focused on depression not anxiety?
medication specifically for anxiety. zoloft (sertraline) is used to treat both depressive disorders and anxiety. it sounds like your provider is addressing your anxiety.
zoloft (sertraline) for 3 weeks worsening depression; constant thoughts of suicide daily self harm & more frequent and severe anxiety. psychiatrist no help at all?
you should seek help from another psychiatrist if the one following you is not able to get you on the right track. calling a local hospital and asking them for several references usually is a good way of finding names of people in your area.
zispin or lexapro (escitalopram) which is best for anxiety. thanks?
lexapro (or escitalopram) is an ssri thats commonly prescribed for the treatment of depression and anxiety (& is fda approved for both of these uses). zispin (or mirtazepine) is a noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressant. itis also often used to treat anxiety. there is no on best agent to treat your anxiety anxiety. talk with your doc about the right meds& treatment for you!
zispin or lexapro (escitalopram) which is best for anxiety. thanks?
both mirtazapine (zispin remeron) and escitalopram (lexapro) have us fda approval in major depression; escitalopram additionally has generalized anxiety disorder as an approved use which means that the manufacturer has submitted sufficient evidence showing a significant benefit on anxiety to satisfy regulations. other treatments may also work but may not have the data to show it.
zoloft (sertraline) vs luvox which is better for ocd? zoloft (sertraline) worked for 7 years. switched because of depression. can i go back on zoloft (sertraline) or luvox?
luvox (fluvoxamine) was evaluated for treating ocd but any of the ssri medications as well as some tricyclic medications help with ocd. best to combine medication with treatment to get best results. some mindfulness approaches have been helpful. see your physician for assistance.
zoloft (sertraline) vs luvox which is better for ocd? zoloft (sertraline) worked for 7 years. switched because of depression. can i go back on zoloft (sertraline) or luvox?
therapy combined work better than either alone including ocd; while determining a course of action regarding your medication asking your provider for a referral to a therapist who is qualified to treat your illness and to augment this strategy might be helpful. regarding ssri’s it can be quite individual as far as response. using two treatments may serve as a preventative measure also.
zoloft 100mg helped anxiety but not depression effexor (venlafaxine) 150mg helped depression but not anxiety. is there a medication that will help both?
both meds can treat anxiety and depression. my suggestion is to work with your prescriber to try a higher dose of either med to see if one can treat both. although generally not recommended i have combined these two meds for the reason you stated. i sometimes find doses of effexor (venlafaxine) above 150mg cause more anxiety. an alternative idea might be to add buproprion to zoloft adjusting each.
i had a tetanus shot some weeks ago and still worry that it has caused me to be ill. is it possible?
most reactions to a tetanus shot will occur within 24 hours and can be similar to any major allergic response. your brief lists you with depression and severe anxiety. there has been a lot of misinformation put out by vaccine haters to the point babies are dying needlessly from preventable disease. it is hard to feel secure but the chance of you having a shot related issue is minimal. disc with doc
i am stressed about earthquakes - what may i do?
if you have experienced a traumatic earthquake situation before and you keep thinking about it frequently and involuntarily it may be useful to discuss this with your physician. are you experiencing sleeping problems irritability difficulties concentrating depression and/or sustained increased vigilance/alertness? these may all be signs of a traumatic stress syndrome.
please share an interesting fact about hurricanes and typhoons.
when the winds of a tropical storm or tropical depression reach speeds of 74 mph or greater it is classified as a hurricane and receives its formal name.
since hunters carry guns does the metal make them more likely to get hit by lightning?
there are certainly other things that make hunters more at risk of a lightening strike: being up in a tree being in a metal stand holding your long metal tube/gun up in the air. i would think the safest thing to do if you are a hunter and caught in a thunder/lightening storm would be to stash your gun somewhere and get somewhere safe/safer (house vehicle valley/depression). good luck!
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
a complete screening physical by your doctor is a good place to start. labwork can rule out most organic medical conditions. if all else is negative a mental health assessment could be helpful in identifying depression or other common ailments.
feeling fatigue since a week after tetanus shot. can tetanus shot cause chronic fatigue syndrome?
i have never heard of a tetanus shot causing chronic fatigue syndrome. it is much more likely to be related to your sleeping and eating patterns if/what drugs you are taking stress levels etc. medical causes might include thyroid imbalances parathyroid problems even depression. if the fatigue persists see a primary care doctor. good luck!
i have the problem with depression years. which medications will help me not cause weight gain and not mike me tired?
there are several types of depression. reactive depression occurs as a result of loss and eventually we adjust. if one does not adjust or if the cause is not clear certainly seek professional help. "feeling good" by david burns is an excellent self-help book based on science. don't let the thickness of it intimidate you. take it bit by bit. the very best to you. don't rely on medication only
my doctor used fat transfer to fill the depression left by lumpectomy and now the area is hard & discolored. what happened?
fat necrosis. as a living tissue fat needs a blood supply to survive. the unpredictability of fat grafting comes from the inability to assure a good blood supply especially if your lumpectomy was accompanied by radiation treatment. because concern always accompanies lumps in breasts previously treated for cancer you should see your doctor for an examination.
my doctor used fat transfer to fill the depression left by lumpectomy and now the area is hard & discolored. what happened?
best advice is to talk to your plastic surgeon. without examining you or knowing more info i can't really say for certain. if it is hard and discolored it could be bruising or hematoma or an infection etc but again i would call your surgeon. most surgeons want to hear from their patients if there are problems or questions.
my doctor used fat transfer to fill the depression left by lumpectomy and now the area is hard & discolored. what happened?
get seen by the doctor who did the transfer. it depends on how long has it been since the fat transfer. best to have it examined by that physician. best wishes.
i'm 21 w/ depression. i'm obese & pre-diabetic. i have been experienced a squeezing feeling on the right side of my chest. is it serious?
obesity are related. the physical sensation you mention may be related to your weight. please see your doctor and stay close to him/her and create a plan of action to diagnose possible present medical situations. focus on your health rather than the number on the scale. catching this at your age is a good thing. peace and good health. "disease proof" by david katz is a helpful book.
what are the long term effects to my health for being bulimic? i know about bthe erosion to teeth.
bulimia impacts health in many ways including electrolyte imbalance which can lead to cardiac arrhythmias and death esophageal inflammation ; tears swollen salivary glands and more. depression often accompanies this condition. the good news: it can be treated. for a more inclusive run-down: <link> and <link> the effects go far beyond teeth.
when i got my knee replaced i was overweight then i lost about 60 lbs. then gained the weight back all this over 5yr. what problems can this cause?
the yo-yo weight loss multiplies the many weight related problems. rapid weight gain is a severe metabolic stress that can lead to diabetes htn heart disease sleep apnea depression and fatty liver. every pound adds 5 pounds of stress across your knees. learn how i got off the yo-yo and how you can too at www. drgrieco. tsfl. com.
when you lose too much weight in a short period of time cause depression you need to do facial electrostimulation to recover flaccid muscles af face?
carbohydrates give a quick source of euphoria and can act as an antidepressant. it is probably the rigidity of the diet and loss of carbohydrate "high" that is increasing your depression. if you are taking propranolol for your tremor it is notable for its association with depression as well.
i have mild sleep apnea (study) but my symptoms are that of severe sleep apnea. condition only midly improved with cpap and automatic pressure always hitting maximum. could it be something else?
the differential diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea can be quite extensive. if you are not feeling better on cpap you need to be sure to follow up with your family physician. the practice of medicine is the art of continually checking in on the patient. be sure your weight is ideal for your height thyroid is normal and is your sleep pattern normal. is there any underlying depression?
was on wellbutril xl for yrs and switched to viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). felt great depression/anxiety wise but noticed rapid weight gain; same with lexapro. options?
wellbutrin does not have weight gain associated but works differently than viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). if the viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride) is working well for you then try to fight the weight gain with regular exercise and reduction of your portion sizes.
was on wellbutril xl for yrs and switched to viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). felt great depression/anxiety wise but noticed rapid weight gain; same with lexapro. options?
viibrid is the newest member of a class of drugs affecting mainly the serotonin neurotransmitters in the brain. it is less likely to cause weight gain than other medicines in its class (i. e. lexapro). since it was effective on the depressive symptoms perhaps your md could add back the wellbutrin (bupropion). also healthy eating and exercise should also be included in your treatment.
what are trans fatty acids and are they good / bad type of fat?
most trans fats come from partially hydrogenated oils found in many processed & fried foods like french fries & donuts. simply put trans fats are highly toxic. they cause inflammation raise cholesterol & may cause up to 100 000 deaths in the us from heart disease each year. they also increase risk of alzheimer's disease diabetes obesity depression & infertility. see my comment for some links.
woman 55 thin 22 lbs loss not dieting insomnia several normal stools/ day all bloods including thyroid normal?
also psychological factors such as depression or anxiety.
why do i have a decreased appetite when i barely get enough sleep?
you may have anxiety or depression sx that cause you to have decrease appetite and not enough sleep. you need to see a doctor to help evaluate the problems.
why is depression often related to weight gain? is it chemical?
modern theory suggests depression is biochemical.
why is depression often related to weight gain? is it chemical?
sometimes folks with mood disturbances eat more and gain weight or they lose their appetite and lose weight. it is very common for a person to have a change in appetite associated with changes of their moods or even when feeling anxious or nervous. there are medical conditions like a thyroid problem which can mimic the signs of depression including a change of appetite and weight.
what are some possible complications from chin liposuction? i know surgeries carry an infection risk. what other complications should i watch for after my chin liposuction? .
although not frequent some potential complications are infection bleeding asymmetry irregularity depression and skin adhesion.
what can i try to do for fatigue on my own before i see the doctor? have sleep apnea but sleep doc doesn't think it's the cause cortisol & tsh normal
things to consider: is your sleep apnea treated? if not try breathe right nasal strips to see if they help. otherwise the most common cause of fatigue is chronic stress anxiety or depression. try to build some relaxation into your life (meditation relaxation exercises); avoid caffeine; get enough sleep; improve your diet making sure you get enough vitamins and iron.
what can i do to stop cravings and overeating while on my period?
the hypothalamus at the center of your brain is one area that drives appetite for food. the hormonal changes of your period are driven by the hypothalamus and pituitary but may be affected by these same hormones. depression stress activity can all affect your appetite either to increase or decrease it. increase in appetite may be your response to your hormone.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
dr. jackson is correct: these may be not at all related but clusters of symptoms from several etiologic origins. i think that depression could very reasonably be associated with a good deal of your symptomatology with the overlaying onset of an upper respiratory infection. firstly a thorough assessment by your pcp is in order then consultation with a therapist to address long term depression.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
i would recommend you start with a good physical exam and go over all your symptoms with your doctor. among things to rule in or out are low thyroid and/or fibromyalgia rheumatologist disease such as lupus sjögrens rheumatoid arthritis b12 deficiency folate (folic acid) deficiency lyme's disease. and that just for starters. go luck. your doc should have no trouble figuring it out. sleep apnea is also a possibility.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
there is no short answer here. these problems are all likely not related and represent separate issues. the best advice i can give you is to visit your primary care provider for a complete history and physical. some examples of problems you may be dealing with are: diabetes anemia thyroid disorder depression anxiety allergies arthritis etc. the list could go on. all these things and more can be ruled out or in after careful evaluation. best of luck.
why do medications used to treat depression cause weight gain?
simply causes carbohydrate craving.
why do medications used to treat depression cause weight gain?
most anti deppressents cause weight gain the exact mechanism is not clear. it could be due to decrease in deppressive symptoms increased cravings for carbohydrates increased appetite and changes in some receptor activity in the brain/appetite center which could make you crave for food. also there could be a genetic component involved as some patients tend to have more weight gain than others.
why are there so many different patterns of weight gain in pregnant women?
pregnancy does increase hunger cravings. the body is simply wired that way. emotions can play a part for sure. depression an stress ten to trigger comfort foods. usually harder to exercise. always address your eating patterns with your ob doctor.
is 96 temp normal? 6'5 290 lb male. have sore throat and sinus congestion.
there are a lot of ways to get the wrong temperature and thermometers are not particularly accurate. you likely do not have a fever and are very unlikely to have a clinically significant depression of your temperature.
i feel like i'm eating too much. what should i do?
how much is your weight your height your waist any family history if diabetes do you have any eating disorder. any particular week you eat more any carbohydrate craving. any history of depression. should see professional if you really concerned.
i think i'm pregnant i have pcos showing a lot of symptoms im overweight and now my body weight has adjusted itself to my stomach do i sound pregnan
just do a pregnancy test. get one over the counter. consider getting on metformin if you need to lose weight and remember anxiety and depression problems are roughly double in those with pcos.
is it good to put your child on anti-depressants to loose weight if he's overeating due to depression?
i am not a child specialist but in general i would not use antidepressants to loose wt. but i would consider the total amount of distress and disfunction associated with the depression including poor school performance social anxiety motivation suicidal ideation etc. any child should get therapy as well as medications if necessary.
is it good to put your child on anti-depressants to loose weight if he's overeating due to depression?
to help him lose weight we need to find out why he eats what he eats the emotions behind eating. depending on the age of your child techniques might differ but these are the things that need to be taken care of for your child to loose weight. if there's a need for antidepressant than it should be taken to help with depression. seeing a child psychologist will help establish more adaptive coping.
is irritability depression and frustration side effects of dieting?
diets especially extreme ones produce lots of changes physically and psychologically. your body and mind well may react by being "out of sorts " especially early on. if such feels continue past a few weeks this may not be the diet for you. talk to an expert (nutritionist) to help find one that works better.
i am a 25 y/o f off yaz (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) 5 months ago labs show testosterone <20. exp fatigue weight gain no libido irritable. dr says level is normal. 2nd opinion?
the measure that really matters is the free testosterone. often this is not the reference value. it is altered by the amount of sex-binding hormone(protein) available. 20 in most labs would be low. classic symptoms are: diminished libido lack of vitality inability to build muscle mass with exercise depression and decline in memory. consider bio-identical hormone replacement.
i am a 25 y/o f off yaz (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) 5 months ago labs show testosterone <20. exp fatigue weight gain no libido irritable. dr says level is normal. 2nd opinion?
testosterone level is normal. hypothyroidism depression anemia are among some possible causes of your symptoms.
i have an eating disorder pica and crave/eat paper and cannot stop! what can i do i've tried everything?
certainly counseling along with appropriate medication is a good idea. in children developmental disorders can be associated with pica in adolescents depression and substance abuse are often part of pica. pregnancy may have pica associated with it causing cravings for clay or starch. iron and zinc deficiencies can lead to pica. anorexia nervosa autism and schizophrenia can also. keep trying.
if you have sleep apnea should you take dilaudid?
dilaudid is a narcotic and causes respiratory depression. it should be used with extreme caution in someone with apnea.
if i have sleep apnea and depression will the apnea improve if i improve my depression?
it's more likely the other way around. your depression is more likely to improve if your quality and amount of sleep improves. you may need a sleep study for a complete diagnosis.
if i have sleep apnea and depression will the apnea improve if i improve my depression?
usually improving apnea improves depression not the other way.
if i have sleep apnea and depression will the apnea improve if i improve my depression?
it's the other way around. . improving the apnea may improve the depression.
i heard snoring can trigger harmful health and personality changes. is this true?
yes snoring can indicate that people have obstructive sleep apnea (osa) and osa increases risk of hypertension heart disease stroke obesity and depression.
i heard snoring can trigger harmful health and personality changes. is this true?
snoring can be a symptom of sleep apnea. untreated sleep apnea can also lead to depression and adhd-like symptoms.
i've replaced depression with binge eating how can i stop binge eating without taking on another bad habit?
treat your depression. if you are truly eating to overcome your feelings of depression then you will either not improve or start another possibly more dangerous habit unless to treat the underlying depression.
i've replaced depression with binge eating how can i stop binge eating without taking on another bad habit?
there are 2 parts to handling this type of problem --- the first are the emotional aspects bad habits that have developed to cope with stress in inappropriate ways ---this requires counseling into what is wrong what is triggering the behavior and mechanisms to help avoid the behaviors --the second are the physical aspects of cleaning and repairing the gi tract specifically liver/gut environment.
i think i'm depressed because of my body image issues. if i lose weight will i be happier?
if you're overweight and you'd like to get into better shape make a plan and get started. as you improve your health and fitness you'll likely feel better. and you will possibly be happier with your body if you're realistic in your view of your appearance. when a person has a depressive disorder there's more to it than one factor. your doctor can guide you if you're concerned about depression.
i think i'm depressed because of my body image issues. if i lose weight will i be happier?
happiness starts from inside body image is what you are associating with not getting where you need to go. depression is focusing on what if's and happiness is saying why not and making a choice everyday to do things that gets you closer to your goal.
is obesity associated with any mental health illnesses?
obese people like non-obese people come in all moods and personalities. however depression symptoms may be seen more often in obese people. sometimes people who are depressed eat a lot to try to soothe their sadness. other times obese people become depressed due to the social and medical complications of obesity. depression is treatable with medications.
is obesity associated with any mental health illnesses?
yes many. depression eating disorders stress disorders chronic anxiety may all be associated with obesity. using food for comfort can be a common denominator. additionally medications used to treat mental disorders may cause or contribute to obesity. working with a nutritionist to improve eating habits may help. discussing medications with your doctor is important.
i have a lot of health problems back injury copd overweight depression what kind of doctor would be the best to treat me hurt my back many years ago always have pain i suffer from panic attacks everyday i have under active theroid over weight can
would start with a general practitioner which can be an internist or family practitioner. this person can evaluate you and help you organize your care. also if referrals need to be made this person will help coordinate them for you. with a number of insurance plans it is required that referrals come from a primary care physician which is what these persons are. do your research. find a good one.
i have a lot of health problems back injury copd overweight depression what kind of doctor would be the best to treat me hurt my back many years ago always have pain i suffer from panic attacks everyday i have under active theroid over weight can
one physician may not be able to treat all your problems but given the complexity of your problems and the seriousness of a permanent condition such as copd an internist may your best choice for a primary care physician. family physicians pediatricians general practitioners and internists can all serve as primary care physicians - the "home base" and starting place for a patient's general health care. some women may even have general/primary care services delivered by their gynecologist. an internist is a primary care doctor for adults only (no surgery no pediatrics no ob/gyn) and is trained in general medicine as well as subspecialty training in the complex and chronic diseases common in adults especially those that arise from the "internal organs" (heart lungs intestines hormone glands etc. ). when a problem demands a specialist an internist is well equipped to direct you to the correct referral.
is it safe to lose weight by not eating if i take multi-vitamins? i am trying to lose weight. if i only don't eat or only eat one meal a day will i lose weight and still be healthy? some people say i won't get enough nutrients so i am taking multi-vita
it is not likely that you will have sustained weight loss just from fasting. this is because your body will interpret this as starvation and will "hold on for dear life" to the fat in your body to keep you going. vitamins are not enough nutrition to prevent this problem. eating only once a day probably also will not be effective. i have heard that sumo wrestlers actually make themselves gain weight by eating only twice a day getting hungry between meals. what happens specifically with eating very little (one of the ways the body adapts to calorie restriction) is that your thyroid metabolism changes so that the t4 made by your thyroid gland converts to reverse t3 (liothyronine) instead of the active t3 (liothyronine) that your body needs to function. this is nature's way of protecting us from starvation. anything your body interprets as "physiologic stress" will cause this phenomenon including dieting depression or illness. this is why an effective diet program must include enough total calories and balanced nutrition (complex carbohydrates protein and fat) to give your body what it needs while inducing a fat-burning state.
i started feeling tired all the time plus i noticed im starting to gain weight even though i exercise what could cause this?
these are symptoms that frequently reflect a starting clinical depression. get a mental health evaluation before it gets worse.
i work out eat healthy have a significant other. but i still feel depressed half of the time. is it normal?
i am not a big proponent of antidepressants. but if a person finds himself depressed for no reason then antidepressants (something like 20 mg of prozac) can sometimes alter the brain chemistry enough that the unexplained depressions lessen and the person feels that he has a new lease on life. i congratulate you for doing so many health-promoting activities and wish you the best.
i work out eat healthy have a significant other. but i still feel depressed half of the time. is it normal?
all people occasionally have sadness as part of the range of emotions but when depressed mood is occurring without an obvious trigger is sustained and is bothersome the disease depression must be considered. maintaining social engagement and staying active are helpful but may not be sufficient. this symptom may represent a treatable illness and need not be "toughed out" your pcp can help.
i have a hard time remembering things any thing i can take to help me remember better?
if your memory loss is interfering with you job or affecting personal relationships then you need a medical evaluation. a large number of things can cause memory loss including sleep deprivation stress alzheimer's disease chronic anxiety/depression brain tumors metabolic disturbances (eg thyroid diabetes etc) if your problem is more than annoying get it checked out!
i have had lifelong unrelenting fatigue. i'm not anemic and i don't have food allergies or sleep apnea. what could be wrong?
chronic fatigue syndrome is real. but so is fibromyalgia and dysthmic disorder or depression. have you seen your primary care doctor to discuss this? or have you seen a rheumatologist for evaluation? or lastly even a psychologist/psychiatrist.
im trying sensa to try to get a handle on my diet iv tried exercise and every thing it just doesn't work is sensa a bad direction i'm a female 17 has depression and asonia and has lost control of my diet i crave food every hour and eat all night i have ga
r you on any medications? some meds will cause increase appetite. if your seeing a md tell him/her what your experiencing. if your not on meds then find someone that specializes in overeating. sensa may not be right for you. also start a dairy and write down what you crave time of the day and what you end up eating plus amount. this can help a therapist and you about your lack of control etc.
im trying sensa to try to get a handle on my diet iv tried exercise and every thing it just doesn't work is sensa a bad direction i'm a female 17 has depression and asonia and has lost control of my diet i crave food every hour and eat all night i have ga
there is no evidence in large studies that sensa helps lose weight. there was one small study that showed some weight loss but this has not been verified. many teenagers have difficulty with cravings and hunger because of hormonal changes. keeping a journal of food eaten and exercise can be helpful. seeing a nutritionist can be helpful. if you think your depression is getting serious then please see a counselor.
insanely jealous of friends rapid weight loss. can i also take adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine)?
unless medically necessary u want to have gradual & steady weight loss instead of rapid weight loss. people with rapid weight loss usually will not be able to maintain whatever drugs/diet they are on and will gain everything back and more. second adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) is not a weight loss drug. it can cause dependency depression psychosis. aggressive behavior severe high blood pressure.
if a bulimic stops throwing up will she get fat really fast?
with appropriate treatment for the underlying anxiety and depression and help from a dietician they don't need to gain weight unless they are very underwt. don't fear wt gain as an excuse to get help.
i can't stop eating from depression. how can i stop this asap?
seek medical health to help with your mood. you may have atypical depression which causes a craving for sweets. a psychiatrist may be able to help.
i can't stop eating from depression. how can i stop this asap?
for the depression! resolving the depression should normalize your sleeping your energy and your eating!
i seem to have an insatiable appetite. are there any appetite suppressants that are healthy and really work?
beside the other recommendations i would like to add the following: when patients have that behavior could be related to depression psychosis personalities disorders compulsive etc please check with your primary and he can determine any referral to psychology or psychiatric for complete evaluation or treat. if it indicated.
is anti-depressant medication linked to weight gain?
it depends upon the anti-depressant and your weight change from depression. some people gain weight when depressed while others lose weight when depressed. traditional anti-depressants typically help you return your mood & thus weight back to baseline. a few might have more of an appetite stimulating effect than others. atypical antipsychotics used as anti-depressants are associated w/weight gain.
i am having memory loss and hard time consentrating im a 27 year old male i am having a hard time remembering conversations i have and things that people tell me. i can not consentrate on anything anymore and this is all new.
memory problems are uncommon in young people. often difficulty remembering is not actually a memory problem but an attention and concentration problem: if you aren't paying attention to information you are processing it never enters into your memory in the first place. attention and concentration are learned skills that have to be practiced. many aspects of modern lifestyle present challenges to attention and concentration: including radios ipods tvs text messaging computers and habits like "multitasking". there are some cases in which attention and memory problems in young people may have a medical cause. these include depression the effects of prescription and recreational drugs sleep disorders epilepsy and (less common) brain tumors and acquired or inherited encephalopathies. a visit to a doctor can help determine if there is a medical cause for poor memory and concentration.
is there any chance zoloft (sertraline) will be easier to lose weight on than celexa?
neither will cause signifcant weight gain. undertreated depression is more likely to be the cause of weight gain.
is there any connection between prozac and diabetes? after being put on prozac diabetes type ii went out of control to the high side and it is still out of control even after switching to insulin (both long and short acting). is there any connection betw
i am unaware of any clear association between prozac (fluoxetine) and diabetes. depression is more common in those with diabetes so anti-depressants are frequently prescribed for people with diabetes. prozac (fluoxetine) tends to not cause weight gain. if you are convinced the prozac (fluoxetine) increased your sugar (not at all likely) you can discuss stopping it and using a different anti-depressant. some people get more motivated to test their sugar when their depression is better. i wonder if you are just testing your sugar more. if your a1c (the 3 month test of sugar control) went up a lot after the prozac (fluoxetine) as compared to before the prozac (fluoxetine) and you had no weight gain that would suggest the prozac (fluoxetine) did it. discuss that with your doctor. see my blog post on exercise and depression and how to use insulin below. your doctor may benefit from reading the insulin post.
i am epileptic and have mental health issues lately i have been having a hard time retaining new info. should i be worried? i have had multiple seizures and i have been having a hard time remembering things from one minute to the next i am really concer
there are 10 different kinds of seizures and they fall into 2 main groups. there is a focal group of seizures which start in a spot in the brain and there is a generalized group of seizures which start all over the whole brain simultaneously. it would be important to know which main kind you have. within those 2 groups there are smaller and bigger seizures. the bigger seizures are called tonic-clonic convulsions (the old french term is "grand mal" which just means "big bad"). if long lasting or repeated these convulsions can damage memory. or if you have repeated focal seizures originating in the temporal lobe of the brain over time you can lose short-term memory. the temporal lobe contains a structure called the hippocampus which encodes our short-term memory; it can be damaged by repeated temporal lobe focal seizures. some medications can also impair your memory as can poor sleep depression and a host of other factors. see a neurologist regularly to make sure you are taking the proper antiepileptic medications and getting your seizures under optimal control. a neuropsychologist can do memory and cognitive tests to determine if you do have memory loss and if so what kind.
i am 48 yr old woman. on antidepressants and anti anxiety meds. finding it extremely difficult to lose weight. still get my period monthly.?
there are some medications that can cause weight changes as side effects. the hormonal changes can also contribute the stress which can be part of depression anxiety symptoms. best will be to review meds with your psychiatrist have a hormonal assay checked and watching diet and exercise. i know it can be frustrating but can be done with effort and support. good luck.
i've been really sad all the time and i've just been eating nonstop? i have to stop eating!
i would recommend a medical workup by your primary care provider to rule out a medical problem such as hypothyroidism or hypoglycemia or other endocrinologic disorders. a screening for depression should also be done at that time.
i've been really sad all the time and i've just been eating nonstop? i have to stop eating!
depression can cause appetite changes either eating less or more. need to treat underlying depression.
is it possible to be addicted to antidepressants?
none of the antidepressants are addictive. you do not develop tolerance as you do with addictive substances even though the same dosage may not be effective indefinitely. many people need to be on antidepressants for the rest of their lives in order to prevent future episodes of depression. there are many different types of antidepressants and it is always a matter of finding the right one.
i need a anti-depression med that doesn't have weight gain or sedating effects. i'm on effexor&its not helping anymore been on4 ten yrs. time2change.?
it is best to discuss this with your psychiatrist or if you are only seeing a primary care doc you should ask for a referrall. you may be someone who needs to change meds every few years. are you in counseling? this may help too. the ones mentioned previuosly are possible but there are others. you can check the apa website at
i need a anti-depression med that doesn't have weight gain or sedating effects. i'm on effexor&its not helping anymore been on4 ten yrs. time2change.?
suggest wellbutrin (bupropion) or zoloft or lexapro.
i had gastric bypass in 2007. i have a severe eating disorder. i eat till i'm so sick i can't stand up. what kind of dr can i see for thi?
ideally treatment would include careful medical ; mental health assessment followed by individualized treatment involving medical ; nutritional support plus long-term individual ; family psychotherapy. from mental health perspective conditions like depression ; anxiety would be treated ; treatment might include meds. hardest thing = finding ; sustaining motivation 2recover. http//www. anad. org.
is propofol safe for a patient with sleep apnea?
when used appropriately. only an anesthesiologist should administer propofol since it is very potent and can lead to respiratory depression and hypotension.
is there a connection between untreated type 2 diabetes and depression?
any chronic disease which makes you feel bad physically can influence your mood and once you are depressed it is very difficult to get motivated to make the lifestyle changes necessary to effectively treat a disease like type 2 diabetes. so being depressed can make diabetes worse and having diabetes can trigger depression. i would recommend aggressively treating both if both are present.
is there a connection between untreated type 2 diabetes and depression?
there is an increased incidence of depression in diabetes (treated or not treated). see the ada website: www. diabetes. org
is unintentional weight loss not due to dieting something to worry about?
unexplained weight loss is a great concern and sometimes a hard thing to pin down. i would see your doctor if this has been going of for awhile and continues. make sure you are eating enough and maybe do a calorie count and share that with your doctor. sometimes depression can be associated with poor eating habits and weight loss ensues. get checked out.
is gabitril (tiagabine) used for severe anxiety or depression. i was on gabapentin and it was the only med that worked but caused weight gain.?
gabitril or tiagabine is a gaba reuptake inhibitor a different mechanism of action than neurontin (gabapentin). it has been used off label to treat anxiety with some success. there are studies in treating both social anxiety disorder and generalized anxiety disorder.
i am trying to lose weight but seem to be stuck no matter how well i eat or how much i work out. i have been on depo-provera provera (medroxyprogesterone) for almost 9 months. what would you suggest?
it's not true for everyone but depo provera (medroxyprogesterone) (dmpa) can cause weight gain. along with hair loss irregular bleeding & depression; increased weight are the 4 major reasons my patients discontinue their injections. keep up the diet & exercise and d/w your doc alternative birth control (bc) measures. take care.
i am obese and severally depressed. my weight is causing me to have back problems. knee problems. i am isolating from people because they hurt me.?
ask your doctor for a referral to a veteran mental health practitioner who specializes in both weight control and depression. you can be helped reach out and give yourself the chance for growth. best
i am obese and severally depressed. my weight is causing me to have back problems. knee problems. i am isolating from people because they hurt me.?
this is a serious and fairly common problem. first you need to get help with your depression. because until you do it will be hard to do anything else. fortunately we have many good treatment options. you should go see your doctor. and i would suggest a referral to a good psychiatrist is in order. getting help with your depression won't fix everything. but it will give you the energy to change.
i lost weight without exercise or diet what is wrong with me?
how much weight loss are you referring here? if you loss 10% or more of weight over a year period without intention to lose -it is abnormal. you should definitely see your md and have further eval. unintentional weight loss can be caused by many things like drugs depression chronic disease- like diabetes thyroid problems chronic infection/inflammation as well as cancer. get yourself checked.
i have hypothyroidism and i am on depo-provera i exsercie 6 times a week and still not losing weight i used to weigh 135 now i am 166 im 5'3 and almost 21?
if you are also limiting your caloric intake your next best step is to change birth control. depo provera (medroxyprogesterone) is known to cause weight gain depression hair loss & irregular bleeding. interestingly the same symptoms you can find with hypothyroidism. switch birth control (ocps iud nexplanon etc) & get your thyroid levels checked. it just might do the trick. take care.
i experience chronic overeating. i live a very health lifestyle but i always feel hungry. i have got all the standard blood tests done. what should i do?
much in life that distresses us leaves us hungering. non-restorative sleep can prompt daytime inner compulsion for relief - misrepresented as hunger. depression includes overeating as one of vegetative symptoms included in diagnosis. medications and even supplements/vitamins can increase appetite. the modeling of those around you has been found to influence intake. eat to satisfaction not fullness.
i've been really sad all the time and i've just been eating nonstop--what should i do for this?
those could be symptoms of depression. see your doctor for confirmation or diagnosis and referral if indicated.
i've been really sad all the time and i've just been eating nonstop--what should i do for this?
can be a symptom of atypical depression. would encourage a comprehensive psychiatric evaluation. assessment lead to a personalized treatment plan. treatment leads to hope. hope launches the path to recovery. take care.
i am losing about ten lbs a month. i found out i have fatty liver in march and i changed my diet. i do exercise some. does that warrant losin that much weight? or could it be something more serious. <negative_smiley>
unintended weight loss can be seen with infections inflammation parasites cancer overactive thyroid depression other. hair loss can be from weight loss mineral or vitamin deficiencies or above mentioned factors.
i am taking phentermine and 5 htp is there any contra indication in the two?
there isn't any good evidence that 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-htp) is effective for weight loss and only minimal evidence that it works for depression. there was a rare serious side effect (eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ems) but this was traced to contaminants in earlier preparations and should not be a problem now. too much 5htp can cause serotonin syndrome - so it may be best to avoid it.
i recently starting taking depakote 250 mg twice a day & prozac (fluoxetine) 20 mg once daily i hear depakote causes severe weight gain & weight gain is also a side effect of prozac (fluoxetine). is this true?
yes depakote can cause weight gain and some people also gain weight w/prozac. not all do though. it will be important to make sure you're exercising regularly and be wise with your meals -- healthy whole nutritious foods and much less in desserts etc unless you really did exercise that day. the good news is that exercise in itself is a useful treatment for depression! good luck to you.
i have no insurance how can i treat my binge eating disorder & depression at home?
check in your community for free mental health clinics where care can be provided for low or no cost. of course it is also healthful to rid your residence of unhealthy foods get daily exercise and when combined with therapy/medication can "boost" your recovery. there are also self-help groups such as overeaters anononymous that can be found in the phone book.
i have no insurance how can i treat my binge eating disorder & depression at home?
go to www. caloriecount. com - open a free account answer their simple questions to determine your caloric needs and join the blogs and community. also go to the library: there are many good self help books on weight loss. avoid fad diets. slow steady loss is the key. exercise daily even if just a little as it's good psychologically. good luck! you can do this!
i have no insurance how can i treat my binge eating disorder & depression at home?
you have a psichiatric problem and depression is making you binge eating disorder. there may a free clinic at the medical school or a large medical center or a federally funded free clinic call you local health department or state health department they may be able to help you good luck.
i am 22 years old girl and i do not have periods also i am obese?
look into turners syndrome with your doctor. other congenital causes may also be a cause. also have him check for major depression hypothyroidism or pituitary disorders. also kalliman's syndrome rarely.
iv been diagnosed with adrenal fatigue anxiety/depression. i have bloated hard tummy rapid weight gain infertility night sweats and more. help!?
you clearly have some hormonal problems. i would not be surprised if you have thyroid problems estrogen and progesterone problems and adrenal problems as these types of hormonal imbalances are interelated. you need to see an md who is highly experienced in the management of functional hormonal and metabolic imbalances. in the meantime aovid sugars and fried foods to reduce your edible stress.
i have been diagnosed with hyperthyroidism and graves disease as well as type 2 diabetes my? is i've been having panick attacks and i need to know y
hyperthyroidism is likely culprit much less likely is a cause due to sugar- so unless hypoglycemic at onset of paniuc attack ( <70) focus with your md o treating the overactive thyroid state- initially with beta blocker med and control of production of thyroid hormone. lastly anxiety/ depression can be independent of both issues and would need to be addressed if not better
is slimquick derived a a antidepressant called tricyclic i don't take antidepressants and after drinking a cup of the mixed berrys showed antidpress?
no slimquick is not derived from nor does it contain tricyclic antidepressants. it contains propietary blends of caffeine and various herbs and vitamins. their web site says "one packet of slimquick mixed berry contains the caffeine equivalent to approximately one 8-ounce cup of regular brewed coffee. " caffeine and other things in it may speed you up -- it doesn't treat depression though.
i have a kidney stone and i want to know if i can take oxycodone while taking nortriptyline?
the combination of the two can increase constipation cns depression hypotension and psychomotor impairment. speak with provider; may have to reduce the oxycodone dose. i also have kidney stones and know how painful they can be. sometimes an anti-emetic can help if the oxycodone causes nausea. nothing worse than being nauseated while having a kidney stone attack.
i have a kidney stone and i want to know if i can take oxycodone while taking nortriptyline?
they can together cause my arias of symptoms like central nervous system depression constipation and other bad things. i suggest talking to your doctor for other options or proper dosage.
i need a medicine that does not make you gain weight that works for ocd. i feel like a hopeless cause. my ocd is being fat! help!?
some of the ssris used for ocd are a bit less likely to cause weight gain. you may need higher doses than for depression. celexa lexapro zoloft may be preferred over paxil (paroxetine) anafranil or luvox. it may be trial and error for awhile. topomax can help control weight gain as an add-on drug combined with your ssri. work with your md.
i am unhealthy. stay up til 6am sleep til 4 pm. eat once a day. smoke 2 packs a day. am over weight. am depressed. never work out. work 2 jobs. girlfriend pregnant. very stressed. 21yo feel like 45yo. ideas?
recommend scheduling appointment with a therapist to help u cope with your situation and possibly refer u to a psychiatrist for medical workup & treatment of your depression.
i am unhealthy. stay up til 6am sleep til 4 pm. eat once a day. smoke 2 packs a day. am over weight. am depressed. never work out. work 2 jobs. girlfriend pregnant. very stressed. 21yo feel like 45yo. ideas?
gotta address the mood. your up all night and sleep all day. gotta reverse that it's easy medically. treating the depression will help but i would start nailing sleep wake at the same time. you are likely a shift worker making u a candidate for modafanil a wakefulness stimulator read about it online (modalert). when u feel better u think better do better less bad habits see good psychia.
i take paxil (paroxetine). paxil (paroxetine) caused 30 lb weight gain. i'm deaf & it aids tinnitus. any alternative i can use? please help.
there are many ssris a class of antidepressant. depending on the reason you are taking it (used for anxiety ocd as well as depression) a good substitute with less associated weight gain can be selected. your md can review the options with you .
is loss of appetite weight loss and weekness common in sciatica?
sometimes the lack of treatment for pain brings on feelings of depression which causes your symptoms. otherwise symptoms you describe are seen in serious medical conditions and may be unrelated to your sciatica (a common complaint that should be responding well to treatment such as walking exercising and avoiding heavy lifting).
i am overweight and have depression and anxiety. i am taking my md's rx. i would like to also take some supplements to help. what would be worth taking?
would be nice to seek help from holisitc doctor to get workup done and then take the recommended supplements. there are spectracell lab tests or others which might help.
i am overweight and have depression and anxiety. i am taking my md's rx. i would like to also take some supplements to help. what would be worth taking?
there is some evidence that omega 3 fatty acids and folate (folic acid) may help boost the effects of antidepressants. st. john's wort has antidepressant effects but may interact adversely with some prescription antidepressants. discuss this with your prescribing physician who should know about all medications and other substances you are consuming.
i have ed can't sleep tired all the time weight gain in stomach blurred vision frequent urination m'oody and have memory loss what is wrong?
these symptoms can occur with depression. see your doctor for evaluation and treatment.
is garcinia cambogia safe for someone who had gastric bypass surgery 9 years ago?
it is said that garcinia cambogia raises serotonin thus reducing eating that occurs as a result of depression. in addition it blocks an enzyme which results in fat storage. the result is reduced appetite and greater success when a person is attempting to diet. in terms of toxicity there is mention only of questionable decreased sperm formation in combined products containing g cambogia.
what is compulsive overeating?
true hunger comes from our hypothalamus after measuring our energy needs and food stores. but it tells other areas of our brain (the nucleus accumbens caudate and putamen) to generate the hunger signal. this signal can be generated abnormally in diseases of food addiction and set off by stress depression and various food triggers. we then eat more then we intend to.
why binge eating disorder is a bad one?
binge eating is harmful to both your physical and emotional health. bingeing can lead to weight gain and cause issues related to increased weight such as heart disease diabetes stroke and more. the level of shame and guilt associated with binge eating may lead to poor self-esteem depression anxiety and social isolation. there is treatment available and recovery is possible.
im a 18 year old female little over weight very insecure & i have depression. im always worring. & i can't stay asleep. doc says its stress. any advice?
the most effective way to feel better will be antidepressant medication and therapy at the same time. the medication will help you sleep and lessen anxiety. the therapist will help you with body image and insecurity. being slightly overweight at your age is attractive on many women and men will find you attractive. accept your body type as long as you have an active life and healthy diet.
why is it important to lose weight?
excess body weight often leads to other medical problems including an increased risk for: hypertension (high blood pressure) heart disease diabetes strokes certain cancers back problems high cholesterol high triglycerides fatty liver disease kidney problems intestinal disorders gastro-esophageal reflux disease musculo-skeletal injuries depression anxiety low self esteem etc. etc.
what is the best anti-depressant medication in your opinion?
i always prefer to find the underlying cause of the depressed symptoms and treat that hopefully eliminating the symptom of depression all together.
what causes obesity to get worse?
anything that causes an obese person to eat more calories or to exercise less will worsen his obesity. examples: eating as a self-treatment for depression symptoms eating due to hunger shortly after meals (from high insulin levels combined with dropping blood sugar levels) not exercising due to being very out-of-shape not exercising due to being embarrassed by one's public appearance etc.
what is obstructed sleep apnea?
a disorder in which breathing is frequently interrupted for brief intervals during sleep occurs when tissues in the throat collapse and block airflow in and out of the lungs during sleep resulting in intermittent decreases in blood oxygen levels and transient arousals from sleep leading to poor sleep quality and excessive daytime sleepiness. untreated obstructive sleep apnea is associated with high blood pressure (hypertension) abnormal heart rate heart failure coronary artery disease (cad) diabetes increase risk for a stroke higher risk for depression increase risk of car accident and decreased sexual drive or impotence.
what are the consequences of binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder can impact your health negatively as bingeing often leads to weight gain and increased hypertension heart disease and more. psychologically there is often a lot of shame attached to bed. the behavior may undermines your self esteem and cause depression and anxiety. some people avoid social interaction with others so they can eat alone and become isolated.
what are the causes of binge eating disorder?
it could be related to obsessive/impulsive conditions. people can binge eat to take their mind off of other issues due to stress. it could be a poor coping skill to deal with stress. people with sadness and depression could binge eat to "feel better". a better idea of the individual situation can help understand why one is binge eating. there is possible link to serotonin dys-regulation.
what are the causes of binge eating disorder?
binge eating disorder is a way of coping with difficult feelings by turning to food. the behavior with food expresses underlying issues conflicts or problems. bingeing feels like “the” problem but it is actually a “symptom” of deeper problems emotions or conflicts such as anxiety depression anger relationship difficulties job issues and more.
i often feel tired and lethargic since 15 yrs ago after a strong flu. i am now 150 kg. i constantly suffer from joint and muscle pain. pls advice.
fatigue is a very non-specific symptom. see you pcp for a general check up and screening labs. you could have anything from hypothyroidism to fibromyalgia/depression. start losing weight by a lower calorie diet and try to walk for thirty minutes daily.
what are some common health consequences of being obese?
obesity has many health risks including pain and mobility issues heart problems high blood pressure sleep apnea increased risk of diabetes depression social stigmatization. doctors can help treat many of these comorbidities but the best treatment would be to address the obesity. reducing weight will help decrease severity and possibly eliminate the health risks. even a 5% decrease helps.
what are common mental health problems of the obese?
obesity sepially by women can lead to low self esteem and depression. and since all psych medications can have the risk for weight gain many r not compliant with it or even refuse to take it. therapy iis very important.
what are common mental health problems of the obese?
obese people like non-obese people come in all moods and personalities. however depression symptoms can be seen more often in obese people. some people who are depressed eat a lot to try to soothe their sadness. other obese people become depressed due to the social and medical complications of obesity. depression is treatable with medications. compulsive eating as an ocd occurs sometimes.
what part of the body does obesity most effect?
obesity has multiple effects. it can be a factor in diabetes arterial disease arthritis and depression. these are linked to inflammatory chemicals from the adipose tissue itself.
is drastic weight loss(80+ lbs. ) after a stroke considered 'typical'?
there are many possible explanations for weight loss after stroke = depression appetite center knocked out by stroke low cortisol if hypothalamus affected inabilty to eat if swallowing difficult trouble eating if cutting/bringing food to mouth difficult or if stroke was mild voluntary wt loss due to improved diet/exercise.
what should you do when your husband has been diagnosed with sleep apnea and won't use the machine?
not treating sleep apnea is a lot like not treating insulin dependent diabetes. untreated sleep apnea significantly increases his risk for heart disease stroke fatal accidents depression erectile dysfunction. it will shorten his life. if he still won't try it then explore other options including a mouth guard to bring his lower jaw forward or airway surgery. not treating apnea is not an option.
what is the best method/technique of fat harvesting and injecting? dear doctors i have linear morphea on my face. i consulted some cosmetic surgeons they all advised me fat transfer to fill/correct the depression (fat loss) on the face caused by the m
as other surgeons have indicated the most important factor in a successful fat transfer procedure is proper gentle handling of the harvested fat. there are two major methods of fat harvesting. the first is the standard technique of manual suction washing and separation of the fat. the newer technique is an in-line harvesting system which uses a more standard liposuction technique with collection separation and washing of the fat within the suctioning system. the second approach avoids multiple transfers and air exposures of the harvested fat and offers equivalent long term results following transfer. also important to the ultimate outcome of fat transfer is the injection technique. surgeons may choose to use standard injection needles or custom designed blunt fat injection cannulas with no difference in results. the important factor in injection technique is very small volume injections made in multiple passes through the appropriate tissue planes. postoperatively one should avoid repetitive use of the treated area especially in active areas such as the hand. despite excellent technique with both harvesting and injection transferred fat may be expected to retain approximately 40-80% (average 60%) of its volume in long term follow up. for this reason most patients may expect that fat transfer may need to be performed as a several stage procedure. all the best dr. skourtis.
what is the best method/technique of fat harvesting and injecting? dear doctors i have linear morphea on my face. i consulted some cosmetic surgeons they all advised me fat transfer to fill/correct the depression (fat loss) on the face caused by the m
in general i agree with the other post about handling the fat cells gently. they are usually harvested with a small cannula using gentle suction. then they are placed in a centrifuge to concentrate the fat and separate it from the serum blood cells and oil produced from damaged fat cells. my only concern is your mention of hemifacial atrophy which has a name but is a poorly understood process. there is some thought that local factors cause the fat to atrophy and clinically what we see is sucess rates with fat grafting or fat flap transfers is that once the fat is moved to the new location is behaves like the fat already there and atrophys. before committing to the procedure i suggest you seek out someone who has used fat transfers in the setting of hemifacial atrophy. try dr. coleman at www. lipostructure. com.
what is the best method/technique of fat harvesting and injecting? dear doctors i have linear morphea on my face. i consulted some cosmetic surgeons they all advised me fat transfer to fill/correct the depression (fat loss) on the face caused by the m
there are many techniques out there in which to both harvest and inject fat cells for facial fat grafting. in my experience and opinion the key is handling the cells very gently so as to not damage them. for harvesting this involves using manual liposuction (not powered) limited exposure to air and minimal manipulation. regarding injecting it is important to place the fat in very small droplets using a layering method. this allows for new blood vessels to grow in and supply the newly placed graft cells. hundreds of passes are made in order to get the best results. since there isn't one "correct" method to perform fat transfer i would focus on your potential surgeon's results. you want to see durable long-term results to see tht their technique is successful.
will lexapro effect my testosterone levels or metabolism? i am currently on lexapro for anxiety and am wanting to lose weight and after that start gaining muscle. the only problem is i have heard that lexapro can cause people to gain weight and can lower
lexapro (escitalopram) should not effect your testosterone level. however lexapro (escitalopram) is in the family of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. these medication can sometimes effect sexual function via the chemical nicotine synthetase which is found in the body. some people do gain weight when on selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. lexapro (escitalopram) is fairly weight neutral which means that although you could experience weight gain that most people don't tend to gain or lose a lot of weight on it. lexapro (escitalopram) use will not prevent you from gaining muscle mass. if you are concerned about body fat and muscle mass the more important issues are your diet/nutrition physical activity adequate hydration and your degree of committment to a healthy life style . the great thing is that if you take good care of yourself it might help the condition you are using lexapro (escitalopram) for. regular sleep physical activity healthy food and making your health and wellbeing a priorty are all things that would positively impact depression anxiety and a host of other conditions.
is this a sign of depresion? weight loss over the last 6 years nausea vomiting heartburn and abdominal pain?
depression is not usually a cause of abdominal pain although chronic abdominal pain could be associated with depression. it would be prudent to check for gallbladder disease or peptic ulcer disease usually with ultrasound biliary scan and possible endoscopy. the best way to start would be with a visit and assessment with a primary care physician a family physician or an internal med doctor.
i just learned i might have cervical cancer. can this cause weight gain? i have gained lots of weight the last few months.
what do you mean by you might have? did you have a biopsy that confirmed the diagnosis of cervical cancer? weight gain can be caused by different things- like depression hypothyroidism edema/water retention due to different reasons or simply increasing intake and being inactive can also increase your weight. go to see pmd and get yourself checked and check your thyroid function.
i have spent half my life dieting last 5 years have suffered from depression i don't seem to be getting better i have a wonderful husband and 3 kids i?
is ur depression related to ur weight problem? if so you should not feel bad about ur weight & try to think of all the others who are heavier than u. set goals 4 weight managemnt that are acheivable/ maintainable. dieting alone may not help some people. u should see amd. get inspired from seeing ur hubby&kids walk 1hour twice aday &eat lots of fiber+h2o.
i have spent half my life dieting last 5 years have suffered from depression i don't seem to be getting better i have a wonderful husband and 3 kids i?
are you getting treatment for your depression? with true major depressive disorder the best results may come from a combination of appropriate medications and working in psychotherapy (not just meds alone). are you exercising daily and getting all the nutrients you need -- especially vit d and omega-3 fats? some diets can be too extreme. please talk with your doc about these issues.
what can i do to find out if i have low testosterone? i am 47 male and overweight. the internet is a bad place to look for medical information as you can find so many conflicting articles. anyway it seems that i have been very emotional lately which is s
i have treated several middle aged male patients for anxiety disorder or depression who were subsequently found to have low testosterone levels. frankly all of them were quite grumpy. it was remarkable how well their psychological conditions were impacted by addressing the low testosterone. i can not diagnose you nor can i state that you would have similiar results if you do have low testerone and it is treated. one of the men has almost completely weaned off his psychiatric medications.
why is child obesity bad? im doing an essay and i need to know n ow!
from a psychological perspective obesity can be devastating for a child. it can be a source of low self esteem and depression. obese children have to face discrimination and they have a harder time connecting with others and may feel lonely.
why is there a prescription limit on adipex? i was prescribed adipex four months ago. it helped me lose 20 lbs of stress weight i had gained by suppressing my appetite and giving me energy. i felt good motivated no depression no side effects and it
phentermine is approved as an appetite suppressant to help reduce weight in obese patients when used short-term and combined with exercise diet and behavioral modification. it is used for a limited period of time to speed weight loss in overweight people who are exercising and eating a low-calorie diet. phentermine is in a class of medications called anorectics and is similar to amphetamines and works by decreasing appetite. phentermine has the potential to cause psychological dependence. after short term use tolerance begins and can be followed by rebound weight gain. you should see the physician that prescribed phentermine to you to start with to see if further treatment would be useful. it is not as strictly controlled as amphetamines so you may be able to convince your physician that this will be beneficial for you.
why is there a prescription limit on adipex? i was prescribed adipex four months ago. it helped me lose 20 lbs of stress weight i had gained by suppressing my appetite and giving me energy. i felt good motivated no depression no side effects and it
the problem with most meds once you stop you gain the weight back and most times more than before. get off simple carbs decrease the amount you eat and take fiber fruits or tabs about 30 min prior to eating. hope this helps drugs really dont for long term.
i suffer from anxiety and depression. what is the best medication to take that will not cause weight gain?
this is usually pretty individualized depeneding on symptoms other meds taken side effects etc. if you have atypical depression - wellbutrin (bupropion) can be very helpful. ssri- are good for anxiety and classic depression. lexapro is probably the most weight neutral of those. discuss this with prescriber. take care.
i suffer from anxiety and depression. what is the best medication to take that will not cause weight gain?
it is unwise to take such medication without medical supervision very good meds (such as ssri's) are available for treatment remember there is usually a chemical imbalance that can be corrected by a specialist don't necessarily blame the environmental factors!
i have bulging veins that are very painful. i also have horrible nightmares and am very depressed all the time and my bmi is 16. it is hard to breath?
it sounds as though more than one thing is going on. low body mass index can be associated with depression. veins may be more apparent if you are very thin. the fact that you are having difficulty breathing makes it imperative that you seek medical attention promptly (i. e. now).
why won't the doctors i see recommend me for the lap band? i'm 5'5 and weigh 200 pounds i know my bmi is not at the morbidly obesed rate but i am overweight and have depression. i've had depression for 6 years now that started when my little sister pass
though lap band will be successful you do not currently meet surgical criteria trying weigh loss may be able to help with your self esteem and your weight. remenber after lap band you can still regain the weight.
why won't the doctors i see recommend me for the lap band? i'm 5'5 and weigh 200 pounds i know my bmi is not at the morbidly obesed rate but i am overweight and have depression. i've had depression for 6 years now that started when my little sister pass
your bmi qualifies you for lap band according to the fda. however you're unlikely to be able to get it covered by insurance. they use the nih guidelines and refuse any patient with bmi <35. if your only health problem is depression it is unlikely you meet the fda requirements.
why won't the doctors i see recommend me for the lap band? i'm 5'5 and weigh 200 pounds i know my bmi is not at the morbidly obesed rate but i am overweight and have depression. i've had depression for 6 years now that started when my little sister pass
see a bariatric surgeon as your weight and height may put you into a class for the band. it is up to the surgeon to recommend you. there are new guidelines and surgeons who specialize in this can help you.
why won't the doctors i see recommend me for the lap band? i'm 5'5 and weigh 200 pounds i know my bmi is not at the morbidly obesed rate but i am overweight and have depression. i've had depression for 6 years now that started when my little sister pass
the reason is that at your current height and weight you have a bmi of 33. 3 and would not qualify for surgical intervention by insurance criteria. that only means that no insurance company will pay for it to be performed. it doesn't mean that you wouldn't benefit from surgery. in fact there are many studies that demonstrate a benefit in patients with a bmi 30-35 from lap band placement.
why won't the doctors i see recommend me for the lap band? i'm 5'5 and weigh 200 pounds i know my bmi is not at the morbidly obesed rate but i am overweight and have depression. i've had depression for 6 years now that started when my little sister pass
with a bmi of 33 you are outside the current standard for being a candidate for lap-band unless you have a significant co-morbidity or medical problem related to obesity such as diabetes or high blood pressure. insurance companies will not likely cover the cost of a bariatric procedure in your case although the fda has approved lap-band for your bmi with comorbidity you do not have one. if you were about 15 pounds heavier with a bmi of 35 insurance would still not cover a lap-band but it would be within the new fda approval guidelines and many surgeons would be willing to offer you a band though you would have to pay the cost.
why won't the doctors i see recommend me for the lap band? i'm 5'5 and weigh 200 pounds i know my bmi is not at the morbidly obesed rate but i am overweight and have depression. i've had depression for 6 years now that started when my little sister pass
there are many rules an insurance company requires before they chose to cover a lap band procedure. if you are paying out of pocket and you are 200 lbs 5'5" and if you are a good surgical candidate (meaning you do not have high risks to undergo surgery) then i am sure you can find a surgeon to do a lap band for you.
why won't the doctors i see recommend me for the lap band? i'm 5'5 and weigh 200 pounds i know my bmi is not at the morbidly obesed rate but i am overweight and have depression. i've had depression for 6 years now that started when my little sister pass
i am sorry to hear about your sister. there is a high correlation between obesity and depression but is dificult to determined what came first. there are many patients with depression without obesity as well as the other way around. is like the old question " what came first the chicken or the egg". i always warn my patients that loosing weight may not solve their depression though most of the times it helps. you mention that you don't eat red meats. the vast majority of the time proteins are not the source of obesity carbohydrates are. i would watch-out for starches like potato rice pasta breat; and simple sugars like candy sodas juices. bariatric procedures like sleeve gastrectomy or adjustable gastric bands ( lap band realize band) will restrict the amount of food that you eat but not the quality of the food you eat. you should start by dramatically decreasing the amount of carbs you eat and increase the proteins. your bmi is 33. 3 the fda aproved the lap band procedure for patients with bmi between 30 and 35 with medical problems related to obesity and for patients with bmi greater than 35 without the need of other medical problems. this procedures are very effective and if you are interested you should contact a bariatric surgeon at a center of excellence. he/she should be able to explain the procedure and see if you are a candidate. obesity is a real health problem and should be treated early and efficiently. good luck.
why won't the doctors i see recommend me for the lap band? i'm 5'5 and weigh 200 pounds i know my bmi is not at the morbidly obesed rate but i am overweight and have depression. i've had depression for 6 years now that started when my little sister pass
i am so sorry that you are having such a difficult time. unfortunately there is no easy answer. a lap band will not cure the problems you are having with depression--you might need to address this separately by seeing a therapist. your insurance probably will not cover any bariatric surgery because you don't meet the criteria for weight or associated health problems. the only way to lose weight is to eat fewer calories than you are using up. it can be discouraging but this is truly the only way. focus on foods that are good sources of lean protein: low-fat cottage cheese white meat turkey or chicken steamed vegetables. you have to stay away from sugar foods made with white flour potatoes and fried foods. if you are going to eat bread make sure it is whole grain bread. switch to skim milk. read ingredients--even so-called healthy foods like yogurt can have a lot of added sugar in the fruit. you're better off to buy plain low-fat yogurt and sweeten it yourself with splenda. even a healthy diet can allow you to gain weight if you eat too much of it. portion control is the key. no portion should be larger than the palm of your hand. generally a good rule is to eat half of what you currently eat and you should start to see steady loss of 1-2 pounds a week. this sounds slow but it will lead to a 50 pound or more weight loss in a year! good luck!
what happens if the doctor removes too much fat during my chin liposuction? i've heard one possible result from chin liposuction is hollow areas or dents in your neck from taking out too much fat. is there a way to fix it if it happens? .
you could have a depression under the chin skin adhesion or wrinkling of the skin if not done properly.
im depressed. its got so bad i've even lost interest in my baby. i'm also obese and a binge eater. i need help what do i do?
post partum depression is common treatable but dangerous for you and the baby if ignored. it's great you wrote here but now go to your obstetrician or a clinic and get a diagnosis and treatment as soon as you can!
im depressed. its got so bad i've even lost interest in my baby. i'm also obese and a binge eater. i need help what do i do?
its sounds like you may have post partum depression. please see your physician. there are definitely ways to help you feel happier.
i would like to know the facts about liposuction-including the side effects of the procedure.
liposuction is done to remove some of the fat from under the skin. during this procedure a canula attached to a syringe or a machine with negative pressure is used to remove the fat through small holes in the skin. see a plastic surgeon to make sure that you are a good candidate for the surgery. side effects can be infection areas of depressions or elevations unsatisfactory results etc etc.
what are the most common complications of obesity?
obesity is associated with diabetes high blood pressure sleep apnea infertility premature birth colon polyps hiatal hernia diverticulosis gallbladder disease osteoarthritis immobility restrictive lung disease cardiac disease gout stroke uterine fibroids breast cysts tumors cancer prostate cancer depression low esteem skin rashes premature death multiple meds surgery etc.
what are the most common complications of obesity?
degenerative joint disease (arthritis) back pain inability to perform physicially depression decreased libido diabetes obstructive sleep apnea acid reflux and an increased risk of certain cancers just to name a few. obesity is an extremely serious medical problem that should not be ignored!
what are the most common complications of obesity?
obesity is associated with poor health as manifested by higher all-cause cancer & cardiovascular mortality. in other words you're more likely to die from any cause from cancer and from heart disease. obesity is also associated with diabetes high blood pressure & cholesterol poor exercise tolerance chronic pain syndrome & depression.
why could i be so tired lately? i am a retired female almost 60 years old with a bmi of 38. the last few months i sleep about 14 hours for every 24 (including day naps). even when i get up after about an hour or so i feel so sleepy i just want to go ba
hello. i don't if your doctor has you on vitamin d supplementation. low vitamin d can be a cause for fatigue as well as a syndrome that looks like depression (low energy low sex drive low motivation levels down mood etc).
what effect does childhood obesity have on his adult life?
there are not only physical effects but also emotional effects on children with obesity. some of the long-term health complications include diabetes high cholesterol sleep problems and high blood pressure. in some cases asthma may be worsened by obesity. the emotional effects of childhood obesity should not be overlooked. these concerns include depression bullying and poor self image.
what effect does childhood obesity have on his adult life?
obesity affects almost all body system in a human. some example: cardiovascular (cholesterol high blood pressure atherosclerosis) endocrine (type 2 diabetes polycystic ovarian syndrome) lung (asthma obstructive sleep apnea) psych (negative self image depression poor quality of life) reproductive (irregular menstrual periods lack of periods). liver (non alcoholic fatty liver).
what are the side effects of the abc diet?
with the ana boot camp diet would anticipate possible side effects like malnutrition fatigue overly rapid weight loss dizziness low energy level loss of large % of muscle mass – including heart muscle problems with sleep electrolyte imbalances cold sensitivity depression paranoia etc. it may also be the start of a pattern of unhealthy eating.
i am always sleepy i am always hungry i'm gaining weight collapsed twice this month and feel nauseous every time i eat. what could this be?
how much worse would you need to feel to decide to get evaluated? might be diabetic / thyroid / infectious / depression. . too many choices w/broad symptoms & over internet. need good history exam & likely some blood tests to figure out what is going on.
i take prozac and have been taking duromine 30 for the past 2 weeks is this safe and can i also take xanax (alprazolam) or valium at night for anxiety?
duromine (phentermine) is a stimulant which can lead to worsened anxiety and insomnia. it can also cause or worsen depression. similar to ativan and xanax (alprazolam) this medication can be habit forming tolerance and dependance can occur and a vicious cycle may set in. the question is best answered by the prescribing physician.
what other health problems can diabetes mellitus type 1 cause you?
uncontrolled diabetes can lead to heart disease heart attack stroke kidney disease/failure peripheral vascular disease numbness in legs increased risk of infection amputations of limbs gastroparesis impotence (new made-up term by the drug companies is erectile dysfunction) depression liver disease.
what antidepressants cause metabolic syndrome?
antidepressants such as amitriptyline imipramine doxepin are likely to cause weight gain bp increases and metabolic syndrome. so do drugs like depakote lithium risperidone and other antipsychotics that are used for depression.
i cry daily and i'm tired all the time. i have sleep apnea and fibromyalgia. could this be the reason?
are you treated for the sleep apnea? what is the quality of your sleep? these answers can explain your fatigue. also talk to your doctor about possible depression. crying daily is not normal and should be addressed. consult with your sleep specialist and your m. d. a sleep study may supply some answers.
i cry daily and i'm tired all the time. i have sleep apnea and fibromyalgia. could this be the reason?
depression? sleep apnea that is not adequately controlled can cause depression worsening pain and fatigue. see your sleep specialist to have the cpap titration done. if you are not already being treated for depression talk to your family doctor about that.
i cry daily and i'm tired all the time. i have sleep apnea and fibromyalgia. could this be the reason?
you may be crying as a sign of depression because of your conditions or other reasons. consult your doctor for help.
i have gastroparesis. md wants reglan (metoclopramide) but i have a family history of parkinson's and a personal history of depression and anxiety. what about the gastric sleeve?
surgery especially sleeve gastrecyomy would make the problem of gastroparesis much worse. medication is a much superior choice for this diagnosis. rarely subtotal gastrectomy as a last resort.
what can you do to stop what people call "emotional overeating"?
truth be told overeating sometimes hides a primary psychological issue such as depression. you may want to encourage your sister to seek counseling to elucidate the cause of her overeating. if she's just gluttonous then emphatically point out the error in her ways and provide her with support and encouragement to change.
is garcinia cambogia really effective and safe as some people have claimed it to be? does it help with depression and anxiety as well as weight loss?
garcnia cambogia is an ingredient in some herbal weight loss appetite suppressant and energy products. an analysis of data found a possible short-term weight loss effect (under 1 kilogram). but liver toxicity—led to one preparation being withdrawn from the market. another controlled study showed it no better than placebo. there is nothing i can find that shows help for anxiety or depression.
is garcinia cambogia really effective and safe as some people have claimed it to be? does it help with depression and anxiety as well as weight loss?
garcinia cambogia is in most weight loss supplements and can cause liver failure. it was also used in hydroxycut which was taken off the market as people died from using it. i see a handful of patients per month with abnormal liver tests after using this medicine. i would not recommend it. there is no "magic pill" for weight loss. diet and exercise remain the #1 way to lose weight and keep it off
what could cause unintentional weight loss?
metabolic causes such as abnormal thyroid medications such as stimulants emotional such as depression.
what class is pristiq (desvenlafaxine) in ssri's? and isnt pristiq (desvenlafaxine) a fairly new depression med. nd can it cause weight gain?
in a nutshell pristiq (desvenlafaxine) is a revamped version of effexor and effexor xr although the delivery system is different. pristiq (desvenlafaxine) is a seretonin norephinepine reuptake inhibitor (snri). of those in its class (remeron cymbalta) pristiq (desvenlafaxine) has not neen shown to cause weight gain. it also does does not interfere with sexual libido or ability to reach climax. drawback is its discontinuation syndrome if stop s.
what class is pristiq (desvenlafaxine) in ssri's? and isnt pristiq (desvenlafaxine) a fairly new depression med. nd can it cause weight gain?
it is serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor that does not cause weight gain or sexual side effect.
what class is pristiq (desvenlafaxine) in ssri's? and isnt pristiq (desvenlafaxine) a fairly new depression med. nd can it cause weight gain?
pristiq (desvenlafaxine) is fairly new its an snri serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. its a metabolite of another medication called effexor. normally they should not cause weight gain but everyone's body is different but typically it shouldn't.
what class is pristiq (desvenlafaxine) in ssri's? and isnt pristiq (desvenlafaxine) a fairly new depression med. nd can it cause weight gain?
one of snris with less potential for wt. gain.
what class is pristiq (desvenlafaxine) in ssri's? and isnt pristiq (desvenlafaxine) a fairly new depression med. nd can it cause weight gain?
one of snris with lower potential for wt. gain.
what are some of the side effects of weight loss drugs?
it depends on which drugs you mean. in the case of what are called stimulants such as phentermine or adipex the side-effects can be substantial and significant and may include jitteryness insomnia anxiety agitation depression and even psychosis and paranoia. one needs to carefully weight the risks and benefits of any treatment with the risks and benefits of not having the treatment.
why is obesity important to care for or prevent?
obesity has been linked to 20 different medical conditions including reflux diabetes hypertension arthritis asthma cancer sleep apnea elevated cholesterol and depression. curing obesity improves or cures a remarkable number of medical illnesses. the cost of obesity to our country is over $100 billion a year. we can't operate ourselves out of this epidemic and there is no magic pill.
i have sleep apnea since 5 years and depression. does the depression come from the sleep apnea illness. ?
sleep apnea means that the brain is not getting adequate oxygen. this affects the physiology and psychology of an individual. please discuss this with your physician and get treated quickly.
i have sleep apnea since 5 years and depression. does the depression come from the sleep apnea illness. ?
a few retrospective studies suggested the possibility that sleep apnea syndrome could cause depression. after you are diagnosed with depression you should be screened for obstructive sleep apnea.
i have sleep apnea since 5 years and depression. does the depression come from the sleep apnea illness. ?
not necessarily. they can have overlapping symptoms but one does not cause the other.
i am having sudden onset episodes of severe drowsiness during the day. no sleep apnea. possible causes?
1) medication side effect 2) thyroid issues 3) insufficient sleep 4) depression (poorly controlled) 5) narcolepsy/idiopathic hypersomnolence without knowing your medical history these are the first (in no particular order) items on the differential that come to mind (assuming you had a sleep study that was negative for osa). it may a combination of many on the list as well. see your doctor.
what could cause rapid weight loss and trouble sleeping?
multiple possibilities: including hyperthyroidism and also drug abuse involving stimulants like methamphetamine. sometimes opiates like heroin if the person is not getting a steady supply. also severe agitated depression and some anxiety disorders. have seen some psychoses be like this also -- schizophrenia & mania. the person may not feel eating is necessary or hyperactivity is extreme.
i've all of a sudden lost 10 pounds in 4 days and i haven't been dieting or excercising. im curently 108 and i was 118 what could be wrong?
for depression anorexia hyperthyroidism diabetes tumor. . et.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
the presence of mood swings and a lack of sleep are common symptoms of some psychiatric disorders specifically: major depression bipolar disorder. do you stay up 2 or more days without sleeping? have you been so excited that sometimes no one understands you because you talk so fast? if you answer yes then you should see a psychologist or psychiatrist to get assessed for bipolar disorder.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
mood swings and anxiety may cause weight loss. or weight gain for different people. if depressed mood causes you to eat less and remain restless or have psychomotor agitation you will lose weight.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
a connection is likely but what's more important is they all sound serious. it would be wise to see a doctor asap. also find a therapist/psychologist who feels right for you. all of these concerns deserve attention now. till your therapy gets going make sure you keep hydrated think about supplements and eat whatever you can. be well!
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
or a mood disorder could be related to decreased appetite. much of rapid weight loss is due to fluid. please seek prompt medical care for the lack of sleep mood swings & weight loss.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
true weight that fast. 10 pounds in 5 days would mean burning off 7 000 calories a day that you don't eat. that would be the equivalent of not eating much and running 70 miles a day each day. either the scale is inaccurate and/or you've had a shift in fluid. try a different scale. if it continues to decline which is doubtful see your doctor.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
losing 10 pounds in 5 days is too much too fast. with mood swings and lack of sleep you could be having a hypomanic or manic episode with hyperactivity. i've also seen people in a thyroid storm like in graves' disease lose weight this quickly. please see your doctor asap!
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
beginning of anorexia nervosa a dangerous disease so you should seek help locally.
what could cause unexplained weight loss?
please see your doctor about this right away. the possibilities include some form of chronic disease be it intestinal thyroid cancer depression etc. the list is very lengthy and you need an evaluation.
why would a doctor ask a patient about past medical history of depression asthma hiatal hernia and migraine?
a comprehensive review of systems is often part of a visit with a doctor. it helps to understand more about the patient.
will a prolactin pituitary tumor cause weight gain back pain and depression?
look for other causes! see primary md.
will a prolactin pituitary tumor cause weight gain back pain and depression?
prolactinoma could inhibit other pituitary hormones like tsh causing hypothyroidism or weight gain. it could also be a tumor secreting not only prolactin but acth as well causing high cortisol and cushings disease. check these levels.
i'm suffering from depression and binge eating disorder how do i fix these myself?
for best results you combine your own sustained efforts with focused assistance from professionals. healing from binge eating also requires support from lay groups like oa. <link> this 12 step approach is really useful. depression requires help from your pcp -- and psychiatrists and psychologists who are skilled to help you with talk therapies & any needed medications.
i'm suffering from depression and binge eating disorder how do i fix these myself?
it is not the act of binge eating that you need to control. there is some underlying reason that you have to try and deal with. this can only be done with help from other people. talk to someone that you trust about your life and what you feeling and try and unwind the driving agents. doing this with a professional counselor will accelerate the process. you are damaging your body seek help.
what could cause rapid weight loss excessive sleepiness dizziness and paleness?
please see your doctor about this right away. the possibilities include some form of chronic disease be it intestinal thyroid cancer depression etc. the list is very lengthy and you need an evaluation.
what are the symptoms of being overweight?
overweight is a classification based on what is considered healthy body weight. a bmi > 25 (while it has flaws) is calculated based on your height and weight. there are many social emotional and physical effects of being overweight including increased risk for high blood pressure coronary problems diabetes stroke joint pain depression stress low self-esteem and stigma to name a few.
i feel overweight because i've been depressed amd have turned to eating a lot. am i overweight? i am 27 is 5ft 3in and i weigh 152 lbs.
ideal weight for you would be approx 115#. current bmi is 27 which is in the overweight range and disease potential is definitely increased. your depression and the zoloft (sertraline) may also be encouraging further food intake and weight gain. your depression leads to obesity which leads to further depression. it's a vicious cycle.
i feel overweight because i've been depressed amd have turned to eating a lot. am i overweight? i am 27 is 5ft 3in and i weigh 152 lbs.
sorry to hear you have been depressed difficult to assess as to whether you are overweigh as it depends on your body type muscle content etc. if you are asking you may be so begin exercising daily the very best treatment for depression.
what would someone that is on edge moody non social weight gain fatigue and stops doing normal routines ex: bathing daily outgiing etc be diagn?
one thing to really consider is depression and you ought to see a physician and get treatment. depression is a very treatable disease.
what would someone that is on edge moody non social weight gain fatigue and stops doing normal routines ex: bathing daily outgiing etc be diagn?
possible bout of major depression if organic factors such as anemia or thyroid disease or substance abuse or medications side-effects are ruled out. please consult your doctor for evaluation.
what are the symptoms of obesity of the extreme kind?
pain in the body particularly the joints. difficulty with mobility. shortness of breath. high blood pressure increased risk of diabetes increased risk of heart problems including stroke and death problems related to circulation. depression social stigmatization discrimination poor self-image. fortunately all are improved with reduction in weight and obesity is reversible.
what factors are contribute childhood obesity?
media + computer+ gaming use > 2 hours/ day is a huge contributor. fast foods sodas junk food. lack of daily outside activities. childhood depression. children who self-limit their food choices either from permissive parenting or because they have an autistic spectrum disorders eating/snacking anywhere other than at the table food in large amounts used as a reward unmonitored snacking.
what are the health risks of obesity that doctors will help?
obesity has many health risks including pain and mobility issues heart problems high blood pressure sleep apnea increased risk of diabetes depression social stigmatization. doctors can help treat many of these comorbidities but the best treatment would be to address the obesity. reducing weight will help decrease severity and possibly eliminate the health risks. even a 5% decrease helps.
what can be done to stop overeating?
truth be told overeating sometimes hides a primary psychological issue such as depression. you may want to encourage seek counseling to elucidate the cause of your overeating.
what common diseases are you at risk for if you have diabetes 2?
1. gum disease 2. high blood pressure 3. neuropathy ( los of feeling in toes) 4. blindness 5. heart disease 6. kidney failure if you are over weight then add knee problems and possibly sleep apnea if your neck size is over 16 inches and you have symptom like falling asleep easliy during the day high blood pressure and depression.
what were the common sides effects seen in the qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) study? were there any uncommon but serious side effects?
phentermine+topiramate: numbness dry mouth constipation colds/bronchitis acidosis headaches insomnia dizziness nausea backpain blurred vision fatigue high potassium depression anxiety hair loss reflux and man many more. . and rare but serious ones: allergic reaction high blood pressure heart valve disorders tremors psychosis pancreatitis liver failures. consult doc. good luck.
what in long run are the effects of obesity on health?
obesity has many physical and emotional health risks. increased risk of diabetes which has additional health risks increased risk of blood pressure problems stroke and heart disease. increased risk of pain and joint problems arthritis back troubles and problems with mobility. gastrointestinal problems including increased reflux. increased risk of depression social stigma and stress.
what in long run are the effects of obesity on health?
diabetes heart disease sleep apnea high blood pressure stroke alzheimer's lower leg arthritis as well as depression just to name a few. there are also many cancers like cancer of colon galbladder breast endometrial esophagous ovaries uterus that are directly or indirectly linked to obesity and high body fat levels.
will phentermine and birth control worsen bipolar disorder?
i agree with drs. bey and passer. medications such as phentermine that stimulate cns activity can precipitate mania and what goes up comes back down. occasionally birth control products especially those higher in progesterone can contribute to depression though this is rarely an issue. many mood stabilizers are less then friendly for weight speak to your psychiatrist about options to help.
will phentermine and birth control worsen bipolar disorder?
some bc pills may contribute to depression in some women but diet pills are a definite no no for individuals with a bipolar disorder--can bring on manic episode & may prime the pump & lead to rapid cycling.
what is cure for acanthosis nigricans caused due to pcos. my entire body and facial skin has darkened like a tan sort of. i'm depressed. please help.?
also evaluation by mental health professional to determine if depression warrants intervention.
what could rapid weight loss and hair loss be a sign of? i found out i have fatty liver in march. changed my diet and exercise a little. but that seems like a lot of weight. 60lbs so far
unintended weight loss can be seen with infections inflammation parasites cancer overactive thyroid depression other. hair loss can be from weight loss mineral or vitamin deficiencies or above mentioned factors.
what's 5-htp and is it an implication for weight control social anxiety and depression?
5-htp is a precursor to tryptophan the amino acid used to create serotonin. the national institute of health recommends not to use 5-htp until more is known. 5-htp might be unsafe. some people who have taken it have come down with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (ems) a serious condition involving extreme muscle tenderness (myalgia) and blood abnormalities (eosinophilia).
what could be the problems associated with low levels of folate (folic acid) in your diet?
folic acid is needed for hemoglobin formation and folic acid deficiency can cause anemia. and if you are pregnant the deficiency can cause birth defects like spina bifida so all pregnant women are are given prenatal vitamins which contain folic acid it can also cause irritability and depression high homocystein level diarrhea&loss of appetite and some cancers are associated with very low levels.
what are health risks of obesity as a huskie?
there are many health risks of obesity. heart disease diabetes stroke joint and body pain fatty liver acid reflux bowel issues sleep apnea and other pulmonary issues social stigmatization emotional risks like increased stress and depression.
is it possible that some of my weight gain is from 10mg lexapro (escitalopram)? i'm not usually the weight i am currently.
many patients may gain weight on medications like lexapro (escitalopram) when taken for anxiety and depression but not because the medicine is actually causing the weight gain. these medicines do not have calories do not induce food cravings and do not slow down a person's metabolism. many anxious patients fidget all day long and stop doing that once they are better. they also eat more when they feel better.
is binge eating unhealthy?
binge eating can impact your health negatively as bingeing often leads to weight gain and increased hypertension heart disease diabetes and more. psychologically there is often a lot of shame attached to bingeing. the behavior may undermines your self esteem and cause depression and anxiety. some people avoid social interaction with others so they can eat alone and become isolated.
is binge eating unhealthy?
type 2 diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol heart disease gallbladder disease osteoarthritis joint and muscle pain sleep apnea gastrointestinal problems ;#40;such as reflux;#41; certain types of cancer emotional problems such as depression anxiety and panic attacks substance abuse problems obesity restrictive lung disease increased vascular disease increased risk of gastric rupture if the amount eaten is particularly severe. this is by no means to be taken lightly.
what are the uses of relacore?
is dietary supplement claimed to work for stress-related abdominal obesity & subclinical depression.
i am taking prozac (fluoxetine) for bulimia but depression and binges have worsened help please!?
communicate this to your prescribing provider promptly. if you are not working with a psychiatrist already - would recommend that. hopefully you are already in talking therapy.
what are the manifestations of an overdose of trimethoprim?
symptoms of overdose may include blood in urine; confusion; depression; dizziness; drowsiness; fever chills or sore throat; loss of consciousness; severe nausea vomiting or stomach pain; severe or persistent headache or loss of appetite; unusual bruising or bleeding; unusual tiredness or weakness; or yellowing of the skin or eyes.
what are some effective treatment for cellulite caused by hormones?
cellulite is seen in over 85% of post pubertal females. no effective treatment was available until the recent fda approval of the cellulaze laser by cynosure. this is a minimally invasive in office procedure. the split laser beam cuts the fibous bands which create the depressions melts the fat under the skin causes thickening of the skin with increased elasticity. the only proven cellulite tx.
i was just prescribed nortriptyline for my depression - will it cause weight gain?
in particular it can cause a craving for sweets. it is however an excellent antidepressant and many people have taken it without weight gain. if you happen to begin craving sweets then you must refrain from eating them. it is largely the eating of large amounts of carbohydrate calories that causes the weight gain with this antidepressant. if you can refrain your weight should be fine. make sure also that you exercise according to your tolerance. best wishes for a happy and healthy holiday season.
i was wondering what are the dangers of childhood obesity?
probably the biggest danger is adult obesity. obese children usually become obese adults. there are injuries to the joints over time along with type 2 diabetes heart disease and high blood pressure. many obese children are teased and bullied about weight. this can lead to self destructive behavior depression etc.
what is the safest antidepressant to take while taking duromine?
phentermine (duromine) is not safe with ssri's tricyclics or maoi's. there are cardiovascular warnings with it by itself also. there are non-drug treatments for depression (such as psychotherapy) that may help. you might also consider whether you really need to be on an appetite suppressant like duromine or whether other methods of weight control would be healthier and longer-lasting.
if you have sleep apnea is ativan or klonopin (clonazepam) a better choice for sleep. right now i take klonopin (clonazepam). thoughts on trazadone for sleep.
and apnea are classified in the category of dyssomnias. these are sleep disorders associated with excessive sleepiness as a result of difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep. treatment for apnea is cpap. ativan and klonopin (clonazepam) are the same group (benzos) and equally effective for short term treatment for insomnia. trazodone is often used for sleep but can not be effective without depression.
if you have sleep apnea is ativan or klonopin (clonazepam) a better choice for sleep. right now i take klonopin (clonazepam). thoughts on trazadone for sleep.
neither ativan nor klonopin (clonazepam) is fda indicated as sleep medication although these calm anxiety and can assist sleep through this pathway. trazodone is an antidepressant often used to aid sleep. depression can significantly disrupt sleep -- and it's possible to have this as well as sleep apnea. a psychiatrist can evaluate and help treat this problem. has a sleep mask been prescribed for you?
i don't eat healthy or exercise and also am lazy. i don't want to give in to obesity but am considering it. what do i do?
your issues have a strong chance of not only shortening your life but creating a lot of misery. while exercise can help the most important change to make is to eat healthy. if you don't want to do this i advise seeing a counselor to address the reasons; people often eat poorly due to anxiety/depression. consider overeaters anonymous ; <link> consider <link>
i'm 100+ lbs ovrweight & i believe i have an overeating disorder that's really effecting my health! i also have depression. how do i break my habits? !
i doubt that you will find much help on the internet for this common problem. but i appreciate that you are asking for help. you very well may need therapy and a good physician to work with you on this. you may also find a good fellowship and more success by working with others who have the same condition such as those you will meet in over eaters anonymous.
why do some anti depressants cause weight gain?
there may be few of reason why patients gain weight on antidepressants 1as depression symptoms improve patients start eating more and weight gain 2some antidepressants cause increase in appetite.
what kinds of issues can make obesity actually a mental health problem?
depression itself can lead to obesity because many depressed people have no energy to exercise or to take good care of themselves through healthy diet. there's also evidence that diets high in processed foods may also lead to depression. lack of self-care is also common in people with histories of childhood abuse leading to ptsd. then some medicines used may predispose to weight gain.
what kinds of issues can make obesity actually a mental health problem?
when obesity causes loss of self-esteem it can be a cause of numerous mental problems especially in teens and younger people. this includes feelings of inadequacy regarding appearance sports performance ability to make friends and interact. obesity often causes difficulty finding a job. obese people are felt to be "lazy" by many. depression & anxiety are the result of these self esteem issues.
i take seroquel 100mg once a day and wellbutrin (bupropion) sr 150mg 2 times a day i am starting to take garcinia cambogia is it safe to take with these?
i could find are diabetes because it may lower blood sugars. there is a slight risk of serotonin syndrome because there is a slight serotonin effect with garcinia cambogia which is also present in your seroquel. garcinia is often combined with calcium and potassium for absorption purposes so you need to bear that in mind. 65% of people who smoke develop depression. wellbutrin (bupropion) could help a lot.
what is the defect of liposuction?
sometimes you may see a defect or a visible depression in an area where liposuction was done. this may represent over-resection of tissue with the liposuction. while this can happen in any surgeon's hands in my opinion this is one more reason to make sure of your liposuction surgeon's training and credentials. i suggest having a surgeon who is board certified in plastic surgery and in asps.
what is the physical cause of weight gain when using anti depressants?
and we have lots to learn about this. some antidepressants clearly stimulate the appetite making you eat more. paxil; tricyclics like elavil sinequan (doxepin) & tofranil; & some maoi's can do this. also if appetite loss was part of your depression remission of those symptoms may lead you to eat more and gain weight. there can be other causes we don't know about yet. thanks.
weight loss of 9kgs within a time of 3mths. 5 kgs in one mth. am currently at 62 kgs. i don't hav thyroid diabetes or nuro probs. plz sugst y & control?
to prove you've not developed these conditions. if normal severe depression can cause this kind of weight los.
i have type 2 diabetes anxiety and depression i have been feeling nervous a lot lately i can't concentrate on anything friends and family i need help?
you may be able to kill 3 birds with 1 stone through life style modification such as sticking to the proper diet and by engaging in a regular exercise program to include outdoor physical activities yoga etc. discussing the station with your doctor and consulting a mental health specialist is also advisable.
i have an eating disorder classified as bulimia - but without binging. i feel very down sometimes and very low. but ok sometimes will medication help?
many of the eating disorders are accompanied by underlying stress and depression so medications can be helpful. it is so important to seek the help of a good psychiatrist and therapist who are educated and trained in the eating disorders as with both medications and counseling you can do well. best wishes.
i'm overweight i used to weigh 164 now weigh 224 taking anti psychotics doc won't change since it helps me sleep will lapband be good for me?
in order to lose weight and manage "depression" it is important to check your hormonal status. hypothyroidism; polycystic ovarian disorder (pco) as well as cushing disease; etc. can cause both "depression ; obesity". when you are medically cleared then you need to change your life style. in order to do that you should manage your fear of changing your life to a better one.
is it okay to eat healthy and smoking weed?
great. there are a variety of potential serious side effects from use of cannabis. possible effects of marijuana: anxiety depression fear panic delusions paranoia hallucinations losing touch with reality inattentiveness short-term memory problems disturbances of thought processes. fatigue poor concentration slowed reaction times ; slowed problem solving.
what can i do if i feel like binge eating?
exercise taking a shower or any activity which precludes eating at the same time may help you resist the temptation. if this is a chronic problem you need some therapy. medications may also help if you have underlying depression.
why can't anorexics lose weight the healthy way?
anorexia is a psychiatric disorder like depression and schizophrenia and as such patients with anorexia do not "choose" this over healthy ways to lose weight. in fact many patients with anorexia are not actually overweight. it is their mental illness that makes them think they are overweight. it is a complicated and sometimes fatal disease.
is it normal for my 12yr old daughter to cry every day she started menses at 8 and she is a bit overweight is she depressed should i ask her dr.
excessive her pediatrician can determine her body mass index ; check for associated health issues screen for depression ; discuss her feelings about both being overweight ; parental separation. ask her teacher if she's being teased or bullied at school. does one parent demonstrate a low opinion of the other? she should know both parents love her; that it's ok for her to love them both.
what anxiety medications aid with weight loss?
anxiety disorders can be treated with different classes of meds - safest in terms of low risk potential are probably the ssris but many of those can in fact cause weight gain. wellbutrin (bupropion) is approved for depression - may or may not help for anxiety and may reduce weight a little. cognitive-behavioral therapy directed at lifestye exercise stress reduction etc is very effective but takes work.
i am 4'11 and weigh 200lbs. i am always yo-yoing in weight. i have depression and low self esteem. i can't seem to ever stay on track? how do i?
our mind is a very powerful tool. there is a difference between making a true decision and wanting something to be different. when we make a decision and then create a process for change the goals are less important. stick to the process and eventually you will reach your goals. also consider finding a therapist that uses mindful based cognitive therapy.
i have severe tinnitus with associated anxiety insomina depression starting trazodone does it cause weight gain like serowuel did and does thank you?
weight gain would be quite rare with trazodone.
what are the causes of a teen to be overweight?
generally a young person who is overweight is not exercising enough (a minimum is 150 minutes per week in youth) and making poor food selections. a part of the problem typically is too much caloric intake. there is a correlation of "screen time" with obesity. more screen time -> more weight. finally in some stress or depression can contribute. start with more exercise and smart eating.
what physical side effects of rapid weight gain are there?
eventually: diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol orthopedic problems falls and accidents infertility poor self image and occ depression cardiovascular disease sleep disorders heart attacks strokes etc. the list is longer but i think you've got the idea already.
if i have depression and i have no thyroid problems i can take the amino acid l-tyrosine to burn fat and have a better mood?
l-tyrosine is already in much of the food you eat. watch out for sensational promises by charming supplement salespeople and companies.
wife said i had the symptoms of apnea. heavy snoring and sometimes no breathing. what do i do?
osa is a condition of intermittent upper airway collapse during sleep causing disordered breathing disturbed sleep and daytime sleepiness. symptoms include impaired concentration and depression. osa can cause hypertension. untreated it increases risk of heart attack stroke and motor vehicle accident. diagnosis is confirmed by sleep specialist and sleep study. treatment is with cpap machine.
why do i have so many problems? i have low t sleep apnea chronic anxiety weird sensations i am only 18 and life is bad. no muscle because of low t?
sleep apnea can occur at any age. anyone with sleep apnea is at a considerably greater risk of developing low testosterone. anxiety is extremely common. i don't know what type you have but anxiety itself can be caused by sleep apnea if it's untreated. 20% of people with depression for example have sleep apnea and it's been estimated that about 10% of children with adhd also have sleep apnea. certain conditions in medicine simply cluster together.
is it safe to mix garcinia cambogia with sertraline 100mg and bupropion 150mg?
no. it will increase your depression because it does not work. once again you will realize you have purchased a fake product rather than doing the right work to change your lifestyle and diet. garcinia will not lead you to any real or lasting weight loss.
is it possible for a man to chronic fatigue syndrome? i do have sleep apnea and struggle with my cpap machine but fatigue seems to be getting worse.
sydrome (cfs) is a complicated disorder characterized by extreme fatigue that can't be explained by any underlying medical condition and to date has no known specific cause. sleep apnea and any chronic condition including heart disease diabetes arthritis and depression can all cause fatigue. please discuss with your doctor. refer to <link> <link>
what are the side effects of binge eating disorder?
binge eating is harmful to both your physical and emotional health. bingeing can lead to weight gain and cause issues related to increased weight such as heart disease diabetes stroke and more. the level of shame and guilt associated with binge eating may lead to poor self-esteem depression anxiety and social isolation. there is treatment available and recovery is possible.
what can be done to stop overeating?
truth be told overeating sometimes hides a primary psychological issue such as depression. you may want to seek counseling to elucidate the cause of your overeating. otherwise incorporating fiber into your diet will improve satiety and let you feel full while eating fewer calories.
i have had depression for many years and have been diagnosed with adhd depression. bpd. lately i am tired have tremors cant stop eating have headaches?
with depression (bipolar disorder) & "adhd" you are tired and you can't stop eating. there are many of us here at heath tap that would like to be of service to you. what is it that you would like to know? it would be helpful if you asked a specific question and gave us more information about you (age medications etc) we will wait patiently for you to get back to us.
is sugar cravings related to depression anxiety disorders? why
in insulin which impacts mood and health. high fructose corn syrup is a type of sugar that is in many products. please read labels to avoid it. high rates of diabetes even among children today. here's a link to one book but there are many. <link> peace and good health.
what are the chances you'll get your period after unprotected sex? he only was in two mins and hes over weight and a heavy drinker he has depression
2 minutes can be a long time for some and can expose you to enough sperm for pregnancy. if you get pregnant you will not get your period. using condoms will protect you from a world of hurt especially at 17 -- won't protect you from problematic relationships though. take care.
i'm a healthy 24 y/o female. i'm interested in starting ssris for depression and anxiety. how likely is it that these meds will cause weight gain?
everyone is different.
i'm a healthy 24 y/o female. i'm interested in starting ssris for depression and anxiety. how likely is it that these meds will cause weight gain?
until you are stabilized on medication. (if varies from individual to individual) if you have decreased appetite from depression and the depression lifts with medication you might find yourself wanting to eat more. a healthy diet and the right amounts and types of exercise usually can help if this occurs.
what are the problems with binge eating?
binge eating is harmful to both your physical and emotional health. bingeing can lead to weight gain and cause issues related to increased weight such as heart disease diabetes stroke and more. the level of shame and guilt associated with binge eating may lead to poor self-esteem depression anxiety and social isolation.
i am currently on a diet and trying to loose weight however i take 45mg or remeron (mirtazapine) will lowering my dose help me loose weight i wanna lower it also?
talk to your doctor about lowering the dose - you don't want to do that yourself because of the risk of side effects or worsening of your depression.
i have food cravings. midnight upset or feeling down and boredom cravings. chips and jellies are preferable otherwise anything available. i'm overweight?
some antidepressants have been shown to be helpful in reducing cravings. also seeing a counselor to find out what and why you have the cravings might also be useful. you have symptoms of depression and depression is a cause for overeating.
i burp alot have 6weeks burping alot i eat healthy um. my stomach dont hurt i feel my stomach empty. i drink alot a water. i have anxiet?
& dysthymic disorders or depression may sigh often swallowing air when they do so. this causes increased burping & passing gas. see your primary physician for evaluation & referrals to a psychiatrist & a psychologist for diagnosis & treatment plans.
what diet pill can i take to lose weight quite off the waist! any diet pills i can take for that?
all diet pills are extremely risky. not only can they dysregulate your metabolic system and your stress response system thereby increasing the risk for developing depression & anxiety they can interfere with absorption of nutrients and set up an individual for developing a serious eating disorder which then has a damaging & dangerous course of its own!
is something wrong with my brain? sleep apnea runs in father and sister. head feels like a brick at all times intermittent tingling brain memory loss horrible concentration brain fog forcing myself to breathe sometimes. lightheaded 90% when i get in
check reason for sleep apnea like adenoids obesity. otherwise see md for anxiety or depression.
i'm overweight and 24 my life is pretty sedentary now but i grew up very active. i cut my caffeine intake and my heart rate has been consistently lower than i'm used to. i suffer from panic and chronic fatigue syndrome. i woke up rested for the first ti
in addition to what needs to be evaluated for you physically have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as panic/anxiety/depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
what weight loss pills can minors buy?
all diet pills wether designed for adults for minors are extremely risky. not only can they dysregulate your metabolic system and your stress response system thereby increasing the risk for developing depression & anxiety they can interfere with absorption of nutrients and set up an individual for developing a serious eating disorder which then has a damaging & dangerous course of its own!
what should i do after binging on food?
forgive yourself. don't purge or restrict thereafter. your metabolism is like a fire. fuel it regularly to maximize it: eat palm sized portion of protein and complex carb every 2-3 hr. sprinkle 4 fruits & 4-5 veggie portions across the day. eating disorders lead to depression loss of freedom in life isolation & shame. it is an addiction. try oa groups (find online) seek help! you can get well.
what is the definition or description of: sleep apnea?
a disorder in which breathing is frequently interrupted for brief intervals during sleep occurs when tissues in the throat collapse and block airflow in and out of the lungs during sleep resulting in intermittent decreases in blood oxygen levels and transient arousals from sleep leading to poor sleep quality and excessive daytime sleepiness. untreated obstructive sleep apnea is associated with high blood pressure (hypertension) abnormal heart rate heart failure coronary artery disease (cad) diabetes increase risk for a stroke higher risk for depression increase risk of car accident and decreased sexual drive or impotence.
which are the best weight loss pills?
all diet pills are extremely risky. not only can they dysregulate your metabolic system and your stress response system thereby increasing the risk for developing depression & anxiety they can interfere with absorption of nutrients and set up an individual for developing a serious eating disorder which then has a damaging & dangerous course of its own!
what are the risks of taking garcinia cambogia with celexa (citalopram)?
celexa has active ingredients of citalopram hydrobromide. it is used in depression stress and anxiety generalized anxiety disorder dysthymia depressed mood major depression. garcinia cambogia has active ingredients of garcinia. it is used in lipids abnormal weight loss. i found no interactions however clear this with your md.
ive had depression for years please recommend me a anti-depression medicine also the main way i release stress is i go to food and overeat?
see a psychiatrist to figure out right med/meds if indicated & also possible therapy--might think about trying to use some form of exercise instead of food as a coping device & substitute a healthy addiction for an unhealthy one
ive had depression for years please recommend me a anti-depression medicine also the main way i release stress is i go to food and overeat?
you would benefit from an antidepressant that does not increase appetite such as wellbutrin (bupropion).
what should i do about my husband's mood swings short term memory loss from being on topiramate and having sleep apnea and grand mall seizures?
phenobarbital can worsen sleep apnea. topiramate and phenobarbital and sleep apnea can all affect memory loss. keppra (levetiracetam) topiramate and phenobarbital do not prevent mood swings. keppra (levetiracetam) in fact could cause profound suicidal depression with and without hallucinations. basically it sounds like your husband's care is being managed by a neurologist and you need to get a psychiatrist involved and also a sleep medicine specialist. best wishes.
what to do to control binge eating?
binge eating can result when the person tries to modulate mood through food. you need to develop a different relationship with food so that it becomes something you nourish -- rather than reward or punish -- yourself with. groups like overeaters anonymous <link> provide support and also practices that help binge eating. depression can worsen it -- see a psychiatrist for eval ; help.
i'm dying to lose weight i lost my confidence and gained weight because of depression and now i want to change that i need help?
it is so great that you are motivated to get healthier & lose weight and you are completely on the right track to realize how important your confidence is! you do face an extra challenge if you remain on anti-depressant medication. focus on increasing activity/caloric expenditure: daily walking or work-out of 350+ calories. then 1400-1600 cal of veggies protein limited carbs. you'll get there<positive_smiley>
i have narcolepsy cataplexy sleep apnea and depression and i weigh right at 300 pounds i can not seem to lose any weight any advice would be great?
provigil is cheaper and better tolerated than nuvigil. also adderal/ritalin/starttera can help. start a gluten free diet wholeapproach. com gut bliss. com. if cpap/bipap is poorly tolerated seek ent consult for upp/ vs hyoid suspension. also focus on weight loss. topamax (topiramate) is effective for. rls and weight loss.
what are some reasons for hypersomnia other than sleep apnea and messed up circadian rhythm?
hypersomnolence can be a reaction to many prescription and over-the-counter medications (including the ones you've listed) as well as some supplements. depression is a common cause. hyoscyamine/imodium are drugs used together to treat irritable bowel syndrome (often associated with depression ; anxiety disorders). other medical conditions can cause this too so get it checked out.
i have lost 10lbs in weight suddenly without dieting or suffering from stress/depression and feel tired all the time. can you tell me why this might be please. thankyou.
there could be various things that cause you to lose weight and feel fatigued. you need to contact your pcp for a thorough history and physical. then any indicated diagnostic test can be performed.
what are the most fatal health problems are linked to being overweight?
over 20 different medical conditions have been linked to obesity. the yearly cost to the healthcare system is estimated at over $100 billion. the common disorders include hypertension asthma reflux diabetes arthritis sleep apnea hyperlipidemia depression and an increase risk of falls. life threatening conditions include heart disease certain cancers and blood clots.
why progesterone levels so low normal fsh lh & prolactin? not being able to lose weight belly fat depression tiredness and muscle pain symptoms?
endocrine consult appropriate here.
wellbutrin and topamax (topiramate) i have overweight 55 pounds. i need to loss weight asap. i have been depression and migrane. can use both of them same time? safe
definitely. very good combination because a common side effects of the topamax (topiramate) are loss of appetite diarrhea and weight loss. also topamax (topiramate) is a prophylactic medication for migraine. your doctor made a good choice adjusting your medications. hope it helps.
wellbutrin and topamax (topiramate) i have overweight 55 pounds. i need to loss weight asap. i have been depression and migrane. can use both of them same time? safe
are you asking about using these meds for weight loss or for depression? topamax (topiramate) in more recent studies has not shown the weight loss activity as was once thought before and in fact i discourage people from using it for this purpose. wellbutrin also has its neurological risks and should be cautiously used. no significant interactions between the 2 drugs are published.
is qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) safe for weight loss?
the most common adverse effects being headache dry mouth constipation numbness/tingling increased heart rate and increased anxiety/depression. remember it's not a cure all and you'll still be best served by optimizing your lifestyle(how and what your eat and your activity levels. )
is it normal to not have an appetite when you are older? i don't want to cook or eat but when i do i try to eat healthy things. i have lost taste.
i feel empathy for not wanting to cook or eat loss of appetite and loss of taste. it is not what you eat it is what is eating you at age 73 stresses of loss of loved ones medical illness lack of support from children retirement and finances can cause loneliness depression and symptoms you are having feel the blessings and accomplishments of your life see a psychiatrist for coping with stress
is it safe to take any diet pills while on celexa (citalopram)?
it is important not to mix medications without checking first about any interactions. also what sort of diet pills do you want to take? most otc diet pills are expensive and ultimately ineffective. think about whether they are worth any risks they may carry relative to treating your depression/anxiety.
i have noticed that when i eat too much junk food my depression and anxiety get much worse than usual. is there a relation?
eating food that is not healthy for you can lower your energy deprive your body of what it needs to run efficiently. this could cause a drop in mood due to the feeling of lethargy in your body. on the other hand feeling bad about yourself for eating junk food may also cause a lowering of mood. could be you're getting a double dose of depressed mood.
i have noticed that when i eat too much junk food my depression and anxiety get much worse than usual. is there a relation?
absolutely! there is definitely a link between foods that are high in sugar/fat and depression. part of the reason is that the brain "knows" what's wrong and is trying to fix the neurochemical imbalance - so it looks for food to stimulate the positive mood producing neurotransmitters (in this case dopamine primarily). hope that helps!
i have been taking adipex for about 4 months and i am starting to feel emotionally numb. is this a side effect or is this something deeper?
emotionally numb is not a typical s/e of this medication. assuming you are on this medication for weight loss - obesity and working to reduce weight can be assoc with depression. talk to your md - ask for a lipoprotein subset test to see if you are insulin resistance. also ask for a millenial pgt testing to assess if you are genetically prone to low folate (folic acid) levels that can cause mood issues
my brother has insulin resistance. what should i tell him?
insulin resistance has been associated with intestinal bloating sleepiness after meals abdominal obesity high blood pressures depression. a consultation with a dietician increased activities and regular follow up with your dr is recommended.
my husband feels nauseous all day every day and has no appetite. eating used to be a favorite thing. he is 74 years old not overweight eats a vegetarian diet including lots of fruit and eggs. he exercises and uses marijuana to help with the nausea. h
nausea and decreased appetite can be symptoms of many underlying disorders both physical and emotional. your husband needs a complete evaluation with medical history physical examination and probably screening laboratory tests. if nothing physical is found exploration of mental health issues should be done as well since depression/anxiety can do this. pot may be part of problem as well.
is contrave relatively harmless if you have major depression diagnosed but very overweight?
citalopram is a fantastic drug that is tolerated well by most patients. i'm unsure how you'd define "harmless". but in general the response to most antidepressants can be some dry mouth nausea and changes in sleep patterns. these side effects tend to be short lived and if they're bothering you can be easily managed by your psychiatrist. hope that helps!
i'm currently taking prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg i just got put on adipex can these two drugs be taken together?
i commend you for your concern about effects of medications. prozac 40 mg/day is for moderately severe to severe depression. this dose with long duration of use can cause many side effects. adipex is a stimulant like amphetamine. both medications can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia and lack of libido. use relaxation music meditation yoga. see a psychiatrist for therapy and medication.
is there a depression medication that most likely won't cause weight gain if none at all?
in my clinical experience venlafaxine (effexor) has sometimes even led to weight loss. cymbalta (duloxetine) and wellbutrin are also less likely to cause weight gain
i want to know if zopliclone causes weight gain and if is better than valium. i can't sleep and i have a bipolar disorder.
i admire you for your concern for health. irregular periods weight gain and insomnia are likely due to stress causing anxiety and depression. you have been taking hiderax(atarax) which helps with anxiety and causes sedation. valium is for anxiety and is habit forming. in some people zopliclone can cause weight gain. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis medication; therapy for anxiety and depression
i have been prescribed 5 mg and then increased to 10 mg ambien. it keeps me awake if not only allowing me 1 to 3 hours sleep then awake. can this be from gastric bypass or need 15 ambien or a better med? taking 200 zoloft and 60 latuda (lurasidone) q day.
zoloft 200mg/day is high maintenance dose for depression. combining these with ambien may increase dizziness confusion difficulty concentrating judgment and motor coordination. see psychiatrist for diagnosis; discuss medications side effects and interactions; decreasing dose of zoloft; therapy for stress
i suffer from stomachache ans i fell nausous nearly all the time i've tried some medecine but un vain i've also tried going on a diet but nothing ha?
besides pregnancy check if applicable see md if longer than few days and not helped by antacids as may need workup. besides infection or inflammation in stomach infection of urine gallstone ulcers depression hormone disorders for examples will need to be considered. more info needed and happy to consult.
i'm not sure if i have bdd? i've had low self-esteem since i can remember but i've always been overweight and known "fat" is wrong from a young age.
bdd is a body-image disorder with persistent and intrusive preoccupations with an imagined or slight defect in one's appearance. being overweight and having low self-esteem indicate depression respect yourself commend yourself for daily accomplishments see a psychiatrist.
i am on lexapro (escitalopram) 20mg i need to know if i can take any weight loss supplements without adverse effects. i cannot loose weight. ?
i commend you for your desire to lose weight. lexapro is for depression and anxiety it can have side effects of weight gain anxiety and depression. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis medication benefits and side effects and therapy for stress in your life. lexapro with weight loss supplements are likely to have adverse effects. have balanced diet exercise gradually increase pace and duration
i want to know which of these drugs is associated with more weight gain: tramadol or valium. ?
i commend you for your desire to lose weight and have good health. thank you for sharing information about depression weight gain irregular periods and hiderax. tramadol is for pain; valium and hiderax for anxiety. tramadol is more likely to have weight gain than valium. have balanced diet 1500 cal/day; exercise. see psychiatrist for anxiety depression medication side effects and therapy.
i have irregular periods (early every month for the last 4-5 months) chronic headaches bloating and gas (worse at the end of the night) weight loss?
i understand your distress. irregular periods can be due to hormonal changes changing birth control pills iud overactive thyroid and stress. chronic headaches bloating and gas are likely due to anxiety. weight loss is likely due to depression or overactive thyroid. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis therapy for stress in your life. do breathing and music relaxation yoga meditation exercise
i've been lacking sleep drinking little water exercising less than usual and overeating for the past few days. i'm very bloated. how do i fix this?
i understand your discomfort. at age 16 traumatic experiences with unresolved feelings of hurt resentment shame guilt and stresses of relationship with parents siblings and boyfriend; separation peer pressure to use alcohol and drugs; school ; and to establish your identity can cause anxiety and depression. your emotional health is precious. see psychiatrist for therapy.
i want to know which of these drugs is less likely to cause weight gain: aripiprazole or ziprasidone.
i understand your desire to lose weight. both aripiprazole (abilify) and ziprasidone(geodon) are antipsychotic medications. aripiprazole is more likely to cause weight gain than ziprasidone. thank you for informing about depression. depression and hypothyroidism can also cause weight gain. discuss with psychiatrist diagnosis -depression or psychosis medications needed and side effects; therapy.
mother 80 bmi 18. 4 cr 5. 3 had a seizure started dialysis and later had coma; now on 3-a week hd eating well but high depression. can hd decrease?
it really depends on the reason your mother suffers from kidney failure and the degree of damage her kidneys sustained. please discuss with her nephrologist for the best answer. the doctor will be able to tell you if hemodialysis is projected long-term.
i lost close to 30 pounds a little over a year. i was not dieting. i have been not eating as much as i used to. is this a concern? i am 26.
your health is precious! lack of proper nutrition constantly on the run intensive exercise depression or a medical condition can cause loss of weight. see physician for possible diagnosis of peptic ulcer disease crohn's disease celiac disease ulcerative colitis hyperthyroidism diabetes adrenal insufficiency alcohol or cocaine abuse. see psychiatrist for stress and depression.
i'm 20 years old i'm 5'6 i weigh 96-100 pounds and have a bmi of 15. 99. i always feel drained sad and have gastro issues. could bmi relate?
as you said it they are almost certainly related! irreg menses fe def mood prob. . fit. the question is cause-effect. is the weight the problem it could explain some of your issues if you have depression &/or an eating d/o. or do you have a malabsorption problem like celiac disease which could explain the weight & iron def. then there are a lot of endocrine poss thyroid dz adrenal dz dm.
when i was at ages 14 15 &16 i was having malnutrition and depression and lack of exercise can they effected my height growth can i recover 17yrs m?
it may be possible that your growth was limited. most likely your parents took you regularly to a pediatrician and documented your height and weight progression. please ask your parents to get copies from your pediatrician. if you are still growing - great! if not you need to go back to your pediatrician. more importantly you need to see a psychologist for your depression and malnutrition.
what side-effects are normal when you've run out of adipex prescribed for severe depression?
you have not given the complete history. adipex is not a primary med. for depression. what other anti depressants are you on?
what side-effects are normal when you've run out of adipex prescribed for severe depression?
adipex is not indicated for treatment of depression. it can worsen depression and be addictive. you should consider an evaluation with an experienced psychiatrist for guidance. discuss with your pcp and ask for a referral. you should not be in this position. if you feel suicidal go immediately to an er. depression is treatable. great that you are a runner! i hope this helps.
i have been presc. cymbalta (duloxetine) 60mg for anxiety and depression. i am afraid it will cause weight gain? i have bdd and am very self consious about wght?
duloxetine has a small chance of weight gain but most people don't get it. if you do get it rest assured that the medicine can be stopped or a counteracting medicine can be prescribed.
what non-physical health problems arise with obesity?
obesity has been linked to depression.
i was loosing weight very fast before 6months i was 50kg but now i'm 45kg what's the reason for weights losses?
multiple medical problems can cause weight loss such as hyperthyroidism decreased appetite depression adrenal insufficiency and malignancies. you should see your physician for a complete physical and lab tests.
i was bulimic for a long time as a teenager. now as an adult losing weight is almost impossible. i've had three kids exercise and eat right. help?
commend yourself for exercise and eating right! i understand your frustration for not losing weight thank you for informing about insomnia and depression. at age 24 stresses of taking care of 3 kids relationship work and finances can cause insomnia and depression do not think a lot about weight focus on blessings and wonders of your body and its healing power! see psychiatrist for therapy.
i lost a lot of weight without dieting. i have had blood tests done and they were normal. what could cause weight loss without trying?
your health is precious! please see physician for possible diagnosis of depression alcohol dependence cocaine dependence hyperthyroidism diabetes peptic ulcer celiac disease crohn's disease ulcerative colitis or addison's disease. have all necessary consultations lab and radiological studies to establish diagnosis for the needed treatment.
my mother is 65. she has gained a lot of weight. she sitts and does nothing all day. could this be sedentary? what are the symptoms of sedentary?
that is the definition of sedentary. it is important to rule out depression or medical conditions leading to enforced inactivity thereby rendering an individual sedentary.
i suffer from a personality disorder (mixed cluster b/c) depression anxiety and binge eating. how can i help myself recover and cope with life?
get a psychiatric evaluation for the symptomology that bothers you and consider possible medication management. then get a referral to a reputable clinician who specializes in whatever your issues may be.
i have gained weight and diet and exercise aren't working. i need something like phentermine which i use to take to jump start again?
i understand your frustration. it is possible that you have stress depression hypothyroidism or other medical condition. phentermine side effects can be: • restlessness • headache • dizziness • tremors • insomnia • upset stomach • diarrhea see physician for • diagnosis and treatment • balanced diet • exercise program • phentermine effects • therapy for stresses in life
i eat around 100cals a day & burn around 1 060cals at gym a day & consume laxatives and diet pills. im worried this might be an eating disorder? is it?
i wonder if you mean 1000 cal/day? i do not know your weight but my guess is that you are under weight. why don't you seek a consult to determines other issues; anxiety depression ptsd ocds personality disorder e. one strength in your favor is awareness of the problem and willingness to deal with it. congratulations! take the next step consult with a physician to guide your healthcare needs
m pleasant minded by nature bt sumtyms i felt dprssed and due to dprssn i overeat and don't know quantity of food. i gain weight since few mnths. help me.
some of our antidepressants decrease your appetite and most importantly help depression. you will feel so much better.
should i see my dr about weight gain? i am a 46 yr old female. i was always active and very fit until 2001 my father passed suddenly from lung cancer and i went into a 2 year depression which i fight even now. this is when i started gaining weight. i ha
please accept our condolences for your loss and ongoing challenges. i strongly encourage open and honest dialogue with your primary care physician even if there is "nothing going on". your health should be managed in partnership with your family physician. he/she can really help in many areas including but not limited to depression and weight. be well.
should i see my dr about weight gain? i am a 46 yr old female. i was always active and very fit until 2001 my father passed suddenly from lung cancer and i went into a 2 year depression which i fight even now. this is when i started gaining weight. i ha
so many of my patients come in to discuss their problems with weight. i've had my own struggles with life-long eating habits i'm embarrassed to admit to. i understand and feel for you with this frustrating situation. our bodies are very good at adapting to starvation. indeed when you're only eating 900 calories in a day it's probable your body thinks it's starving and will do everything it can to hang on to every living calorie it can. however there are medical conditions that prevent or can work against your efforts. i would recommend you see a doctor have an exam and they will likely want to check labs on you. diabetes and thyroid issues are two common things that should not be overlooked. do not overlook the negative impact depression has on your body's metabolism as well. i wish you much luck and would encourage you to see the 14 pounds you've lost as an excellent move in the right direction.
whenever i eat anything i get very sleepy. this results in not eating anything early in the day and wait until dinner. why am i still obese?
it is not what you eat it is what is eating you at age 53 stressors of relationships separation divorce parenting menopause work and finances can cause emotional turmoil in the mind affecting eating and sleeping. and causing anxiety and depression. not eating anything in the day is likely due to depression. eating big dinner and lack of exercise can cause obesity. see a psychiatrist.
what are the health consequences of eating too much food on a regular basis?
i admire you for your concern about your health! for many people eating is pleasure. some eat due to habit to cope with anxiety depression and loneliness. overeating of high food food could lead to obesity heart disease blood pressure and their complications. lack of control ann lower your self-esteem and may make you depressed. care for yourself. see your physician be fit not fat!
prozac (fluoxetine) weight fluctuation common? expected to lose weight.
prozac (fluoxetine) is supposed to be weight neutral. i have seen people gain and lose weight on it but i suspect the weight change is from changes in their depressive symptoms. remember depression can cause changes in appetite either lowering or increasing so if you're getting better appetite should move toward normal.
periodically i am experiencing an inclination to sleep over 12 hours a night. i just can't seem to rouse. i am a type 1 diabetic with sleep apnea.?
- has your cpap been checked recently to make sure the pressure is still appropriate for you? is your diabetes poorly controlled? these two issues can cause hypersomnia. additionally if either condition is not well controlled then depression can begin which also causes problems with sleep including hypersomnia.
where do i begin? i want 2 overcome my obesity depression& substance addiction. i don't know where 2 start can i be helped am i worth saving?
be helped and are worth saving but it is a team effort. you do your part and professionals do theirs. start by changing the name of your address here in ht. "abandoned" just reinforces a negative. 12 step program for addiction a trainer at a gym and baby steps. please stop excuses that rise up in your head. peace and good health. a mental health professional can help you stay focused.
where do i begin? i want 2 overcome my obesity depression& substance addiction. i don't know where 2 start can i be helped am i worth saving?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
where do i begin? i want 2 overcome my obesity depression& substance addiction. i don't know where 2 start can i be helped am i worth saving?
all people are worth saving! start by finding a good holistic/integrative practitioner. a healthy diet will help all your issues. a great one: <link> try a high quality multivit like ultranutrient by pure encaps. that has the l-5-mthf form of folate (folic acid). treat depression with meds 5-htp or same. seek counseling from someone who speciailizes in addiction. meditate exercise try eft.
which one has fewer side effects profile regarding: weight gain fatigue and sleeping much motivated and erection dysfunction: zoloft or effexor (venlafaxine) xr?
both of these are indicated for same symptoms of anxiety depression etc. etc. they have almost similar side effects. individuals respond differently to each one of them. i know i may not have satisfied your request but this is what is known. best of luck
which one has fewer side effects profile regarding: weight gain fatigue and sleeping much motivated and erection dysfunction: zoloft or effexor (venlafaxine) xr?
treatment of depression is more effective when it is combined with therapy to deal with stresses of life which at age 38 can be marriage separation divorce relationships parenting and work. side effects depend upon dose metabolism use of alcohol and drugs see psychiatrist for need benefits side effects of zoloft and effexor (venlafaxine) xr and therapy
is it possible to loose 2kg weight per week healthily? will depression or anxiety cause weight gain?
can be a factor in unintentional weight gain or weight loss. some folks are "stress eaters. " slow and steady is the best way to loose weight. please see your doctor to make sure your health is ok for diet and to obtain a good food plan for you. ask about low carb/higher protein food plan. peace and good health.
my doctor gave me phentermine for my follow up from my anxiety medication. i'm taking lorazepam 0. 5mg. is there any drug interactions between the two?
one is a cns stimulant and the other is the opposite. there is a risk according to the literature of central nervous system (cns) depression. my advice would be to seek another opinion
symptomes: abdominal obesity baldness brachydactyly depression low energy level muscle twitching small penis small testes. what doctor to see?
first get thorough medical workup by a family physician (internal medicine) then further referrals depending on outcome.
ssri 's not worked - mirtazapine too. what to try next? (wellbutrin (bupropion) isnt licensed for depression where i live) what med wont cause weight gain
possible options to discuss with your doctor are abilify (aripiprazole) or mao inhibitors.
symptoms: chronic bloat fatigue panic attacks constipation inactivity and weight loss. my life revolves around the bathroom. please help me. ?
hard to give you an answer without exam and possible testing. the weight loss and panic attacks may be related and in fact all of this could be related to anxiety/depression and stress. however please make an appointment with a doctor so these important issues can be resolved.
so can levora (ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel) make you lose weight?
common side effects weight gain nausea and vomiting (felt for the first few cycles) dizziness increase or decrease in acne headaches high blood pressure loss of libido depression vaginal infections.
would taking tablets each dayof serequel skelaxin (metaxalone) and taking orlistat work feeling very down and unable to get to my doctor. ?
don't self treat depression. and don't suffer depression without treatment. at least call your doctor and make arrangements to see someone who can help you with your symptoms - soon. that could also be a local help line or emergency room if your doctor is unavailable. get help.
im eating too much. im getting so agitated and depressed. i need help.
it is likely that you are suffering from depression. it is not a moral failing but a health disorder. effective treatments are available and there is no need for you to suffer. i repeat see a doctor to get appropriate prescription. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex. get hpv vaccine.
i've been struggling very badly with binge eating and it's cause me to become depressed. my doctor says i have a binge eating disorder but she precribed me lexapro. do you think this is the right medicine for my problem?
either one can cause the other to worsen--depression-binging. it is easiest for you to try to treat the depression firs then see what is happening with the eating disorder
i've been struggling very badly with binge eating and it's cause me to become depressed. my doctor says i have a binge eating disorder but she precribed me lexapro. do you think this is the right medicine for my problem?
eating disorder is a complicated problem and one aspect of treatment includes management of depression with medication as well as counseling. first line medications are ssri meds which help to break the cycle of repetetive thoughts. lexapro has less side effects than some of the other ssri drugs so stick with it. medication takes time to work and may need dose adjustment.
my doctor prescribed me amitriptyline 50mg at night time and phentermine 15 mg in am. are these two medications safe to take at these times?
i'm curious why this was prescribed since it causes drowsiness with other known side effects opposite of phentarmine. i'm assuming it's for depression in this particular case. please review further of your medication with your doctor.
please tell me what anti- depressents are known for a fact to cause weight loss?
cause weight loss. wellbutrin (bupropion) sometimes leads to weight loss in overweight patients with depression.
suffering from depression since teenage yrs. currently on cymbalta (duloxetine) and suffering from insomnia obesity etc what can help?
you've been suffering a long time but it's not clear whether you've consulted a psychiatrist? or has your treatment been mainly meds from your primary care doctor? i've seen many women with similar histories and often they need psychotherapy along with any useful medications. unhealed trauma is common and may perpetuate depression also. nutritional work may help as well.
thinking of doing the abc diet no what to do and all that but what are the side effects?
with the ana boot camp diet would anticipate possible side effects like malnutrition fatigue overly rapid weight loss dizziness low energy level loss of large % of muscle mass – including heart muscle problems with sleep electrolyte imbalances cold sensitivity depression paranoia etc. it may also be the start of a pattern of unhealthy eating.
throbbing in head when eyes/head moves left to right & vice versa happening more often x1mo. ; 39yo obese f history htn hypothyroid depression on meds.?
headaches are common even in totally healthy individuals but when you are on medications and have thyroid dysfunction as well youlikely have more reasons to be developing headaches. with eye/head movement triggering and other medical probs it is necessary to get an evaluation. take care.
throbbing in head when eyes/head moves left to right & vice versa happening more often x1mo. ; 39yo obese f history htn hypothyroid depression on meds.?
throbbing headache (usually associated with light bothering the eyes and upset stomach) is typical of migraine type headache; best treatment would be imitrex (sumatriptan) (rx only). another much rarer concern that can be associated with obesity is "benign intracranial hypertension" due to excessive production of spinal fluid. best to consult a physician if these symptoms continue.
what is your input on hydroxycut or other weight loss supplements? i'm over 100 pounds overweight and dieting does nothing. injured and hurt as well.
wow. dieting does nothing. how many weeks have you been under 1400 calories every single day? personally i find after 3 or 4 i get pretty good results provided i do about 30 min of exercise daily at least. <link> would have some ideas when you fail plan a. but low thyroid diabetes severe depression can make weight loss impossible.
wbc has risen from 8. 1 to 15. 4 in under 6 months what could cause this? i also have fatigue anxiety depression weight loss and joint pain.
unfortunately the list of possible causes is huge. best to see and discuss with your doctor possible causes have thorough medical history and examination and then systematically attempt to prove/disprove possible causes. sorry this is not more helpful. best of luck with this. dr r
which of the following causes weight gain lexapro remeron lyrica (pregabalin) or amityripiline despite exercising and dieting. many thanks?
can be a side effect from any of these meds but remeron (mirtazapine) causes more patients to gain more weight than the others with amitriptyline also being more notorious for weight gain. this is not to say that remeron (mirtazapine) or amitriptyline causes weight gain in everyone or that the others won’t cause these side effects. depression and other meds can also cause folks to have difficulty with weight gain.
with a normal cbc could these be anxiety symptoms? weight loss heavy period prolonged fever of 99. 4 diarehha nausea fatigue night sweating?
you deserve relief from these symptoms. nausea fatigue night sweating are likely due to stresses in your life causing anxiety due to which you feel overwhelmed. fatigue and weight loss are likely due to depression. for fatigue weight loss and prolonged fever of 99. 4 see physician for diagnosis. seeing psychiatrist for therapy relaxation and medication for anxiety and depression will help.
i suffer with chronic insomnia and sleep apnea. i've taken different medications for depression anxiety and sleep many years. medications aren't work?
asleep is often associated w/anxiety while waking up early and not returning to sleep is associated w/depression. periodic waking is associated w/overall light sleep. a clinical psychologist can help w/stress management. peace and good health. natural treatment includes melatonin supplement but w/professional guidance. stop all stimulants after noon.
lazy and overeat. in my opinion i should be getting fat. why am i still doing this?
why are you doing it? do you have an underlying disease that contributes to inactivity? your initial symptoms sound to be depression and i certainly would speak with a physician before things get worse for you. i dont know you but find a purpose to get going and start exercising with the first goal to not getting fat since that will just lead to more problems. good luck.
lost 28lbs on 30 day hcg diet day 11 in p4. gained 12lbs w/abd distention (3. 5") in last 10 days. maintaining 1200 cal low carb diet. causes?
the hcg approach to weight loss is not recommended by multiple reputable medical organizations and fda (<link> fda. gov/forconsumers/consumerupdates/ucm281333. htm) clinical trials show no extra weight loss beyond diet alone. it can cause blood clots and serious depression. i recommend stopping hcg. increasing exercise is a good way to get over a weight loss plateau.
my belly fat is increasing day by day. can you please tell me how to reduce my belly fat quickly?
does not happen. we loose weight all over. you can work with a personal trainer to learn exercises to turn fat into muscle in the areas you mention. try not to focus on the number on the scale but on your health. this can also help w/depression. peace and good health.
no appetite - what is wrong? should i be happy and not eat to lose weight?
losing your appetite may seem like a great way to lose weight but there are possible causes that should be checked out like depression anxiety medications thyroid problems.
options to overcome phentermine addiction?
you should see a board certified addictionologist for help. i have treated many with amphetamine dependency. there are some medications which can help with the lethargy and depression until that goes away. i also recommend narcotics anonymous. your success with treatment will be directly related to how much effort you put into it. it's hard but you can do it. there's still hope if you're trying.
please help docs! is psychoanalytic therapy useful for binge eating disorder?
therapy is the key for treating binge eating disorder. many people with binge eating disorder have other struggles (? trauma depression etc) that need to be addressed in order to deal with the bed. please seek out a therapist with some experience in this field and work closely with your doctor to manage any physical complications!
since i started taking lexapro (escitalopram) i am always hungry. even after eating a full meal i'm still craving more foods. is there any way to reduce this effec?
what happened with prozac (fluoxetine)? it causes weight loss usually. eat healthy foods with low calories and exercise. stop liquid calories in cokes or fruit juices and eat whole fruit instead. low carb diet may be better than low fat. is it helping depression or anxiety?
since i started taking lexapro (escitalopram) i am always hungry. even after eating a full meal i'm still craving more foods. is there any way to reduce this effec?
5% of patent have increased appetite. also when depression symptoms are better you do have appetite increase also.
since i had my baby i have severe weakness anxiety panic feelings of doom irritable sleep apnea is this post partum depression? tests normal
within a year of your baby's birth - you may have post partum depression. there isn't enough info here to know. would encourage comprehensive psychiatric evaluation to know.
trying to be more happy. i've read that snoring can cause depression im a big snorer. what else can cause depression?
obstructive sleep apnea characterized by snoring gasping sleep deprivation and anatomical "asphyxiation" can lead to high blood pressure heart attack stroke and depression by robbing the brain of needed oxygen and deep sleep. chronic fatigue can lead to depression and death (sleep @ the wheel? ). get a sleep test asap. i have referred your query to dr. ali for other causes of depression.
trying to be more happy. i've read that snoring can cause depression im a big snorer. what else can cause depression?
there are multiple causes of depression such as : having a positive family history brain chemistry changes medical illnesses (i. e thyroid disease perimenopause) side effects from medications major life stressors substance use/abuse and history of abuse/trauma.
tsh 3rd generation is 1. 05. i have had symptoms like being cold unable to lose weight and very bad depression also dry skin and thinning hair. ?
you might want to see your doctor for a more thorough evaluation. it can be a form of hypothyroid disease due to low tsh which might be from a pituitary disorder. you might need some tests to be sure you don't have a broader issue at least a full thyroid panel. your tsh is in the low normal but you have symptoms of low thyroid hormone production. so see your doctor for a work-up. good luck!
tsh 3rd generation is 1. 05. i have had symptoms like being cold unable to lose weight and very bad depression also dry skin and thinning hair. ?
you should see endocrinologist setime simple tsh is not enough to diagnose more test needed to diagnose underlying illness symptoms lead to hypothyrpidism.
think o have sleep apnea. fatigue depression anxiety low oxygen suicide sleep deprivation weakness can't stand laziness light sleeper can't feel legs?
please talk to your physician immediately about this. a sleep study can confirm a diagnosis and treatment is essential.
think o have sleep apnea. fatigue depression anxiety low oxygen suicide sleep deprivation weakness can't stand laziness light sleeper can't feel legs?
and also get psg study done also.
think o have sleep apnea. fatigue depression anxiety low oxygen suicide sleep deprivation weakness can't stand laziness light sleeper can't feel legs?
may affect every aspect of your life. insomnia. suicidal thoughts depression and fatigue are common in people with sleep apnea. this condition can easily be diagnosed at a sleep clinic or by using a testing device worn overnight at home. visit your pcp for consultation.
tell me if depression cause drinking binges and reckless behaviour?
depression doesn't cause these behaviors. these behaviors occur after a decision is made to engage in the behaviors. however drinking binges may be seen with depression as a form of escape or a way to "self treat" symptoms. reckless behavior may be a way to feel sometime or it may reflect the person's lack of care about them self.
tired all the time i don't have sleep apnea been checked doc did blood work normal what cold it be maybe depression?
see your physician and have a complete physical. are you taking any medications? if all blood work and oxygen levels are normal have your physician refer you to a therapist for evaluation.
tired all the time i don't have sleep apnea been checked doc did blood work normal what cold it be maybe depression?
problems with low motivation? sad mood? overeating? carbohydrate craving? low sex drive? are you becoming overweight? just feeling like staying in bed or lounging about? if you answered yes to many of these questions it may be time for evaluation for possible atypical depression.
tips on losing weight?
please see a physician for diagnosis of weight problem. consider the following: exercise understand your hunger cues see a nutritionist caloric intake/day of about 1500 calories/day eat smaller amounts drink water before the meals do not eat out of boredom loneliness depression or frustration see a therapist for stress management set realistic goals.
tsh & ft4 "normal"range but still have hypo symptoms! tired irregular menses overweight. should i test t3 (liothyronine) reverse t3 (liothyronine)? or switch to natural meds?
can cause similar symptoms. a tsh and t4 are fairly good screening but lethargy weight gain irregular menses can be cause by other diagnosed or un-diagnosed conditions such as heart disease depression and diabetes. don't try to blame everything on your thyroid. work with your doctor to uncover and treat your condition.
what is the symptom of kidney infection? can kidney infection lead to weight loss and when it can cause weight loss? thank you
real kidney infection indicates bacterial invasion to the kidneys which is rare for a young at 27 who will more likely just have uti just involving her bladder & urethra. so it is extremely unlikely to have uti-related weight loss and one has to look for other causes like tb poor nutrition poor lifestyle depression etc. so follow steps in <link> best.
what are the complications of binge eating disorder?
complications can include lowered self-esteem compromised quality of life loneliness/social isolation impaired social functioning depression anxiety and substance use disorders. medical complications include obesity heart disease type ii diabetes breathing problems during sleep acid reflux and joint problems. please consult a medical or mental health provider as treatments are available
why can prozac (fluoxetine) cause weight gain? always been skinny until i started it for panic/gad. now on 40 a day it causes extreme weight gain & fail to lose it.
hi it isn't always clear if this is due to the medication the nature of depression or if people eat more when they begin to feel better. if the benefits of taking the medication outweigh the weight gain then consider making lifestyle changes (e. g. increased exercise and dietary management) to offset the side effect. adjusting dose or changing meds might help. hope this is helpful. take care.
is it safe to take weight loss pills with my medications?
when taking medication of any kind you should discuss this directly with the doctor who is in charge of your care. it would not be a good idea to use any over the counter weight loss supplements or herbal pills. diet and exercise are still the answer for almost everyone and improve things like depression adhd ibs and many issues. there is a type of exercise for everyone. bet wishes!
joint pain hair and weight loss fatigue symptoms but all negative blood work. rheumatologist suggests a shrink. any other suggestions?
it depends on what blood work was normal. were thyroid functions tested or was it only rheumatoid serology tested? it may be anxiety or depression but it may be a medical condition as well. make sure you see your internist as well for a full work up.
just weighed myself. 357. 6 lbs. i'm 5'9". i've tried dieting. not working. i've asked for w-l surgery and am denied. i'm depressed and anxious. help?
i understand your frustration. you are a precious human being! commend yourself for your desire to lose weight. speak out loud- “i do not want diabetes heart disease high b p. kidney disease stroke or depression” “i am the captain over my eating behavior” “i will walk or exercise 3 times a day” “i will follow with my physician” “i will have therapy by a psychiatrist” your health is precious!
lamictal and adipex. should i wait to start the lamictal for depression since the adipex is for short-term use for weight loss?
yes wait.
liver pain after eating. gall bladder removed last year. fatigue depression loss of appetite. 165lb. loosing weight. no fever. fatty liver? no etoh.
some people believe it is a form of viral hepatitis (e)
my gp has me on remeron and lyrica for anxiety. i have 4 st in 2 years despite exercising and dieting. what is causing the weight. many thanks?
on the one hand on the other hand. everything in life has its risks and its benefits. the main indication for prescribing remeron is for treatment of depression. it can also cause weight gain. you the patient have to discuss with your doc your concerns about the weight gain. there are other treatments for depression including cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) which does not involve drugs.
need doctor's help! i have binge eating disorder and i really need someone to talk to?
many with binge eating problems have obtained support through overeaters anonymous. you can find a local meeting through: <link> in addition you can work on your triggers with a psychologist or other counselor in your community. you can also learn other ways to deal with life beyond eating. if depression is worsening things beyond talking alone psychiatrist may also be helpful.
need expert advice. what health problems are related with teen obesity?
there are over 20 different medical conditions that have been linked with obesity. the damage is cumulative over time. they range from elevated cholesterol to high blood pressure to heart disease diabetes sleep apnea reflux asthma and arthritis. these over shadow the depression social isolation social dysfunction and anxiety all magnified as a teen and all related to obesity.
psychologist wants me to take antidepressant. what can i take that wont cause weight gain?
hi shirley about 25% or so of patients taking an antidepressant will gain weight. although not always effective the same things that help control weight under other circumstances are also useful when on antidepressants. healthy diet and exercise. increasing your daily exercise may not only stave off weight gain but has also been proven to be of benefit in managing depression. more below.
recently starting drinking coffee w/stevia & milk in a. m. why do i start yawning 30-45 min after coffee? also feel dizzy. not dehydrated. sleep ok.
are you using any other medications drugs alcohol or herbs? adding milk may slightly affect the phenols (antioxidants) you get from coffee but the content of caffeine that increases alertness should be the same. stevia isn't known to cause tiredness or yawning. tiredness depression or boredom may lead to yawning though.
rapid weight gain after taking 50mg of zoloft (sertraline) for 2 days and stopping it is normal? i've gain 5lbs per month now i'm 6 months off and 25 lbs more!
bunny rapid wt gain with psychiatric medications warrants attention by your dr. this type of wt gain can cause other metabolic problems that can be eliminated by diet exercise and a med change. there are many alternative medications out there for treating panic and depression. please visit with your dr. about them.
side effects of didrex if stopped too quickly?
sudden discontinuation of didrex may cause withdrawal including extreme fatigue mental depression and sleep changes.
side effects of didrex if stopped too quickly?
side effects of didrex if stopped too soon are dependant on the dose and how long you have been taking the drug. when taken in high doses and long period of time and stopped abruptly it may cause extreme fatigue and depression and sleep eeg changes. but if taken in lower dosage and not long period there may be no withdrawl symptoms. so it depends how long you have been taking it & what dosage
to scared so found these tablets of serequel orlistat and skelaxin (metaxalone) which suggests they could help my symptoms of suicide etc should i tell my dr
you need help right away for feeling suicidal. call your doctor now and ask what to do. if you can't reach doctor go to nearest emergency room for an evaluation and help. you are depressed. depression is treatable. <link>#pub4 stay safe and get help now.
tubal ligation w/ c-section on 06/12/14 failed ablation on 04/30/15. now feeling pregnancy symptoms. severe cramping last 2 months. excessive hair loss. easy bruising. sudden unintentional weight loss. constant migraines. tons of acne. would it be possi
i understand your distress. stresses of relationship separation failed ablation and feeling pregnancy symptoms have led to unresolved feelings of worry fear hurt resentment shame and guilt. anxiety symptoms are- constant migraines and tons of acne; depression symptoms -weight loss and excessive hair loss. see gynecologist for pregnancy. see psychiatrist for therapy for stresses and feelings
unexplained weight loss==is it always cancer or something bad?
it is not good to have unexplained weight loss. it indicates serious medical or psychiatric illness. it is not necessary to be caused by cancers. conditions that can explain- hyperthyroidism diabetes mellitus other endocrine problems i. e. adrenal insuficiency malignancy chrohn's disease mesentary artery syndrome hiv advanced cardiac pulmonary kidney disease depression drugs. see your md.
unexplained weight loss of 58 pounds in 3 years. drs found giardia. able to gain weight when treated. then lost weight again. no more giardias.
i understand your distress. commend yourself for concern about health your weight is affected by your calorie intake nutrient absorption activity level and overall health. see a physician for possible diagnosis of coeliac disease crohn’s disease peptic ulcer ulcerative colitis hyperthyroidism; and have treatment. see a psychiatrist for therapy and medication for depression.
unexplained weight loss? losing 30 pounds in a year span with no excerise or diet is that normal? could it be anxiety?
first rule out physical. depression or anxiety both have the shared symptom of unexplained and undesired weight loss or gain. something in your system is working overtime. of course it can certainly be related to other health problems. if the undesired loss of weight is a function of an ongoing low-grade emotional problem an adult may benefit from asking "is something 'eating away' at me? "
very sedentary with depression. now weak legs. how best to strengthen the legs please. will i get heart failure from lack of exercise?
you need to get up and get moving. start walking daily even if its in 5min increments and boost to a total of 1hour steady walking daily. minimum. if you stay sedentary there are certainly health issues from that and there are many pluses to the exercise. less depression is one of the big benefits of exercise.
when struggling with binge eating and depression. what med would work to treat both. wellbutrin or lexapro?
both will work but lexapro may be better tolerated and a better anti depressant
when struggling with binge eating and depression. what med would work to treat both. wellbutrin or lexapro?
wellbutrin will frequently suppress appetite but can lead to more erratic behavior. --sometimes binging. lexapro has a more stabilizing effect.
why does breast cancer awareness get an entire month of recognition?
there are many diseases that might deserve a month of recognition. certainly breast cancer should but maybe prostate cancer heart disease and major depression should would you be interested in lobbying for some of those or others.
can you tell me how i can prevent overeating from stress?
a history of depression or other mental illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
can antidepressants cause weight gain?
many do but not all. additionally if depression caused loss of appetite one might gain weight having improved.
what are the risks and benefits of immediate breast reconstruction if i have a masectomy?
immediate breast reconstruction is making a big comeback due to several recent improvements such as skin sparing mastectomy and use of acellular dermal matrix "internal bra" (alloderm). advantages are fewer surgeries are minimal recovery times and less depression about body deformity from breast loss. insist on talking to a plastic surgeon before the mastectomy.
can sleep apnea cause psychological problems?
yes it can create irritability depression like symptoms poor concentration poor memory and many others.
can sleep apnea cause psychological problems?
sleep apnea can cause depression decreased sex drive decreased attention concetration memory etc.
can sleep apnea cause psychological problems?
the chronic fatigue of sleep apnea and the physiologic stress of apnea can lead to psychological issues. . like depression.
how should i stop myself from totally binging out on junk food?
if you do not skip meals and eat healthy meals and snacks every 2-4 hours you can avoid severe hunger pangs. also avoid refined sugars and large amounts of "starches" like breads and potatoes to prevent swings in blood sugar which can cause binges. you might also want to speak to a counselor or therapist because binging can be a sign of emotional distress depression or an eating disorder.
how long does it take for behavior therapy for depression to take effect?
generally cognitive behavioral therapy for depression takes around 4-8 weeks to take some effect and up to 12 weeks. the factors that greatly improve the effect are motivation on the part of the patient and the strength of the therapeutic relationship.
how much sleep do i need per night to manage my weight?
sleeping is so vitally important for good health. it is when we recharge our battery and it enables us to thrive. lack of good consistent sleep can not only be dangerous to our body ( high blood pressure depression anxiety) but to others. good sleeping habits allow your body to function at its peak and burn calories efficiently.
how can i avoid weight loss?
while weight loss can be due to depression hyperthyroidism diabetes or medication or just not eating. if you are having unexplained weight loss you should see your doctor. he can run tests to rule out most causes of weight loss.
how can weight loss be slowed in those with huntington's disease?
if lots of chorea they may be burning too many calories in which case treating chorea (tetrabenazine anti-psychotics) may help. if depression with poor appetite treat depression. calorie supplementation with ensure or other supplements may help. consider swallowing evaluation as well especially if they have more advanced disease to ensure no difficulty there limiting food intake.
how can we detect binge eating disorder by its signs?
binge eating disorder is extremely common among people who are overweight. patients eat a large amount of food usually until it is gone with a feeling of loss of control. often there is underlying anxiety depression stress and shame and therapy (either analytical or cognitive behavioral) can be very helpful. it is important to see someone with expertise in this area.
how exactly does bariatric surgery affect health?
bariatric surgery has a major impact on diabetes hypertension sleep apnea joint disease gastric reflux infertility high cholesterol headaches urinary incontinence and depression. the latest press showing dramatic correction of diabetes should make anyone with a bmi over 35 (70 pounds overweight) and diabetes really think about bariatric surgery.
how exactly does bariatric surgery affect health?
can rid you of obesity diabetes hypertension high cholesterol sleep apnea back pains hip and knee pains neck pains. you'll sleep better you'll have more energy and you'll live longer. you'll keep your heart healthy and you joints functioning. cures depression. i can go on.
has science found that sleep apnea may cause depression?
sleep apnea can cause symptoms of apparent clinical depression which may respond quickly to treatment of the sleep disorder. a knowledge of the intellectual and emotional impact of sleep apnea may be important in making a correct differential diagnosis.
has science found that sleep apnea may cause depression?
sleep apnea can contribute to the development of depression. the fragmented sleep and physiologic strain of apnea can promote depression.
has science found that sleep apnea may cause depression?
the lack of adequate oxygen due to sleep apnea means that the brain isn't getting an essential ingredient to keep it performing at it's optimal level. this can cause depression.
how can you stop binge eating and regain health without the extra weight?
counseling with a counselor who is skilled at treating eating disorders is in order. a psychiatric eval may also help to see if there are emotional issues underlying the eating disorder. depression abuse paranoia traumatic losses or injuries severe anxiety marital work or financial issues can all contribute to binge eating. solving that should keep weight off. " non-fattening" meds may help.
how much is my life span shortened by when i'm obese?
obesity affects many bodily systems known to shorten life span. it contributes to sleep apnea diabetes stroke hbp cancer depression social stigma poorer life satisfaction and increased physical and emotional stress; it affects quality of life significantly as it im. the costs of obesity are very hard to measure. good news losing 5% of your body wt can increase life span significantly!
how does obesity affect your mental health?
obesity and depression can be seen together. the person may use food to soothe sadness and in doing so gains more and more weight. then he realizes that he has become obese and gets depressed because he feels less attractive is unable to run as fast or jump as high as he used to do feels helpless as he can't seem to stop eating etc. when he eats to soothe his depression the cycle goes on.
how can i lose weight on lexapro (escitalopram)?
lexapro (escitalopram) is not a weight loss medication. it treats anxiety and depression which can aalso be associated with appetite changes. one of the possible side effects of lexapro (escitalopram) is loss of appetite but that doesn't mean you will get that. make sure you exercise at least 30 minutes a day don't skip meals avoid soda juice dairy alcohol and fried foods. eat a healthy well balanced diet!
how can i help my husband who is depressed because of his obesity?
help connect him to a professional. depression is best treated with therapy cbt and interpersonal therapy are both well validated forms of treatment. good news is obesity can also be effectively treated with cbt and is even more successful when there is a support system. ask your husband how you can best be a support system. perhaps as a walking or cooking partner planning rewards listening.
how can i help my husband who is depressed because of his obesity?
a person who has depression and obesity has two treatable diseases. a single primary care doctor can start treatment for both problems and specialists can be called in to help if needed. if the depression is severe enough to have suicidal thoughts or plans then hospitalization in a psychiatric unit at the hospital is usually needed (one can call 911 for help in such a situation).
how can i curb weekend binges of food?
it is important to ascertain more history and rule out potential causes for binge eating. this could be secondary to medicines metabolic problems other health problems stress depression some sleep disorders. this could also just be poor lifestyle choices since its only over the weekend. i would want to know if there is an association with certain time or activity when this happens.
how does obesity affect relationships?
obesity is a complicated disease. it is the result of genetic influences ; interactions with our environment. when a patient is obese they may have self esteem issues medical illnesses related to obesity lack of energy ; difficulty with social interactions. like sitting in chairs booths toilets. on the other hand some obese are happiest around food and weight loss can cause depression.
have had lap band surgery and tummy tuck with breast lift. starting to gain some weight back can i take an appetite depressant? i am a 49 year old female married 30 years have 4 children. i have had a lap band surgery 2 1/2 years ago and 16 months ago a
fatigue the band and one's general health should be evaluated prior to starting a stimulant which would only be a short term fix for most people. hypothyroidism menopause and depression are common causes of fatigue and weight gain. an adjustment in the band may be needed if one's appetite and food intake has changed. the foundation of maintaining a weight is evaluation of one's caloric intake and exercise. if weight gain is occurring one needs to consume less calories or burn more calories through increased activity. it isn't an easy thing to do but there are several health care providers who provide weight loss guidance if one doesn't know where to begin. don peterson md cosmeticsurgicalarts. com facebook. com/donpetersonmd.
hi i am recovering from a 6month deep depression am on lovan60mg zyprexa5mg feel amazing now but scared of my sudden weight gain. please help. thanks?
i'm glad you're feeling better. about a third of people who start zyprexa (olanzapine) will develop weight gain diabetes and high cholesterol as well. weight gain with lovan (fluoxetine) is not associated with these things. see a doctor to check this. you will have to consider the risk of relapse vs the side effects. perhaps you can slowly taper to weight neutral meds like bupropion or aripiprazole?
hi i am recovering from a 6month deep depression am on lovan60mg zyprexa5mg feel amazing now but scared of my sudden weight gain. please help. thanks?
weight gain can happen after depression. exercise and a good diet can help. i would suggest daily walking program. if you have access you can work out with a personal trainer. dr. weil's new book " spontaneous happiness" would be an excellent resource.
how odd is it that in college while on diet pills i had thoughts of suicide?
diet pills can cause paranoia when used over time may lead to depression depression causes negative perception hopelessness & suicidal ideation.
how to burn more fat?
good news google "post-exercise effect". as that cleaning house after a party burns energy getting body back to baseline after a workout takes additional calories too. while diabetes thyroid depression lower metabolic rate; you can't just take a pill (other than dinitrophenol which is often fatal) that boost energy. <link>
how to beat binge eating habits?
binge eating has many causes. the link to depression or nerves means you want these treated. sam-e never adds weight for depression. anxiety is common and many eat themselves into "comfort. " make sure you sleep 8 plus hours and have some fun or you will play with food to offset overwork. what does food do for you? know answer and on the right road.
how do i control overeating?
have to be determined the possible(s) causes. depression compulsive behavior hormones abnormalities anxiety disorder abnormal thyroid psychological causes and others. depending of your age you can see a pcp fp ped good medical history physical exam help+ some lab test. one way to control overeating found the problem and receive good advise.
how do i control overeating?
a history of depression or other emotional illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
how many times of binging and purging until you are considered a bulimic?
binging and purging deliberately meaning not due to illness or side effect is abnormal and dangerous behavior. it is not like having one drink. exploring the underlying reasons is important. is it to control anxiety depression or weight? there are better and safer ways to address these problems. seek help rather than trying to figuire out what is a safe amount there is none.
how common is weight gain on luvox? how about abilify (aripiprazole)?
luvox is an ssri antidepressant that is used to treat obsessive-compulsive dx social anxiety dx and depression. jazz pharmaceuticals indicates that luvox has a "weight-neutral profile. " abilify (aripiprazole) is an anti-psychotic that is now also used to treat bipolar disorder and depression. abilify (aripiprazole) may work by decreasing dopamine and increasing serotonin. weight gain occurs infrequently.
how common are diet-related health problems like binging?
the prevalence of binge eating disorder (bed) is estimated at 1-5% of the general population -- with women comprising 60% of these men 40%. (all types of eating disorders are more common in women though. ) bed is often associated with depression; people also feel a lot of shame about it which can delay getting help. bed may be more common than other eating disorders (anorexia bulimia etc).
how can i avoid overeating and have better control?
a history of depression or other mental illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
how can i prevent myself from overeating?
a history of depression or other mental illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
can weight loss surgery help any other physical conditions?
to name some heart disease diabetes arthritis sleep apnea high blood pressure sciatica depression high cholesterol. .
how do you prevent yourself from overeating?
a history of depression or other mental illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
how is binging related to depression anxiety and / or stress?
binging is an end result in a cycle of painful experience and emotion. it's a way to discharge distress. the distress could be depression anxiety "stress " or whatever is bugging you. one's triggers can be very individual. some people also "purge" after the binges. overall this pathway has many problematic results for health. help is available. <link>
how is binging related to depression anxiety and / or stress?
binge eating is a way of coping with difficult feelings by turning to food. the behavior with food expresses underlying issues conflicts or problems. bingeing feels like “the” problem but it is actually a “symptom” of deeper problems emotions or conflicts such as anxiety depression relationship difficulties etc. when you respond kindly to your feelings you stop using food to cope.
how does obstructive sleep apnea impact health?
sleep apnea is a serious sleep disorder that occurs when a persons breathing is interrupted during sleep. if left untreated sleep apnea can result in a number of health problems including: high blood pressure stroke heart failure irregular heart beats and heart attacks diabetes depression worsening of adhd sleep apnea may also affect everyday activities.
can liposuction leave you disfigured?
any surgery has risks. liposuction can not be guaranteed to prevent all risks. there is a low chance of permanent irregularites from depressions adjacent to incompletely resected fat temporary swellings such as seromas that need draining but liposuction typically produces excellent fat reduction with very good contour. indentations can be treated succesfully often with fat injection grafting.
can social workers help me lose weight?
social workers can help a person get access to a primary care doctor who can then evaluate and treat obesity plus make referrals to dieticians and weight-loss programs. treatment is also available for depression and other stress-related disorders that lead to overeating. on the other hand social workers also help people enroll in wic and food stamp programs which will increase caloric intake.
can taking paxil (paroxetine) make you gain weight?
most of the medications in this class (ssri's) have a known side effect of weight gain. please discuss this with your prescribing doctor. it is often more important to treat depression or other issues than to worry about weight gain. if weight gain is a major concern it needs to be discussed and see what options are open to you.
can obesity cause a temper problemk?
depression frequently leads to inactivity and overeating (for self nurturing) which then leads to gaining weight which leads to a poorer self-image which leads to depression and so on. irritibility is a classic sign of depression.
can obesity cause a temper problemk?
it could but so could diabetes heart disease depression or maybe the food is used to self medicate the mood problem such as temper in the first place. or the person may be very bothered about their obesity struggle with feeling of lack of control about the problem and are acting out. there are many components to obesity and its not just lacking will power or being lazy see a doctor for help.
can someone tell me the best home remedy for ed resulting from type 2 diabetes?
diabetes control. treat hypertension. check testosterone thyroid level. screen for anemia. treat depression/anxiety. in other words always look for possible causes and treat them. then consider options like viagra (sildenafil) cialis etc.
can i take zoloft (sertraline) and welbutrin with diet pills? such as xenadrine or hydroxycut? i need to lose 50 lbs. zoloft (sertraline) has made me gain a lot of weight. but i need it for ocd and depression.
exercise and a healthy weight loss diet. in my practice i generally prescribe diethylpropion er 75 mg around 2pm. i prescribe it because of the success i've had with it in patients on psychotropics. other options include low dose topamax (topiramate) but make sure you are aware of all the side effects. green coffee bean extract can help as can ashwaghanda or garcinia cambogia.
can i take zoloft (sertraline) and welbutrin with diet pills? such as xenadrine or hydroxycut? i need to lose 50 lbs. zoloft (sertraline) has made me gain a lot of weight. but i need it for ocd and depression.
first this really needs to be discussed with your psychiatrist. i do not know your dose of medications. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors can be associated with weight gain. just some things to discuss with your psychiatrist. sometimes lexapro can be more weight neutral than zoloft. there are many studies that have shown weight loss with use of wellbutrin (bupropion) in depressed individuals who watched food intake and got a minimal amount of aerobic activity. maybe there is room for an upward shift of your wellbutrin (bupropion) dose? rather than adding another chemical into your system (xenadrine or hydroxycut) see if there could be some titrations with your current medications. another thought might be use of medical acupuncture or hypnosis to assist with obtaining a heatlhy weight.
can fat transfer be done on the face? can fat transfer be used to fill deep wrinkles and other sagging areas on the face? .
fat is a good choice for deep folds/wrinkles and areas of depression on the face due to the loss of fat but it is not good for fine lines. www. beautybybrueck. com.
can i take hydroxycut with bipolar pills and depression pills i bought hydroxycut to lose some weight and really wanted to know if it okay to take.
in most hydroxycut products are: lady's mantle extract (alchemilla vulgaris) wild olive extract (olea europaea) komijn extract (cuminum cyminum) wild mint extract (mentha longifolia); some hydroxycut products contain a green coffee bean extract (coffea canephora robusta). not recommended under age 18. discuss with physician if on medication have medical condition or if problems occur on it.
can i take hydroxycut with bipolar pills and depression pills i bought hydroxycut to lose some weight and really wanted to know if it okay to take.
no it is not safe to take hydroxycut with bipolar and depression medications. the fda has issued a warning about hydroxycut. it has been associated with causing heart and other serious medical issues. it also has stimulants in it which could interfere with your medications. it is good that you checked on this and under no circumstance should you take hydroxycut.
how does exercise and diet help depression but does inprove or last a couple hours?
depressive feelings are chronic and recurrent. exercise helps as does good sleep and good nutrition and good thoughts. but something will always happen to cause depression to surge again. it is a constant and recurrent battle. it is more a plan of action that has to be reset every day - similar to diet management.
how is childhood obesity harmful?
precursor to adult obesity. creates lifetime eating habits. precursor to diabetes heart problems and host of other health problems including premature death. additionally more likely to be picked on at school experience depression stress and low -self esteem. childhood obesity may be the #1 problem facing our youth today and the problem continues to grow.
can antidepressants and anti anxiety meds cause extreme fatigue and weight gain?
medications used to treat anxiety and depression (some of the same medications treat both at the same time others do not) have been known to cause weight gain in some patients and weight loss in others - and excessive sleep in some people and insomnia in others. it depends on the specific medication and each person’s unique chemistry and there is no predicting how it will affect each person.
can the abortion pill cause extreme weight gain?
the abortion pill contains an agent that blocks progesterone then another which causes the uterus to contract. there is nothing to expect long term effects on hormone status and weight gain. sometimes there is "post-abortion depression" which can lead to weight gain. otherwise it is wise to check with your gynecologist for thyroid and hormone levels.
can i take phentermine chantix and celexa (citalopram). i'm healthy and lowestdoseof each?
diet drugs while they work only provide a relatively small benefit that only lasts as long as you take them and insurance does not pay for them. chantix has some very serious side effects including suicide so i would stay away (use the more traditional patches sprays and pills). celexa (citalopram) is a good drug for depression and anxiety but can have side effects. of these 3 this is the best choice.
can tramadol be taken for pain by people taking oxycodone?
however use extreme caution as there can be cumulative effects leading to respiratory depression and possible death. both agents can also be habit-forming and may require a gradual weaning process when discontinued.
could prozac (fluoxetine) be the cause of my weight gain?
weight gain is listed as a possible side effect but weight loss is listed too. depression itself can also cause weight loss or weight gain.
can you control overeating?
a history of depression or other mental illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
can me/cfs actually cause unintentional weight loss to the pt of anorexia?
by cfs i guess you mean chronic fatigue syndrome. this is a difficult disease in that we do not know the cause and our treatment is symptomatic at best. i'd suggest depression is part of the problem either as a consequence or an inciting factor. weight change in depression is common.
could weight gain come from taking ortho novum or any other birth control?
the modern low dose birth control pill has no measureable direct effect on your weight as demonstrated by many studies. however be aware that it can slightly enhance your appetite or can make you more susceptible to depression either of which can lead to weight gain. you should always aim for the lowest dose pill that is effective.
hi i am 33yrs old and weigh 143kg i had my period in oct & was 18 days late in nov. i was suppose to start on 18 dec but still not being21 days now.?
always check a upt. if negative likely due to pcos. probably benefit from metformin. buproprion may be beneficial if you have depression. if u snore and have high bld pressure consider sleep apnea. topirimate if you have headaches can help your weight as well. the extra weight is related to irregular menses but is interwoven in metabolism likely high insulin mood and reward system. gdluc.
what are the side effects of tamoxifen?
hot flashes vaginal dryness blood clots stroke night sweats loss of libido bone loss endometrial and uterine cancer mood swings depression.
what are some complications of paget's disease?
the abnormally rapid process of bone remodelling that is associated with paget’s disease can sometimes lead to a build-up of calcium in the blood. the medical term for this is hypercalcaemia - leasds to extreme tiredness depression drowsiness constipation bone pain heart failure sarcoma is a type of cancer that starts in the bone cells. very rarely it can occur as a complication of paget’s.
will i experience depression after a breast reduction? i have clinical depression and i'm taking two anti-depressants (celexa and wellbutrin). i would like to have a breast reduction but have heard that depression is common after the surgery. how likely
it sounds like you already experience depression so that won't likely change after surgery. however some women do feel a little "let down" after plastic surgery during the healing process. it's good that you recognize that as you'll be able to discuss it with your surgeon and be aware of the signs.
will i experience depression after a breast reduction? i have clinical depression and i'm taking two anti-depressants (celexa and wellbutrin). i would like to have a breast reduction but have heard that depression is common after the surgery. how likely
you should discuss it with your psychiatrist.
will i experience depression after a breast reduction? i have clinical depression and i'm taking two anti-depressants (celexa and wellbutrin). i would like to have a breast reduction but have heard that depression is common after the surgery. how likely
you should absolutely consult your psychiatrist before surgery. your psychiatrist needs to make sure that your mood is well controlled and that you are stable enough for surgery. then you should make a list of why you want to have the surgery done in the first place. patients with breast hypertrophy have multiple problems because of their large breasts. patients notice a dramatic improvement in their problems after surgery. breast reduction patients (with reasonable expectations from surgery) are among some of the most satisfied patients.
what are the similarities and differences between tamoxifen and femara (letrozole)?
tamoxifen blocks the estrogen receptor while femara (letrozole) blocks the formation of estrogen. estrogen levels are not lowered by tamoxifen but they are lowered by femara (letrozole). both cause hot flashes bone loss depression memory problems and decreased libido. tamoxifen increases blood clot and uterine cancer risk and causes vaginal discharge while femara (letrozole) causes more joint pain and vaginal dryness.
could fibromyalgia or depression cause a change in leptin levels?
leptin is a hormone that regulates metabolism and body weight. fibromyalgia may cause sleep deprivation which in turn may lower or raise leptin levels. leptin levels are inversely related to depression and stress.
can someone with sleep apnea take a benzodiazepine such as xanax (alprazolam)?
more respiratory depression depending on severity of apnea and dose of xanax (alprazolam).
how can i get back to exercising after 3 days of binging being sick and recently discovering i have depression?
start back slowly and do sporting activities you enjoy1 you did not say what you were "binging" on but binging has negative psychologic connotations. discuss this with your doctor. exercise is a natural antidepressant!
can you have restylane (dermal fillers) or collagen on your thigh to replace a very bad liposuction job?
a difficult problem with liposuction is treating contour irregularities that can result from over removal of fat in areas. the most standard treatment for this problem uses fat from liposuction of other areas to inject into the areas of contour depression. restylane (dermal fillers) is standard treatment for facial injections to add volume and lessen folds and collagen is rarely injected anymore.
can ritalin (methylphenidate) be used as a weight loss aid? if so how is it given?
although weight loss can be a side effect of ritalin (methylphenidate) in some people ritalin (methylphenidate) is not used as a weight loss aid. it's used as a stimulant to help people with adhd. off-label it has sometimes been used to augment antidepressant effect in treatment resistant depression. if you have concerns about your weight please speak with your physician about healthier ways to deal with this.
can i take hydroxycut while i'm on levothyroxine?
none of the stimulant weight-loss products on the market are safe. they are known for causing cardiac arrhythmias headaches urinary retention anxiety & depression renal insufficiency sleep disorders and fatigue. there is no such thing as a fat burner. see your doctor for diet and exercise recommendations and do not take any supplements unless under a doctor's management.
how to lose weight with cfs?
typically people with chronic fatigue are low weight. but it's not well demarcated and includes disorders of blood pressure control and depression among other diseases. but exercise has uniformly been found to be useful in it. you might find this humor book of interest. you might find this amusing. <link>
how should someone develop a binge eating disorder or become a compulsive overeater?
eating disorder " binge purge type or anorexia should be differentiated from " poor eating habits " if you are concerned about an eating disorder kindly please seek a clinical evalualtion preferably by a " psychiatrist ". if a negative can be established and depression ruled out than behavioural considerations should be considered.
what can you do when you can't take hormones do to blood clots and breast cancer to help with symtoms?
menopausal symptoms can be helped by diet exercise yoga and meditation. some women find benefit with ssri's which are used to treat depression. you may want to talk with a doctor trained in alternative medicine. visit menopause org <link>
can i ask a new doc to prescribe desoxyn (methamphetamine)? it seems to help with obesity & depression. i have dealt with both for 16yrs. i've never been on meds.
desoxyn is a methamphetamine and primarily used for the treatment of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorders. the uses that you mention are off label or not sanctioned by the fda. there are other medications that are better for depression and medications tend to not work long term for weight loss. speak to your primary care provider.
can anxiety disorder and associated meds aggravate sleep apnea?
the sedatives taken for the anxiety can worsen the sleep apnea. s. a. itself can cause anxiety and depression.
can suboxone cause sleep apnea?
narcotics like suboxone can cause respiratory depression--a decreased responsiveness to elevated co2 levels in the blood. because the brain responds to the difference between o2 and co2 to trigger breathing the result is slowed (hypopnea) or stopped (apnea) breathing or central apnea. drug use/abuse can also decrease muscle tone leading to collapse of the soft tissues and tongue--obstructive sa.
high colesteral low end of normal thyroid depression celiac. blood pressure is low. was vegitarian but not eating well. what about dash diet?
these questions are well beyond the scope of a forum such as this. you need to see your own physician for appropriate management of your issues. answering you here is pure foolishness!
high colesteral low end of normal thyroid depression celiac. blood pressure is low. was vegitarian but not eating well. what about dash diet?
probably the best documented diet is the mediterranean diet.
whats intron a (interferon alfa 2b)?
is a treatment for chronic hepatitis c and is also occasionally used in certain types of lymphoma and leukemia. it is a manufactured protein that is derived from a real human protein. there are some very significant side effects that include severe flu-like symptoms depression nausea diarrhea headaches.
have pnd i'm overeating and just not motivated to do anything. also suffer from what is believed to be hemiplegic migraine. help at my wits end?
post-natal depression post-nasal drip paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea other? if you are depressed and it sounds that way would suggest that you consult with a psychiatrist asap. they are well trained to deal with this and can often help you feel better quickly go now .
how can you stop binging and get over depression?
binging may be symptom of depression or depression may be part of bulimia. you did not mention purging but would need more extensive history for diagnosis. therapy an possibly medication would definitely help. hope you feel better about i yourself soon.
can you take duromine 30 prozac (fluoxetine) and valium?
this is a question best answered by the prescribing physician. anxiety insomnia and depression can all be adversely affected by the combination. habit formation due to underlying depression as well as due to the re-enforcing effects of valium and phenermine may set in. better options are probably available.
how can depression cause simultaneous anhedonia and overeating and drinking?
these symptoms are related to selye's general adaptation syndrome. depression is a stressor to your system. in response your nervous system forces you to rest (excessively) and also to consume as many calories (often carbs) as possible in order to prepare for and cope with the stress. hence the fatigue avoidance overeating and often weight gain.
could you be addicted to depression?
you mean. when you ask if you are addicted to depression. do you mean that it makes you feel good 'high' to be depressed? i don't think anyone does. usually depression comes and goes. if you are always feeling depressed then i would agree with dr. ali that you have chronic depression which seems not to lift at all. see a good therapist and work on what is bothering you. consider medication too.
could you be addicted to depression?
that perhaps would be labeled chronic depression.
could you be addicted to depression?
go for psychological evaluation now.
could you be addicted to depression?
you would need to explore this in therapy to truly find out. but often we are drawn to things that harm us or have harmed us in the past. this is referred to as a repetition compulsion or a compulsion to repeat. it's a hint from your psychological mind that you need to work through something.
how can having type 2 diabetes affect ones physical social and emotional health?
people with diabetes have higher risk for many other conditions including depression. having any chronic illness is also a life stress. the good news is that there are effective treatments and your own lifestyle modifications through diet and exercise can have a strongly positive effect.
how can i stop binging on school days?
i am assuming you are referring to binging either on food or alcohol appetite suppressing foods such as complex carbohydrates protein bars water fruit snacks etc are great. eat small portions multiple times a day hypnosis and cbt psychotherapy can help psychiatric causes depression ocd medical causes sleep apnea should be identified and treated. topamax (topiramate) has shown great results.
how does obesity cause mental problems? and what sort of mental problems can it cause?
obesity causes self-image problems which leads to depression which causes more obesity.
how can you stop craving snacks and binging?
hypnosis may help with cravings and binge eating. psychotherapy may help. if the underlying cause if depression or a medical condition that needs to be treated. if its emotional overeating may fall into an ocd type spectrum topamax has been shown to been effective in controlling cravings and also sometimes cravings for soda and alcohol the answer is purely for educational purposes please contact.
can you suggest tips tricks to keep you from not overeating or binging?
a history of depression or other emotional illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
how do you know if its from overeating or a virus? vomiting often
bulimia potential effects include significant damage to physical emotional mental and life. risks: protein insufficiency electrolyte imbalance fatigue heart attack stomach ulcers tears in the esophagus from stomach acid acid damaged teeth severe constipation slowed thinking depression loss of freedom in life isolation and shame. it is an addiction. seek help! you can get well!
can you develop heart disease or diabetes type ii from a week or so of lack of sleep and interrupted anxious sleep? <negative_smiley>
not a direct cause of heart disease or diabetes. could worse the disease when establish. you mention you have chest pain and difficulty breathing and insomnia all symptoms of anxiety and/or depression. another possibility is asthma angina (doubt) gerd. see your physician for a better assessment through a physical and history.
does taking anti-depression pills make you gain weight?
this is one of the collateral effects of antidepressants. the wellbutrin (bupropion) is considered the less one related to weight gain
does taking anti-depression pills make you gain weight?
weight gain is a possible side effect of antidepressants.
does liposuction leave you with uneven surfaces for your skin?
although less common today slight irregularities can result from liposuction by any surgeon. they are usually mild and often can be improved by the use of revisional suction or use of fat grafts to fill any depressions or grooves.
do women really want help with binge eating?
people with eating disorders usually feel frustrated and would like to have help to control their episodes of binge eating. they are sometimes reluctant to see help due to guilt shame depression or a lack of knowledge that things could be better.
how does obesity affect people health?
diabetes sleep apnea depression gallstones gout heart disease infertility urinary incontinence and many other issues.
how can i avoid weight gain on clomipramine? what could i suggest my dr to take instead that does not have weight gain as a side effect? <negative_smiley>
just express your concerns with your doctor. he knows you best and knows your medication and illness and treatment history. if it is just depression he or she has a long list of antidepressants to choose from. let him or her know that you do not want to gain weight.
what are the current issues and benefits concerned with lipotransfer in breast reconstruction?
i feel lipotransfer can be useful for contouring and fine tuning of the final reconstruction. for example areas of residual depression after flap or implant placement can be improved with lipotransfer however i feel lipotransfer is not suitable for complete breast reconstruction alone.
what are the current issues and benefits concerned with lipotransfer in breast reconstruction?
the benefits of fat transfer is that it provides the body with its own cells without requiring a discrete blood supply unlike a flap. there is also evidence that percentage of the cells are stem cells which may improve long term durability. fat grafting is used liberally to fine tune results such as step offs and areas of depression. complete reconstruction with fat is controversial.
can chronic depression/anxiety disorder cause slow digestion overweight and permanent c hemmoroids and now gerd!? !? !
certain very common cases that include almost all of your symptoms share a common cause. sequence of events which your dr can help clarify with some studies (eg: osa or hypothyroidism etc etc might be (at least partially) responsible for fatigue/overweight-gerd/ anxiety depression/resp. obstruction/ insomnia). check with your dr. best wishes.
can lexapro (escitalopram) generally cause weight gain?
yes there are two issues. the family of drugs that lexapro (escitalopram) falls into may cause weight gain. lexapro (escitalopram) perhaps less than the others. the second is the response to the medication of the anxiety or depression which may cause appetite to return to prior levels as the symptoms of those disorders resolve.
does cognitive or behavior therapy work for anxiety?
cbt works well on average but perhaps not for absolutely everyone. other modalities can work too but they are less structured and thus harder to study. anxiety and depression are two areas for which there is very clear evidence that therapy works a good deal. fortunately for talk / behavior therapy a great many difficulties have at least 'some' anxiety or demoralization / depression component.
how can i stop overeating?
a history of depression or other mental illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
can phentermine cause depression? i have been on phentermine 37. 5 mg since march 2013 one pill morning 1/2 pill afternoons since august
there is speculation that phentermine may disprupt serotonin in the brain and thereby cause depression. please see the following brief article. www. ehow. com/. does-phentermine-cause-depression. html does phentermine cause depression? . there is some speculation as to whether the drug phentermine commonly used as a weight loss aid in many supplements is a.
can someone tell me between zoloft (sertraline) prozac and celexa which one treats depression and ocd better? and which one will not cause weight gain the best.
that is not how medicine works. they all are very effective and used for a variety of different reasons. the best drug for you is the issue and that is determined with the physician working with you in person.
can obesity end in depression?
does not cause depression some obese people are content with their body many are not. they may feel embarrassed or be socially less accepted by others and/or ostracized. this can contribute to and lead to depression. the physical complications of obesity (diabetes heart disease etc) and reduction of exercise can also contribute to depression.
can obesity end in depression?
and vice versa.
can you tell me how to control overeating?
a history of depression or other mental illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
can sleep apnea cause memory loss? and negative thinking? i got diagnosed with sleep apnea but i am not sure how long i've had it.
not getting the proper amount and type of deep sleep can have many affects on you physically and mentally. being forgetful and having negative thinking or depression could be a cause or at least make much worse these tendencies. hopefully getting proper treatment (cpap machine) will help you.
can you tell me things to keep in mind about obesity in children?
obesity in children is related to many preventable health issues including heart lung and joint disease. they are also at higher risk for metabolic diseases such as diabetes and mental health issues such as poor self esteem and depression. there are loads of resources for obese children. visit your pediatrician for a baseline evaluation and recommendations.
does lyrica (pregabalin) cause depression and weight gain?
the potential to do it.
does meth help one lose weight?
if by causing irreversable brain damage and permanent depression leading to death meth does lead to wt loss. get help. don't even consider trying meth as some drugs are addicting after initial trial.
can somebody tell me how can prozac (fluoxetine) cause weight gain?
usually medications dont cause weight gain they cause increased appetite. sometimes with antidepressants depression causes appetite loss so when you take antidepressants and start feeling better you start eating more and then blame it on the medicine.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
sleep apnea can cause many of the symptoms you described although it's unlikely to cause all of them. if you have sleep apnea treat it to see which symptoms will improve.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
obstructive sleep apnea or osa causes less oxygen to your brain. the body tries to make up for the lack of oxygen with hypertension diabetes kidney problems acid reflux etc. daytime fatigue causes yo to overeat gain weight and the weight gain makes osa worse. which adds to depression and anxiety. simply sleeping on your side and avoiding gerd may work. see www. grossaninstitute. com.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
sleep disturbances can cause all the issues. get sleep apnea addressed.
deep depression getting worse no appetite welcoming back an eating disorder. weight gain had discharge from eye. extreme anxiety.?
go see your family doctor psychiatrist and/or psychologist. depression isn't something you want to tackle on your own. they can help you if you let them. some respond to psychotherapy (talking) if mild & early. others need assistance of medications. studies show many will benefit from combination of both rather than just one or other. most important know that others care for & about you.
are there eating disorders other than anorexia bulimia and binge eating?
other eating disorders: cravings for specific foods or non-edible substances (clay or starch in pregnancy dirt & ice in iron & zinc deficiencies pica in children & adolescents eating any non-nutritive substance) psychiatric disorders looking like eating disorders (depression somatization disorders schizophrenia) with food aversions body distortions delusions paranoia that affect eating.
are there people who should not take chemical appetite suppressants?
before prescribing diet pills a complete history and physical is required to added mental cardiovascular and hormone disorders seizures depression and anxiety substance abuse and personal goals and experiance it should be part of a well planned diet and exercise program to avoid failures
are there any other medications in the amoxapine family that does not cause rapid weight gain? i was on amoxapine for 2 months and gained 70 pounds i have never had a weight problem in my life. the amoxapine worked great with my depression but iu cannot
unfortunately all of the medications in this class cause weight gain however nortryptyline may be the least.
are there any other medications in the amoxapine family that does not cause rapid weight gain? i was on amoxapine for 2 months and gained 70 pounds i have never had a weight problem in my life. the amoxapine worked great with my depression but iu cannot
the drug amoxapine that you are referring to is a part of the drug class call tricyclic antidepressants (tca's) this class is known to cause weight gain. the weight gain tends to vary between the different drugs in this class and also from one patient to another. many tca drugs cause the meabolism to slow down and can also cause a person to crave carbohydrates. the weight gain that is associated with tcas is dose dependent and also related to the length of treatment. the tca'a most likely to cause the most weight gain are amitriptyline and imipramine. based on your history (rapid weight gain with a tca that is not as likely to cause increase in weight as some of the others in the same class)it sounds like your primary care provider or psychiatrist may need to try a completly different class of medications. there are many options. please don't give up something will work for you without causing such an unwanted side effect. good luck.
can mild sleep apnea cause a person to be so tired and cause a person to fall asleep sitting doing nothing or working at my computer?
usually these are the symptoms of severe sleep apnea narcolepsy would cause the symptoms of excessive drowsiness and falling sleep in all types of situations. other causes of fatigue needs to be ruled out also including : thyroid disease liver disease depression.
celexa for hotflashes from tamoxifen gained 15lbs in 3 months with diet and exercise dr switched to effexor (venlafaxine) i had decided i didn't want to take anything having mood swings hotflashes irritability wtd?
i am sorry that i never heard celexa or effexor (venlafaxine) being used for hot flashes but it may have been used for mood instability irritability or depression. a good diet high in protein and low in carbohydrates and fat may help with weight loss along with aerobic exercise. topamax may help with the mood swings and it also seems to help with weight loss.
have been binging every morning and night. what damage can this do to me?
he consequences of binge eating disorder involve many physical social and emotional difficulties. some of these complications are: affectts if binging : cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes insomnia or sleep apnea hypertension gallbladder disease muscle and/or joint pain gastrointestinal difficulties depression and/or anxiety electtrolyte imbalances
how to reduce belly fat?
does not happen. we loose weight all over. you can work with a personal trainer to learn exercises to turn fat into muscle in the areas you mention. try not to focus on the number on the scale but on your health. this can also help w/depression. peace and good health.
about to start lexapro (escitalopram) for anxiety but worried about weight gain. is the gain typically due to increased appetite or chemical component in lexapro (escitalopram)?
weight gain is associated with almost all antidepressants except bupropion (wellbutrin). the drug company likes to say lexapro (escitalopram) is different in my clinical experience it's not. gain is usually mild (under 10lbs). the mechanisms involved are not well established fluid retention may play a role. solution: stay active watch the carbs and be accepting of a cpl lbs in order to be depression free.
at 65 is it hard to lose weight?
at any age is hard to lose weight. if a pt is losing weight involuntarily at that age we have to rule out cancers thyroid disease malabsorption depression dementia and other conditions?
any suggestions to control impulsive overeating?
a history of depression or other emotional illness could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
how can prozac (fluoxetine) cause weight gain?
some patients do gain weight. a lot of patients with depression have significant anxiety and fidget all day long. this can burn 100 -200 calories daily. when they are well treated no longer experiencing anxiety and stop fidgeting they may slowly put on 1 or 2 pounds a month because they are burning fewer calories. it's like no longer walking a mile daily while eating the same amount.
do people ever get ripped with liposuction?
this is generally not an appropriate indication for liposuction. it is intended for control of localized fatty deposits. having said that there are practitioners who perform "lipo etching" which is the techniques of creating exaggerated or cutaneous depressions that enhance or simulate the appearance of being ripped. although appealing weight fluctuations can result in a distorted appearance.
highly stressed and suffer from depression and type 2 diabetes- i check my bs everyday but too scared to go to doc?
no need to be scared. you need to be concerned for long term consequences of diabetes. diabetes is one of the worst risk factors for several long term complications. if you do not treat and control the sugar it is going to lead to vascular problems such as heart attack stroke kidney failure and poor circulation etc. by the way you can get proper guidance for the depression.
highly stressed and suffer from depression and type 2 diabetes- i check my bs everyday but too scared to go to doc?
diabetes and depression are significant conditions that require ongoing and regular doctor visits blood tests and medications. i encourage you to make an appointment to see your doctor as both conditions can affect your long term health. diabetes has many potential complications that can shorten your lifespan. stress and depression are very treatable.
appetite loss but no weight loss im 22 what is it most likely cause? someone told me stomach cancer
the fact that your weight's been stable means that you dont have to worry too much. the more you worry the more you think about so many things like cancer etc- and that makes you loss more of your apetite. stomach cancer is rare at your age- unless you have a family history of stomach cancer at young age. more common causes- depression drugs alcohol chronic disease etc. discuss further w/ your md.
does cavemen/paleo diet have benefits in other aspects of lives &amp; what are possible lessons teens could gain from their lifestyles?
many things such as gut issues (like ibs) metabolic advantages (weight loss avoidance of diabetes and the resulting increased risk of heart attack stroke) better sleep improvements in subjective ratings of depression and anxiety. check out "grain brain" "wheat belly" and "why we get fat" for some great resources.
does burn 10 diet pills affect my cycle or chances of me falling pregnant?
all diet pills wether designed for adults for minors are extremely risky. not only can they dysregulate your metabolic system and your stress response system thereby increasing the risk for developing depression & anxiety they can interfere with absorption of nutrients and set up an individual for developing a serious eating disorder which then has a damaging & dangerous course of its own!
how do i overcome overeating?
your listed history of depression could lead to overeating secondarily. with adequate treatment your overeating could stop. otherwise adding fiber to your diet will curb your appetite and reduce the tendency to overeat.
how do i overcome overeating?
people overeat for many reasons so the first step is to figure out what is pushing you to the behavior. boredom stress fatigue depression anxiety medications health issues. etc. see link and then talk to your doctor about your concerns to formulate a plan to address your concerns. <link>
am i disqualified from having gastric bypass done if i have a history of sib and depression?
eat right first. i have seen terrible things happen to people after gastric bypass. simple sugars and processed carbs should be avoided or limited. this includes any flour. the fine grind makes absorption quick and spikes your blood sugar which increases insulin and promotes weight gain. good fats such as olive oil and coconut oil are fine in sensible amounts. eat a rainbow of organic veges.
does xenical destroy liver and kidney? or will it just destroy the kidney if you are overdosing yourself with this drug
first xenical can cause hepatitis and elevated liver enzymes as well as liver failure and necrosis. i have not read of kidney destruction. still if tempted to overdose on it or anything else please talk to your doctor call 911 or go to an er for urgent help. xenical can also cause you to lose fat-soluble vitamins such as vit. d -- which can exacerbate depression.
does lexapro (escitalopram) cause weight gain?
possibly yes. some people with depression lose weight and do not eat regularly. as their depression improves on anti-depression medications they begin to eat regularly and get back to their baseline weight. lexapro is not known to cause a lot of weight gain.
how do i battle mild depression? loss of interest in daily activities sleeping for too long and overeating. could be s. a. d as well.
effective treatment is available for this problem. it involves medication and psychotherapy. start with your primary care provider.
anxiety can cause abdominal pain and weight loss?
common symptoms include stomach aches head aches weight loss insomnia irritability. . if your anxious more than not for an extended period of time you should seek help with a therapist psychiatrist or both. it's a serious mental health concern that's very treatable with or without medication but left untreated can lead to depression and major health issues.
are there any medical conditions or genetic disorders that can cause people to become obese?
there are many things that can cause weight gain. these include: 1. cushing's syndrome 2. hypothyroidism 3. depression 4. drugs for depression like tricyclics valproic acid risperidone lithium. 5. drugs for diabetes like insulin sulfonureas 6. sedatives and pain killers 7. prednisone and other steroids 8. antihistamines 9. beta-blockers.
can calcium supplements cause weight gain anxiety depression?
trying to research this - it appears that either too little or too much calcium may be associated with depressive symptoms.
depakote in the past was the only medication that worked for my depression. i had to stop from extreme rapid weight gain. why did it work so well?
news. some believe benefits obtained from placebo effects are being fooled - a sign of weakness. my research tried to show that it is a very big part of all effective treatment - it's possible that your positive response was due to surrounding things. perhaps your doctor was caring intelligent and made you feel hopeful. that works! mostly that drug fights mania. who knows why it worked for you?
depakote in the past was the only medication that worked for my depression. i had to stop from extreme rapid weight gain. why did it work so well?
depakote isn't an antidepressant but it is a "mood stabilizer". originally a seizure drug it is most often used in psychiatry for bipolar disorders. unfortunately weight gain and polycystic ovary syndrome are potential side-effects. it may not be the only one that works especially if your doc looks for another similarly acting mood stabilizer.
does zoloft (sertraline) cause weight gain? are there any interactions with zoloft (sertraline) and st. john's wort?
there is no strong association between zoloft (sertraline) and weight gain but depression can cause loss of appetite and treatment may cause it to return. do not take st. johns wort its affects are additive to zoloft (sertraline) and might cause a condition called serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
how will obesity affect cognitive and mental health?
obesity tends to lower a person's self esteem which can lead to depression or anxiety both of which can have cognitive effects. no reduction of intelligence is expected but a possible alteration of memory and mood can lead to poor concentration attention and decreased endurance. exercise good nutrition and positive sleep schedule can help reduce the impacts of obesity.
how to burn fat in a body?
good news google "post-exercise effect". as that cleaning house after a party burns energy getting body back to baseline after a workout takes additional calories too. while diabetes thyroid depression lower metabolic rate; you can't just take a pill (other than dinitrophenol which is often fatal) that boost energy. <link>
what are the pros and cons of waist training?
waist training may help to improve your waistline appearance acid reflux symptoms and help to strengthen your low back give your body better stamina and reduce the risk of accidental falling. it also helps to improve your obstructive sleep apnea hypertension and depression. if it is done correctly i can't see any bad side effect.
are there other guy teens like me who stunted their growth from sleep apnea chronic stress low t etc? i feel like an outsider i'm only 5'8 and 18
you are of average height? how does an 18 year old stunt their growth when their growth is more than 50% of other humans? and how is a teenager diagnosed with low testosterone and how did you cause this if it is true? it sure sounds like you have depression and that can be dealt with in therapy and/or with medications. but really now. you are not in any way abnormal.
can obstructive sleep apnea make anxiety symptoms worse?
the correlation of anxiety and depression with obstructive sleep apnea is well documented. see a seep specialist for treatment.
can you tell me about post gastric bypass depression?
gastric bypass patients are often anxious and depressed about their weight before the procedure. and after the procedure is completed anxiety and depression can still be experienced. what's the reason? the feelings arise from finally attaining what they seek. reworded we careful of what you ask for: you just might get it. then what?
can you tell me about post gastric bypass depression?
some causes might be the very low calorie diet after surgery leading to low carbohydrates in diet which alters serotonin levels ( less carbohydrates leads to less insulin leading to less tryptophan entering the brain hence less serotonin formed hence more depression & anxiety & fatigue).
have been craving the smell of chemicals(gasoline bleach. ) feel very hungry but feel disgusted after eating. exhausted. what could be going on?
i feel empathy for feeling disgusted and exhausted it seems that you have experienced hurtful and overwhelming experiences have become depressed and do not have control over your eating. you have tried to cope with depression by use of chemicals craving the smell of chemicals indicate dependence and lack of control. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis therapy attend na meetings
healthy 50 y/o female. 30mg of paxil almost a year/menopause "madness" i call it. gained 50lbs 9 months dr won't prescribe qsymia (phentermine and topiramate). why not? .
no such thing as free lunch. likewise no medication (or even dietary supplement or herb) is w/o potential side effect(s). decision to prescribe any drug is based upon whether desired benefit exceeds potential risk. check out <link> for info re qsymia (phentermine and topiramate). paroxetine as brisdelle is approved to treat hot flashes of menopause at much lower dose than depression
severe depression and anxiety. previously prescribed prozac and xanax to cope. no insurance and can't go to my personal doctor. also was diagnosed with breast cancer sarcoidosis and adrenal gland disorder. had a complete mastectomy about 5 years ago.
i don't know what area you are from. but many communities have clinics which are free or sliding fee scale. you can google this for your area.
severe depression and anxiety. previously prescribed prozac and xanax to cope. no insurance and can't go to my personal doctor. also was diagnosed with breast cancer sarcoidosis and adrenal gland disorder. had a complete mastectomy about 5 years ago.
with your medical history it is prudent to check in with your doctor and get follow up visits regularly. it will be important to find out if your cancer has returned. the treatment regimen you choose is up to you. your doctor can let you know the different paths you can take if you are to deal with a recurring cancer. your doctor can recommend treatments that can help your cancer go back into remission and provide you with resources for coping with the disease such as group therapy and medication to diminish pain. or you can choose a path that does not involve treatment and work with your doctor to control pain and stress. the stress you feel is understandable. do see your doctor regularly and especially if you are experiencing loss of appetite and fear. make an appointment and warm regards.
so what are the symptoms of metastatic breast cancer?
this really depends on the extent and location of the cancer. some patients with bone-only cancer can have no symptoms. others may have general symptoms such as fatigue weight loss poor appetite pain depression and specific symptoms related to cancer sites such as cough nausea vomitting shortness of breath bleeding mental changes etc.
help i need a depression pill that doesn't cause weight gain? and can also help fibromyalgia and ocd.
there are several newer medications that fit your criteria. . servile cymbalta (duloxetine) and fetzima are all good choices. talk to your doctor about which would be best for you.
how do i stop losing weight being caused by the pain of interstitial cystitis?
chronic intertitial cystitis (ic) itself should not cause weight loss but its commonly related issues such as stress anxiety or depression etc. which are relatively common in ic patients may contribute to your weight loss. to sort the things in the health myth can be done by following the instructions in <link>
sad and gross. so how much would a breast lift help at 60?
no surgery will help you stop feeling sad and gross if you honestly believe that. great plastic surgery is brain and heart surgery but you have to be in the right place emotionally for it to be a complete success. it is too easy for surgeons to try and cure your depression with surgery it can't be done. appreciate how wonderful you are first and then we can improve your breasts.
does buspar (buspirone) cause weight gain? i hear most antidepressants are weight neutral but i've gained with most! thanks - agoraphobia/anxiety here
if buspar (buspirone) has help with your depression you could still take it. for your agoraphobia/anxiety you would be best to see a psychiatrist and/or a psychologist. agoraphobia and anxiety can be very troubling.
how i can loss my weight? i tried everything but nothing works i have depression right now because of my weight i can't cantrol my hungr please me
successful diets require that a person stick to a plan for months or years so easier goals and small milestones are good. he must be happy with the foods he gets to eat so severe calorie restriction is not successful. eat vegetables without adding sauces and oils except for a little olive oil. don't use clarified butter (it's animal fat) nor eat too many egg yolks. avoid sugar. sugar is bad.
how does a cpap help central sleep apnea?
high quality evidence shows that positive airway pressure (i. e. cpap) reduces the freq of respiratory events during sleep decreases daytime sleepiness improve systemic blood pressure and blood glucose control. also shown to improved subjective and objective sleepiness quality of life cognitive function and depression. possibly decreases nocturnal arrhythmia however limited data.
horizontal depressions on both upper thighs appear in last week no pain just achy legs no bruising read about lipoatrophia semicircularis?
it does seem to be anything bad see your doctor don't read too much
am not on any medication blood test is all ok. i tend to sleep a lot and feel tired all the time. i exercise and eat healthy. please help.
it's normal to be concerned about your health & to worry why you feel bad. the possibilities are numerous--metabolic infectious inflammatory functional. i see your history includes depression that has been refractory to medical management-could this be the issue? whatever the cause of symptoms please seek help from a doctor for appropriate diagnostic clarity & treatment.
after trying wellbutrin (bupropion) which would you use for binge eating. vyvanse or prozac? which is safer and more effective?
it's unlikely that a medication is going to help with binge eating. your doctor may have decided that there are anxiety or depression issues inclining you to binge eating. in that case have a discussion with him and see what she says about his thinking. my gut reaction is neither but i've not seen you. talk with your doc!
are there any depression/anxiety meds that do not cause weight gain? how about any that can make you lose weight? ! i need to be happy and thin. ha
before you consider any meds please set up a referral to a psychologist who will evaluate you and help you. the psychologist may also refer you to a doctor regarding weight loss.
been on remeron (mirtazapine) for a little over 6wks. i've noticed 9lb weight gain. help? what can i do? depression has gotten better but still upset over weight
if you were underweight due to depression becoming less depressed can help gain the weight back. if you were normal weight before and have gained because of remeron switching to a non-weight gaining antidepressant such as wellbutrin (bupropion) could solve the problem.
been experiencing a lot of fatigue where it feels like a huge effort just to move. no fever or other symptoms just mild dizziness not overweight?
fatigue is a symptom of many conditions and needs to be evaluated. there are some of diseases: anemia chronic infections endocrine diseases rheumatic diseases depression etc. you have to see a doctor.
can frequent gas & stomach bloating (with 'orofer xt') cause weight loss (~1kg monthly) for 57+ yr female?
orofer xt is ¬¬iron and folic acid supplement. it can cause nausea vomiting abdominal pain diarrhea. even these side effects will not cause weight loss. frequent gas & stomach bloating will not cause weight loss. see physician for possible diagnosis of symptoms due to food gastroenteritis giardia or coeliac disease. weight loss can be due to stress causing depression. see a psychiatrist.
can terrible anxiety and depression cause weight loss? i've lost around 4-5 kilos (91->86/87) been constantlz under anxiety for 2 months. fear cancer.
both anxiety and depression can lead to rapid weight loss as a result of fear preoccupation and loss of appetite. however you can never be certain about this until you visit you primary care doc and talk about your concerns. be sure to mention any physical issues that may be leading you to fear cancer besides your weight loss. go soon. good luck.
can terrible anxiety and depression cause weight loss? i've lost around 4-5 kilos (91->86/87) been constantlz under anxiety for 2 months. fear cancer.
anxiety and depression can cause weight loss. . i don't think you have cancer unless you have profound weight loss.
can antidepressants cause weight gain?
however each person responds to antidepressants differently. some people gain weight when taking a certain antidepressant while others don't. generally speaking some antidepressants seem more likely to cause weight gain than others. these include: certain tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline imipramine (tofranil) and doxepin certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors (maois) such as phenelzine (nardil) paroxetine (paxil pexeva) a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (ssri) mirtazapine (remeron) which is an atypical antidepressant — medication that doesn't fit neatly into another antidepressant category. while some people gain weight after starting an antidepressant the antidepressant isn't always a direct cause. many factors can contribute to weight gain during antidepressant therapy. for example: overeating or inactivity as a result of depression can cause weight gain. some people lose weight as part of their depression. in turn an improved appetite associated with improved mood may result in increased weight. adults generally tend to gain weight as they age regardless of the medications they take. . if you gain weight after starting an antidepressant discuss the medication's benefits and side effects with your doctor. if the benefits outweigh the side effect of weight gain consider managing your weight by eating healthier and getting more physical activity while enjoying an improved mood due to the medication. you can also ask your doctor if adjusting the dose or switching medications might be helpful — but again be sure to discuss the pros and cons before making such a decision.
dear doctor my wife has following symptoms. unexplained weight gain; anxiety; cyclical headaches; lethargic depression; rapid weight gain; mood swing; anxious depression; thinning hair on the head & hair fall; restless legs; sometimes get urinary tracts
it sounds cliche but in your wife her hormones definitely seem out of kilter. of course what's causing that is another question. she really could use a good physical examination followed by appropriate lab and/or diagnostic testing.
does eating healthier help depression?
you probably know sleep eating right and exercise have been well researched to help with mild to moderate levels of depression. also individuals who seek treatment (therapy and/or medication) recover from episodes of depression significantly faster. taking the time to acknowledge the depression and get the help and support you need and deserve can make a world of difference.
diagnosed with polycystic ovarian syndrome. i have a bad pain in my left side that intensifies prior to a bowel movement. also have ibs. never had these issues till i lost 70lbs through strict diet and exercise. what's wrong?
i commend you for your losing 70lbs thus decreasing risk of polycystic ovarian syndrome (pcos) complications. “bad pain in left side that intensifies prior to a bowel movement” is likely due to irritable bowel syndrome(ibs) stress anxiety depression hormones and gastroenteritis can aggravate symptoms of ibs. see gastroenterologist. see gynecologist for pcos. see psychiatrist for therapy.
for some reason i have low energy i don't know why i do my best to exercise and eat healthy since my energy is so low i don't feel like doing it?
fatigue can be caused by a lot of things not enough sleep sleep apnea cardiac conditions low thyroid depression anemia etc. if you eat sleep and exercise well and still chronically suffer a great deal of fatigue consulting with your physician getting a good check up and some bloodwork.
hello. so i am a 22 year old female who has experienced significant weight loss in the last 2 months. im 5'3 and i was 102 and i am now 90. i have not been dieting but have recently lost my job and have been home lazy a lot and have completely lost my app
you need to see your doctor right away. you know yourself something is wrong. you must be checked medically first and the mental health for depression and orbiter issues. now the weight loss is significant so get going for help now
hello. so i am a 22 year old female who has experienced significant weight loss in the last 2 months. im 5'3 and i was 102 and i am now 90. i have not been dieting but have recently lost my job and have been home lazy a lot and have completely lost my app
“completely lost my appetite weight loss to present weight of 90 lbs” are symptoms of depression. stress of losing job has caused or contributed to depression. commend yourself for your achievements in your life. feel the wonders of your body and universe. see psychiatrist for intensive therapy for stresses coping skills for feelings ; and medication for depression
had gastric bypass 3 yrs ago past 2 months been hungry a lot. irregular constipated bloating take probiotic. today pain off /on is it stomach virus?
it seems as if things went ok for three years and now it has changed. without too much delay please discuss this with your primary doctor. perhaps more importantly you must see a psychologist regarding your depression and anxiety. things will get better but not overnight. you will do fine! please keep me posted.
risks of removal of ruptured breast implants?
risks include standard risks such as infection bleeding abnormal scarring etc. risks unique to removal of breast implants include unsatisfactory skin retreating inversion/depression of a nipple/areola complexes patient dissatisfaction with breast size/shape and the potential need for further surgery ( such as breast lifting and/or breast re-augmentation) in the future. best wishes.
read a side effect of cymbalta is breast growth caused by hormone imbalance. does hormone imbalance (gh) from cymbalta also cause growth in height?
top 5 ae of cymbalta (duloxetine) nausea dry mouth headache somnolence fatigue. not seen as much are constipation dizziness anorexia (weight loss)insomnia diarrhea. cymb may sometimes makes people feel well enough that they may have an increase in suicidal thoughts! this is an awesome med not only for depression but also neuropathic pain. may take 10 d + to overcome ae (max 60mg 2xd)
throbbing headache at night tired feeling trouble sleeping blurry vision at times high bp no interest in anythg. diagnosed with dcis in 2012.
i understand your distress. “throbbing headache tired feeling blurry vision at times” are likely due to high b. p. which can increase further with stress. “trouble sleeping no interest in anything” are likely due to anxiety and depression. see your physician for high b. p and dcis. see psychiatrist for therapy for stresses of relationships separation loneliness insomnia and medical illness.
after stopping cymbalta (duloxetine) 60mg my dr gave me 25mg zoloft for anxiety/ocd. says it will not cause weight gain at this dosage. i gained on cymbalta (duloxetine).? tx
thank you for informing about anxiety and depression which can affect your weight. side effect of zoloft (sertraline) may be weight gain. discuss with psychiatrist: •intensity of symptoms of anxiety/ocd •need for zoloft (sertraline) •benefits and side effects of zoloft (sertraline) •therapy for stresses of relationships separations work and ocd •balanced diet •exercise •breathing relaxation •visual imagery •yoga •tai chi
big muscley men who weigh similar 2 that of an obese man are they technically obese also and are they likely to develop medical issues like fat people?
measure of weight status is body mass index or bmi. overweight is bmi between 25. 0 and 29. 9; bmi of 30 or higher is considered obese. excess weight is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes mellitus hypertension stroke and osteoarthritis. per your information of anxiety depression and use of fluoxetine see a psychiatrist for therapy for stresses
can depression cause weight gain then major weight loss and alopecia?
depression can cause weight gain and loss but alopecia not a common sign of depression.
exercising is not hard but dieting is why?
very few people "crave" exercise. eating can be used in many instances; hunger celebration depression obsession etc. exercising also burns a lot of energy and hence makes sure you will eat. we can't just "stop" eating. we can't turn off an appetite like we can exercise. it takes discipline for both. you have to train yourself to eat differently including the foods you eat. sugar is an addictin
eating too much tums (calcium carbonate) does what?
can lead to nausea vomiting abdominal pain/ cramping decreased appetite constipation diarrhea confusion delirium coma depression involuntary muscle twitching & cardiac arrhythmia.
ever since i started taking cipralex(2 years ago) i have gained 25 pounds. how does it cause weight gain and how can i stop the weight gain?
some antidepressant and anti-anxiety drugs may lead to sugar cravings in some people. relora is an over the counter supplement that has been found to improve sugar cravings when taken twice a day. regular exercise also helps both weight gain and depression.
extreme fullness bloating nausea light headed during lunch time(eases a bit till dinner). cannot eat anything. loss of appetite. weight loss. help?
thank you for informing about rheumatoid arthritis likely causes of your symptoms are: •rheumatoid arthritis •giardiasis •depression •gastroenteritis •coeliac disease •ulcerative colitis •ibs •hyperthyroidism •lack of exercise •use of cocaine and methamphetamine see an internist for diagnosis and treatment. have consultation with rheumatologist gastroenterologist and psychiatrist for therapy.
excessive eating/appetite no energy insomnia etc. ive got depression symptoms but i dont feel sad-im very happy! any other illness that cause these?
go see your doctor for a discussion of your symptoms and then an exam
further w/u for 20 yo obese female on fluoxetine 40 mg. am respiridol 1. 5 mg hs cogentin (benztropine) 1 mg. with amenorrhea x 9 months?
i guess you may have some anxiety and depression for which you are taking fluoxetin resperidol and cogent in as your psychiatrist prescribed but for your obesity and amenorrhea you better consult gyn doctor and get investigated to get proper treatment.
fatigue weight loss albumin 3. 7 total protein 7 platelet 167 mchc 33 rdw 11. 9 vitamin d 25. hx of ^ liver enzymes 1yr normal now. causes concern?
if your weight loss is unintentional you need further evaluation. there are lots of reasons for your symptoms e. g. depression thyroid issue or cancer. please see a health care provider
good exercises to loose belly fat if you have gerds?
does not happen. we loose weight all over. you can work with a personal trainer to learn exercises to turn fat into muscle in the areas you mention. try not to focus on the number on the scale but on your health. this can also help w/depression. peace and good health. use dgl a type of licorice for gerg. don't use regular licorice because it will eventually raise your blood pressure.
are there any naturopathic remedies for breast cancer?
please please please see a real doctor for treatment of your cancer. if you must see a naturopath save the 'cures' for the side effects of treatment nausea depression etc. and if you notice they aren't working stop taking them and save your money
high prolactin level since 2000. mri's does not show tumor in pit gland. no period in a year. breast discharges milky color. mammogram was normal. ?
very small pituitary tumors may not be visible on mri but they do tend to eventually enlarge and show up particularly in 13 years. high prolactin can also be due to low thyroid and many medications particularly medications for psychosis depression anxiety and the like. some women just have high prolactin without known cause. cabergoline can be very helpful. ask your doctor.
could i use prozac (fluoxetine) together with the breast cancer drug tamoxifen?
there may be an interaction between tamoxifen and prozac (fluoxetine). there are other effective medications for depression that should be considered.
is it ever recommended to "take a break" from the 5 years of tamoxifen if it might be causing depression?
i think there are 2 issues. 1) optimal breast cancer adjuvant hormone treatment. at 5 yrs of tam it might (if post menopausal) be a good time to switch to an aromatase inhibitor (ai) or the absolute benefit of >5yrs of tam or ai may be limited (depends on cancer characteristics). 2) is it depression or something else. if depression is it from tam or? . it could be that counseling +/- rx is needed.
is it ever recommended to "take a break" from the 5 years of tamoxifen if it might be causing depression?
another option is to add an anti-depressant medication. some anti-depressants interfere with tamoxifen so make sure your doctor tries you on one that doesn't. although i usually like to try other approaches before adding medication it's important you stay on tamoxifen. the tamoxifen alternatives are just as likely to cause depression so treating your depression might be best.
is it ever recommended to "take a break" from the 5 years of tamoxifen if it might be causing depression?
i agree with the prior answer. in some cases after a couple of years if depression or other problem still bad with treatment a switch to a different class of anti-hormonal agent may help without loosing the benefit.
is it ever recommended to "take a break" from the 5 years of tamoxifen if it might be causing depression?
depression as a side effect can be easily and successfully treated. a breast cancer recurrence is a lot tougher to deal with.
i've been taking adderall for 10 years (30 mg 2xday). what are the long-term effects of central nervous system stimulants? #nqlu i'm 57 & in addition to adderall take zoloft (50 mg) armour thyroid (90 mg) bystolic (10 mg) and tamoxifen (20 mg).
some doctors recommend having "holidays" from stimulants for times when not having the best concentration and focus might not matter as much - like weekends vacations etc. there is little or no evidence that long-term medicinal stimulants taken as prescribed cause any significant damage to the cns although sleep disturbance/anxiety and hopelessness (depression) may be related. talk to your doc.
is male breast reduction surgery a permanent solution? before i spend the money on male breast reduction i want to be sure it's permanent. do male breasts ever grow back after the surgery? .
male breast reduction is typically for gynecomastia a common condition. although there is usually no known cause anabolic steroids can be the culprit. surgical treatment typically involves a combination of liposuction of the fatty tissue and direct excision of breast glandular tissue. a thin layer of breast tissue is left to minimize a contour depression on the chest at the nipple/areola area. if this tissue is exposed to steroids or other hormonal infuences it may reoccur. your surgeon will discuss all the risks and consequences with you when you have your consultation.
is it ok to take soya isoflavones supplement s after breast ca?
if having bad hot flashes the snri class of depression meds can help. it can't be just an ssri norepiniephrine has a tract the leads to the temp regulation center; it helps glucose transport as estrogen did. venlafaxine at 150 mg cymalta; consider clonazepam at night when start. cancer and immediate stopping of hormones is a double whammy increasing risk of mood problems insomnia stress.
i need help. i have been in an abusive marriage for 18 years my only sister is dying of breast cancer. i am paralyzed with depression. isolated. help?
this is a very unstable situation for you and i'm concerned that your sister has been your main support. i agree with my colleague about first getting out of danger yourself. please consult this web site for info: <link> the hotline is available 24/7 and they can connect you with local resources for help.
i need help. i have been in an abusive marriage for 18 years my only sister is dying of breast cancer. i am paralyzed with depression. isolated. help?
step #1 is to remove yourself from an unsafe situation. an abusive relationship is not what you deserve. find a safe place to stay either with a friend or relative. step #2 is to seek help for your depression. talk with your doctor who can refer you to someone who can help. step #3 is to be there for your sister in a difficult time. to do so you need to take care of yourself first (steps1 2).
i had a bilateral mastectomy in dec. 2010. since then i have suffered violent hot flashes. can you help?
unfortunately the best medication to rx hot flashes estrogen replacement rx (ert) may be contraindicated based on your history of breast cancer. please discuss with your oncologist: if they cannot offer ert a low dose of effexor (venlafaxine) (used at higher doses to rx depression) can help with hot flashes. good luck.
i've been having mood swings not sleeping well and sore breast. i went to see my gp and he did some blood tests and he told me that i am pre menopausal?
your age of 37 years is quite young for these symptoms to be due to hormonal changes that occur if one is getting close to menopause. you should go see a psychiatrist and seek medication for mood swings and poor sleep which apprear to me to be possibly symptoms of depression. a good antidepressant may be helpful to control your symptoms.
how will i feel emotionally after a breast reduction?
your response to a breast reduction can be elation depression excitement disappointment self-confidence security relief pain and a whole host of other emotional ups and downs. it really depends on your expectations as well as your emotional state prior to surgery as well as your support systems.
is surgery is the only way to get rid of gynecomestia? is the use of tablets cause sideffects?
in plastic surgery we look at the degree of gynecomastia as well as the cause. a small amount around the nipple areolar complex can be treated with liposuction and sculpting to avoid a depression. as the breast becomes more droopy there is an excess of skin as well as fat and gland tissue. we then have to do liposuction as well as direct excision hiding scars in the shape. stop causal meds/food.
can hypothyroid cause my breast pain?
mild hypothroidism is often asymptomatic. there are many possible symptoms of hypothyroidism depnding on the severity but common ones are: fatigue loss of energy lethargy wt gain decrease appetite cold intolerance dry skin hair loss sleepiness muscle/joint pain weakness in extremities depression emotional issues--just to name a few. breast pain is not. so consult your doc. good luck.
can breast cancer radiation treatment cause gi issues?
breast radiation doesn't usually have many side effects outside of the breast chest wall and occasionally the lung. but fatigue is common and sometimes depression as well (not really related to the radiation per se). so it is not uncommon for iriitable bowel type symptoms to flare up if you are a person that has gi issues when stressed.
does radiation therapy cause depression among breast cancer survivors?
radiation does not cause this. but the whole process of having cancer and coping with it can lead to depression. depression should be taken seriously and treated no matter what causes it.
does radiation therapy cause depression among breast cancer survivors?
i am not aware of any evidence to support this claim.
does radiation therapy cause depression among breast cancer survivors?
fortunately this is not a comon or even a rare side efect. undergoing breast cancer treatment can be depressive specially just after diagnosis.
does this ever get easier? after 2 lumpectomies and radiation for dcis. (believe me when i say i was in the right place at the right time) and appreciate all that's been done for me! now looking at a complete hysterectomy for persistent hpv with (mi
wow it sounds as though you have been through a lot! many people who have chronic illnesses or have been through serious illnesses can have residual anxiety and/or depression stemming from their experiences. it may be helpful to you to have someone to talk to while you are dealing with all of these very stressful situations. the worry the crying the avoiding other people the pain from clenched muscles make me concerned that you are experiencing either anxiety depression or both. you should call your doctor to let them know how you are feeling. i promise you you are not the first! they may be able to refer you to a psychologist or psychiatrist that may be able to give you the support and tools that you need in order to deal with everything you've been going through in a healthier happier way. this is way more common than many people think so don't hesitate to get help!
my 79 year old friend has breast cancer since 2004. is she at the end now? she fefused all treaments. and not eating! living on vitimin water.
if your friend has disease that has spread extensively then the fact that she is not eating may reflect end of life. however she should be evaluated for other problems that maybe treatable such as depression even if her disease is advanced. when someone with cancer becomes bedbound and stops eating generally the life expectancy is less then 3 months and less then 2 weeks if not hydrating.
my 70 yr old mom was just diagnosed with breast cancer - what are some holistic approaches to dealing with breast cancer?
there are no holistic approaches to treating breast cancer. sometimes a simple medicine (tamoxifen) is used instead of standard treatment if the patient is very old has alzheimer's etc. but surgery is well tolerated and the standard for most breast cancers. there are holistic approaches that can deal with side effects depression tiredness aches and pains etc but they are not curative.
how do other breast cancer patientskeep depression away? i'm not on an antidepressants anymore not since my mastectomy. perhaps i shouldn't have stop
sometimes women dealing with breast cancer do benefit from antidepressants when depressed. family and community support is also important. your oncologist's office will know of support groups that can help. connecting with your spiritual resources through prayer meditation or other practices is essential. . working with a therapist in mind-body medicine can be of great use in this. best wishes.
how do other breast cancer patientskeep depression away? i'm not on an antidepressants anymore not since my mastectomy. perhaps i shouldn't have stop
have you looked into a support group? your hospital may have a referral. folks do better when they connect socially. exercise simply brisk walking daily can help a great deal. congratulations on gettng through the surgery.
i read that the antidepressant paxil (paroxetine) can cause breast cancer. is that true? i was thinking of taking it but if true why risk.
paxil (paroxetine) is mild estrogen producer due to this effect may cause breast cancer those treated with tomaxofen for breast cancer may get recurrence. if you have mild depression try with out any medication keep yourself busy mingle with people be active make yourself useful then you may not need paxil (paroxetine) good luck
can radiation for breast cancer be used with vns implant for depression?
if some one has vns inserted only contraindication is use of external defibrillator in a heart attack. speak to your doctor can avoid radiation exposure to the generator on the chest ( like pacemaker ) or could be relocated to there side
my platelets have been at 478 and wbc at 13 for a year. im healthy but tired. bmb blood test pap mammogram good. what can it be?
your platelet count and wbc are minimally elevated and i doubt they have anything to do with your symptoms. the list of causes of fatigue is very long. some other common causes of fatigue that i see in my practice include under active thyroid depression / stress and sleep disorders such as sleep apnea. talk to your doctor.
been prescribed anti depressants. is there an association between breast cancer & anti depressants (fluxatine)? my mother had breast cancer i have pocs
cancer patients should be treated for depression on an individual basis. treatment may vary and include antidepressants such as fluoxetine along with therapy. lifting depression may increase the will to live. untreated depression may be more of a risk factor in someone with cancer. antidepressant meds such as fluoxetine have not been shown to cause cancer. see: <link> i hope this helps. best wishes.
can depression pills wellbutrin (bupropion) sr cause breast cancer or any other cancer?
there is no known connection between wellbutrin (bupropion) and bc. in fact many oncologists prescribe specifically wellbutrin (bupropion) a it's not an ssri and works with dopamine instead. however wellbutrin (bupropion) affects the metabolism of tamoxifen and should be avoided if you use tamoxifen. this is general information. please consult your doctor for more specific answers as they depend on your health history and so on
female. lsometime i get sharp pain in my right breast and it is from 2 years and average 1 time in 2 days. it may be associated with my polysysts ?
try the pill if not on it first line for breast pain. aleve can help if not on it check the bras make sure not too tight. might be musculoskeletal. if severe and doing these things tramadol at 50 mg might help or cymbalta (duloxetine) at 30 mg. pcos pt at 2x risk of depression which can make pain worse; if on a med for dep. need norepi reuptake to help blunt ascending pain thus cymbalta (duloxetine) good luck.
oncologist started me on effexor (venlafaxine) xr for the hot flashes from tamoxifen. taking it for 1 week extremely tired & nausea. will benefits outweigh sideeffect?
effexor (venlafaxine) xr is indicated for treatment of depression and anxiety. side effects of effexor (venlafaxine) xr include tiredness and nausea. please see the improvement in your symptoms since taking effexor (venlafaxine) xr and see your oncologist and psychiatrist.
physically and mentally exhausted. my mam doesn't understand how i feel and my counsellor never listens. what should i do? <negative_smiley>
ask your mother to take you to see your ped or fam dr for a screening physical exam. ask the dr to recommend another counselor who will listen. it is important for you to trust your counselor to have a therapeutic relationship. you need to find the right one for you. ask your doctor to screen you for mononucleosis anemia and depression. build support group of friends. sleep 9 hrs q pm. exercise.
physically and mentally exhausted. my mam doesn't understand how i feel and my counsellor never listens. what should i do? <negative_smiley>
i would consider a good physical exam with a physician to be checked for mono and anemia. sometimes depression can make someone fell tired but best to be examined
so i am always tired. and i am always not feeling well along with palpatations. could i be possiably be an anemic?
fatigue and palpitation can be well explained by the presence of anemia. however other causes also need to be ruled out/ruled in- such as thyroid problems chronic disease- such as dm/renal/heart/lung depression/anxiety etc. see your doctor and have your doctor run some blood work to evaluate your condition further and go from there. good luck.
my doc says that my ekg with non specific st changes and at junctional depression is normal. he thinks it's all from my panic attacks. is this true?
ther's no correlation between the two and he clearly doesn't know what is giving you non specific st changes.
my husband has ms he's a diabetic and had a mild heart attack. sometimes he has mood swingsf. taking a lot of med what should i do?
is his blood sugar unstable? with his medical conditions his physician should be consulted to ensure that any significant depression is diagnosed and properly treated.
my husband has ms he's a diabetic and had a mild heart attack. sometimes he has mood swingsf. taking a lot of med what should i do?
could benefit from talking to a therapist. it is challenging to cope with ms diabetes and a heart attack. speaking with a therapist can help. find someone who knows about the issues related to his illnesses. perhaps a therapist who has diabetes would be understand the challenges. support groups can also be an asset. depression often arises with any one of the illnesses he has.
what if your hemoglobin is normal but ur bp 70/40 it never goes over but you feel lightheadedness fatigue underweight joints pain fast heart beat etc.
thyroid adrenal glands electrolytes. you need your thyroid checked. if normal then other things need to be evaluated. other possibilities include depression. you need to go see your doctor!
what can i take for a cold? i am currently taking atenolol for my fast heart rate and paxil (paroxetine) for my anxiety and depression? please advise
there really is no cure for cold except to rest drink plenty of fluids and some supportive treatment like gargle with warm water with salt for sorethroat some people swear by vitamin c. decongestants may increase your heart rate so be careful. watch a funny movie and relax.
wake up with rapid heartbeat in the middle of the night?
given your age this could be as simple as anxiety and depression or as serious as heart attack or even the response to breathing in too much acid if you have reflux disease. i would get to the doctor to make sure it is not a sign of a serious illness.
what does low potassium look like on an ecg?
i assume that you have some reason for having access to ecgs for more than just hypokalemia and understand some of ecg terminology. under those circumstances it would be worth your investment in an ecg interpretation textbook. try mariott or chou. basics are: wider taller p waves prolonged pr t flattening or inversion st depression u waves long qt interval ectopic arrhythmias.
which wave on an ecg shows low potassium? how would the wave be abnormal?
some electrocardiographic findings associated with hypokalemia include flattened or inverted t waves a u wave st depression and a wide pr interval.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic nervousness and headaches? on bp depression and anxiety meds.
antidepressants to varying degrees can have sympathomimetic properties particularly the snri's (effexor cymbalta (duloxetine) pristiq) and maoi's. the risks and benefits should be weighed.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic nervousness and headaches? on bp depression and anxiety meds.
anxiety is at the top of the list of potential causes here some bp meds especially that dilate arteries strongly can cause reactive fast pulse and jittery/nervous feeling. hyperthyroidism can cause this cluster of findings as well. finally you will find "pheochromocytoma" if you google these symptoms and yes it can mimic the above things but is hardly ever found--speak to your doctor about it.
what is the relationship between dilated cardiomyopathy and fibromyalgia?
dilated cardiomyopathy leads to decrease pumping of blood to the brain and rest of the body. pt. usually get short of breath from mild to moderate physical exertion. may lead to congestive heart failure with activity limitations. fibromyalgia is a condition in which there is generalized pain in most areas of the body. depression lack of sleep stress may increase the pain.
what are the most likely causes for a new onset of low platelet count in a elderly man who takes meds for atrial fibrillation gerd and depression?
there are so many possibilities that it's best to consult a physician. any answer you receive on this site may be misleading since the responder won't have the patient's entire history to put into context. i hope this answer helps.
what are the most likely causes for a new onset of low platelet count in a elderly man who takes meds for atrial fibrillation gerd and depression?
it could be simple causes such medications immune related platelet destruction (itp) or more complicated issues like bone marrow problems such as myelodysplasia.
is oxycodone the same as oxycotin. can oxycodone given at 325mg cause hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest?
oxycontin is a brand name for oxycodone. it is a schedule ii controlled substance. the most common side effects are nausea vomiting dizziness or headache. most serious side effect is respiratory depression or arrest. the "325" you mention is not the oxycodone dose. must be the acetaminophen (tylenol) content. stay under 4000mg/day of acetaminophen to avoid liver damage.
is the come down off of adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) similar to the signs of a heart attack?
ok - let's ignore the fact that the phrasing means i'm almost certainly answering a question about illegal presc. drug abuse. no the come-off from amphetamines is usually marked by loss of energy depression of varying severities (depending on how much you've abused it) sleep disturbances etc. the heart attack symptoms (chest pain nausea flushing racing heart) usually come with the overdose.
i wore a holter monitor for 24hrs due to blacking out and falling. it showed i had. st depression. what is this? please explain. thanks
it is not normal. sorry but need more information to explain it. need to know where the st depression is and how many mm it is and what the rest of the ecg looks like. i would hate to give an opinion that is totally wrong based on assumptions of what else was seen or how severe the depression was. it may mean you need further work up to see if you have oxygen starvation somewhere in the heart.
i wore a holter monitor for 24hrs due to blacking out and falling. it showed i had. st depression. what is this? please explain. thanks
a holter monitor tracks your heartbeat by way of ekg leads worn continuously for 24-48 hrs or more. "st depression" is the term used when certain waves which normally point upwards point downward instead. in some cases this can reflect that a portion of the heart isn't getting enough blood supply. some st depression is insignificant - but you need further information here. talk to your doctor.
is xanax (alprazolam) better at treating panic disorder than ativan or klonipin? & is there any possibility it causes any cardiac effects? cardiac arrest arrythmia
it is more potent during the panic attack due to its rapid onset of action although with all those meds. there is potential for abuse dependency & withdrawal. any of them at doses higher than recommended daily dose or if taken along with other meds. that adds to their effect can lead to respiratory depression & cardiac problems. close monitoring by a qualified physician is strongly advised.
i have 0 motivation to improve my life. heart rate goes up when responsibilty is on me. rarely go out and stay upset for months also gets discouraged.?
depression/anxiety may present itself this way it is a good idea to talk to a psychiatrist for further evaluation.
i am taking metoprolo tarta for afib. i recently started having a lot of panic attacks. my? can i take relaquil with my metopro is this safe for me
it is difficult to tell exactly what is responsible for the symptoms that you are experiencing on the basis of the limited information that you provided. metoprolol could be a suspect because it is known to cross what is called the blood-brain barrier or bbb and have direct effects on the central nervous system. these actions may cause such side effects as dizziness lightheadedness memory loss and depression just to mention a few. in addition metoprolol could reduce your blood pressure and slow the heart rate. adding a complex mixture of compounds such as relaquil that can further affect your central nervous system may only complicate the overall situation. at this point a good strategy would be to discuss your symptoms-including the panic attacks-with the doctor who prescribed metoprolol. after a thorough evaluation he or she may decide on a different medication that has similar effectiveness on atrial fibrillation but unlike metoprolol does not cross the bbb.
is melatonin safe for dementia patients with afib?
the question is whether we can figure out what is the cause of insomnia in a person with dementia---at times it can be caused by sleep architecture breakdown from the illness itself; at times from poor sleep hygiene; at times from meds or alcohol; at times from a sleep disorder such as apnea; can be from depression;; so important to first try to get to the cause. .
is it common for heart attack patients to have personality changes afterwards?
sustaining a heart attack is one of the major health related trauma one may have in one's life time. thanks to modren therapies majority of patients manage to survive with little after effects. it is not uncommon to see some degree of anxiety or depression after heart attacks. scientific research varifies psychological issues after heart attack.
if there's bradycardia is there bradypnea for slow respiratory rate?
bradypnea is a proper medical term for slow breathing. it is a clinical sign of central respiratory depression due to drug intoxication and brain failure from other causes but a slow respiratory rate is not necessarily abnormal. in fact bradypnea at rest is common in healthy folks and trained athletes. dr. mike.
i had undergone an angioplasty and stent after i had a mild heart attack in aug 2007. why long should i feel low energy level.?
energy level fatigue etc is not usually a symptom of a blocked heart artery. more likely related to depression or anxiety. you should notice symptoms related to activity or exertion if a heart artery is blocked.
i have been on toprol (metoprolol) for bp and zoloft for depression for about 15 years. in the last year i an experiencing extremem fatibue. one of my dr's say they cause fatigue and switched me to priivid but it doesn't work. any suggestions?
fairly new antidepressant made by forest labs same company that made celexa & lexapro. i note similar results on low dose of viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride). talk to your doctor about dose or switch due to lack of response assuming you tried viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride) long enough.
i suffer from debilitating (don't leave house) anxiety and depression. all started when i was diagnosed with atrial fib and had a few bad attacks.?
it is natural to have anxiety after being diagnoses with atrial fibrillation especially at such a young age. anxiety symptoms can mimic cardiac and vice versa. so make sure the atrial fibrillation is being treated and then see if you can work on the anxiety with a therapist or psychiatrist. can use deep breathing/relaxation or consider medications.
i suffer from debilitating (don't leave house) anxiety and depression. all started when i was diagnosed with atrial fib and had a few bad attacks.?
it may be possible to find a therapist who will come to you or have someone accompany you to seek professional help as soon as possible. anxiety and depression will exacerbate any underlying medical condition in addition to deteriorating your quality of life - which it sounds like is occurring. the great news is they are both treatable; however putting off treatment will make things worse.
im 18 and i checked my pressure i got a 77 as a pulse rate. but lately i've been feeling tired and really fatige. is that normal?
a heart rate of 77 (normal range < 90) is considered normal. fatigue can be caused by many different issues including lack of sleep or poor sleep hygiene thyroid problems stress/depression or other psychological problems. if these symptoms continue it would be advisable to talk to your doctor for further advice.
i have pvcs when i am relaxing exercising and even post exercise. i had a stress test(came out perfectly normal) but i still get pvcs? dangerous?
in someone of your age it is unlikely to be of clinical importance. often psychological stress may be a factor. keep track of the frequency (pvc's per 5 minutes) and see if periods of anxiety anger fear or depression correlate with higher frequency. learn deep relaxation/meditative skills (see drmiller. com) stay in good aerobic cardiorespiratory shape and stop worrying.
i have high blood pressure and heart rate. my doc is about to put me on zoloft (sertraline) 50 mg. i read zoloft (sertraline) can cause qt prolongation. will i get this if i start the zoloft (sertraline)? what are the chances?
zoloft (sertraline) is one of the safest medication for depression and anxiety. not everton side effect taht is listed about medication mean will happen to you i have written this medication for many people none of my patient had the side effect that u mentioned.
i have had ringing and my heart beat in my ears for over 2 months now how can i make it stop. side effect of meds? venlafaxine trazodone ambilify
i suspect you have a difficult to treat depression and the combination of meds is not unreasonable. discuss with your psychiatrist your side effects. my experience suggests that your bp may be up and should be checked. tinnitus (ringing in ears) seems more likely with ne meds which high dose of venlafaxine does. your md might consider a more ssri med like zoloft (sertraline) to replace venlafaxine.
is it possible to have anxiety disorder and not know it? have physical symptoms (tachycardia sleep issues) but am mentally clear happy love life.
have you talked to your primary care doctor? before diagnosing any mental illness e. g. anxiety depression physical causes need to be ruled out. i would recommend talking to your primary care doctor first to do a full work up and then move based on findings. meanwhile practice relaxation stress management sleep hygiene. good luck!
ihave always negative thinking high heart pulpitation . sometimes think to commit suicide but will not do so as it is prohibited in islam.?
it sounds like you have some symptoms of depression and anxiety. this is very painful. there is help and support for you. you would benefit from getting a consultation from a mental health professional. hope this answer helps.
i am having heart attack symptoms could it be anxiety or my acid reflux?
yes the symptoms could be medically based and/or have a psychological component; suggest individual see pcp first & if recommended a cardiologist; if not medical see a mental health prof. to evaluate for possible anxiety stress &/or depression.
is it normal to suffer from depression when you have dilated cardiomyopathy/heart failure? not wanting to take more meds any suggestions?
it is not but understandable. you may want to consider seeking some professional help from a psychologist or psychiatrist. it may save your live!
is it normal to suffer from depression when you have dilated cardiomyopathy/heart failure? not wanting to take more meds any suggestions?
no it's not normal to be depressed with this condition or any other. temporary sadness can certainly be "normal" -- but "depressed" is a more chronic "stuck" condition that does not lift on its own. also psychotherapy can also be extremely helpful for depression. medications may or may not be needed. you could begin working with a good therapist first and see how things are with you.
i have major depression and atrial fibrillation are there a lot of other people like this out there? also im only 37 years old.
there is a close tie in with heart disease and depression. what you need to be aware of is that one of the medications used to treat a fib beta blockers such as metoprolol can worsen depression so talk to your doctor.
i have major depression and atrial fibrillation are there a lot of other people like this out there? also im only 37 years old.
atrial fibrillation and depression are both common phenomena so there are many people with both. they are not necessarily related and because both are common hard to prove relationship.
i heard about a surgery for depression. it's like a pacemaker for the brain. is it ever going to be available?
it takes years to prove a technology and get it on the market if this works 5 to 10years.
i heard about a surgery for depression. it's like a pacemaker for the brain. is it ever going to be available?
vns has failed the trials so far and may not ever get approved which is unfortunate but facts are facts and success rates approach placebo in some studies. need better outcomes if it to hit market. /.
i have been sick for a week. weakness post nasal drip nausea heart rate elevates sometime. dr says my wbc is slightly low. should i be concerned?
low but slight depression of wbc is commonly caused by viral infections.
if you sleep 5 hours only at night because of anxiety and panic attacks are you risk for much serious problem? normal 2decho ecg stress test endoscopy
about 60 million americans experience chronic sleep deprivation. there are several long term health consequences associated with serious sleep deprivation including increased risk for hypertension diabetes weight gain depression and accidents. have you tried reading literature on diet exercise sleep hygiene meditation etc. for your anxiety and sleep? good luck!
im suffering from anxiety more than a year now can this lead to a more fatal disease like what? normal 2decho threadmill stress test ecg chest xray
an anxiety disorder can lead to depression illicit drug use and suicidal tendencies seek help from a psycotherapist to help you before your condition deteriorates further.
what does myocarditis look similar to on an ekg?
can have several appearances on ecg. it can look like an acute heart attack it can also have low voltage because of the inflammation causing a decrease in electrical transmission. it can have diffuse st depression; there is not one consistent pattern for myocarditis.
i been taking incresed dose of venlafaxine 150mg for 4 wks today i feel anxious nausea heart racing no energy. can this be meds or just anxiety?
your medication has another name effexor (venlafaxine) given for depression and anxiety conditions. escalating dose is always done by psychiatrist every 2-4 weeks until they see better effects. chemically it does increase neurotransmitter of serotonin and norepinephrine and elevate your mood. you have either side effect of the medication or you r not responding to meds. consult your psych doc.
why would my urine test show neg. for xanax (alprazolam) 0. 5mg nightly i have severe depression and panic anxiety attacks i take plavix75mg celexa40mg metoprolol er50mg pravastatin sodium40mg 81mg asprine and prilosec otc
i hope i understand your question. are you saying that you take xanax (alprazolam) every night however it failed to show up on a urine drug screen? xanax is a benzodiazepine which is what will be positive is xanax (alprazolam) is found in the urine. if you take it nightly then the test should have been positive however there are situations where the test comes back negative although xanax (alprazolam) is present this is called a false negative result. it is not an uncommon occurrence.
is there a beta blocker (htn) in the higher milligram dosage that seems to have the lowest degree of dizziness for most patients?
a whole variety of beta-blockers exist and side effects may be lower in some but typical adverse response is lower blood pressure slowing of pulse fatigue dizziness depression exercise intolerance wheezing cognitive compromise etc. why not look at using a different drug class such as an ace inhibitor or receptor blocker as there seems to be better stroke protection with this class.
what type side effects are from comming off effexor? i was taking effexor for 6 years 37. 5mg daily. i was told i could quit. i tappored off medication and have not taken any for six weeks. i have parkinson's for 12 years i have a pacemaker for almost 2 ye
any time you discontinue antidepressant especially after a long period of time side effects or recurrence of symptoms can occur. effexor (venlafaxine) appears to have worse withdrawal effects that other classes of antidepressants and takes up to four weeks of a slow taper to prevent withdraw side effects such as dizziness flu-like symptoms and anxiety. you took effexor (venlafaxine) for a rather prolonged period of time and i can't be sure how you tapered the medication. if your symptoms are withdrawal your doctor may tell you to restart the medication and taper for a rather extended period of time. it is not uncommon to experience symptoms of depression after stopping an antidepressant and may indicate that you truly need to take some type of anti-depressant. in your case you have an underlying disorder that actually causes depression. depression and anxiety are physiologic symptoms of parkinsonâ€™s disease that occur in up to 60 to 80 percent of patients that suffer with parkinsonâ€™s. in other words people are not depressed because they have parkinsonâ€™s but rather it is a part of the disease process itself. your symptoms may me depressive symptoms associated with parkinsonâ€™s. you may have unmasked your depression by stopping effexor (venlafaxine) but this is something you and your doctor should discuss. if that is the case your symptoms may not improve without some type of anti-depressant. although effexor (venlafaxine) appears to be a good choice in parkinsonâ€™s patients it may not be the best medication for those that have issues with arrhythmias. six weeks of suffering like you are deserves an evaluation by your doctor or neurologist to ensure your symptoms are not due to withdrawal another medical issue or from depression. i would not self-treat without discussing this with your doctor. although many claim that supplements and natural compounds are effective in the symptoms of depression and parkinsonâ€™s there is not good evidence that it does. i would urge you to see your doctor for further evaluation of your symptoms.
what are side effets of metorolol tratrate 25 mg after surgery i went into a-fib and was put on this medicine. feeling a lot of anxiety that i didn't have before. could this be caused by this medicine?
anxiety is one of the side effects of metoprolol tartrate. here is a list of central nervous system side effects listed on the package insert: headache dizziness mental depression lightheadedness concentration impaired anxiety weakness fatigue sedation somnolence or insomnia vivid dreams/nightmares vertigo paresthesia hallucination nervousness impotence/sexual dysfunction amnesia/memory impairment confusion. a link to the complete package insert with all side effects is attached below.
what foes a high digoxin level mean? can it cause chest pains?
a high digoxin level raises the likelihood of digoxin intoxication which is a clinical diagnosis not a blood sample diagnosis. symptoms would include a variety of arrhythmias nausea stomach upset lethargy depression but not chest pain.
will there be a zoloft (sertraline) and metoprolol tartrate interaction?
sertraline brand name zoloft (sertraline) can increase the level or effect of metoprolol by affecting the hepatic enzyme cyp2d6 metabolism but only above 150mg/day. you may need a lower dose of metoprolol to compensate. more important is that metoprolol blocks adrenalin and gets into the brain possibly causing worse depression fatigue and concentration problems. don't worry unless you note a problem.
is vildaglipten safe drug for dialated cardiomyopathy patients?
since fluid retention or depression of heart muscle function are not listed as side effects of vildagliptin it should not adversely affect dilated cardiomyopathy patients.
why does heart rate drop and bp increase when you have pancreatitis?
there is no natural response of hr and bp to pancreatitis. pancreatitis can cause elevation or depression of either depending on degree of illness and pain.
what are emotional or mental effects after a heart attack?
depression after heart attack is well-documented.
what are the effects of beta-blockers?
beta blockers lower blood pressure and slow heart rate. side effect can be dizzy fatigue impotence depression wheezing to name a few.
i am having fast heart rate and palpitations. ekg says non spec st changes st junct depression. is this ok? i have extreme panic. and i'm so worried
time to see a cardiologist or internal medicine specialist. they may or may not order a "holter monitor" to check your ecg over longer time frame. xanax (alprazolam) is not always the best option for panic disorder especially if you take it irregularly. consider seeing a board-certified psychiatrist for the most current treatment options for panic.
i had another panic attack this morning. had an ekg and it says nonspecific st depression. abnormal but non diagnostic for this age. i have no symptom?
nonspecific changes on an ecg can be a normal variant. age sex type of symptoms and risk factors (ie: diabetes hypertension family history of heart disease.
i went to the ocean 170 mi. from home. i felt amazing peacefull. came home and my depression is worse in 3 days! what can i do? why did this happen?
by getting away from everything you likely reduced your stress levels. your stress levels then went back up once you returned home. stress can be managed and depression treated so see a psychiatrist for additional help in managing your stress and depression!
i went to the ocean 170 mi. from home. i felt amazing peacefull. came home and my depression is worse in 3 days! what can i do? why did this happen?
i think people have sought out the ocean for their mental health for millennia. you have very good company! perhaps vacation if it was one contributed to your healthy frame of mind? if so maybe you should rethink your goals - what's keeping you in your present life situation. is it worth it? should you move? change jobs? a good friend clergy person or counselor can help you decide.
is this anxiety or something else? i've been laying in bed unable to sleep cause i can feel my heart beating fast in chest. i also awaken with fast hr
it could be cardiac. any history of heart problems? probably not though. still you have to make sure it is not a problem like that before assuming it is emotional in origin. however that is a symptom of anxiety or panic. it looks like you already take medications so it sounds like you've been diagnosed with anxiety or depression. meds can also cause a racing heart.
is it safe to take a 350mg soma if daily i take. 4mg methergine 150mg effexor (venlafaxine) xr 25mg metoprolol 400mg zonegran? took 100mg ultram2 hrs ago not helping
long i wld hope that ur md gave u very clear instructions re: which meds to take at which times. if u're unsure call ur md. do not take any meds in any combination other than as specifically recommended by ur md. most of the meds listed have cns activity and when taken in combination may incr risk of cns depression incr risk of psychomotor impairment decr seizure threshhold & more talk 2 md
if you have anxiety and depression but not at the moment could that still cause heart flutters? ive had many many heart tests and it's "healthy"?
cannot answer on your particular case and. . the heart flutter and the anxiety and hyperventilation and other issues can occur somewhat independently in many. also mitral valve prolapse causes both. the connection is unclear.
if you have anxiety and depression but not at the moment could that still cause heart flutters? ive had many many heart tests and it's "healthy"?
heart flutter can mean something like a cardiac arrhythmia or irregularity or nothing like feeling your own normal beats. regardless the fact that your doctors have not found anything wrong with your heart is comforting enough.
i take paxil (paroxetine) and ativan for anxiety. lately my legs are weak with alot of tiny bruises in inner thighs. cbc cmp ct scan thyroid ekg all normal?
it is not feasible to comment on the bruises without examining those. however you weakness is likely a part of your depression/anxiety. it will sound counter-intuitive but exercising will relieve both depression and weakness. start with walking and increase the distance and rigor as tolerated.
i have no health issues other than anxiety. adrenaline is unbearable all day. should i usebetablocker? would it help? best betablocker for adrenaline? help
if you suffer from frequent bouts of anxiety you may benefit from other treatments. beta blockers are more commonly used for the treatment of high blood pressure. they must be monitored as they can lower your blood pressure and your heart rate. anxiety like depression is regulated by chemicals in your brain (neurotransmitters) besides some symptoms may be due to other medical problems
is bradycardia ever a symptom of anxiety? i have been very inactive for the last few weeks due to depression.
bradycardia is not usually associated with anxiety or depression. the zoloft (sertraline) can exacerbate your anxiety. the bradycardia would be very rare. even though you have been less active the pulse rate should not be that slow. you did not mention the heart rate. if you having a slow pulse see your doctor.
what med is best for anxiety and insomnia. not depressed. heart rate always high. remeron (mirtazapine) makes me fat. ?
you should have a general medical exam if you haven't already as certain medical conditions can cause the symptoms you describe. the doctor can also advise you about meds. ssri antidepressants (prozac zoloft celexa lexapro (escitalopram) paxil) are often used for anxiety even without depression and there are many kinds of meds for insomnia. both problems can be treated without meds too.
i was prescribed celexa&metoprolol to help my depression&anxiety. i've been trying to stay off crystal meth&what would happen if i mixed these drugs?
its fine to take the two just take them as prescribed. if you haven't already started the citalopram then you could have some side effects the first week or so but they shouldn't be bad maybe a little headache upset stomach or just feeling off for a few days. you need to watch the opiate use are you taking all those at the same time?
i need a second opinion. i had a stress test today. max st depression was 0. 28 mv in the ii exercese 3 but max workload was 9:00. whas that ok?
more information and second medical opinions it will be necessary for you to request a formal consultation and we are absolutely here to help. please request a personal consult with one of our physicians on healthtap or with your physician. thanks!
what type if doctor prescribes selegiline. i foolishly tried to treat my depression with it(5mg) and good high pulse/bp even after quittng 3days ago.?
you could start by seeing your local medical doctor. if you don't have one try an urgent care center. i'm not sure you need to see a doctor who prescribes selegiline rather someone who can check you out and manage any reactions you are having. like your local medical doctor to start with. good luck.
what type if doctor prescribes selegiline. i foolishly tried to treat my depression with it(5mg) and good high pulse/bp even after quittng 3days ago.?
this is a medicine that should only be taken in conjunction with treatment by a neurologist or other movement disorder specialist.
im 23 i have gad depression and anxiety i've had 13 ekgs an echocardiogram chest xray all fine but i still think something is wrong with my heart?
given you age as well as your gad it is unlikely that your chest discomfort is due to your heart. you have also had a pretty extensive work up for such a young person. please seek help with cognitive behavioral therapy as well as maybe medication. wish you the best.
im 23 i have gad depression and anxiety i've had 13 ekgs an echocardiogram chest xray all fine but i still think something is wrong with my heart?
your gut feeling should not be ignored. keep a journal about the symptoms that you feel indicate a heart problem. perhaps it is a sense you get when waking up at night related to a sleep disorder or autonomic instability for example. ou may notice a pattern that will help your doctor to determine the need for further testing or to be able to effectively reassure you
i'm 17 & have chest pains shortness of breath rapid heart beat from simple tasks extreme dizziness and fatigue. ekg was normal. is this normal?
of course not. how could all these symptoms in a 17 year old be "normal"? you need a complete physical exam including serology and hormone levels as well as pregnancy test and mental health eval for anxiety and depression. if you take drugs (mj) or smoke drink alcohol or are obese or inactive you will be negatively effected and may develop symptoms as you've described.
i stopped taking 60 mg which i had been on for a month (fluxoteine) because i began experiencing serotonin syndrome such as unusual sweating diarrhea muscle cramping irregular heartbeat increased anxiety. a professional on healthtap suggested i lower
prozac (fluoxetine) is one of the ssri meds that you can stop w/o worrying about withdrawal b/c the levels gradually decrease over 2 weeks. if it was helpful for reducing anxiety and depression then you can start it at a lower dose such as 10 or 20 mg a day to avoid experiencing side effects of serotonin syndrome again. please consult with your prescribing provider about restarting treatment.
i get flutters in my throat when i'm excited or nervous hr fast no other symptoms. disappears when i'm calm again. ecg & echo normal. anxiety?
it's a great point in time to do some postpartum depression pervention. i'd advise you to find a good cbt therapist w/ that experience who you can grow to trust. you'd learn skills to deal w/ anxiety and to nip any problems after the birth. it's not uncommon to have such a reaction to the changes and you'll be one step ahead of it. you'll be able to avoid possible baby harm from medications too.
i have anxiety all the time. my heart beats very fast while at duty time especially seeing my boss. and i have anger too on silly matters
you could benefit from psychotherapy. don't let depression and anxiety stop you from living a full life. speak to a psychologist and start taking control and feeling better.
i started my first dose of 10 mg cipralex a few hours ago for anxiety however i am feeling unpleasant side effect such as upset stomach increased heart rate and i woke up in the middle of my sleep. i am wondering would it be advisable for me to stop my
i'd hold off until you discuss this with the prescribing doctor. you certainly don't want the treatment to be worse than the disease. lexapro (escitalopram) is used for depression ocd and generalized anxiety. some people don't tolerate it well at first.
why would i take citalopram when i have read the side effects fast hr palpitations etc that would make my anxiety worse? useless medicines?
if you are treated for depression or anxiety. express your concerns with the prescribing physician. before start!
why did my dr give me lexapro/escitalopram for my tachycardia?
lexapro (escitalopram) is used to treat anxiety and depression. if your doctor thinks your tachycardia may be because of anxiety they might treat you with lexapro (escitalopram). it is important to have a frank conversation with your dr. and ask for the symptoms or anxiety. anxiety and hyperventilation syndrome are very common and are just as real as a sore throat. if you are under new stress etc. this can be a result.
what are the affects of alcohol on low bp and pre mature irregular heart beat?
alcohol is a diuretic. . making you pee off fluids through your kidneys. it is also a depressant and can really make moodiness or depression worse. so if you are dehydrated both of the heart symptoms you describe above will be made worse with alcohol. everything else being normal.
would pericarditis show on ekg?
there are usually ekg findings in pericarditis which generally vary over time: 1- initially there may be diffuse st segment elevation often with pr segment depression & sometimes with diffuse low voltages 2- days later the st segments may normalize & t wave flattening appears 3- ~2 weeks later you may see t wave inversion in the inferior & lateral leads 4- weeks later the t waves normalize.
is the following significant in and of itself? t wave inversions noted at faster hr. st depressions with t wave inversions noted during maximal hr.
the changes you bring up are consistent with cardiac ischemia. . more information and exact clinical situation is obviously very important!
how long after a heart attack do you stop thinking every chest pain is another attack?
it is common to have a certain amount of anxiety after a heart attack. discussing this with your doctor including how cardiac chest pain is different from other kinds of chest pain may help. some patients also need therapy for anxiety or depression directly and some will improve with cardiac rehab.
whenever i get heart palpitations i take xanax (alprazolam) and they stop. i have no other symptoms with them. is there a good chancethat they are anxiety related?
yes. you should check out some of my work as i have helped many people with depression and anxiety. my free videos www. thecoachmd. com; my book brain drain (hardcover kindle audio); my pulse of life system www. liveyoureverydayextraordinary. com.
why does my heart rate rise to 110 beats per minute when i eat gluten it's normally 60?
this is a classic sign of food allergy in fact arthur coca md wrote a classic book "the pulse test " describing a fast pulse after eating a food as one of the best ways to diagnose food allergies. gluten sensitivity is an extremely common problem that can cause fatigue insomnia asthma depression anxiety etc. see <link> consider a trial of gluten avoidance for several weeks.
has anyone had bad effects mixing alcohol with the drug toprol (metoprolol)?
can have an additive effect with beta blockers causing a further lowering of blood pressure. also both alcohol (more strongly) and beta blockers like toprol (metoprolol) (less strongly) can cause depression.
in the past 3 years experienced dizzyness tachycardia short term memort loss headaches apathy i stare alot muscle twitches. all tests negative?
39 fem w. chronic "apathy dizziness headaches tachycardia anxiety memory loss muscle twitches" has multiple births unrevealing studies uses nsaids. symptoms suggest fibromyalgia. women w. hypermobile joints & multiple childbirths loosen pelvic ligaments; leading to body tilt muscle spasm restless sleep; begetting depression & fibro-fog. chronic neck tilt w. muscle spasm causes headaches.
what causes pressure on your chest like you can't breathe? ekg and blood work is fine.
assuming all other findings are negative including no mass effects around the heart and evaluated my mri and no recent history of chest trauma the anxiety disorders and some forms of depression may manifest these symptoms. however one has to be carefull as some types of cardic disease may appear in posterior wall and requires special types of diagnostic procedure.
i took metoprolol 50 mg for only two days and depression was overwhelming today along with severe tiredness can i taper off quickly?
we do not know why your doctor prescribed metroprolol and can not advice you to taper off or stop; but my advice is to contact your doctor and take his/her advice if you can taper or stop and may need some other drug to replace metroprolol apparently you are not tolerating the drug
i took metoprolol 50 mg for only two days and depression was overwhelming today along with severe tiredness can i taper off quickly? dr. said i have 19 000 pvcs a day. nuc stress test ok except fo pvcs
please discuss your symptoms with your doctor. only your doctor who knows you and your history can advise you. your doctor may taper down your dose and give it some time at a lower dose or your doctor may recommend a taper off and add an alternative treatment. please contact your doctor. best wishes to you!
why is it that beta blockers can possibly cause anxiety? inderal (propranolol) was used years ago in the theatre to treat anxiety.
first you are correct. propranolol a beta blocker at an extremely low dose is the most commonly prescribed medication for 'performance' anxiety. it blunts the heart from the emotional response when one is nervous and has to keep a clear head when performing. regular doses of beta blockers can at times increase depression and anxiety as a side effect. the difference is the dose taken regular.
why and how can beta blockers increase depression and anxiety in some people?
depression is known to be in the top 3 side effects but how? is unknown. beta-blockers 'sit' on beta-adrenergic receptors and stop them from being stimulated. so perhaps some need not to be stopped to maintain good mood. they are actually used to treat symptoms of anxiety! work hard w/ your dr to avoid piling up side effects. if non-drug alternatives exist try them!
what can possibly cause my body to be so sensitive to heat. can it be the lisinopril or metoprolol?
seems like you are suffering from depression basing on your symptoms of fatigue hopelessness and poor concentration. consult your physician for therapy. lisinopril and metoprolol doesn't increase heat sensitiveness. hyperthyroidism could increase heat sensitivenss.
what do you recommend if i am feeling like my heart is racing but it's a normal heart rate?
the sensation of fast heart rate when the heart rate is actually normal is a common complaint from people with symptoms of anxiety depression and other psychiatric complaints. it is unlikely that there is cardiac disease. discuss with your primary care practitioner.
i had blood work and my pth intact was 85. 7 can this cause palpitations lightheaded and fatigue that is what i been feeling?
high parathyroid can cause weakness and fatigue depression or aches and pains. with more severe disease a person may have a loss of appetite nausea vomiting constipation confusion
i cant sleep at nights my heart palpitates fastly at nights and it feels like i will die just now.
excercise reduce chronic worries eat nutritious dinner avoid daytime naps take warm showers before bedtime and only lay in bed when ready to sleep and consider evaluation for anxiety depression and panic disorders
would respiratory depression be reflected in low blood pressure and low pulse rate?
respiratory failure will cause cardiogenic shock.
i had an ekg because i'm having heart flutters. i have panic attacks but what would have made "widespread changes " in my ekg?
it really depends what these changes are. . some are more worrisome than others. the word "widespread" would mean that the changes are seen in multiple leads suggesting that the finding is seen in multiple areas of your heart. but what the changes are. t wave inversion st depression etc is much more relevant. it may mean nothing much or need further testing. ask your doctor to interpret.
i take certraline and doing nothing for severe phobia as shake when eating at table with anyone so avoid it unless i had alcohol beta blockers no good?
anxiety and depression are treated with ssris (selective serotonin release inhibitors)e. g. celexa zoloft prozac lexapro etc together with anxiolytics e. g. valium ativan xanax (alprazolam) etc. the effects of the drugs vary so the type and quantity of drug needs to be adjusted. adding omega fish oils (www. cardiamin. com use code cmc for a discount) magnesium & vitamin d supplementation helps.
which is causing my fatigue my lupus or my pots? (postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome) i need to find a way to decrease fatigue! i do see a rheumotolgoist and cardio. i do what im suppose to
exercise is the magic bullet here along with staying well hydrated and getting plenty of uninterrupted nighttime sleep. also make sure no other problems are playing a role such as depression or obstructive sleep apnea two large factors causing fatigue in my patient population. good luck!
what does the term abnormal but non diagnostic for this age mean? new ekg shows that and nonspecific st depression. he said it was very very minor.
the computer algorhythms that write the impression on the top of the ekg is very sensitive and will usually say that the ekg is non-diagnostic. most people have ekg's that say something similar. st depression is describing that a segment of the ekg is a little lower than normal. this is usually completely normal in young people.
how common is ptsd after heart attack and how can it be treated?
especially if you had a cardiac arrest and resuscitation. depression is also very common. drugs do help you but best treatment is group discussion with similar patients and developing skills to cope. good recovery is possible and there is nothing to worry.
how rare is sca (sudden cardiac arrest) in people with anxiety/depression taking setraline 50 mg?
about 2% of 21000 pts on sertraline had sudden death. can reference this: <link>
is sominex 50mg a good alternative rather than what i'm taking now trazadone 25mg its makes my heart rate low at night i take for insomnia?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
i exercise quite regularly but i get heart palpitations and experience anxiety and stress on a regular basis. is this bad for my heart?
it can be. have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
i have experienced anxiety i was taking lexapro (escitalopram) but it caused rapid heart rate and now am on zoloft 25 and still same problem any good med for anxiety?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
why does even 1-2 units of alcohol give me palpitations racing heart and insomnia when trying to sleep? i used to be able to drink up to 10 units.
but why are you trying to drink alcohol when you are taking fluoxetine? generally alcohol will make depression and anxiety worse. you may want to discuss with your doctor first before drinking alcohol.
i have been on atenolol 10 months 50mg per day for tachy/anxiety. my hr is lower in the 50's at night. can beta blockers over time have more effect?
l9ng term use c@n lead to depression just be awa%e of side effects
why at 39 would i start all of a sudden having panic attacks never before now only depression? i've had ekg lab it's all been normal. very scared!
panic attacks and depression have similar underlying facets chemically and dynamically. the treatment is also similar - for example the antidepressants are used for panic. panics can be very frightening but they will not likely kill you -
why at 39 would i start all of a sudden having panic attacks never before now only depression? i've had ekg lab it's all been normal. very scared!
have you checked thyroid hormone? this could be related. please discuss with your pcp.
hello can u tell me does paroxitene have any bad effects on the heart?
serotonin reuptake inhibitors have no direct effect on the heart. it's a safe drug in adult. care must be taken in children's adolescents and young adult due to increase risk of suicidality during treatment of major depression.
had medical abortion 2-3 months ago ever since i've been feeling weird. body aches depression high heart rate anxiety blood tests fine what's wron?
after having any type of miscarriage whether intended or unintended there are a lot of emotions a woman goes through. depression and body aches would be normal reaction. i doubt anything is physically wrong with your body as medical abortion is very safe. are you exercising? sleeping 7-8 hours a night? how have you addressed feelings of loss and relationship with boyfriend? maybe see a therapist.
how likely are irregular heart beats and increased anxiety from taking lexapro (escitalopram)? i'm very anxious/depressed i need it but scared of those side effects
koala if your anxiety and depression symptoms are very severe you need treatment. many times anxious patients are afraid to take medications because of the side effects. work with your doctor to develop a plan to slowly titrate the dose up so that your side effects will be minimal. best wishes pamela svendsen md.
my brother just have a heart attack and he can't work and very depress what kind of activities can i suggest?
in addition to seeking treatment for any component of depression most patient who have had a heart attack will benefit for cardiac rehabilitation. this is a monitored exercise program that is designed to help patients with cardiac problems develop better exercise tolerance and lower recurrence risk. it may even help lift mood. this can be discussed along with risk factor reduction with his doctor.
my brother just have a heart attack and he can't work and very depress what kind of activities can i suggest?
it is frequent to have depression after heart attack cva (brain haemorrhage) or cancer. depression should be treated just like any other illnesses. btw poor energy and lack of initiative is one of the most common symptoms of depression.
my brother just have a heart attack and he can't work and very depress what kind of activities can i suggest?
even primary care doctors are very adepth in treating major depression and anxiety. psychiatry is great if he is open to the idea but a lot of people do not want to see such a specialist "off the bat". hopefully he has a good relationship with his current physician. if not he needs to find at least a primary care doctor he is comfortable with. his doc will know if he needs to see a specialist.
my brother just have a heart attack and he can't work and very depress what kind of activities can i suggest?
major depression is fairly common in those who have suffered a heart attack -up to 20%. try and get him to seek medical attention. both counselling & medication can help. depression can also have a neg impact on his ability to recover or willingness to take needed medications & may increase odds of recurrence. his cardiologist best to give advise exercise regimen and what activities are safe.
what does borderline ekg minimal st depression mean?
often times there will be a computer reading on top of your ekg which is often incorrect. if your doctor viewed the ekg particularly your cardiologist and stated it was normal it is most likely an overread by the computer.
is a tsh of 5. 13=hypothyroid. feel fatigued low energy slow resting heart rate cold anxiety/depression. 20 y. o. female. dr. didn't say it was abnormal?
within the normal range according to the laboratory's parameters your md will consider it normal. it is slightly high for some laboratories. if so your doctor may order a free t4 & ultrasensitive tsh to determine if you have hypothyroidism & if you need other studies & treatment. either way ask your md for referral to mental health providers for diagnosis & management of anxiety/depression.
i have been on sertraline 50mg for 3 weeks and have a bad rash thats just getting worse. also a high pulse in the morning. is this normal?
sertraline is for treatment of depression and anxiety. it can cause rash and palpitations. feel good about your achievements in work relationships and personal hobbies see a psychiatrist for diagnosis sertraline benefits and side effects discuss wellbutrin and effexor (venlafaxine) for depression; ativan and xanax for anxiety; and therapy for stress in your life. do breathing and music relaxation
my father had a minor heart attack now he is showing signs of dementia. who can i go to?
talk with his family doctor about what you are seeing. circulatory problems can occurr anywhere in the body. if he is cleared see a geriatric psychiatrist as pseudo dementia can be a symptom of depression in the elderly and the is a high correlation between heart attack and depression.
my father had a minor heart attack now he is showing signs of dementia. who can i go to?
his primary/family doctor can help you starting with a thorough work-up for his possible dementia etc. . i suspect depression is likely n can cause "dementia symptoms" which can be treated. if dementia is confirmed treatments can be given. if his doc does not treat dementia he will be referred to someone who does and help coordinate the care he needs. it is a big responsibity. good luck.
what to do about headache & heart racing when i wake up?
a headache that is mostly in the morning may be caused by sleep apnea bruxism anxiety or depression. in the early morning hours (between 3 and 8 a. m. ) our body has its lowest levels of endorphins so most primary headaches may present. see your pcp for consultation tests and possible referral to a headache specialist.
had headache earache and watering eyefor 6 months had sinsus ct came back normal. ent says headache is migraine and prescribed beta blocker. correct?
worthwhile to try a preventative medication and beta blockers are approved for migraine but they may have nasty side effects such as wheezing fatigue cognitive slowing exercise intolerance slowing of pulse and dropping of blood pressure and depression. other meds may be tolerated better such as topirimate or divalproex sodium. perhaps see a neurologist who focuses in headache management.
i have history with anxiety attacks depression and ocd. can having anxiety give you chest pains or heart palpitations? i've had them all day today
trigger chest pains and other symptoms. it is important that you see your doc to rule out medical condtions. after that please see a mental health professional to learn strategies to manage your anxiety. a self-help technique found at www. relaxationresponse. org. peace and good health.
i have history with anxiety attacks depression and ocd. can having anxiety give you chest pains or heart palpitations? i've had them all day today
be an anxiety disorder although i think an atypical one. major depression comes with anxiety 75% of the time and anxiety attacks are the most acute versions of anxiety. a triple whammy for anxiety? there are 33 possible sx's of any kind of anxiety including chest pains and heartpalpitations. in your case go to the er for an ekg and blood work first--probably right away. then anxiety.
i have history of depression and alcohol over use my primar md gave mi antidepressant sertraline 50 mg told me i can have a few drinks per week.
it is not wise to use alcohol with sertraline. sertraline slows the metabolism of alcohol so that you may have sustained alcohol levels and might be at risk for a dui if driving. i generally tell my patients on sertraline to avoid alcohol altogether.
my doc has given me celexa 20mg whereas psych gave prozac (fluoxetine) 20 mg but said i could take any 1. have dep/anxiety/ panic/ heart palp. need help decide?
both celexa and prozac (fluoxetine) are ssri antidepressants and can help depression anxiety and panic problems. they are a bit different in terms of half-life and specific fda approval for ocd etc. prozac (fluoxetine) may be a little more activating than celexa in some people. remember that the psychiatrist has additional specialty training in these disorders. you'll also likely need psychotherapy for best outcome.
my doc has given me celexa 20mg whereas psych gave prozac (fluoxetine) 20 mg but said i could take any 1. have dep/anxiety/ panic/ heart palp. need help decide?
both are ssri antidepressants that can help depression and anxiety. there may be specific reasons the psychiatrist preferred prozac (fluoxetine) in your case. not knowing anything else about you or your symptoms i might opt for the celexa: it works a few days sooner and is less likely to cause agitation as a side effect. but either one is a reasonable choice.
what causes 5 second stabbing pain in left chest between breast and collarbone? muscle? stress test ekg ok 30 day monitor showed pvcs.
sharp pains that only last for seconds are not due to anything serious. most often they are due to anxiety and can be ignored. you should work to reduce your stress level. one way to control this problem is to do daily exercise especially in the form of walking. it will help you to reduce your stress anxiety and depression. getting closer to nature has a soothing effect on your mind and soul.
is 60 mg of adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) and 5 mg of klonopin together dangerous in terms of cns issues or a possible heart arrhythmia?
in general both adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) 60mg and klonopin 5mg as single doses are incredibly high doses and i would be concerned for their use in that way. i would be concerned for respiratory depression with klonopin and would not recommend adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) let alone at that one time dose amount if there is an existing arrhythmia. understanding why both may be needed and at those doses is indicated. concermed
i'm 67 year old male; regular treadmill test every 5 years now results: "0. 5 to 1 mm horizontal st depression laterally' means what? otherwise fine
you need to discuss your testing with your doctor. the reading you list could mean nothing or be suspicious of some abnormality. from out here a judgment isn't appropriate.
my mother is not feeling well. she doesn't feel like eatinganything gets fed up of everything and sometimes she gets scared and gets palpitations. what should i do?
your mother should see a physician in person. her symptoms do not point to one system. it could be anything from gastro-intestinal causes to hormonal disorders or depression.
my mother is not feeling well. she doesn't feel like eatinganything gets fed up of everything and sometimes she gets scared and gets palpitations. what should i do?
it could be a medical/ psychological issue. palpitations and decreased appetite are caused by medical illnesses like anemia as well as anxiety and depression can cause similar symptoms. need to see her physician and get blood work done.
my mother is not feeling well. she doesn't feel like eatinganything gets fed up of everything and sometimes she gets scared and gets palpitations. what should i do?
could be depression or anxiety but could be a heart rhythm problem or infectious disease or many other conditions. she would likely benefit from a medical evaluation of all symptoms timing of onset any medications she is on and other factors.
how likely is 75mg of venlafaxine instance release to cause cardiac problems like heart attack. i've been on it for 4 days and getting palpitations.
venlafaxine causes cardiac problems like heart attack by causing severe hypertension. bp should be checked regularly. this drug is used to treat depression personality disorder social anxiety disorder bipolar. other drugs like flupentixol yasmin (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) have same effect in a non smoker. it may cause palpitation.
i'm taking metoprolol 50mg succ. (in the a. m. ) for anxiety related sinus tachycardia. is it safe to take melatonin 3mg to help with sleep issues?
the most common melatonin side effects include: •daytime sleepiness •headaches •dizziness other less common melatonin side effects might include abdominal discomfort mild anxiety irritability confusion and short-lasting feelings of depression. in addition melatonin supplements can interact with various medications including: •blood-thinning medications (anticoagulants) •medications that suppress the immune system (immunosuppressants) •diabetes medications •birth control pills
my wife fears her sister in law a lot she has breathlesness heart palpitations day long looses control over body cry a lot. she is a working lady. help?
sounds like she is having panic attacks and/or depression symptoms. she needs a complete evaluation by her doctor or a psychiatrist to determine best action to both relieve symptoms and help her deal with her fears whether founded or not. she does not need to suffer like that - there are treatments for those type of disorders.
my body is deconditioned i want to exercise. i'm on anxiety & dep. meds. my heart rate is high w/basic things (100-105 usually. should i exercise still?
start gently with a bike brisk walking elliptical machine swimming for at least 20-30 min 3-4x a week. after a few weeks of this u can add some resistance training. let someone with certified training instruct u on proper technique. this also may lower your anxiety level and help your depression. thats what multiple studies have shown. good luck.
what could happen if a person overdosed on 2-3grams of propanolol and 60 mgs of klonopin (clonazepam)?
these are very high doses of both medications. the propanolol can cause severe hypotension or bradycardia or even cardiac arrest. the klonopin (clonazepam) can cause severe respiratory depression. this person needs to be in the hospital for at least observation if not medications to support heart rate and blood pressure and to reverse the klonipin.
husband's ecg showed st depression but no blockadge shown in ct followed by normal ecg. what may be the cause?
ask for a clear explanation - but this sounds good. the lack of blockage and 2nd normal ekg is good. the 1st reading can be a sign of reversible myocardial ischemia often caused by insufficient blood to the heart muscle. but in this case it may have been a normal fluctuation. that's why they did it again. ask understand trust live healthily and relax. best to you both!
have been to dtr 2 this week. thought i was having a heart attack. everything is normal with heart. now i feel a lump in throat and middle of chest?
this sounds like an anxiety problem or maybe depression. did the doc say to see a cardiologist? have you been treated for this before? make sure that the symptoms are not cardiac and then if negative do not put off treatment of anxiety disorder
headach. numbnes. heartbeats fast. can't control emotions. feel lonely. want to hurt myself physcaly. negative thoughts. mostly happens at night. what is it?
you have anxiety and depression which seem to afflict many in today's world. the most concerning thing is your thoughts of self harm. please go get help right now. go to the nearest medical facility an emergency room. i'm not sure how it works in your country but please seek help now. there is hope you can feel better. take a trusted friend with you or family member for support. luck to you.
i weigh 33kg. i eat on time but i seem to get thinner. i feel tired all the time and i have headaches and chest pains and stomachaches.
thank you for expressing your concerns about your health. “headaches chest pains and stomachaches” are due to stress causing anxiety. weight of 33kg and “seem to get thinner” is likely due to depression or a medical condition. see physician for diagnosis of low weight and treatment see psychiatrist for anxiety and depression; medication therapy for stresses of traumatic experiences relationships
i was prescribed 10mg of elavil for anxiety. prozac (fluoxetine) gave me palpitations &zoloft made me depressed. i'm so scared of side effects! should i try this?
i understand you feeling scared of side effects of medication due to unpleasant experiences with 3 medications. discuss with psychiatrist: • intensity of symptoms at that time • diagnosis-anxiety depression or both • therapy for stresses of relationships separations school work and finances • develop coping skills • breathing relaxation • visual imagery • meditation • yoga • tai chi
im 26 with no known heart conditions and i took 4 250 mg azithromicin tablets i keep seeing thing saying that it can cause heart attacks and i wanna k?
azithromycin is used to treat respiratory skin ear infections; and sexually transmitted diseases dose depends upon severity of symptoms and the infection. heart effects are not common side effects of azithromycin. with no history of heart conditions it is unlikely that you could have heart attack. see physician. see a psychiatrist for stress causing anxiety depression guilt. ; therapy
i started having random but frequent heart palpitations about 4 weeks into taking citalopram. is this normal?
i understand your distress. side effect of citalopram can be heart palpitations and other cardio-vascular effects. see your physician and psychiatrist for • diagnosis of depression • diagnosis of cardiac condition if any • monitoring palpitations and condition • breathing relaxation • therapy for stresses in your life to develop coping skills
mom had heart attack 2 months ago and did anjio with 2 stents therapist prescribed citalopram for her is it safe for her to take them?
the right dose this ssri should ok to take for any and/or depression.
my husband had a heart attack on november 15th 2013. it's like he's a different person. does a ha change a persons brain?
the most likely cause would be if he had a period of time during the heart attack when there was a decreased amount amount of oxygen going to his brain. this would occur from a drop in the blood pressure or a clot. this is same a stroke which can affect parts of the brain that control someone's personality. depression and anxiety are very common after heart attack.
my husband had a heart attack on november 15th 2013. it's like he's a different person. does a ha change a persons brain?
having a heart attack for some men can alter their psychological outlook on life etc. feelings of inadequacy and depression/anxiety are common. of course it there was also a severe heart attack and blood supply to the brain was affected some brain anoxia can cause mental status changes but that would have been diagnosed at the time. he may benefit from counseling and therapy. best wishes.
my husband had a heart attack on november 15th 2013. it's like he's a different person. does a ha change a persons brain?
talk to a doctor about him it not unusual to have depression after a heart attack a thorough eval is necessary.
what can cause symptoms of overactive sympathetic nervous system and elevated epinephrine? thyroid fine heart tests fine except for tachycardia.
some causes can be adrenal fatigue heart disease high blood pressure chronic fatigue food sensitivities fibromyalgia alcoholism anxiety depression insomnia compulsive overeating irritable bowel excess sweating ptsd.
waking up feeling short of breath? multiple ekgs blood work and chest xrays all clear? all thats left is my generalized anxiety and depression?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
what side effects are associated with apixaban?
common are anemia hemorrhage nausea low blood pressure peripheral edema dizziness headaches vertigo cataracts upper respiratory tract infection chest pain fever uti blood in urine muscle spasms & aches increase glucose decrease appetite depression insomnia rash.
help me understand this. stress test says t wave liability at rest t wave inversion during recovery non diagnostic for ischemia. st depression <1mm?
sounds like they were determining if you had narrowing of your heart arteries and if that was causing a low blood supply to your heart. ischemia means low blood/oxygen supply to tissue (in this case the heart). when there is a low blood/oxygen supply to heart tissue ischemia can happen and a t-wave inversion can show this on ekg. st depres can tell if you have had a heart attack not in your case
had st depression of <1mm on stress test? i read bad things about this? so confused as it says non diagnostic for ischemia and intermediate cv risk?
there is a lot of things in a stress test to consider it diagnostic or not diagnostic. if you achieved target heart rate underlying rythm medications for example. 1mm are none specific in most cases and more in a 26 year old. how many mets did you achieve how long did you run? was their imaging involved. this you need to address with you cardiologist. if not why one earth did he order it?
my heart rate resting right now is 67 and i haven't took my remeron (mirtazapine) 45 mg yet fit sleep and depression should i worry about it going to low?
your pulse of 67 is right in the normal range and sounds good and healthy. remeron (mirtazapine) doesn't typically cause slowing of the pulse. it has been seen in people over the age of 60 who just recently started the med. at a rate of 67 you should be ok. sweet dreams!
my boyfriend has short breaths palpitations loss of appetite discomfort in the throat burp pains and anxiety. tests are normal. thyroid problem?
what tests were done? the usual tests that are done to rule in or out are thyroid studies cardiac problems(ekg stress test) anemia (cbc) gi work up (egd upper gi tests)eent examinations and of course a good mental status to rule out anxiety or depression. a general physical examination can eliminate some problems.
my period over a week early having heart palpitations for last 3 days randomly and noticing a little hair loss. depressed mood last two days?
trauma depression please get an evaluation by a psychologist or psychiatrist to figure this out.
heart arrythmias causing underarm pain slight dizziness? many ekgs blood and xrays done all normal. i have anxiety depression & high bp though.
please let us know what medications you are taking so we might get better idea on whether they are triggering your symptoms since you mentioned that your workup is normal.
mild fatigue. heart palpitations queasy irritability lower lumbar pain insomnia mild headache. i have been under stress. no fever.
get in 2 c ur pcp u have many symptoms of depression. don't b ashamed or bashful b honest & open so u get the proper care. depression is of many types. familial situational short term or sometimes longer lasting. also post delivery or post menopausal. @ least take the first step!
what can cause depression anxiety weight gain heart palps fatigue night sweats? have goiter/swollen thyroid. doc says thyroid is functioning ok?
have a full battery of thyroid tests done as well as adrenal gland tests and cortisol levels.
woke up with racing heartbeat escalated to tightness in chest panic body shivers. racing heartbeat at night happened a few times. anxiety or?
after all physical causes are ruled out have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
how to deal with nocturnal panic attacks? i wake up with my heart racing and feel as if i was going to have a heart attack.
24y female w. nocturnal tachycardia & panic attacks. before symptoms are ascribed to psychology arena first have general medical evaluation. mitral valve prolapse to be considered. an echocardiogram can easily discern. other symptoms of "depression burning & insomnia" raise concern for fibromyalgia which is associated w. hypermobility syndrome which is associated with mitral valve prolapse.
hi i keep asking this question (sorry just frustrated). get tachycardia sob tingling hands feel wired 3 or 4 times every night. go to bed really late now to reduce the frequency. any ideas? i have see my doctor and they don't know.
if there are no physical causes for your symptoms have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
hi i'm 20 years old and i've been suffering from severe death anxiety. i get panic attacks and palpitations all the time. i really need an answer.
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
sharp pain below sternum (feels better food in stomach) bloating anxiety/tachycardia lightheaded not sleeping well. thryoid or digestive problem?
anxiety can cause indigestion as well as irritable bowel syndrome peptic ulcers gastritis panic attacks insomnia high blood pressure and much more. you need to speak with your doctor about getting medication for improving your coping abilities and therapy. you can spend your life going from doctor to doctor for all your symptoms but they are usually caused by anxiety and depression.
suffering from depression/anxiety after pacemaker/icd surgery. what do you suggest?
it is not unusual for transient depression after such a procedure. you should realize that the icd is a device which should help protect you from sudden death. as such if you put your mind on it being a positive hopefully you can adjust your viewpoint and convert your anxiety depression to positive outlook. talk to your doc.
what are the pros and cons of toprol (metoprolol) xl (beta blocker)?
pros: effective in lowering bp; effective in treating and preventing fast heart rhythms; effective in patients who have heart failure at high doses. cons: can cause fatigue lethargy and slow heart rate; can cause dizziness; can cause depression or worsen depression in some patients. i would not recommend it as first line therapy in an otherwise healthy person unless there are other issues.
i have pots dysautonomia and gastroparesis. i also have sever anxiety and depression. i have been throwing up all morning. can i take xanax to help?
i suggest going to the er. this is to make sure your electrolytes kidney function are ok and also for iv hydration.
since 2011 when i had broken heart syndrome i get chest pain almost daily never know when to go er. tell me about heart spasms?
long ago before medicine was as advanced as now when love was lost chest pain with other signs of depression was called 'heart ache'. it may be that the sense of a broken heart continues. of course do get a proper internal medicine/cardiology workup but if that proves negative see a good psychotherapist and review the past with a helper.
what is effect of prolonged usage of metoprolol?
hello ugonzalez i saw your question and wanted to help you out. metoprolol is a great medication for blood pressure tremors heart failure or heart disease but it does have side effects like all drugs. shortness of breath erectile dysfunction insomnia and depression are rare and associated with long term use. you should see your md if you have any of those symptoms. good luck to you <positive_smiley>
hello sir feeling anxious heart racing butterflies in stomach visual snow and tinnitus. i have been diagnosed with ocd.
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
magnesium level is 1. 6. take zoloft losartan betapace and nexium (esomeprazole). no kidney issues. dr prescribed 400mg magnesium oxide. interactions with meds?
no interactions. based on your med list you probably hypertension gerd anxiety/depression and h/o arrthymia. mildly low mg level is probably due to ppi use (nexium)
which beta blocker would cause the least depression. bystolic?
bystolic (nebivolol) a powerful med well tolerated by patients w many birthdays. it is excreted by kidney and liver so is both hydrophilic(kidney)& lipophylic(liver). lipophillic meds do go to brain. atenolol is primarily hydrophilic so does not affect brain much. metoprolol is prim lipo so not so good for depressed persons. atenolol best choice.
if you have cancer would it show in your oxygen levels or in blood tests feel like my heart beat is getting weaker and heavy on heart? stress? depress
this could be due to stress or depression but probably not due to anything physical. . i would see your doctor as he may be able to help you
my echo showed borderline normal left ventricular with global hypokinesis what could possibly cause this. ef 50-55%?
hypokinesis means that the muscle mass in the heart is less active than expected. now is it really an issue or is it just by chance. low blood supply to heart can be one of the reason besides this sometimes low metabolic states and depression can lead to hypokinesis. you need to see a cardiologist who will discuss your risk profile and then see what is the possibility and suggest further.
many doctors i consult have diagnosed me with anxiety disorder my symptoms are life crashing stressful and feels close to death is this dangerous? i also av an irregular heartbeat help me please.
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
my heart beats fast and i feel panicky during every episode. it feels like i'm not in my body. is it panic attacks? i have aspergers and anxiety.
provided there is no physiological reason for your symptoms have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
my heart has been skipping beats and i have some chest pain as well as panic attacks could this be mitral valve prolapse? i have most of those sympto
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
how can i safely lower bp is 125's/85's. ambient heart rate is between 100-80. i am 27yo female 5'3 200lbs. i also suffer from anxiety and panic att.
you need to begin mild exercise walking at a comfortable pace outside or on a treadmill. try walking with a friend outside on a sunny day. your bmi is 35. 4 which is unhealthy. begin with 15 min. then gradually work up to 30 min. at least 3x/wk. this will help you lose weight gradually and will also help with your depression and panic attacks. talk with your doctor about the dash diet.
how profound are sibelium side effects? like how much weight can we expect to gain in 3 months from it and how bad is the weakness?
sibelium is indicated to prophylax migraines & to treat vestibular vertigo. the drug's safety is not established in pregnancy & it is contraindicated in patients with depression parkinson's or known hypersensitivity to flunarizine. it may lead to drowsiness particularly when taken with alcohol or cns depressants. may also lead to progressive fatigue galactorrhea & drug-drug interactions.
i have pots syndrome. i'm been fatigued & down for months. my vit d level is only 21. should i see if supplements help first before changes in pots meds
low vitamin d may be associated with fatigue joint pains and even depression. i do recommend being seen by a specialist before starting supplementation so that a baseline and other underlying diseases may be assessed. vitamin d is a vitamin required by muscles and bones which is an area that rheumatologists managed. i will be happy to do a consult if needed.
propofol risks? i have sinus tachycardia and high blood pressure. i'm on propranolol.
generally you should continue beta blocker meds on day of surgery (with a sip of water). propranolol use does not effect propofol usage nor increase risks of respiratory depression or cardiac depression. -.
please help. everytime i have my period my anxiety and panic attack gets worse is it normal? having normal 2decho ecg and stress test to not be alarmed
i'm glad you've got a healthy heart as your test results show. your anxiety may be part of premenstrual syndrome. core symptoms of pms include affective symptoms like depression angry outbursts irritability and anxiety plus body symptoms like breast pain bloating and swelling & headache. exercise; avoid sugar salt & caffeine; consistent sleep; may need magnesium; possibly ssri.
please tell me could atrial fibrillation cause st heart depressions?
atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response often causes st depression in the ecg recordings.
st depression is probably a sign of ischaemia. i had an ecg yesterday. do i have to do a stress test soon?
if there is some st depression on your electrocardiogram (ekg) then it is wise to have a stress test to determine if there is ischemia.
severe aniexty heart racing breathless chest pain constant hospital trips don't believe i'm ok in state all time gp won't help unspecified t wave abnormality on ecg plz help?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
should alcohol strictly be avoided on gabapentin verapamil and imdur? i've read that alcohol should be avoided but have been taking a tincture that has alochol in it. i think i should stop using anything with alcohol do i need to be that vigilant?
yes absolutely don't consume alcohol (like a shot of vodka glass of wine can of beer) with gabapentin. together they synergistically cause cns depression. alcohol is known to cause vasodilatation as well so combining it with your blood pressure meds could be dangerous. that said a couple of drops of ethanol won't harm you. what else is in the tincture? those contents may be more worrisome.
when i get hangovers i feel sick all day until 7pm feel very anxious sweaty palpitations. have to stay in bed is this normal?
your life is precious! you deserve energy and satisfaction in life. hangover symptoms lasting until 7 pm next day indicate alcohol dependence. let the wise man within you ask: • reasons to use alcohol • depression anxiety blackouts dui • effect on relationships finances • need to see psychiatrist for alcohol use tolerance addiction • alcohol rehab program aa meetings • therapy for stresses
hi im a 21 year old and i suffer from depression and anxiety disorders. i recently have been suffering from blackouts but havent been passing out. i f?
you may be having a seriously nasty problem with your eye. if they don't have a maven in neuroophthalmology at u va then they surely must have one at the wilm's eye institute in baltimore. get evaluated at one of those
how much can i trust a nuclear stress test? i'm still worried my arteries might be clogged. ekg during it said "st depression possible" but negative?
all tests have their situational sensitivity and specificity. in the usual 26y/o it is not likely to have serious vascular obstruction. choosing a test in this situation has to be done with this in mind as well as the risks vs benefits of the test. discuss with your doctor.
have had chest (l; above breast); back pain indigest. weak morning pulse. xray clear but ecg showed slightly abnormal depression. how likely mi/pe?
i would suggest reviewing your ekg and labs such as a crp and cardiac enzymes with your physician. the test result may indicate strain on the cardiac tissue. is there any respiratory symptom such cough?
last year i had a nuclear stress test. mibi was normal but with 1 st depression on ecg. % ca in arteries was 0. can my chest pain now be heart related?
u r chest pains are non-cardiac!
low potassium symptoms?
many-depending on severity including muscle weakness/cramping tingling or numbness nausea or vomiting abdominal cramping bloating constipation palpitations (feeling your heart beat irregularly) passing large amounts of urine or feeling very thirsty most of the time fainting due to low blood pressure abnormal psychological behavior: depression psychosis delirium confusion or hallucinations.
my heart rate at my desk is around 95 is this ok? i have had an echo with an ef of 75% i'm also suffering from anxiety and depression right now
i understand your distress of anxiety and depression. “heart rate at my desk is around 95” is high it is likely due to anxiety. do breathing and music relaxation meditation yoga and visual imagery for relaxation. exercise feel good about your achievements. see psychiatrist for therapy and medication for anxiety follow with cardiologist for ejection fraction and heart rate.
not sure my child says he can't sit in school and it is causing him to miss everyday he just came out of a hemorrhoid but he says for some reason his butt fill's squishy when he sitt's down then he dosen't want to get up because he's woried that his pants
all of the symptoms and signs you described should be cause for concern and warrant investigation by a doctor. children are usually very aware of their own bodies and when something is not quite right. in addition to a doctor evaluating him (examining his rectum and genitalia) you have to consider social issues. is he having anxiety or depression for any reason? is he being bullied? are there problems in the home or at school? often times these types of situations can cause children to have actual physical symptoms. please have him evaluated right away. good luck.
polar ft4 sitting here my heart is fluctuating between 69 - 74bpm. i am so confused. what is my resting heart rate?
22 years male having resting heart rate 69-74bpm. it is normal. heart is regulated by sanode in heart is a normal pacemaker & normally fluctuates between 60-100bpm. it may vary with anxiety depression sensory confusion thyroid disorder. evaluation by ekg 24 hour holter monitoring thyroid function tests urea breath test abdominal ultrasound.
polar ft4 sitting here my heart is fluctuating between 69 - 74bpm. i am so confused. what is my resting heart rate?
hi. your self-awareness of depression confusion and anxiety will help you in understanding what i say. become less self-absorbed. resting pulse 69-74 is so normal it almost hurts. your mental illness is driving your obsession. get treated for your depression & anxiety. good luck!
pain in center of chest. echo ekg normal. have anxiety and 7 months pregnant. pain left side neck and left shoulder blade also?
ask your obgyn for a referral to a psychologist for an eval. a few sessions might tell if talk therapy can guide you thru this or if preg-safe meds are needed too. this is important to do now to reduce the risks of severe post-partum depression/anx. that's harder to treat - and the baby demands are greater. planning for the life changes is easier w/ help/support. help (like it says) can help. best
should i go back to the doctors and ask for a higher dose as ive had them since monday and i still panic only thing i dont get is heart palpitations?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
suffer aniexty had many clear ecgs last year started getting palps everyday anything to worry about or another symptom of aniexty?
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as anxiety or depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
safe to take tylenol (acetaminophen) pm or benadryl hours after taking trileptal? ate something that's making me itchy as well as chest pains from heavy lifting.
tylenol (acetaminophen) pm /benadryl both interact with trileptal causing cns depression and psychomotor retardation even if spaced out
took propranolol to combat anxiety in work situations. just tested with low testosterone. found some studies showing a connection. any knowledge?
"low t" can cause a number of different symptoms including depression fatigue loss of energy memory difficulty muscle pain loss of stamina mood swings nipple pain loss of sexual desire. some men have low t and have no symptoms at all. by definition the t level should be drawn before 8 am and should be below 300 mg/dl. there is no connection with the use of propranolol and low t
have well controlled lupus& dysautonomia. exhausted. my rheummd suggested i could be depressed. i don't agree. i exercise work eat healthy. now what?
depression is not a "bright line" disease where you clearly have it or you don't. it is a continuum of mood with many people who are physically active and otherwise in good help having milder forms of it (dysthymia) while others are more severe afflicted (major depressive disorder and/or bipolar disorders). if you have a primary care doctor get their opinion or ask to see a psychologist.
have lupus & dyautonomia. i exercise & eat healthy. struggle w/fatigue. lupus is stable so md assumed depression. why? is depression common with lupus
can be a response to any illness including lupus. fatigue can be a symptom of depression. chicken and egg. please think holistically. do what you can to eat well and move to the degree that you and your doc agree is ok. fill your mind w/uplifting things through podcasts and books and interesting movies. peace and good health. if depression persists seek support from a mental health pro.
i have ptsd depression and anxiety. is it ok to take trazodone prazosin buspar and hydrochlorothiazide together?
this is a complex issue. i specialize in bp issues and would be happy to do a 2nd opinion to get more information and then we can decide if it is ok. but in general can think good reason you cannot take them all together. i recommend going to drugs. com and look up drug interactions with these and any other over the counter things you are taking and then discuss with your dr.
i have permanent af is it ok to take codeine as a painkiller? i see that it can cause a fast heart rate. thanks
codeine is a dangerous drug with many side effects not a casual drug for all pain. in high doses it can cause respiratory depression constipation and inability to reason or drive a vehicle. identify your cause of pain and see a heart specialist for better safer alternatives with less side effects.
lexapro (escitalopram) and celexa both can cause qt prolongation. which ssri's do not cause this to happen. thank you?
is a novel new antidepressant which has a dual action on the serotonin synapse. not only is this drug effective for clinical depression it is also of particular benefit in combating sleep disturbances and the anxiety that so frequently coexists with depression. although its side effects are similar to the ssris they occur with less frequency.
lack energy & wakefulness. ongoing for past months. coffee energy drinks vitamin b no effect. lot of same during adolescents. blood tests normal. help?
lack of energy can have many causes including poor diet lack of sleep pregnancy thyroid disorder infection chronic illness and depression. if your doctor has done a physical exam and blood tests are normal you might consider your emotional state of health as the source of the symptoms especially since you experienced similar symptoms years ago. suggest talking to your doctor again.
names of most suitable ssri antidepressant needed for multiinfarct stroke dementia patient 67 with minor congestive heart failure atrial fibrillation diabetes. dosage and duration info appreciated.
there is some evidence that ssris help with post stroke remodeling where the brain works on regrowing connections between brain areas that were not killed by the stroke. there is also evidence they help prevent post stroke depression that is very common. not much reason to think one ssri is better than another. see your prescriber for specific dosage recommendations.
pulse was 87 on finger pulse oximeter. sneezed and it jumped to 131 for over a minute. what causes this? freaking out!
why are you checking a pulse ox? i see that your past history is anxiety depression related with other medications. assuming you've had a good physical by a doc with normal heart exam there is no reason to be checking yourself at home. what are you most worried about? treatment should exclude perseverating on obscure home collected data as this and include frequent counseling 4 coping skills
prescribed prozac (fluoxetine) (20mg) & metoprolol tartr. (25mg). but isn't there an interaction between the two? 19 female. sinus tach & anxiety/depression.
there is a moderate interaction between prozac (fluoxetine) and metoprolol. the prozac (fluoxetine) can make the effects of metoprolol more pronounced. if you should experience dizziness weakness shortness of breath or fainting notify your doctor. hope this helps.
prolonged bed rest cause bradycardia? i have depression and become inactive resting heart rate goes down 42 nrml cardio wrk up and no symptoms.
gives you lots of time to think and perhaps over-think you situation. please do what your doc asks and consider using a book based on cognitive therapy called "feeling good" by david burns. it can help w. this and beyond. peace and good health.
periods of sudden heart racing even if i'm just relaxing. i do have anxiety but i'm not always anxious when it occurs.
i understand your distress. thank you for informing about anxiety depression coeliac disease use of clonazepam. coeliac disease can have depression and irritability; keppra (levetiracetam) may cause depression and anxiety. see neurologist for benefits and side effects of keppra (levetiracetam) and internist for coeliac disease. clonazepam is for anxiety not depression. see psychiatrist for therapy for stress and medication
so im laying in bed my heart rate is riding about 50-55 im 27 male weigh 190 and dont exercise should i worry?
your life is a gift! cherish this gift. let wise man within you ask about: • risk of diabetes heart disease high bp due to being overweight and lack of exercise • risk of low self-esteem anxiety and depression • limiting happiness and enjoyment of outdoors • limiting pleasures of relationships your health is precious!
taking propranolol and hydroxyzine since yesterday. usually smoke marijuana daily. aside from general safety will my anxiety be worsened?
marijuana by itself causes anxiety which i am not sure it can be controlled with propranolol and hydroxzine both together have no interaction but when mixed with marijuana cns depression and psychomotor impairment might ensue i know it isn't easy to quit but that's another acute turn in your health requiring more medicines the choice is yours goodluck
had routine stress/echo test which showed no st depression and good contractility. but had peaked t waves at maximum excercise. significant?
only the drs ordering and interpreting this test can give you the best advice. there is no such thing as a routing stress echo test. why was it done?
i have ptsd; infrequent migraines high blood pressure and anxiety and chronic depression (yeah what a cocktail haha) i am medicated; propanalol ma?
please resubmit and insure that you question is clear & specific.
just started 5 mg of bystolic (nebivolol). can this help with heart rate as well as blood pressure. take at night with tegretol-ativan1mg and trazadone. 25. ok?
it can lower bp and heart rate. why are you taking 3 nerve meds. they have additive effect of cns depression and psychomotor impair. we propose to look for the underlying causes for your cerebral symptoms and hi bp and hi hr. to learn how treating the cause may be able to help visit us www. ehacstl. com. underlying causes could be environmental nutritional and hormonal
just received result of 24 hours holter. everything normal no arhytmia no svt depression etc. but theres around 1000 pvc/pac. arent these arhytmia?
yes it is. i am a well known arrhythmia expert in these type of situations you can consult me if you want provided that you have the copies of the holters ecgs.
just curious how is a panic attack any different than cardio exercise on the body? both stress the heart elevate heart rate and bp etc.
panic attack stems from anxiety worry depression and is emotionally situational and comes and goes until what's causing the anxiety state is resolved or under control. . cardio exercise is temporarily controlled state that is willfully purposely being driven and after this controlled state( exercise) is stopped everything such as hearty rate pulse rate goes back to normal.
low bp on home monitor 90/62 and bp at doctors while ago 130/70. which is accurate. heart palpitations and chest pain doc says anxiety 19 year old femal?
provided any physical cause is thoroughly ruled out for your symptoms let me ask you have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
lymphocytes abs 3. 12 monocytes 0. 97 total wbc 9. 6. smyptoms are extreme fatigue feel hot intermittent near syncope. possible causes?
this blood work alone does not give an answer for your symptoms and also do not think this is the cause. you need few more testing before come to a conclusion of nonspecific fatigue or related to underlying depression or chemical imbalance in brain
over 2012 i've had many ekgs an echo a stress test and blood work. everything comes back ok except i have a fast heart rate. why am i so fatigued? !?
will need to see a good doc to make you and your doc have covered the bases. if nothing can be found after extensive testing then you must consider depression / anxiety.
on propranolol for wolff parkinson white syndrome. last night my pulse was 39 while laying down. b/p was normal & it's normal now. should i worry?
the beta-blocker is obviously causing bradycardia (heart rate<60). at 19 you should have plenty of physiological reserve to stay hemodynamically stable even with hr = 39 so you had no symptoms. however let your doctor know. (s)he may want to lower your dose of propranolol because possible side effects of beta-blockers are depression and impotence.
post pregnancy im having anxiety i become anxious its diff to sleep when i wake up i get fast heart rate ecg ok. anemia or hormonal problem?
hello ~ if this is your first baby anxiety is very much the norm with a new mom because this is a very precious package and it does not come with assembly instructions and now all that reading during pregnancy is having to be enacted. get as much support as you can from mom dr and nurses and never be scared to shout for help. be careful this is not a prodrome to depression. get help early if so
question i do not have heart failer but my doctor got me on metoprolo 25mga:day my bp is in 125 82 avrege i been so derprest can it be b b?
lower dose of this betablocker may cause depression check with your physician.
question i do not have heart failer but my doctor got me on metoprolo 25mga:day my bp is in 125 82 avrege i been so derprest can it be b b?
depression is known side effect.
st segment depression when exercising. cardiac mri calcium/coronary ct and echo were all normal. history of nsvt. what could this be? recommendation?
a depressed st segment usually means some degree of coronary disease and in your case it can be best answered by the cardiologist who ordered these tests. in the meanwhile avoid strenuous exertion until you get this issue clarified.
suffer depression+anxiety. is this combo safe? metoprolol 25mg for bp bupropion 300mg prozac 20mg xanax (alprazolam) 0. 5mg(5 times/week). no seizure history.
please have your doctor refer you to a psychologist. it will take some time but the psychologist will be very helpful!
st depression on ekg noted as possible digitalis effect - but i don't take digitalis. is that a general term for certain characteristics?
f 54: st depression on ekg noted as possible digitalis effect - but i don't take digitalis. is that a general term for certain characteristics? ans: yes it is used when the ekg looks like you are taking dig. so you need to ask your team for explanation as they know you best. can also be due to early lvh (enlarged heart) from high blood pressure for example. note taking metoprolol. for high bp?
since last week i have had what feels like acid in my throat and tight chest. i suffer anxiety and depression and it's making me anxious?
might have esophageal reflux. this would give you the sensation in your throat and a tight chest. make an appointment with a health care professional for evaluation diagnosis and treatment. it will probably be easy and inexpensive to treat.
taking zoloft (sertraline) for about a month. started having weird heartbeats and nausea is this normal? will it pass?
zoloft (sertraline) is used for treatment of depression and anxiety. it can cause nausea and palpitations. it can also be due to anxiety discuss with psychiatrist: • diagnosis of depression anxiety or both • intensity of symptoms and impairment of functioning when zoloft (sertraline) was started • improvement in symptoms and functioning now • decrease the dose • take zoloft (sertraline) after the meal • therapy for stresses.
threw up blood 5 times last night major headache and my heart beat steal feels like it's getting weaker. seen a physco he said there's nothing he can help me with said i'm normal and it's not anxiety or depression. need to see what more tests to do?
31 m notes: threw up blood 5 times last night major headache and my heart beat steal feels like it's getting weaker. seen a physco he said there's nothing he can help me with said i'm normal and it's not anxiety or depression. . need to see what more tests to do? ans: it is never normal to vomit blood. see a real dr. and tell your story and ask what the problem is.
us it safe to use tramadol 400mg as needed with doxepin 150mg @ bedtime? recently diagnoses with sinus tachycardia? doctor recently prescribed both.
combination may increase cns depression psychomotor impairment cause low blood pressure and rarly cases a syndrome of intense serotonin release that can be dangerous. probably safe short tern in loe to moderate doses.
probably a silly question but can having a broken heart actually cause physical illness. it feels like it could.?
selamat datang. actually you can have physical illness from mental illness. so if your heart /jantung was broken leading to depression and sadness you can ultimately have a lot of other symptoms like stomach aches and chest pain. good luck.
are my symptoms all a result of anxiety/depression? for last 3 years: - decreasing energy and immunity - episodes of abdominal pain daily - frequent urination - sleep 12 hours daily and get a cold regularly - episodes of fast heart rate ear noise and ch
although many of these symptoms might be explained by depression and anxiety they could have other causes. that is the reason that your medical health needs to be checked out before just assuming it is from a mental health problem. for instance: is your vitamin d level normal? is your carnitine level normal? is your thyroid level normal? if you are male - is your testosterone level normal? are you anemic? do you have a urinary tract infection? this is a tiny sampling. i recommend that you have a thorough physical examination and if none of your symptoms are explained by medical conditions then follow through with a psychiatric evaluation. take care.
prescribed omega 3 for psychosis prevention should i buy omega 3 only product or one that include omega 3 6 9. is this an issue. ?
some research does show that omega 3's may help stabilize mood in bipolar disorder. people using these in addition to their mood stabilizing medications had less mania and depression than those using the mood stabilizers alone. our diets usually contain plenty of omega 6 and omega 9 fats but are often deficient in omega 3's. if planning to supplement i suggest focusing on omega 3's.
can propranolol cause depression been on it five weeks and feel terrible i was put on it for ectopic heart beats?
propranolol has potential side effects of dysphoria and depression. please let your prescribing medical provider know. take care.
can propranolol cause depression been on it five weeks and feel terrible i was put on it for ectopic heart beats?
known side effects do include depression and depressive symptoms. please talk w/ your provider for alternatives. i expect they will offer another drug to deal w/ the depression. i'd hope you might also consider cutting out salt as it is a major cause of the original problem. it is not even dangerous if you are otherwise in good cardiac health. <link>
can propranolol cause depression been on it five weeks and feel terrible i was put on it for ectopic heart beats?
yes. absolutely. please contact your doctor to let them know you have a treatment failure.
why i feel so tired when i talk or when i walking?
needs to be assessed by your doctor. it could be nutritional hormonal lifestyle related depression etc. he/she will figure it out and help you. peace and good health.
symptoms are numbness around the nose and mouth and chest pains. found that it could be linked to depression and paresthesia. thoughts?
anxiety and depression generally are not immediately life threatening problems. your heart is. you need to get your heart evaluated asap you may not have a second chance.
symptoms are numbness around the nose and mouth and chest pains. found that it could be linked to depression and paresthesia. thoughts?
first step is to get a physical check up to rule out heart disease vascular neurological etc and then to consider paresthesias related to anxiety and depression.
what can cause st depressions. my cardiac enzymes are normal.
st segment depression can occur for many reasons inc without significant disease however planar or flat st depression especially if new is considered a pretty good indicator of ischaemia(oxygen lack)
what is the best meds for lack of energy and depression for my mom. she also has high blood pressure. she's 54 doesn't talk much outside the house. ?
go with her to her doctor and get a referral for a phd psychologist and a psychiatrist. this way she can get the therapy she needs and get on the best medications for her system. her quality of life depends on this and you are a wonderful daughter for helping her.
what is the best meds for lack of energy and depression for my mom. she also has high blood pressure. she's 54 doesn't talk much outside the house. ?
your mom needs to see a good psychiatrist to treat her depression and also needs to rule out organic abnormalities such as thyroid.
what is the best meds for lack of energy and depression for my mom. she also has high blood pressure. she's 54 doesn't talk much outside the house. ?
there is no medicine for lack of energy;it is probably a symptom of her depression which can be treated with therapy and/or medication. if she has high blood pressure she must see a physician to get it under control.
would zoloft or viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride) be safer for a patient with with cardiac disease. 2 lad stents. switching off cymbalta. my dr is open to either?
there is good evidence for tx of depression improving outcomes for cardiac pts. however the decision to take an anti-depressant and the determination of which med to select in your specific case should be made in close consultation with your doc. both sertraline & viibryd (vilazodone hydrochloride) are generally effective and have good safety profiles. rarely either med can have serious ses. close monitoring is wise.
what is the best way to approach post open heart surgery rage and depression?
have a conversation with a mental health practitioner so that you can find new ways to deal with the anger and depression that are natural consequences of heart surgery in a lot of people. there is good help available for this. it's important to deal with these emotions as soon as possible otherwise they create stress which can affect the whole body and the heart.
what is the difference between inderal 40mg and toprol (metoprolol) xl 50?
inderal is more lipophilic than toprol (metoprolol) - it crosses the blood brain barrier more readily than toprol (metoprolol). thus it's better for migraine and stage fright but can cause more fatigue and depression. toprol (metoprolol) is more beta 1 specific than inderal. that makes it a better drug for someone who may have copd or mild asthma.
what are the early signs of a brain tumor? and my heart feels heavy. im only 19. could this be a depression brain tumor or is it stress?
where did you get that idea? sounds more like youre depressed and wondering why. a psychiatrist whould know significantly more about brain tumors and depressive problems than you do. guessing leavesyou upset. a depression is more likely that a brain tumor but find out and get whatever helpyou need.
what are the early signs of a brain tumor? and my heart feels heavy. im only 19. could this be a depression brain tumor or is it stress?
you can not answer this question without a better history. see a good doctor.
which type of heart disease can stress/depression give you?
it can cause arrhythmia a and dilated cardiomyopathy.
what tips do you have for a patient recovering from a stroke?
it may seem obvious but putting forth as much effort as possible in rehabilitation will yield maximum results. in addition to the physical impairments the fight against depression is often also difficult as a patient adjusts to the results of the stroke. need a more personalized answer? › disclaimer
what can cause trouble concentrating and memory loss? drug and alcohol free my whole life. it's getting progressively worse. i have near-syncope
depression can impair concentration. although it shouldn't cause memory loss per se it often causes apathy (lack of interest) which might mean less things to remember. also are you taking any prescription meds that might impair memory? if the near-syncope is not caused by medication you may need to be checked for an adrenal problem.
what cause blackouts i have been blacking out a couple of times. can anyone tell me i have high bp and depression?
if you are truly experiencing a loss of consciousness then it can either be from a cardiac or neurologic cause or both combined. if it is neurologic then a seizure would be the most likely cause. if it is related to bp then neurocardiogenic syncope could be the cause. however it happens when the bp drops without a corresponding rise in the pulse rate especially with a change in posture.
what can i take to overcome fatigue? . is there some herbal medicine w/o side effects? i am taking 200 mg sertraline amlodipine & atenolol.
one needs to look for what's causing fatigue before looking for herbal or non herbal treaent as it could be side effect of your medications both amlodipine and propranolol are known to do it. on the other hand anxiety or depression not treated fully can cause fatigue too.
when can you start feeling the full effects of fish oil for depression?
krill oil and fish oil are the new snake oil both are high in omega 3 fatty acids which are extremely fragile. omega 3 fish oils reduce triglycerides by impairing the liver's ablility to make them. however the oxidative stress caused by fish oil actually raises ldl cholesterol. some day we may use the phrase "this is just more fish /krill oil" or "here comes the fish/krill oil salesman".
when can you start feeling the full effects of fish oil for depression?
statistical associations between fish oil (actually dha & epa from phytoplankton) & depression have been observed but this does not prove cause & effect & no double-blind clinical trials to demonstrate efficacy have been started much less completed to my awareness. a majority of research is observational because it is cheaper & is used for sales promotion. good luck; yet buyer beware as always.
would it be possible for depression to lead to cardiovascular diseases?
there is so called broken heart syndrome-which is a temporary heart condition brought on by stressful situations such as the death of loved one etc. the condition was originally called takotsubo cardiomyopathy. today it's also referred to as stress cardiomyopathy stress-induced cardiomyopathy. yes it can happen vice versa-just like my other colleagues reffering here.
would it be possible for depression to lead to cardiovascular diseases?
yes this can happen not only for psychosocial reasons but also from mechanistic ones. research studies show that depressed people have exaggerated platelet reactivity -- and this can also lead to vascular damage and thrombosis. also depressed people have higher inflammatory cytokines that play a role in atherosclerosis. other inflammatory markers like c-reactive protein are elevated too.
would it be possible for depression to lead to cardiovascular diseases?
it can go both ways also treatment for depression can affect the cardiovascular system.
would it be possible for depression to lead to cardiovascular diseases?
depression can lead to poor life choice which could predispose you to cad in the future like smoking over eating not exercising. there have studies which show patients who develop depression after heart surgery have higher complication and death rate. i think the same holds for heart attacks too. i put most of my patients on antidepression meds after surgery.
would it be possible for depression to lead to cardiovascular diseases?
anxiety depression and certainly personality traits such as type a can contribute to increased risk and worse prognosis for cardiovascular disease (cvd) which can increase risk for comorbid depression and anxiety. for further discussion see: <link>
what can i do to lose more weight? i eat only poultry and fish vegetables and fruits egg beaters. but take geodon (ziprasidone) for depression and anxiety.
exercise and caloric limitations. geodon (ziprasidone) can increase weight gain but if you drop your portion sizes and increase your exercise activity you could lose or at least stabilize your weight. carbohydrate excess is the major cause of weight gain with geodon (ziprasidone). watch your carbs.
weakness inability to concentrate could it be a stroke?
if it's weakness that develops quickly and is only on one side yes it could be a stroke and it needs immediate medical evaluation. the "inability to concentrate" is harder to define. could be from many things -- from intoxication with something to a metabolic problem to depression to adhd and many more. if it developed suddenly along with one-sided weakness please get to an emergency room.
why am i waking up to a pounding heartbeat after i drink a lot?
if you mean drinking a lot of alcohol the most likely reasons are dehydration low blood sugar and/or that alcohol for all its pleasant side effects is still a kind of poison. asian & first nations heritage also holds a genetic defect that makes alcohol even more toxic. it also does not play will with other medications especially for depression or anxiety. ask your doc. don't drink until then.
why would i have major tingling in neck on right side and veins poppg on eyelids and cheeks? had3 stents in 2002. triple bypass in 2008 which resulted in me getting mrsa in sternum. put on vanco and had several surgeries removing parts of sternum. i l
unfortunately yhe only way to know what is going on is to follow up with your cardiologist. you may need another angiogram. the fact that you stated you are "losing the will to live" is worrisome. it sounds like you are dealing with major depression which is understandable given your medical history. i strongly encourage you to seek the help of a psychiatrist or therapist. best of luck to you.
what evidence exists on short- and long-term negative effects of ghb (street name g) on the central nervous system heart liver or other major organ?
short term sedation including respiratory depression may require intubation long term effects are unknown since prospective data are needed. but it can be addicting since it will cause a surge of dopamine the chief chemical involved in addiction.
what should i do with a bitter elderly woman who has had a stroke who only wants to agure 24/7?
an elderly post-stroke patient has a significant likelihood of depression. aside from a patient caring care-goiver she would benefit from depression evaluation and treatment.
what does it mean to have mild pectus excavatum?
mild sternal depression.
what could cause heart pain and allergies and loss of appetite and green mucus and insomnia in a 20 year old?
see u physician if u don't have medical problems it could be depression u need to be seen for evaluation.
what is system is low when you have hypotension?
hypotension means low blood pressure. normal blood presssure is normally 120/80 if blood pressure falls belw 90/60 then it is called hypotension. in most people it causes no symptons but in others it may cause dizziness fainting lack of concentration blurred vision fatigue cold skin and depression. if some one has those syptoms they need to see their physician and get checked and get treated.
why do i get short of breath after taking a benadryl (diphenhydramine)?
benadryl (diphenhydramine) is a sedating drug. this could cause some respiratory depression that is making you sob. however you may also be allergic to the drug. if you believe you are allergic you should avoid the drug and speak to your physician. an allergy can cause you to stop breathing after taking it.
what may happen as pulmonary fibrosis progresses?
worsening shortness of breath persistent cough episodes of sudden deterioration need for oxygen use limited mobility depression need for life support devices.
which kind of heart disease can stress/depression give you?
stress causes magnesium depletion and magnesium depletion is associated with heart arrythmias high blood pressure and heart attacks.
which kind of heart disease can stress/depression give you?
high blood pressure is number one. and most important. if your anxiety depression has led to using tobacco then you're at even greater risk. please see your docotr to deal with anxiety depression.
will smoking weed affect raynaud's disease?
there is a reason for thc to be illegal. thc causes chronic amotivational syndrome depression psychosis paranoia anxiety weight gain hypertension and decreased testis size. it takes any motivation out of you. worse it is the gateway drug that will push you into morphine heroin etc. thc clinics are good for terminal aids and cancer cases. is raynaud's one of them? of course not.
what factors does the final result of a cardiac rehabilitation program depend on?
important patient factors in determining success of cardiac rehab are motivation to make healthy lifestyle changes and compliance with advice from medical professionals. psychological factors e. g. depression and anxiety are critical factors that influence this. having a personable and invested therapist who takes an interest in you as an individual is paramount as well.
what role does a psychologist play during a cardiac rehabilitation program?
psychologists can be integral to cardiac rehab by: counseling on weight loss including the obstacles and how to overcome them; working on smoking cessation including hypnosis when appropriate; and providing guidance on stress reduction techniques as well as ways to control depression and anxiety all of which increase risks of disease and dying in cardiac patients.
what role does a psychologist play during a cardiac rehabilitation program?
one of the physical issues in cardiac rehab is pain. pain becomes a psychological issue when if experienced intensely and for a long enough period of time it puts the patient at risk for such mental health issues as anxiety and depression. this is where psychologists come in to try to help with pain management. imagine the anxiety and depression from cardiac surgery and accompanying pain.
what are the effects of heart disease?
a person stricken with heart disease suffers from disability depression and is at higher risk for sudden cardiac death.
will clonidine and sertraline help me with suboxone withdrawal?
clonidine can help with certain aspects of opiate withdrawal such as feeling shaky but may not help as much with other withdrawal symptoms like diarrhea and aches and pains. sertraline may help with some depression associated with coming off opiates. overall one is always better off seeing a physician who is familiar with opiate withdrawal and how to best manage all of the symptoms.
what is causing me to have chest pain on the right side of my chest near my shoulder up to the base of my neck? hi doctor i am experiencing pain in the right side of my chest that goes sometime to the base of my neck. i am getting over a cold and i have
based on the history you gave including your symptoms and blood pressure(bp) readings you are in fact at risk for a heart or stroke. you should schedule a visit with your doctor right away or go to a local emergency room if your chest pain is still present. you need an examination blood tests and treatment for your high bp (hypertension) you will also need an ekg. all these things will help your doctor determine any cardiac issues present along with other issues that are contributory. cutting down on alcohol would also be a good idea especially since you are on medications (for your depression) that interact with alcohol. please see a doctor right away if you have not done so already.
what could cause ringing in the ears? it seems to be worse after eating i have had my blood pressure checked and it seemed ok.?
your ringing in the ears may be a symptom known as "tinnitus". there is a huge list of conditions associated with tinnitus such as: - age related hearing loss - exposure to loud noise - medication side effects - ear wax impaction - head and neck injuries - blood vessel disorders - acoustic neuroma - meniere's disease - stress and depression tinnitus is very common - 1 in 5 people have it! the best way to evaluate the cause and possible treatments is to see an ear nose and throat doctor (otolaryngologist). tinnitus can improve with treatment of the underlying disorder so it is worth looking into.
what r the signs of fibermyalga swollen feet muscle cramps stumbling slow moving headache jaws hurt skins is feeling like its a hotdog about to burst
signs of fibromyalgia are: muscle pain muscle spasms or tightness weakness in the arms and legs leg cramps fatigue difficulty sleeping stiffness once you wake up waking stiffness after staying in one position for too long problems remembering and concentrating abdominal pain bloating nausea constipation diarrhea headaches jaw and face pain anxiety depression numbness or tingling in the face arms hands legs or feet urinary changes a feeling of swelling in the hands and feet painful menstrual periods dizziness sensitivity to odors noise bright lights medications certain foods and cold (may not be to all things listed) as you see this is a pretty extensive list and a difficult diagnosis to make at times. please see a medical professional for an evaluation. good luck.
what should i do for my pain or go to the doctors? my heart area is hurting really bad. the pain has been going on off and on for the past 20 min. the pain lasts about 10 seconds and happens about ever 45 seconds. i've never had this pain before. im only
you need to let your parent or guardian know that you are feeling this way. a medical exam is definitely in order. you could be dealing with costochondritis which is inflammation between the ribs it causes symptoms much like the one you described. in addition lung issues like asthma or even cardiac problems need to be ruled out. lastly stress anxiety and depression can present this way. please visit your doctor or urgent care for an evaluation. good luck.
what can i do? i am a 56 year old male i weigh 450 lbs. i have copd asthma and i have a c-pap i take spiriva advair flonase and singulair. i take coumadin because i had blood clots in my lungs. i have arthritis in my knees and i can't stand very long beca
there is always help if you are ready to receive it internalize it and act on it. due to your multiple problems you will need a multi-disciplinary approach. start by following up with all your doctors and following their recommendations. the key here i believe is for you to seek counseling. dealing with so many issues is very difficult and can take a toll on your mental well being and your ability to cope and deal with what may seem to be an overwhelming or hopeless situation and to ultimately accept all possible outcomes good or bad. in addition you need to be screened for depression and treated accordingly. i wish you all the best.
what treatment is best for me? i'm constantly feeling hopelessness and sadness most of the time feeling some kind of pain in heart(not physical pain). due to this i've no concentration in work and neither i'm getting interest in work. i'm not finding ha
these are very serious symptoms consistent with depression and i recommend you seek medical attention promptly! try to connect with supportive family and friends to help you through this period and realize that you are valuable and that there is help to get you feeling better! there is a great ted talk i would also suggest you see: <link> ted. com/playlists/175/the_struggle_of_mental_health
what treatment is best for me? i'm constantly feeling hopelessness and sadness most of the time feeling some kind of pain in heart(not physical pain). due to this i've no concentration in work and neither i'm getting interest in work. i'm not finding ha
you are suffering from depression. you need to seek help from a mental health professional for evaluation and treatment. there are many drug therapies that can help with depression along with counseling or a drug free plan if you prefer. if you ever feel like hurting yourself and have a plan to do so please call 911 or go to your local emergency department. please seek help right away. i wish you all the best.
what are the concequences of stress?
1 emotional 2 physical 3 functional. 1-irritability sadness anger loss of hope poor energy & drive depression moodiness rages loss of fun. 2- insomnia weakness weight loss or gain poor physical stamina susceptibility to infections muscle & joint pain hormonal changes (menstrual) 3- work problems (missing late quitting fired) family conflicts bad financial decisions injury prone.
what are possible conditions when your heart hurts time to time on a daily base?
depression neruopathy fibromyalgia cardiac disease gastrointestinal disease musculoskeletal.
what are signs of dilantin toxicity? i have been having bad chest pains for a few days been dizzy shakey weak just started running a fever 2 hours ago been throwing up. i have had this before but i don't remeber much about it.
"the initial symptoms are nystagmus ataxia and dysarthria. other signs are tremor hyperreflexia lethargy slurred speech nausea vomiting. the patient may become comatose and hypotensive. death is due to respiratory and circulatory depression. " if you don't feel well go see your family physican.
what are the most common side effects of heart bypass surgery?
depression and anxiety are two common psychological effects associated with heart surgery. you should discuss any psychological symptoms and seek a mental health evaluation in consultation with your pcp.
which is worst depression or apoplexy?
apoplexy refers to an acute vascular insufficiency or hemorrhage usually in the brain the pituitary gland or the ovary. it is characterized often by a sudden falling out or even unconsciousness due to the bleeding. it is a very acute event. depression is a chronic sometimes very severe disease that usually responds well to treatment w counseling or medications. depression has risks but fewer.
which is worst depression or apoplexy?
apoplexy is an outdated term that used to mean a stroke or brain hemorrhage. since these can result in sudden death you could probably say apoplexy is worse than depression. but you're really comparing apples and oranges — like asking if depression is worse than a concussion or a broken arm. it all depends.
will dalatas interreact with blood pressure thyroid celexa (citalopram) and welbutrin? i have high blood pressure thyroid disease depression and anxiety
is this a prescription medication? find the exact spelling of this drug or supplement and reask your question please. i cannot find "dalatas" as a prescription med or supplement?
what are risk factors for heart disease in women?
high blood pressure high cholesterol obesity (bmi 30+) family history of heart disease. some things increase risk more for gals than guys: smoking mental stress/depression lower estrogen after menopause; metabolic syndrome (belly fat+high blood pressure+high triglycerides+high blood sugar). we can: get moving don't smoke eat right watch our weight balance work/play.
what is the side effect of atenolol medicine and does it affect the sexual desire?
atenolol is in the family of meds called beta-blockers. atenolol is the member with the most side effects. it can cause wt gain depression ed increases in blood sugar etc. beta-blockers should be avoided if you don't have heart disease. if you do ask for bystolic (nebivolol). if you don't ask to get off the beta-blockers asap. don't stop you should wean - talk to your dr.
what are the tests for dropsy?
dropsy excessive accumulation of fluid in the tissues is a clinical diagnosis. if you press the skin on a bone with your thumb for about 30 seconds and if it leaves a depression that is the usual test for dropsy. additional tests are needed to determine the cause which may be diseases of heart kidney liver or intestine.
what is mevacor's more common side effects?
statin drugs such as mevacor (lovastatin) are way overprescribed &cause muscle weakness cramps and weakness but also cause joint pain mental slowing depression aggressive behavior and are now implicated in causing cancers alzheimers parkinsons disease. be sure you are taking coq10 100-200mg a day while on a med like this. read "the great cholesterol con". huge controversy that most don't know about.
was diagnoaed with major depression and put on effexor (venlafaxine) will this help with ocd dizziness chest pains coordination and headaches as well as eye flutt?
treating depression is probably a crucial step towards improvement in these and other areas. i hope the effexor (venlafaxine) will be helpful but it doesn't stop with the prescription. keep working with a good doctor until your treatment is well established and causing improvement -- then address the remaining symptoms. and of course continue treatment to maintain improvement and achieve further success.
was diagnoaed with major depression and put on effexor (venlafaxine) will this help with ocd dizziness chest pains coordination and headaches as well as eye flutt?
the effexor (venlafaxine) may help with mood and anxiety including ocd symptoms. it may or may not help with headaches sometimes it makes headaches worse and probably won't help eye flutters which are called blepherospasms. some of what you describe dizziness and chest pain sound more like symptoms of anxiety. effexor (venlafaxine) may help that as well. one common side effect of effexor (venlafaxine) can be high blood pressure.
what are the side effects of timolol drops?
you may experience may experience a burning and stinging sensation immediately after the medication is administered. you may experience momentary blurred or double vision after administering the drops. some people will notice depression or mood changes dizziness drowsiness a slow or irregular heartbeat or breathing difficulties.
what if any are the side effects of mevacor (lovastatin)?
statin drugs such as mevacor (lovastatin) are way overprescribed &cause muscle weakness cramps and weakness but also cause joint pain mental slowing depression aggressive behavior and are now implicated in causing cancers alzheimers parkinsons disease. be sure you are taking coq10 100-200mg a day while on a med like this. read "the great cholesterol con". huge controversy that most don't know about.
what is fluvoxamine maleate used for?
in the us luvox (fluvoxamine) is approved for social phobia and ocd. in europe it is approve for depression. this doesn't mean that you can't use it for depression but you can't sell it with an indication for depression.
what are mevacor's side effects.?
statin drugs such as mevacor (lovastatin) are way overprescribed &cause muscle weakness cramps and weakness but also cause joint pain mental slowing depression aggressive behavior and are now implicated in causing cancers alzheimers parkinsons disease. be sure you are taking coq10 100-200mg a day while on a med like this. read "the great cholesterol con". huge controversy that most don't know about.
what is the treatment for clonidine overdose?
adults naloxone initial no respiratory depression: 0. 1 to 0. 4 mg iv or im respiratory depression: 1 to 2 mg iv or im next if no response or incomplete response give 2 mg iv or im every 3-5 minutes to a total of 10-20 mg atropine 0. 5 to 1 mg iv dopamine 5-20 mcg/kg/minute start low and titrate for effect.
would there be any side effects from sandostatin (octreotide)?
constipation diarrhea foul smelling stools gases heartburn headache dizziness nausea muscle pain nose bleed hair loss pain at site of injection rash shortness of breath depression.
what are the side effects of timolol eye drops if you keep using it?
there are local side effects of dryness eye irritation and that can vary with the formulation of drops. serious systemic side effects include heart block decreased libido depression but these are very rare. your doctor will help you monitor for these serious side effects and if you are taking heart medications an ekg may be indicated.
what causes feling faint and dizzy? as well as feeling like you're in a fog? simliar to the feeling of pain kllers. only im not taking anything.
many things can cause this including dehydration sugar issues thyroid disorders and even psychiatric issues such as severe depression etc. you need a thorough evaluation with your doctor.
why am i experiencing depression from taking vytorin (ezetimibe and simvastatin) and/or uniretic?
vytorin (ezetimibe and simvastatin) aka simvistatin is a cholesterol lowering drug. cholesterol is a building block of all "steroid" hormones in the body. if steroid hormones such as progesterone estrogen and testosterone are decreased depression will ensue. cholesterol is also vital in neurotransmitter transmission in the brain. lastly statins block coq10 necessary for the production of atp (energy) in the brain .
why am i experiencing depression from taking vytorin (ezetimibe and simvastatin) and/or uniretic?
i looked into the side effects of vytorin (ezetimibe and simvastatin) online but failed to notice its specific relation with depression. for your reference welcome to <link> (ezetimibe and simvastatin)-side-effects. html. best wish.
what are omega-3 fatty acids?
omega-3 fatty acids are considered essential fatty acids because they're necessary for our health but our bodies can't make them. we have to eat them: fish such as salmon tuna and halibut; other seafood including algae and krill; some plants; and nut oils. they're crucial in brain development and are anti-inflammatory. helpful in heart disease depression bipolar disorder ra and others.
what are some possible side effects from taking citalopram and propranolol?
celexa with inderal (propranolol) at therapeutic doses should not cause bad interaction. celexa helps with depression & inderal (propranolol) is a bp medicine that helps with tremors & anxiety.
what is the average life span after a major stroke due to ischemia?
causation of stroke may affect life expectation. severity of stroke location of damage age and co-morbidities are significant determinants. very important in mortality is the presence or absence of depression which is common and must be treated for best results. strong social support network is very beneficial.
what kind of heart diseases can stress / depression give you?
takotsubo cardiomyopathy has been associated with stress and depression. it's also called broken heart syndrome. people with this problem have a weakening of the heart muscle usually in the absence of coronary disease. after time the muscle will regain some strength and function though some people will die from it.
what is wrong with my heart if i have murmur and pectus excavatum?
pectus excavatum is a condition characterized by overgrowth of the cartilage of the chest wall causing a depression of the breastbone (sternum). this can press on the heart causing a murmur. surgical fixation is usually not needed unless there are severe symptoms usually shortness of breath or exercise intolerance.
what is related to cardiovascular disease?
in addition to medical complications such as heart attacks strokes there are comorbid conditions such as anxiety disorder depression and even cognitive complications. psychological neuropsychological and psychiatric complications often go missed and impair quality of life and leave risk factors untreated. more: <link>
why can one's personality change after open heart surgery?
heart surgery brings one to recognize one's vunerability and some react with fear and depression - can be treated with medications. others react with a positive change in their attitude towards loved ones and life generally.
when i'm in a crowded place i feel like fainting but i don't. it also happens inside malls?
sounds like you might have an anxiety disorder panic attacks or possibly depression with anxiety attacks. you could get help by working with a psychiatrist -- along with a psychotherapist if the psychiatrist does not also do psychotherapy. there are very good treatments for these conditions.
what are common side effects of heart bypass surgery?
depression and anxiety are two common psychological effects associated with heart surgery. you should discuss any psychological symptoms and seek a mental health evaluation in consultation with your pcp.
why is it that when i get sad i have actual physical pain in my chest?
sadness can cause shallow breathing & chest tightness leading to discomfort. depression is assoc'd w/ low serotonin (5ht). 5ht has pain gait-keeping functions & helps keep blood vessels flexible low 5ht may increase pain cause poor sleep & migraine headaches. some antidepressants such as effexor (venlafaxine) and elavil which increase 5ht and norepinephrine are used treat some pain disorders.
what are symtoms of demetia from high blood pressure and mind strokes?
symptoms relate to where the brain damage occurs and this varies in vascular dementi the kind of dentist caused by strokes. common symptoms can include trouble understanding and using language trouble with walking or swallowing memory problems depression delusions (fixed false beliefs) or delirium.
what are some social issues concerning cardiovascular disease?
there are a variety of issues. for one cardiovascular disease affects women as much as men but women are not evalueated as aggressively. minorities especially african-americans and hispanics have higher incidents of disease than whites but undergo less testing and treatment. finally people with heart disease are more prone to depression and negative economic impact.
what kind of exercises can help a stroke victim recover?
repetitive motions working on the are where weakness exists will help. be aware that depression and the loss of effort and or hope can be detrimental for recovery. repetitive efforts to use the neural circuits which have been damaged however although frustrating can be quite helpful.
what causes severe and frequent headaches other than stress and anxiety and could low blood pressure be affecting my headaches and if so some ways of?
there can be many causes some quite serious and someone with severe and frequent headaches and blood pressure fluctuations should have their questions first adressed by their primary care physician or neurologist before dismissing them as due to stress or depression. muscle tension stress and depression can make headaches worse but proper medical evaluation is the first step.
what are the chances of having a seizure on wellbutrin (bupropion) while drinking? i've taken it b4 but i'm on a lot of meds for thyroid bp cholesterol depression mood & sleep. i'm on it to quit smoking.
alcohol withdrawal seizures do not happen in social drinkers. if you are drinking enough that you are worried about seizures then you are drinking too much. bupropion does lower seizure threshhold. in addition alcohol worsens depression and raises blood pressure. talk with your prescribing doctor(s) about it and get help. nicotine replacement might be better than wellbutrin (bupropion) for you.
what are the chances of having a seizure on wellbutrin (bupropion) while drinking? i've taken it b4 but i'm on a lot of meds for thyroid bp cholesterol depression mood & sleep. i'm on it to quit smoking.
i would not advise u to drink while on wellbutrin (bupropion) (bupropion) due to increase risk of seizures depending on dose of wellbutrin (bupropion) u r on.
what are the chances of having a seizure on wellbutrin (bupropion) while drinking? i've taken it b4 but i'm on a lot of meds for thyroid bp cholesterol depression mood & sleep. i'm on it to quit smoking.
wellbutrin (bupropion) lowers seizure threshold more than any other psychiatric medications so be careful especially if you are on many medications.
why my sis's blood pressure remains high during haemodialysis and she vomits a lot weighs only 68. 34 lbs age 23 renal function end stage?
a better answer but the kidneys help control blood pressure; if she's losing function it's not unusual to lose bp control. the nausea may be due to several factors but make sure she is on a good medicine to protect her stomach from ulcers. a good unique drug to help sleep mood and appetite is mirtazapine at 15-30 mg at night. depression can get overlooked and she is at high risk. good luck.
wife has pain in lh chest earache tinnitus feeling ill/tired for three months with brief interludes. gp gave blood tetsuspects viral. has had chest pain prev winters. spent most of 3 months in bed.
viral processes simply don't last three months and recurr the next year. seasonal depression can recurr and may be present too but usually won't cause tinnitus. lupus or another autoimmune process can present with disparate symptoms like those although (60s)it would be odd to be the first manifestation at her age get her checked by a rheumatologist and take the chest pain more seriously.
what do you think about propranolol?
is a beta-blocker used to treat angina high bp heart rhythm problems migraines tremors & anxiety. caution if u have breathing disorder congestive heart failure diabetes liver/kidney/thyroid disease or depression.
what are ways to cope with heart break and depression?
'no man is an island". we all need support from time to time. this is especially true when you have suffered a significant loss. whether it be friends or family membesr- share your feelings. if this isn't doing the trick - getting profesional help is a good option. talking with a therapist can lighten the burden teach you ways to cope and help you to work through the pain. take care.
when discharged from hospital after a 3 heart bypass i was prescribed meds for insomnia. i did not ask for them or complain of sleeping problem. 2 weeks after procedure having problem sleeping. why?
sometimesbit is related to slow withdrawal of anesthetic meds sometimes to alterations in your activity level sometimes due to residual discomfort and sometimes due to post cabg depression. most of these are temporary.
what are the dangers in taking a blood thinner like warfarin and depression medicane like zoloft (sertraline)?
the combination may incease the inr increasing the risk of bleeding. if you are maintained on a constant zoloft (sertraline) dose the addition of warfarin can be monitored to limit the risk.
what are the dangers in taking a blood thinner like warfarin and depression medicane like zoloft (sertraline)?
mixing ssri with warfarin can increase the bleeding time and therefore can be dangerous.
what are common side effects of metoprolol?
most common side effect is fatigue. it is a blood pressure medicine so if it is too strong a dose for you it can cause low blood pressure. this may make ou feel dizzy tired or fainty. it typically slows the heart rate so an excessively slow heart rate may result. it can cause erectile dysfunction in men. it may cause unusual dreams or depression.
what are some emotional effects after a heart attack?
early depression usually resolves anxiety about future and into the future dementia may be identified.
why do i feel really tired for months after heart surgery?
anemia poor preop status obesity depression try cardiac rehab program see your cardiologist occasionally the operation does not work or last!
what beta blocker should i take for the physical symtoms of anxiety? propranolol or atenolol? im taking ativan (lorazepam) but want to add a bb for physical symptom
however make sure that you are not depressed. anxiety may be a symptom of depression and antidepressants may be more effective in controlling it than ativan (lorazepam).
why would fentanyl give me a t. i. a. (mini stroke)?
serious reactions and even side effects with fentanyl can cause symptoms mimicking a transient neurological episode lasting less than 24 hrs. respiratory depression hypotension and bradycardia confusion dizziness impaired coordination etc. serious side effects have been seeing with duragesic patch and indications have to be follow. you need close follow up if you are in outpatient setting.
what anti depressent is recommended if pt had heart disease?
15 to 20% of patients with heart disease and s/p heart surgery develop major depression. it may worse the condition even cause a heart attack. combination of psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy is best. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (ssri) are safe for heart patients. sertraline and citalopram are well study. check the internet for coping techniques and follow with a physician.
what can i do if my cholesterol score is lower than the ideal range. what can too low cholesterol cause?
quoting dr. ronald hoffman"very low cholesterol is associated with dementia depression moodiness aggressive behavior violence & decreased learning ability and intelligence. it's also a risk factor for. increased mortality from cancer infections and suicide. " men with chol. below 150 have 4x the risk of cerebral hemorrhage than men with levels >190. see <link>
what is the befit of using omega 3 supplement?
there are many health benefits of omega-3 fatty acids. research shows strong evidence that the omega-3s epa and dha can boost heart health and lower triglycerides. and there are studies showing that omega-3 fatty acids may help with other conditions --including rheumatoid arthritis depression and many more. web-md has a good link: <link>
what to do if i have been told that long term depression can lead to heart disease. true or not?
if you have cardiovascular heart disease long term untreated depression could interfere with therapy and worse symptoms. but a direct cause effect unlikely. broken heart syndrome or takotsubo syndrome it's a rare cause of cardiac failure. and it's a direct cause effect of a severe emotion causing a heart condition. check with your doctor.
will depression and anxiety lead to people easily having heart attacks?
individuals with depression and anxiety have a higher risk of developing heart disease compared to those who do not. the exact connection as to why is still being researched. the bottom line is if you have depression or anxiety get treatment and take care of yourself. omega 3 can be helpful for both your mood and heart.
what are the ups and downs of taking magnesium. im anxious a lot n think i had panic attack few months ago. been cleared of heart lung prob. no asthma?
one of the benefits of mag is treatment of insomnia depression and migraines. also use to treat or help in the treatment certain psychiatric illness. panic attacks anxiety stress. also help treat diabetes hypertension osteoporosis.
what could cause headache fatigue and chest pain?
depression anemia hypertension infection cardiac ischemia and multitude of others causes. see physician for evaluation.
what can i do to convince my grown son to see a doctor for high blood pressure & obvious depression?
talk to him and tell him how concerned you are about him. explain to him that you want to see him healthy and that you don't want anything to happen to him. urge him to get help.
what is a good dosage level of omega 3's for dealing with depression?
in mood disorders like depression you need to have at least 1-2 grams/day of epa. fish oil labels may say "1 gram/capsule" on the front but look on the back to see the breakdown of epa and dha in the formulation. it will tell you how many capsules of that brand you'll need to take to add up to 1-2 grams epa/day. some brands have high epa formulations (nordic naturals omegabrite etc).
what medication is making me exhausted to the point it's hard to breath + skipped heart beats : lyrica (pregabalin) diazepam or isotretinion? :. ( miserable!
isotretinoin lyrica (pregabalin) and diazepam can all contribute to fatigue. diazepam is a sedative and is most likely the cause. also isotretinoin can cause mood changes such as depression. contact your doctors as soon as possible for evaluation and treatment. they may have you hold one or more medications until your symptoms resolve.
what does fish oil pills do?
fish oil supplies essential omega-3 fats that our bodies cannot make on their own. among their many effects they can lower triglycerides prevent heart disease help reduce high blood pressure and reduce inflammation in the body. fish oil helps ward off depression too. in general most people need at least 1-2 grams of epa and 500mg dha per day in a fish oil preparation.
wife is taking: oxycodene propranolol fluoxetine naproxen alprazolam. are there long term health affects. if she wants to concieve?
several of these medication need to be stopped before planning a pregnancy. for example the fluoxetine has been associated with birth defects and the naproxen can cause bleeding. the oxycodone can cause respiratory depression and narcotic withdrawal symptoms in the newborn. all of this needs to be coordinated with the doctor who prescribes them and the obstetrician.
what would experts say? could a heart attack cause a change in personality?
get depression or ptsd afterwards which is not uncommon as life threatening events affect individuals differently.
what does it mean when your chest hurts & your chest is warm & your head hurts & your body is sore but you don't have a high temp. & your always tired?
depression anemia chronic infection etc. see physician for evaluation.
what is fish oil?
fish oil is the oil found in many cold water fish such as mackerel tuna salmon sturgeon mullet bluefish anchovy sardines herring trout and menhaden. it's rich in omega-3 fats -- essential to our diets because our bodies cannot make them. you can also get this in supplement form -- at least 1-2 grams of epa and 500mg dha per day if you have depression.
what exactly is the difference beetwin fluxetine and propranolol? i mean their uses and effects.
fluoxetine is an selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor which can be used to treat conditions such as depression ocd and panic disorder. propranolol is a betablocker which can be used to treat conditions such as high blood pressure certain arrhythmias migraine and tremors.
what is the optimal dosage of omega 3 fish oil for adhd depression and mental well-being?
i am not sure what fish oil does for adhd and depression but the optimal dose is 1 000-2 000 mg daily.
what supplements are best for controlling depression and anxiety? i've heard of omega-3's sam-e and 5htp. can these be taken alongside meds?
especially if you are taking meds. these supplements can give you higher levels of serotonin which can be potentially dangerous.
why in some sites it says that pheochromocytoma can cause depression? what it causes this?
pheos produce a variety of hormones primarily adrenaline which can cause anxiety as well as high blood pressure. these are very rare tumors and i would be not worried about having one instead look for more common problems like anxiety and depression which are more easily treated.
why does my chest feel heavy and tight? i think it's because i've been stressed & sad lately is that true?
sometimes anxiety and depression can show up as physical signs such as chest pressure and tightness. in fact chronic stress has been linked to many psychosomatic and physical disorders not just anxiety and depression. it is good to be checked out by a professional to see if u might have a heart condition. young people can suffer from undiagnosed illnesses.
which is better drug amlodipine or telmisartan for controlling bp with less side effects.
some once a day bp meds may put too much medication into the body quickly causing - dividing the dose into half twice a day or taking with food helps. potential class side effects include: beta-blockers: fatigue wheezing breathlessness depression; calcium blockers: fluid retention; acei: cough (also rarely for arbs) diuretics: cramps low potassium or magnesium; all: sexual dysfunction.
will ssri antidepressants work to improve cognitive functions and memory loss of a recent multi infarct stroke dementia patient age 67. how long should he take them until we see an improvement?
take it as it does help little depression involved.
why do i always feel my heart beating? i really believe i have anxiety and i think i'm depressed. but i haven't been told by a doctor yet.
you may be experiencing anxiety which commonly presents with heart palpitations. make an appointment with your family physician and clearly explain your concerns about depression and anxiety. he or she should be able to competently screen you for both. if they believe a further consultation is appropriate they can give you the name of a psychiatrist you can consult for a more confidence.
why do we use morphine in acute pulmonary edema?
the growing body of evidence derived from clinical studies suggest that its efficacy may be simply from the decrease of anxiety that accompanies shortness of breath. reducing catacholemines and secondary vasoconstriction in this condition is indeed beneficial but this effect can be more safely addressed with benzodiazepines - less incidence of respiratory depression.
would it hurt a 20 year old to take a baby aspirin? my heart races from anxiety especially during the 2 weeks before my period and i also get sad.
it would not hurt a 20 year old to take a baby aspirin but baby aspirin may not help heart racing anxiety or depression before your period. it may help lower abdominal cramping that is common in the premenstrual period though. you could be having other premenstrual syndrome symptoms and need evaluation for their severity. please consider seeing your physician about this.
what r possible alternatives to anafranil in treating severe purely obsessive ocd? clomipramine along with zoloft (sertraline) lamictal propranolol and trazodo
on the medication side ssri antidepressants such as zoloft (sertraline) are the most used often at doses higher than typically prescribed for depression. it's also worth considering psychotherapy. cognitive-behavioral approaches such as cbt or erp (exposure and response prevention) are often helpful for ocd.
what to do if i have high blood pressure after birth anxiety attacks and now baby blues has anybody suffered from any of these?
preeclampsia which is high blood pressure during pregnancy and post partum depression along with anxiety can occur in women. these all ma be related to hormone changes during pregnancy. i am uncertain whether there is a correlation and relationship between the former and the latter
what to do if i have hypertension depression of lost love completely broke. what to do?
go to community mental health clinic for eval; and they'd refer you for bp treatment. otherwise go to er and they'd admit you for emotional care and treat your bp.
what would caude an omega 3 difficency?
symptoms of omega-3 fatty acid deficiency include fatigue poor memory dry skin heart problems mood swings or depression. omega-3 fatty acids are considered essential fatty acids: they are necessary for human health but the body can’t make them -- you have to get them through food. omega-3 fatty acids can be found in fish such as salmon tuna and halibut algae some plants and nut oils.
what to do if i'm feeling very light headed regularly and it is usually this low. i also have depression could low blood pressure be the cause?
you didn't mention if your current blood pressure is lower than your norm or specifically how low it becomes. medical evaluation can help to determine the cause of your symptoms. take care.
what are the symptoms of low blood pressure? does it include psychosis and depression too?
low bp symptoms are light headed ness weakness fainting spells possible high heart rate. certain conditions like addison's disease shy-drawer dysautonomia are a couple causes. low cortisol abnormal responses to gravity are explanations. they are not directly connected to psychosis mood disorders. however some people w/addison's can be depressed from low cortisol affecting the brain
will omega 3 fish oil supplements help with depression or is that just a myth?
brain health and through that mood and cognition. you need good quality and the right dose or it won't help. read the label to see that the combo of epa & dha equals 50% or more of the total capsule mgs. fish oil needs to be pure pharmaceutical grade. res-q is a good brand as is nordic naturals. prothera is good but you need a health pro to get it for you. one cap won't do it.
will omega 3 fish oil supplements help with depression or is that just a myth?
a number of studies have supported the notion that omega 3 fatty acids are beneficial in the treatment of depression. <link>
what to do if i am taking 1mg of klonopin and one 25mg of zoloft (sertraline) and one 50mg of inderol for blood pressure is it ok to have 1 12oz beer?
you cannot combine klonopin and alcohol. klonopin stays in your system for more than a day after taking it as well. the combination can have an unpredictable / multiplying effect on sedation respiratory depression and intoxication. alcohol is not worth the risk. alcohol can also temparily lower your blood pressure which may not be good to do with inderal (propranolol) on board.
what are the possible side effects of drinking caffeine while on fluoxetine 20mg?
fluoxetine (prozac) is an ssri medication useful for major depression and anxiety. the medication should not affect caffeine and vice versa. that being said excessive caffeine can produce adverse effects. also for patients with anxiety caffeine can sometimes make this condition worse. best.
with the type of hypotension when arteries are vasodilated. what type of medication are the most effective for bringing bp to normal?
hypotension may related to posture(standing) depression medications like symbicort (budesonide and formoterol)ventolin cipralex. . during hemodialysis in renal failure. may be treated with midodrine flourocortisone. may do cortisone level check blood pressure during standing sitting& lying down. check thyroid stimulating hormonehistory of anxiety depression.
what vitamin can i take if i have hypothyroid cholesterol depression & anxiety?
the four conditions you are describing are serious medical conditions that need to be evaluated and treated by your physician. a general multivitamin may help and in some cases of hypothyroidism and depression vitamin d or one of the b vitamins may help. however these should not be a substitute for proper medical care and should only be taken with guidance from a physician.
what can i eat if im anemic have cholesterol hypothyroidism infection in the ear anxiety & depression?
there are no specific foods for hypothyroidism ear infection anxiety and depression. high cholesterol? you can avoid red meat fatty foods cheese egg yolk. anemia? depends upon what kind of anemia you have. if it is an anemia due to iron deficiency you can eat more food rich in iron like grapes dried fruits spinach and many more. best thing is talk to a dietitian.
what to do if can't sleep heart anxiety?
asleep is often associated w/anxiety while waking up early and not returning to sleep is associated w/depression. periodic waking is associated w/overall light sleep. please see you doc who may order a sleep study. a psychologist can help w/stress management. peace and good health. try not to nap in daytime or limit it to a cat nap of 15 minutes.
what does pectus excavatum mean? if i have it should i mention it to my doctor?
pectus excavatum is depression of the breast bone. your doctor will see it immediately when you take off your shirt for examination
what are the side effects of losartan 25 mg?
this may include dizziness confusion depression difficulty breathing etc. see drug. com
when i get an anxiety attack my chest hurts really bad. i then take an ibuprofen to get rid of the pain. is that ok? the attack can lasts for hours.
have you yet tried any form of psychotherapy? typically the optimal combination of things to treat emotional issues such as depression is medication (which on your best day is supposed to take the edge off symptoms) but the real gruntwork takes place in psychotherapist's consulting room.
what are the health implications of a stroke?
there are many answers to this. for one strokes are related to other conditions like high blood pressure and diabetes. second strokes may occur with heart disease as they have similar risk factors. third strokes that affect mobility put us at risk of other conditions such as dvt and pressure sores. strokes are also associated with depression especially when people do not recover well.
why does prinivil (lisinopril) cause fatigue and depression?
these are not common side effects but hypotension is. this can feel like fatigue and depression. why not discuss this with your prescribing physician.
what are some anti depression medication that lower blood pressure?
but there may be some less likely to raise it than others. ask your dr to keep that in mind and ask a pharmacist too. non-drug treatment would be a very good addition - cbt therapy meditation yoga etc. they'll optimize any med and also fight depression in a big way. learning better life strategies is very valuable for health. best!
what are the methods to manage sle & dvt other than medication? does those medicines result in occasional depression? ?
doctor's advice sle/dvt are serious medical conditions and need to be followed by a professional you can a second or even third opinion but in the end you have to stick with a doctor's plan and follow up good luck
should i stop taking my testosterone prior to cardiac surgery?
what to do prior to surgery is always best asked of your surgeon. be sure to also ask about post-op recovery (time) & complications. off the cuff t doesn't interfere w/bleeding & clotting although it does compete w/other drugs for protein binding sites. if anything maintaining proper level of t should help in recovery. if you stop t abruptly watch out for acute depression & suicidal thoughts.
which is better for depression: fish oil or cod liver oil?
for boosting immune system as antioxidants both are ok but for treating major depression doubt either would be that beneficial by themselves.
should i worry about a quick sharp pain near my heart? is it gas? i sometimes feel it when i cry during depression. it's sporadic; 1-6 times a year.
can be many reasons but it is important to do the needed physical exam and work up to rule out cardiac causes.
can going off estrogen cause palpitations?
if you are on thyroid coming off estrogen will increase your free thyroid levels. this point is irrefutable and certainly can cause palpitations. however it may exacerbate depression which increases the likelihood of palpitations as well. if you have this problem and are not on thyroid you should see your doctor and have and ecg!
can ear ringing be caused by my hi b/p or choleserol meds meds im on. b/p - ramipril @ metoprolol tartate. for choleserol- crestor (rosuvastatin)
your ringing in the ears may be a symptom known as "tinnitus". there is a huge list of conditions associated with tinnitus such as: - age related hearing loss - exposure to loud noise - medication side effects - ear wax impaction - head and neck injuries - blood vessel disorders - acoustic neuroma - meniere's disease - stress and depression tinnitus is listed as one of the possible side effects for ramipril but not for metoprolol or crestor (rosuvastatin). tinnitus is very common - 1 in 5 people have it! the best way to evaluate the cause and possible treatments is to see your doctor or an ear nose and throat doctor (otolaryngologist). tinnitus can improve with treatment of the underlying disorder so it is worth looking into. do not discontinue any medications without discussing it with your doctor first. good luck!
can stress w/o any other health issues cause you to have a heart attack? i suffer from anxiety but otherwise have a clean bill of health.
traditional risk factors for heart attack include older age male gender diabetes hypertension hyperlipidemia cigarette smoking family history of early heart attack obesity and physical inactivity. there are certainly some patients with heart attack who do not have any of these traditional risk factors. stress anxiety and depression can each contribute to a higher risk of heart disease.
shortness of breath foot swelling fatigue depression and right side rib cage soreness. what could all this mean?
could be many causes--need to see family dock for checkup.
