microalbumin numbers and type 2 diabetes type 2 diabetes diagnosed 1 1/2 years ago. i did a 24 hour test and my microalbumin 24 tv results came back 2 390 (extremely high) but my urine microalbumin/24hr came back at 12. 0. my doctor sent me the test r
these two results sound at first hearing very different. the last 24 hour result is normal. keep in mind that the spot (random) urine is evaluated as a ratio urine microalbumin to as miligrams of albumin per gram of creatinine or micrograms albumin per milligrams of creatinine. a spot determination is as good as the 24 hour collection in general so we do not recommend doing 24 hour collections. they are a nuisance. after less than 2 years of diabetes you would not be expected to have diabetic kidney disease. there may be a lab issue problem. normal 24 hour urine albumin is less than 30 milligrams. was that first collection expressed as 2390 milligrams or micrograms? if micrograms that value is not high. see a nephrologist if there is a question. and get a simple urinalysis to check out other aspects of your urine.
what can i do if my dad has diabetes type 2 he drinks a bottle of wine every night. he needs help?
anybody who drinks a bottle of wine daily needs help but it is especially true for a diabetic. alcohol has many effects on blood sugars mostly that increase sugars. the excess calories contribute to weight gain. the risk of liver and heart disease also increases significantly. he needs to stop drinking alcohol.
what are some symptoms of diabetes type 2?
frequent urination unusual thirst extreme hunger unusual weight loss extreme fatigue and irritability frequent infections blurred vision cuts/bruises that are slow to heal tingling/numbness in the hands/feet recurring skin gum or bladder infections.
what is the likelihood of a child getting diabetes type 2 if his mom has is but not his dad?
type 2 diabetes has a stronger link to family history and lineage although it too depends on environmental factors. studies of twins have shown that genetics play a very strong role in the development of type 2 diabetes. lifestyle also influences the development of type 2 diabetes. obesity tends to run in families and families tend to have similar eating and exercise habits. if yo.
what is the likelihood of a child getting diabetes type 2 if his mom has is but not his dad?
type ii diabetes is a problem essentially every adult or adolescent may get if their body mass index / weight is excessive. some may develop this at lower weights than others but this disorder is unheard of before puberty & not common until middle age. more important than genetic material is the influence of family feeding patterns. the majority of parents do nor recognize their kid is overweight.
is it possible for a 13 year old have diabetes type 2?
obese children can develop type 2 diabetes.
i feel week all the time after my kidney removall i am a diabetic i have diabetes type 2 and had a kidney removed due to a malignant tumor and i feel very very weak. i hardly have an appetite
you may be anemic or have other serious problems. given your medical history you should see your primary care provider right away.
i feel week all the time after my kidney removall i am a diabetic i have diabetes type 2 and had a kidney removed due to a malignant tumor and i feel very very weak. i hardly have an appetite
if you feel weak and are unable to function as you usually do then see your doctor. weakness and lack of appetite could be attributed to being malnourished or an infectious process. it can also be related to being hypoglycemic (low blood sugar). perhaps it is time your diabetes medication get reassessed. if you do not have an appetite and are not eating but are still taking your diabetes medications as directed chanced are your blood sugar is too low. also with your concurrent medical condition it is crucial you follow up with your doctor. in fact see him right away.
i read one word niddm. is it another word for diabetes type 2.
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) used to be synonymous with diabetes type 2. however we all know type 2 diabetics who require insulin so it is not a good description of the disease. the difference is that type 2 diabetes is not due to a lack of insulin production but rather an inability to respond adequately to insulin - so more insulin is needed to overcome that limitation.
i read one word niddm. is it another word for diabetes type 2.
niddm stands for non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. it is another term for type 2 diabetes.
if i was diagnosis with type 2 diabetes. i take insiln at night. 20units. it has been working good. but the last night my blood was 90. so i didn't take any units yesterday. but my blood suger has been great all day. 101 this morning and 120 after lunch.
sustained weight loss physical activity and eating well can certainly improve diabetes type 2. but it is not a good idea to change your medications particularly insulin without speaking to your provider. that is the person whom you should contact to consider changing your medications but it should be based on more than one day's experiences.
if both my wife and i have diabetes type 2 what are the chances that my son will get diabetes?
but mostly that depends on lifestyle. most kids who have type ii dm are obese and have family history of diabetes. kids who are overweight or obese arent big because of genetics. they are big because the whole family lacks exercise and has a poor diet. make sure you put maximum effort into ensuring your child stays physically active and eats well. and be a good model and lose weight too.
if both my wife and i have diabetes type 2 what are the chances that my son will get diabetes?
type 2 diabetes runs in families. in part this tendency is due to children learning bad habits eating a poor diet not exercising--from their parents. but there is also a genetic basis. worst if the parent with type 2 diabetes is the mother. if both you and your partner have type 2 diabetes your child's risk is about 1 in 2 (ada source).
if both my wife and i have diabetes type 2 what are the chances that my son will get diabetes?
a child whose parents both have type 2 dm has the potential to grow up without the affliction. however the family incidence of this problem is more about patterns of family feeding style than genetics. fully 1/4 of todays children are overweight and 60% of their parents are unaware or unconcerned about their status. proper feeding weight and activity in your son can avoid the problem.
i am 77 pounds overerweight what is my risk for getting diabetes type 2?
very high. even higher if you also have a family history of type 2 diabetes. get healthy now - before it's too late.
i am 77 pounds overerweight what is my risk for getting diabetes type 2?
although it is impossible to give you a flat # of your diabetes chance being overweight definitely increases one's average risk of diabetes. bad genetics is another risk factor. abdominal obesity is especially disadavantageous.
i am 77 pounds overerweight what is my risk for getting diabetes type 2?
being overweight definitely increases your risk of developing type 2 diabetes but not all obese people do (why we don't clearly understand but it is likely something in your genetic make-up is protecting you so far). even among morbidly obese people about to undergo bariatric surgery only 1 in 3 (high but not 3/3) have diabetes. still many health benefits of losing some weight.
is there a way to comepletly get rid of acanthosis nigracans?
acanthosis nigricans is usually a sign of insulin resistance which in turn leads to diabetes type 2. get tested for diabetes. if you are already diabetic work on improving this condition. good luck!
i'm getting very sharp headaches on the right side of my head. last just seconds but more and more frequent. i have diabetes type 2 & a pituitary t?
headaches can come from fatigue sleeping too much or too little sleep apnea snoring being dehydrated having chronic sinusitis or allergies too much caffeine or over the counter headache medication high blood pressure or something more serious like a tumor. see your doctor and get checked.
i'm getting very sharp headaches on the right side of my head. last just seconds but more and more frequent. i have diabetes type 2 & a pituitary t?
please clarify if u mean pituitary tumor as this can cause headaches as well as any uncontrolled diabetes. you will need to see your primary.
is too much sugar directly responsible for diabetes type 2?
high sugar is by definition diabetes so high sugar level (if meet criteria) will directly give you the diagnosis of diabetes but eating/consuming sugar will not cause diabetes in the short term. overtime eating a lot of sugar will cause obesity insulin resistance which will lead to type 2 diabetes.
is too much sugar directly responsible for diabetes type 2?
in the child diabetic the general problem is that the pancreas quits producing insulin so your body can not utilize the available sugar. in the adult diabetic your cells become resistant to the available insulin. the result is too much sugar in the blood. if you are a diabetic and you eat a lot of sugar then this can make your diabetes worse but it is not the cause of diabetes.
is diabetes mellitus type 2 the same as diabetes type 2?
yes they are describing the same disease process.
is diabetes mellitus type 2 the same as diabetes type 2?
yes. both refer to the type of diabetes that used to be called adult onset. now we call it "type 2 dm" or "dm-2" or type 2 diabetes etc. this is the kind related to overweight/obesity and family history of dm-2. when people are "heading toward" type 2 dm they will have a slight increase in triglycerides (fats in the blood) blood pressure and glucose. if this continues it becomes dm-2.
is diabetes mellitus type 2 the same as diabetes type 2?
diabetes mellitus type 2 is the same as diabetes type 2.
i will be meeting a doctor for endoscope treatment for diabetes type 2. what is it?
i apologize but i just do not know the answer to your question. i do not know of any "endoscope" treatment for dm-2. are you sure why you are seeing this doctor. perhaps you need to make a phone call to the doctors office and ask to speak to someone to firm up the reason for the visit and why you are having a procedure. check with your pcp too. this just doesn't sound right. please check!
is it possible for impotence (caused by diabetes type 2) to cause infertility?
a chronic vascular disorder like diabetes can cause fertility issues.
is there a way for someone who is diabetes type 2 to get over the condition?
if you have it you have it you need to change your life style and control it but if you go back to your ways it will come back.
is it possible to switch from diabetes type 2 to diabetes 1?
the distinction between type 1 & 2 is based on the path genesis of the disease. type1 generally occurs in childhood dependent on insulin frequent complications like dka. whereas type 2 occurs in later life usually amenable with oral hypoglycemic agents initially and insulin later. type 2 diabetics more often have long term complications like kidney heart and other vascular neurological dise.
is it true that people with diabetes type 2 can actually include honey in their diet?
honey can be used just as as any other sugar. some folks have the misconception that honey is a majic substance that does not affect the blood sugar. i is not. the body recognizes honey just as any other "sugar" will will have the same effect on the glycemic index. rj.
is it true that people with diabetes type 2 can actually include honey in their diet?
in moderation. remember honey is also a carbohydrate. better to check blood sugar an hour or two later after honey. if the sugars are consistently high better to quit using honey.
is metformin the best medicine to treat diabetes type 2?
yes in my humble opinion it is the best and often used first line med for type 2 diabetes it is effective on insulin resistance it is dirt cheap and every body can afford it if they can tolerate it and it is wieght neutral meaning you do not gain weight like other meds except few new oncce.
is alpha lipoic acid supplement can help to increase diabetes type 2 patient's insulin sensitivity & improve function his pancreas over a long time?
per nih "pharmacologically la improves glycemic control& polyneuropathies associated with diabetes. as an antioxidant it directly ends free radicals increases antioxidant glutathione & vitamin c levels. " major benefit is for relieving diabetic neuropathy. it may improve insulin sensitivity.
what are the common causes of diabetes type 2?
the causes are not clearly known. there are certain factors which may lead to diabetes. virus infections can lead to diabetes. if it runs in your family you are obese smoke cigarettes had gestational diabetes or had a baby weighing 9 or more pounds have impaired glucose tolerance do not exercise regularly low hdl cholesterol or high triglycerides high blood pressure you are at high risk.
what are the common causes of diabetes type 2?
insulin resistance is the most common cause of type ii diabetes. insulin resistance can be cause by obesity certain medications and chronic prolonged stress. it can also be caused by an autoimmune process affecting the pancreas.
what are the common risk factors of diabetes type 2?
for type 2 diabetes the underlying cause is that cells do not respond normally to insulin. this "insulin resistance" has a strong genetic basis so if someone has family members with type 2 diabetes they are at higher risk. being overweight or obese also increases one's risk because the excess fat also causes insulin resistance. losing 20 pounds can significantly reduce the risk for diabetes.
what are the common risk factors of diabetes type 2?
the cardiovascular system and the nervous system are often affected when type 11 diabetes is not kept under good control. heart attacks and high blood pressure and amputation of a limb can occur from damage to the nerves and arteries.
what is adult-onset diabetes? is it diabetes type 2?
usually adult onset diabetes is type ii diabetes mellitus. this is caused by an overproduction of insulin from the pancrease (pancrelipase) as a result of insulin resistance in most cases.
what is adult-onset diabetes? is it diabetes type 2?
adult-onset diabetes is diabetes mellitus type 2. in this disease the body does not respond adequately to insulin resulting in high blood sugars. several different kinds of medication help treat this and adding extra insulin will overcome the resistance the body has to its own insulin. of course following a specific diet (less sweets and control of carbohydrates) is essential.
what are the cardiovascular risk factors of diabetes type 2?
diabetes increases the risk of heart disease (clogging of the arteries) which increases the risk of heart attack and stroke. this is because diabetes affects your body's metabolism and increases the release of inflammatory proteins and hormones which then exacerbate coronary artery (heart) disease. this disease is not limited to the heart but also affects the blood vessels in your brain as well.
what are the cardiovascular risk factors of diabetes type 2?
diabetes is actually a risk factor for atherosclerosis which leads to heart disease (blockage of the coronary arteries) and stroke (blockage of the arteries in the brain). elevation in insulin levels stimulate a rise in triglycerides which leads to the production of small dense ldl particles. these particles are key culprits in formation of atherosclerosis (blockages in the arteries. ).
will i lose my eyes and kidneys as i have diabetes type 2?
if your diabetes and associated medical problems (e. g. hypertension cholesterol) are kept in control and managed appropriately you should not lose your sight and develop failing kidneys. it is not inevitable. control of all your medical problems through diet exercise medications and follow-up is the key.
will i lose my eyes and kidneys as i have diabetes type 2?
we know excellent control of blood sugars markedly reduces the risk.
will my kidneys fail due to my diabetes type 2 disease?
good control of blood sugar blood pressure and weight significantly decrease risk of kidney failure in diabetes.
will my kidneys fail due to my diabetes type 2 disease?
if your diabetes and other medical conditions (like high blood pressure) are adequately controlled your kidneys should not fail. however both diabetes and hypertension (high blood pressure) are the most common causes of kidney failure in adults but it is not inevitable that diabetics will develop failing kidneys. the key is diet exercise blood sugar control and medication adherence.
what are disadvantages of obesity?
this condition is associated with greater health complications. these include pre-diabetes type 2 diabetes mellitus high triglyceride high blood pressure low hdl (good cholesterol) increased inflammation increased risk of heart attacks and stroke.
i've got diabetes type 2 and i'm taking medicine and my prostate is big. the problem is that i hve to go bsthroom 3 times during bed time.
if you are urinating frequently at night it could be due to your sugar being high at night or due to the enlarged prostate causing you to not empty your bladder completely. you should check your sugar when you go to sleep and when you wake up to see if it is high. if the prostate is the problem you will need to see a urologist.
what kind of condition is diabetes mellitus type 2 (diabetes type 2)?
diabetes type 2 is the most common form of diabetes resistance to insulin closely linked to obesity and has become increasingly common in recent decades as more people become obese.
what kind of condition is diabetes mellitus type 2 (diabetes type 2)?
type ii diabetes is an endocrine disorder in which there is inadequate insulin in the bloodstream to maintain blood glucose (sugar) at a normal level. it typically occurs in adults as opposed to type i diabetes which occurs in children and younger adults.
is it ok to use an omnipod if you have diabetes type 2?
if you need insulin you are a potential candidate for an omnipod. talk w/your doctor or an endocrinologist.
i want to ask if it's possible for a diabetes type 2 person to have low blood sugar sometimes?
excess of medication or not eating regularly can lead to low sugar levels in any type of diabetes.
what might have the same symptoms of diabetes type 2?
•diabetes mellitus type 1 •insulin resistance •obesity.
what are the first symptoms of diabetes type 2 -- being fat?
increased thirst increased hunger (especially after eating) dry mouth frequent urination unexplained weight loss (even though you are eating and feel hungry) fatigue (weak tired feeling) blurred vision headaches loss of consciousness (.
what are the first symptoms of diabetes type 2 -- being fat?
being fat can lead to diabetes but it's not the first symptom of diabetes. some common symptoms (among many others) of type 2 diabetes are increased thirst increased urination increased hunger and blurry vision.
if you have diabetes type 2 what are the signs right before death?
diabetes has the classical symptoms of polyuria (frequent urination) polydipsia (increased thirst) and polyphagia (increased hunger). more severe disease can lead to heart disease kidney failure blindness loss of fingers/toes/hands/feet. death would most likely come from coma heart attack stroke or kidney disease.
i am wondering what health care providers are needed for people with diabetes type 2?
your pcp is the first and foremost to diagnose and treat type 2 diabetese nutritionist to advice on diet etc diabetese educators to educate how to check blood sugars and others endocrinologists may be consulted in difficult to treat cases and hospital admissions.
why would a patient who suffers from diabetes type 2 at 50 have a myocardial infarction?
diabetes is a big risk factor for heart disease in general as it can lead to clogged blood vessels. diabetes is also usually associated with high blood pressure and high cholesterol. individually these are all associated with increased risk of heart disease but together a patient's risk really increases. the risk is high enough that we usually treat these patients like they have already had a mi.
i have a diabetes type 2 so can i be fine if i play sport with doing diet for diabetic patient? (note:my hight is 160 and my weight is 60)
definitely you can play sport. you may need to watch your diet and blood sugar level when you play sport. you may also adjust dosage of your medication if you are taking diabetic medication.
what medications are used for someone who has poor circulation due to diabetes type 2?
treatment of poor circulation depends on the symptoms and stage of disease. medically these patients should be on antiplatelets like aspirin statins to lower bad cholesterol like lipitor (atorvastatin) some medications to help with walking but don't affect the blockage like pletal. must have tight sugar control. in advanced stages stenting or bypass surgeries are needed.
what other meds could i take for diabetes type 2 besides going on insulin?
there are different classes of drugs for type 2 diabetics. some cannot be used if you have liver or kidney disease. none will work in type 1 dm. talk to your doctor.
is it possible to reverse the effects of diabetes type 2 and stop taking insulin shots?
reverse but not cure! - wt loss strict diet exercise & more recently for the obese diabetic type 2 gastric by-pass or stapling.
what is the most effective medicine to cure diabetes type 2 with minimum side effects?
unfortunately no cure for diabetes as yet.
it have diabetes type 2 what could happen if i stop taking my medication?
this depends on how bad your diabetes is & what other measures you are using to control it. if you stop your meds your sugars will likely go higher & over time this leads to increased risk of serious complications such as heart disease blindness kidney failure & early death. however it is often possible to control diabetes with diet exercise & supplements. why do you want to stop? see comment:.
i'm diabetes patient and i check my diabetes type 2 for a year and also my result was 6. 5 for whole one year and im new patient so am l well?
a hga1c of 6. 5 is still diabetic. if by using healthy eating habits and more exercise one lowers the hg a1c one greatly improves one's health but one does not restore the ability to eat sugar or foods that quickly turn into sugar. read the will power instinct by kelly mcgonigal to stay healthy: eat 6 small healthy meals breathe and relax move through the day and sleep 8 hours.
im diabetes type 2 patient from one year and a half and i check my diabetes monthly and it's 6. 5 from sceond month till now so can i stop my medicine?
diabetes is a chronic progressive disease. if you are referring to an a1c of 6. 5 youre doing very well managing your diabetes. if you stop your meds you will most likely get much worse and may risk complications.
is bulgur good food for diabetes type 2?
bulgur wheat is a healthy choice on a diabetes diet. in fact the american diabetes association lists bulgur as one of the best choices of whole-grain foods for people with diabetes. one cup of cooked bulgur contains approximately 33 g of total carbohydrate. the amount of carbohydrates you eat will always raise your blood sugar. so be very careful and check with your md.
what can i do to decrease my chance of acquiring diabetes type 2 and cardiovascular disease?
some of it's genetic but a lot of it you can control by eating in a healthy way. limit sugar intake drastically including fructose and other forms of it - it's everywhere but you can definitely enjoy eating without it! stay away from white processed carbs as much as possible including rice and pasta - these things release sugar into the bloodstream quickly and have little nutritional value.
what can i do to decrease my chance of acquiring diabetes type 2 and cardiovascular disease?
include weight control blood pressure and cholesterol control. no smoking active lifestyle. we cannot pick our parents and genes but we can control some significant factors.
what is the definition or description of: acanthosis nigricans?
darker areas of skin localized around the neck. that are sometimes related to insulin resistance and/or diabetes type 2.
im diabetes type 2 total cholesterol-140 hdl-4 ldl-88 fasting sugar 99 can i drink coffee w/o sugar. will it increase cholesterol or sugar.?
coffee without cream or sugar will have no significant effect on cholesterol or sugar levels.
is it true that thrombophlebitis or pylephlebitis can lead to having diabetes type 2?
neither thrombophlebitis (clot in a superficial or deep vein) or pylephlebitis (inflammation of the portal vein) have a cause and effect relationship to causing diabetes.
will my dark velvety diabetes type 2 spots go away if i lose weight? if not what can i do?
acanthosis nigricans the dark spots you're explaining in most instances is a sign of insulin resistance and high blood sugar in obese and diabetic individuals and with weight loss and control of blood sugar goes away. if it's due to another condition like growth hormone intake birth control pill or genetics then unless the condition is treated it won't go away i. e. in genetic cases it won't.
what birth control pill is better for me if i have high blood pressure and diabetes type 2 also one that will not make me gain weight?
depending on other risk factors you could be a candidate for low dose (20 mcg estrogen) birth control pills. you could also use a progesterone only birth control pill or consider the use of an iud. those options mostly don't cause weight gain - though some women are very sensitive to hormones and can gain weight easily with them.
i was tested for diabetes type 2 what to do now?
get treated see your doctor for diet ? medications.
i was wondering is diabetes type 2 hyper or hypo secretion?
secretion of insulin.
weight gain or weight loss. what happens in diabetes type 2?
usually there is weight gain which predisposes one to get diabetes. if the diabetes is very poorly controlled weight loss can occur because glucose (and therefore calories) are "wasted" in the urine. with treatment either can occur depending on diet and medication.
weight gain or weight loss. what happens in diabetes type 2?
usually weight gain as the insulin is putting the sugar into the fat system. weight loss can occur right before someone goes from insulin resistance to diabetes type ii.
what are the best vitamins for someone with diabetes type 2 to take?
it's always best to get your nutrients from foods a well balanced diet. if you absolutely want to take a vitamin a vitamin d pill might be helpful. if you are taking metformin as a diabetes drug you may also need vitamin b 12 as this drug is known to lower your b12 level.
what are the best vitamins for someone with diabetes type 2 to take?
in regards to diabetes i usually recommend to my patients to take vitamin c or zinc to boost their immunity. if there's numbness or tingling in your feet it's called diabetic neuropathy take vitamin b complex. usually a multivitamin should be sufficient such as one a day or centrum. patients in their 40's may want to take an omega 3 fish oil and flax seed as well. consult your doctor.
what are the best vitamins for someone with diabetes type 2 to take?
there are generally no vitamin supplements necessary unless you are on a very low calorie diet or not obtaining adequate nutrition. any generic once daily vitamin can be taken if you desire to do so. don't take the very expensive ones with "super" ingredients that haven't been shown to be of any use.
what are the best vitamins for someone with diabetes type 2 to take?
dr thornalley in england has shown that diabetics excrete huge amounts of vitamin b1 (thiamin) in urine. this is one disease where vitamin supplementation has been proved. it is best to take magnesium and a multivitamin also since vitamins all work together.
what's a good way for us to prevent diabetes type 2?
the best prevention is to keep your weight as normal as possible. maintain an active healthy lifestyle.
what's a good way for us to prevent diabetes type 2?
loose weight no soda no sugar exercise see you doctor for help!
what can happen to you when you have diabetes type 2?
high sugar damages all your artheries.
what can you do to treat diabetes type 2?
we have many choices 1 diet exercise and weight loss 2 oral antidaibetic drugs there are many to chose from different classes from metformin to onglyzza. 3byeta victoza (liraglutide) bydorian 4 insulin varios combinations are used in different patients depending on the responce.
what are the symptoms of diabetes type 2?
polyuria(frequent urination) polydipsia (excessive thirst) polyphagia (excessive appetite). elevated fasting blood sugar. - fatigue.
what are the symptoms of diabetes type 2?
increased thirst frequent urination increased hunger weight loss fatigue blurred vision frequent infections itching .
what are the symptoms of diabetes type 2?
acanthosis nigricans fatigue urinary tract infections blurry vision increased thirst nocturia paresthesia polyphagia increased urination skin infection unintentional weight loss yeast infection.
what is the best foot insole / protection for diabetes type 2 with plantar fascilitis?
an excellent question. there are many over-the-counter products that state they have the best insole for people with diabetes. i would also make sure that you are in the correct shoe first prior to choosing the insole. buying the correct insole will most likely be sold to you by the person selling you the correct shoe. discuss this with your podiatrist prior to making purchase!
what is the best foot insole / protection for diabetes type 2 with plantar fascilitis?
custom molded orthoces with a multidensity top cover would be a good protective item for a diabetic with possible diabetic neuropathy to use inside their shoes.
what exactly is the effects of diabetes type 2?
with type 2 diabetes your body either resists the effects of insulin a hormone that regulates the movement of sugar into your cells or doesn't produce enough insulin to maintain a normal glucose level. untreated type 2 diabetes can be life-threatening. more common in adults type 2 diabetes increasingly affects children as childhood obesity increases. see your doctor if you're concerned!
what are the symptoms of hypo and hyper when you have diabetes type 2?
mean hyper and hypo thyroidism or hyper and hypo glycemia? if you're referring to glucose levels there is a complete listing at diabetes. org which is the ada website.
what diet is best for controlling or reversing diabetes type 2?
the diet it's the fact that you are able to burn off more calories than you take in through diet and exercise. it's 3500 calories to lose a pound. the best diet is the one you're able to follow the rest of your life lose the weight and not regain it. don't get your medical information from friends tv or the internet. avoid diets with someone's name on them. just eat healthy and eat less>.
what can i do if my aunt has diabetes type 2 her blood sugar is always very low isn't that dangerous?
with healthy metabolism bg typically in the 65 to 120 range rarely up to 140 briefly. too low esp <40 symptoms & coma too high people feel ok short term but very bad news over time. best tx powerfully emulates this bg range. many dm choose to stay high due to feeling bad when bg goes too low e. g. with sulfonylureas and/or insulin but this is bad tx though common. hope you aunt is savvy.
would hepatic gluconeogenesi only help with patients with diabetes type 2?
with healthy metabolism ~50% of more of glucose is produced by hepatic gluconeogenesis (sugar production from internal protein & fat) & prevents low bg fasting. however in type ii glucagon & gluconeogenesis increase after eating driving blood sugar levels even higher. type ii is excess sugar intake & production not too little the reason bg is routinely high. as dm worsens problem? es.
would it be feasible i have diabetes type 2?
not sure what your symptoms are but a medical evaluation by your pcp with lab workup will provide better answers.
i have a diabetes type 2?
you do not give any information to which i or any other doctor can respond. please tell us more.
is pcos manifested in diabetes type 2 also for lean people?
very few people w/diabetes have polycystic ovarian syndrome. however many if not most w/pcos also have insulin resistance if not outright diabetes.
is okra good for diabetes type 2?
yes it has a low glycemic index and is beneficial to keeping blood sugar low as well as protecting the kidneys.
i have diabetes type 2. i just got hugh blood sugar levels its on 16 5 yesterday i had the same. and i got back all the symtptoms when i first got diabetes type 2 drink alot and takin a leak alot. like why has this out of nowhere got that high bloo
there are many reasons why you might have high blood sugar usually related to the therapy you are using to control your diabetes. you must see your primary doctor as soon as possible. if your blood sugar level is above 200 you really should go to the nearest emergency facility right now!
my dad has diabetes type 2 sugar level 350 mg/dl and had stents placed in his heart and he sometimes has pain in his heart so what is the treatment?
if he has stents he is at risk for having coronary events and his chest pain should be taken seriously unless we have already been able to attribute this to something else. secondarily he needs his diabetes lipids and blood pressure treated to goal. bg should be substantially less than the 350 mentioned.
my has has diabetes type 2 and now has cramps all over his body what should he do?
cramps can be caused by certain deficiencies of electrolytes potassium sodium magnesium and many others. must see doctor to evaluate .
what can be done if you have type 2 diabetes and your blood sugar is over 300?
it is definitely time to get serious about your diabetes! you need to work closely with your doctor to make sure you are on the right medications. at the same time i recommend you work with a nutritionist to eat a very low carb diet and you need to start exercising with at least a brisk walk for 22 minutes a day or more. start today. diabetes type 2 is a lifestyle disease. change lifestyle
why is metformin useful for diabetes type 2?
liver production of glucose
my sister needs a kidney due to lupus and my father has had a kidney transplant due to his type 2 diabetes. what are my risks if i donate?
evaluation of a possible kidney donor includes consideration of diabetes lupus hypertension etc. although diabetes type 2 is to some degree hereditary the risks of donation altering whether or not you become diabetic are not fully known. however it does not look like familial kidney donors have an increased rate of developing kidney disease. discuss your concerns with the transplant center.
my mother has diabetes type 2 for 5 years. she is 61 years old. her measured avarage diabetes values are 160. why does she have foot pain by night?
any number of reasons can give pain in feet at night. diabetics reguardless of control can get neuropathy. changes to the nerve function of the legs and hands. this can give a list of complaints numbness burning cold. ask your doctor .
my mother has diabetes type 2 for 5 years. she is 61 years old. her measured avarage diabetes values are 160. why does she have foot pain by night?
cause of pain may include tight shoes sprain bursitis fracture contusion neuritis but of course there are a multitude of other possibilities. thing that may help minimize your pain include: wearing shoes with a wider toe box padding or stapping oral nsaids. get the feet inspected by a professional to determine the cause of the problem as treatment varies depending on the diagnosis.
my mother has diabetes type 2 for 5 years. she is 61 years old. her measured avarage diabetes values are 160. why does she have foot pain by night?
damaged nerves.
my mother has diabetes type 2 for 5 years. she is 61 years old. her measured avarage diabetes values are 160. why does she have foot pain by night?
most pain in foo with diabetics is due to diabetic neuropathy. certain medications may help reduce the pain. see a podiatrist for help.
my mom has diabetes type 2 and her flesh seems to be dissapearing like her bones are jutting out at places. is that normal?
i am not sure exactly what you are describing. there is a condition called lipodystrophy where there is loss of fat tissue either in small areas or more generalized. this can be associated with diabetes. on the other hand if your mother has been dieting and losing weight as a result she may be losing weight in some areas more than others causing her to look different.
what is the normal range of sugar diabetes type 2 tow hours after meal?
in a person without type 2 diabetes a 2 hour postprandial of < 140 is normal. for diabetics we recommend pre-prandial (before meal) 70-130 and 2hour postprandial < 180. hope this helps.
my mother has diabetes type 2 and her doctor gave her galvus-met and it doesn't decrease at all is it effective? or should she change the medicine?
given that combination med is usually quite effective is she's not following a diet see my diet sheet www. schwartzdiabetesdoc. com. newsletter #3.
my mother has diabetes type 2 and her doctor gave her galvus-met and it doesn't decrease at all is it effective? or should she change the medicine?
more exercise and watch diet!
my left thigh is throbbing and feels like a spasm. i'm lactose and have diabetes type 2. also polyneuropathy and ridculoneuropathy?
diabetic neuropathic pain is usually bilateral. there are exceptions however. this pain may not be due to diabetes. see your doctor to get this sorted out.
my left thigh is throbbing and feels like a spasm. i'm lactose and have diabetes type 2. also polyneuropathy and ridculoneuropathy?
you could very well be experiencing a metabolic or diabetic radiculopathy involving the distribution of the femoral nerve but you could also possess a sensory involvement with the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve called meralgia paresthetica.
what is generally the first physical health problem to arise when you are overweight or obese?
heart disease and stroke high blood pressure diabetes type 2 some cancers gallbladder disease and gallstones osteoarthritis gout breathing problems sleep apnea (when a person stops breathing for short episodes during sleep) and asthma
my mom has diabetes type 2. and the doctor said its no serious and it was most likely caused by weight gain. can she lose it by losing weight?
rid of diabetes once you have it but if you lose enough weight and eat healthily you may be able to control the diabetesw with diet alone.
my mom has diabetes type 2. and the doctor said its no serious and it was most likely caused by weight gain. can she lose it by losing weight?
she has to be on a strict diet and keep checkong her blood glucose and hemoglobin a1c.
my mother has diabetes type 2 and high uric acid level age 46 she's vegetarian. what is a proper diet plan for her?
avoid sweets avoid high protein foods get help from a nutritionist!
please explain what type 2 diabetes is and what the link is between obesity and type 2 diabetes?
type 2 diabetes is the insulin resistance type of diabetes meaning blood sugar levels go up since the body cells have developed resistance to insulin levels which cause the sugar to get into the cells. so blood sugar levels remain high. high abdominal fat and obesity are directly linked to development of diabetes type 2 and abdominal fat is a major contributor to insulin resistance.
something wrong with today's genetic makeup because diabetes is on the rise worldwide not exclusively to the obese but also to the slim. why?
diabetes is on the rise mostly due to poor dietary habits high intake of processed starch and sugar and low intake of lean protein and plant and fish based fat. also lack of exercise. all of these contribute to insulin resistance and in long term pre-diabetes and diabetes. there are many normal weight people with high abdominal fat which causes them to develop diabetes type 2.
i have a mother with diabetes type 2. is she fine to go out all the time and live life? am i at risk of taking her out to places with her health?
define "live life". what "places"? she should exercise regularly and vigorously. she should have a low calorie diet and strict weight control. she can live a normal life but must limit alcohol. she must avoid smoking. there are excellent meds for her usually mertformin. she should probably be on aspirin [baby chewable] a statin ace or arb meds.
my alt (sgpt) is 119 liver is slightly fatty & enlarged. age 36 weight 80 kg. have diabetes type 2. what to do now?
i trust that other additional causes of elevated transaminases -- hepatitis b and c wilson's hemochromatosis -- have been ruled out. avoid alcohol and hit the fitness trail really hard. much of the tendency to type ii diabetes / non-alcoholic fatty liver is genetic. work with what you have and stay physically active -- the payoffs will be great for the future.
my alt (sgpt) is 119 liver is slightly fatty & enlarged. age 36 weight 80 kg height 5'6''. have diabetes type 2. how can i lower my alt level?
eating a low fat low cholesterol diet losing weight exercise not drinking alcohol and keeping diabetes can all help to improve fatty liver and in turn lower elevations in the liver blood tests
symptoms: constant shakes nausea spacey dry mouth weakness tiredness no sex drive nervousness high blood pressure/ cholesterol diabetes type 2?
there are many potential causes for symptoms like these -- some dangerous. your best care would start with thorough medical evaluation. please see a doctor asap.
symptoms: constant shakes nausea spacey dry mouth weakness tiredness no sex drive nervousness high blood pressure/ cholesterol diabetes type 2?
seek a second opinion. see a psychiatrist to rule out psychiatric disease a sleep doctor to find out why you are always so tired check your blood sugars when shaking to make sure they are not too low. dry mouth could be from diabetes or apnea but sjoegren's may need to be ruled out. see a very competent internist who is willing to take the necessary time to sort this all out. best wishes.
my dad has diabetes type 2 and is fat and has high blood pressure but takes all his medication. i worry. can he still live a full life?
your father has conditions which poses serious risks to his life but modern medicine has much to offer and he can do a lot to help himself. losing weight and controlling both diabetes and hypertension are at least in part within his own control.
please tell me what are common diseases caused by obesity?
obesity causes or contributes to diabetes type 2 hypertension coronary artery disease heart attacks strokes degenerative joint disease cancers infertility gallstones stomach ulcers and back pain.
the latest medecine for diabetes type 2. is there a medecine can be used once aweek only?
is a glp-1 agonist which is a weekly injection. it has many potential benefits but may not be covered by your insurance. check w/your doctor.
what is the suitable nutrition for diabetes type 2 patient?
please see your doc or a nutritionist. he/she will help you make healthy choices and also monitor and support you. there are many books on the market about this topic but having professional help and guidance is safest.
what is diabetes type 2 a risk factor for?
diabetes type 2 low testosterone blood sugar high.
what are some of the tests for diabetes type 2?
c peptide electrocardiogram fasting blood sugar glucose tolerance 2 spec. (75g) hemoglobin a1c urinalysis blood sugar cholesterol test lipid panel.
what are some of the non-drug treatments for diabetes type 2?
diet changes lifestyle changes smoking cessation gastric bypass surgery.
what are some of the risk factors for getting diabetes type 2?
cardiovascular diseases diabetes onset during pregnancy genetic linkage high blood pressure high cholesterol obesity polycystic ovary syndrome prediabetes puberty diabetes type 2.
worried 20 yr old healthy weight/diet exercise. 3 hours sleep for past year bad sleep 3yrs. can lack of sleep cause diabetes type 2?
people perform at their best when they get enough restful sleep a balanced nutrition exercise and work in a familiar environment. if something is preventing you from doing any of these you will be prone to poor performance and illness. (infections or stress effect). type 2 dm would be unexpected at your age unless you were quiet overweight. you need to work out how to get better sleep habits.
worried 20 yr old healthy weight/diet exercise. 3 hours sleep for past year bad sleep 3yrs. can lack of sleep cause diabetes type 2?
90% of patients with type 2 diabetes are overweight. thus keeping your weight a healthy level greatly reduces your risk of dm. however lack of adequate sleep is associated with weight gain. thus it's time to consult with a doctor regarding sleep hygiene. 7-8 hours/night is a good goal. if i can be of help then join my care team and virtual practice at www. healthtap. com/dr-clarkeholmes
worried 20 yr old healthy weight/diet exercise. 3 hours sleep for past year bad sleep 3yrs. can lack of sleep cause diabetes type 2?
at age 20 you are unlikely to have type 2 diabetes. the best thing in my opinion is that you have your primary doctor refer you to a psychologist. she/he will help you control your sleep.
need expert help here. what are the problems of children obesity?
diabetes type 2 exercise intolerance poor self image high blood pressure asthma . . many health problems can develop from obesity whether childhood or adult.
red rash on both of my thighs at the top. should note i have diabetes type 2?
there are many things that could cause the skin to itch. several types of inflammatory conditions of the skin allergic reactions and sometimes bacterial viral or fungal infections can cause rashes on the skin. insect bites can also be the cause of a rash on the skin. have it evaluated by a professional and get the appropriate treatment.
red rash on both of my thighs at the top. should note i have diabetes type 2?
yeast infection see primary md dermatologist or if female gynecologist.
triple coronary artery disease diabetes type 2 sleep apnea rhuematoid arthritis psoriasis extreme fatigue and alot of stress. need relief!
you need your primary care provider to coordinate all of your medical care including ordering necessary laboratory x-ray and other diagnostic tests arranging for hospital admissions and working with specialists when medically necessary. in your case rheumatologist endocrinologist pulmonologist orofacial pain management and pain psychologist. good luck.
triple coronary artery disease diabetes type 2 sleep apnea rhuematoid arthritis psoriasis extreme fatigue and alot of stress. need relief!
sounds like you need to read a book called "margin" by dr. richard swenson. i highly recommend this to my very stressed and very ill (from stress) patients. reevaluating the important things in your life getting rid of what doesn't matter and decreasing your load is the first place to start. once life becomes more manageable then you can deal with diet exercise sleep. good luck to you.
triple coronary artery disease diabetes type 2 sleep apnea rhuematoid arthritis psoriasis extreme fatigue and alot of stress. need relief!
i would recommend you to see a doctor.
today my husband got diabetes type 2 dr gives metformin want 2 knw if he kep on diet and hard exercises for months is possible to not hav it again?
hi. i don't want to say type 2 diabetes won't go into remission with lifestyle improvement but it's a very slim possibility. live a healthy lifestyle - it's just better for all of you. but don't wait too long trying to get lifestyle to fix the diabetes. it almost never happens in the real world.
today my husband got diabetes type 2 dr gives metformin want 2 knw if he kep on diet and hard exercises for months is possible to not hav it again?
technically we can't "cure" diabetes but we can control it with strict diet (low fat low cholesterol upwards of 50 grams of fiber daily small meals five or six times daily) exercise (aerobic) and weight reduction. however i wouldn't usually recommend this without medication to patients with blood sugar values above 160.
what is the definition or description of: diabetes type 2?
not 1
hello doctors; i'm conneting from india. my uncle is 53years old. he is having diabetes type 2. how to make it normal?
your uncle needs to see a doctor & have his sugar regulated by diet exercise and maybe medications this is a serious problem & cannot be done without help. by controlling his blood sugar he prevent complications such as blindness amputation of leg heart attacks strokes--these are serious often life threatening almost all medical doctors can help him better than self car.
can a person with diabetes type 2 eat honey and stevia?
but honey will make your blood sugar soar and make you hungry. it is not good for you. it has a lot of calories too. stevia is a natural sweetener that will quench that desire for a sweetener no calories and not make you hungry or desire more sweets! stevia in the raw has sugar beware!
can type 2 diabetes be managed through nutrition and exercise?
absolutely! that is the primary treatment for all diabetes type 2 cases. medications won't fix the problem if you don't control your diet get proper measured nutrition and do some form of physical activity. the main problems with diabetes are blood pressure cholesterol fats and sugar - all managed by diet and exercise. many patients end up going off diabetes meds entirely.
how do thin people get diabetes type 2?
diabetes is caused by insulin resistance and certain genetic factors. while the vast majority of diabetics are overweight the abnormalities can occur in thin prople.
how can we prevent diabetes type 2 disease?
type ii diabetes can be prevented by carbohydrate restriction and regular exercise. these two measures alone have been shown to decrease progression to diabetes by 70-80%.
how can we prevent diabetes type 2 disease?
the most effective way to prevent type 2 diabetes is by maintaining a healthy weight and consuming a diet low in simple sugars. regular exercise is important in maintaining a healthy weight. reading food labels is helpful in trying to avoid high sugar foods. even if not diabetic a diabetic diet tends to be healthy. early treatment of pre-diabetes may be helpful so check with your doctor.
how are my eye sight affected by diabetes type 2?
if you are lucky maybe not at all. you should have your eyes examined by an ophthalmologist(who knows you are diabetic) yearly. if you start to develop a problem on your retina your ophthalmologist will find it before you notice it and will recommend treatment when necessary(not usually in the beginning). laser treatments are highly effective. if you get high blood sugar you may see blurring.
how are my eye sight affected by diabetes type 2?
diabetes can cause weakness of blood vessels in the back of the eye leading to occlusion leakage and a risk of losing vision. you should keep you hbac1 below 6. 5 if at all possible (work with your diabetes doctor). acute elevations of blood sugar (about 600-800 )can disturb the focus and even cause reversible lens clouding. diabetes is a major cause of vision loss.
can drinking too much milk cause diabetes type 2?
if the milk drinking is excessive to the point that someone becomes obese and already insulin-resistant then one could say that the excessive caloric intake from the milk is part of the problem in that it is contributing to weight gain. by itself excessive milk drinking may not cause type 2 diabetes but it can cause other problems.
can drinking too much milk cause diabetes type 2?
kids and adults should drink milk.
can drinking too much milk cause diabetes type 2?
there is no evidence linking high consumption of milk to the development of type 2 diabetes. a vast majority of type 2 diabetes in children is associated with obesity.
how many times can i take glucovance (glyburide and metformin) ( metrofin 500+ 5mg daonil) to control my diabetes type 2. i now take it once daily but my levels are high 200?
your blood sugars are still not well controlled hence you may have to try two times same medication and have a night time snack to prevent any hypoglycemia.
how many times can i take glucovance (glyburide and metformin) ( metrofin 500+ 5mg daonil) to control my diabetes type 2. i now take it once daily but my levels are high 200?
glucovance (glyburide and metformin) is typically a twice per day drug. if your numbers are 200's call the doc and he or she will most likely tell you to increase it to 2x/day.
how to control diabetes type 2 in my husband?
type 2 diabetes is difficult to manage and requires alot of discipline and hard work. first you have to accept this reality. it's not going to be easy. second focus on what's being put in his body. it has to be a carbohydrate restricted diet. if he's overweight gotta start on the road to weight loss. it's a long road so be patient! finally work with your doctor for treatment if needed.
how to control diabetes type 2 in my husband?
most hospitals offer free or very affordable classes by registered dieticians concerning diabetes. a great majority of diabetes 2 could be controlled with diet. we just do not follow diets very well as our taste buds are self serving. diet is where you need to start. inquire.
can diabetes type 2 lead to thrombophlebitis?
diabetics are about at the same risk for blood clots as everybody else unless there are other genetic factors involved an also immobility and obesity.
how can diabetes type 2 affect your feet?
absolutely. the circulation nerve endings and skin surface and nails can all suffer if you don't take care of them.
how can diabetes type 2 affect your feet?
diabetic patients often times will have poor circulation and a diminished healing ability which makes them more susceptible to developing foot infections. the presence of neuropathy is also a main contributor to the development of ulceration. if not treated promptly and appropriately the foot ulcer can become infected .
can one get rid of type 2 diabetes with excercise and a good diet?
sometimes diet and exercise leading to weight loss (if you are overweight) can lead to the prevention of diabetes type 2. if you already have diabetes type 2 diet and exercise may decrease your reliance upon medications but it would be wise to still follow your blood sugars regularly.
can hyperbaric oxygen therapy help to reduce the tolerance to glucose ( diabetes type 2 )?
there is no evidence that hyperbaric oxygen treatment can improve tolerance to glucose. there are 13 indications for hyperbaric oxygen treatments approved for payment by medicare.
can hyperbaric oxygen therapy help to reduce the tolerance to glucose ( diabetes type 2 )?
i do not think so at all.
can hyperbaric oxygen therapy help to reduce the tolerance to glucose ( diabetes type 2 )?
any studies stating that hbot reduces the tolerance to glucose
can hyperbaric oxygen therapy help to reduce the tolerance to glucose ( diabetes type 2 )?
in some patients hbot (hyperbaric oxygen therapy) can increase their sensitivity to insulin and/or increase glucose uptake and use by muscle cells. i suspect that there are other mechanisms at play but in total the effect is lower the amount of blood glucose. of course this can cause problems but generally the treatment is to eat before getting hbot and ensure adequate nutritional reserve.
can eating carrot and tomatoes also reduce acanthosis nigricans?
acanthosis nigricans is usually a sign of insulin resistance or in more severe cases diabetes type 2. the best treatment for this is to significantly reduce sugars from the diet.
common symptoms of diabetes type 2?
frequent urination undue fatigue if concerned at all see md to catch / treat early and can check sugars before person gets these symtoms in order to try to catch it early especially in people with family history of diabetes.
how can i switch from diabetes type 2 to diabetes 1?
not possible with proper treatment.
how can i switch from diabetes type 2 to diabetes 1?
you don't.
could it happen that a person with diabetes type 2 eat honey?
add it into your total intake of the day. it is sugar and will raise your blood sugar.
could it happen that a person with diabetes type 2 eat honey?
it is a pure sugar.
how to know what is are the differences between type 1 and type 2 diabetes?
in diabetes type 1 the body is not producing insulin while in diabetes type 2 the cells are not responding properly to the insulin and/or there is not enough insulin being produced.
had pre-diabetes. is it possible i had diabetes type 2 in past but blood sugar went down to pre-diabetes? can 1 go from havin diabetes back to normal?
it's all one continuous pathway from insulin resistance to prediabetes to overt diabetes. the dividing lines are totally arbitrary. you need to be dieting exercising losing weight getting educated and possible taking medication. don't wait until your number crosses some arbitrary line then it's already too late.
how to cure muscle wasting caused by diabetes type 2?
weight loss and glucose control are your only hope. work w/your doctor and dietitian.
how can you get pregnant with pcos and diabetes type 2?
three things. first see your ob for management of pcos. second keep tight control of your diabetes. third you didn't mention your weight but obesity is common in women with pcos & dm so a healthy diet and exercise are also important to prevent obesity. losing weight will help with the dm as well. you can also see a reproductive endocrinologist for help too.
how can you get pregnant with pcos and diabetes type 2?
as long as you are ovulating and have a functional uterus you can get pregnant. or at least you should assume that's the case and use birth control if you don't want to conceive. pcos can contribute to insulin resistance and thus is often seen in conjunction with type 2 diabetes. both disorders can cause decreased fertility which is not the same thing as infertility.
how can you get pregnant with pcos and diabetes type 2?
several options are available. most importantly try loosing 7-10 lbs. drs may use meds such as metformin and actos (pioglitazone). byetta has been shown to regulate periods but nit improve fertility.
how can you get pregnant with pcos and diabetes type 2?
at age you need to do following. first you need to meet with your ob to discuss preconception planning and may also need to consult with a high risk ob/fertility expert. you would need to also establish with endocrinologist to keep your diabetes under control during the pregnancy. hope that helps.
can diabetes type 2 patients eat jaggery?
why would you eat sugar if you have diabetes. why not eat some healthy food in restricted amounts w/exercise to lose weight and make your diabetes better? don't pour gasoline on a fire.
can diabetes type 2 patients eat jaggery?
jaggery is an unrefined form of sugar. it contains minerals and stuff from the sugar cane or palm that it came from. however it will probably raise your blood sugar more of less like other sweet/high carb stuff. in moderation it can be used but watch what it does to your sugars. check your sugar after eating it and see for yourself.
can diabetes type 2 patients eat jaggery?
it's still sugar so no you should not eat it if you have diabetes.
can diabetes type 2 patients eat jaggery?
it contains up to 50% sucrose & 20% invert sugars so advise to talk to your pcp before consuming it.
can you get pregnant with pcos and diabetes type 2?
if you're ovulating and have unprotected sex with a fertile male you can get pregnant. fertility however is definitely lower w/pcos unless you are taking metformin which can return insulin resistance toward normal. diet exercise and weight loss plus glucose regulation are also important. don't get pregnant unless glucose is normalized.
can you get pregnant with pcos and diabetes type 2?
if you have pcos ( polycystic ovarian syndrome) you will need the help of expert team will have success with ivf normal ovulation is a issue besides most will have other associated medical conditions obesity hypertension and diabetes as you mentioned speak to your gyn doctor who will form a team to help you good luck.
could you possibly reverse diabetes type 2?
yes you definitely can. the first step is accepting you are responsible for your health. emerging mobile tools that integrate remote monitoring with gamification and diabetes prevention program content will help you stay on track. three behaviors ( water veggie and fruit intake activity level) and 3 numbers ( weight blood pressure blood sugar dictate your health. you can take control of them get personalized help from me › disclaimer
could you possibly reverse diabetes type 2?
with diet exercise weight lose early in disease but even if you do so require no meds must always think oneself as being diabetic for rest of life as high sugars will return as soon as eat wrong gain weight. get help now › disclaimer
how to control diabetes type 2 with medicine.?
when someone with diabetes needs medication then weight management diet exercise and proper sleep are part of that prescription also. depending on the physician oral medication may be an option (often start w/insulin sensitizing agent) though occasionally insulin. when doing well with lifestyle change medication can sometimes be weaned.
hi dear doctor i'm a diabetes patient and it's type 2 but i'm 19 years old and how is that because diabetes type 2 it's for adult (elderly)?
type 2 diabetes was once a condition that usually affected older individuals (40 and over - not really elderly. however due to increased number of people who are overweight or obese- and especially increase number of children or young people who are overweight. type 2 diabetes is now diagnosed very early. you can ask your doctor to draw antibody levels to clarify type 1 versus type 2.
hi dear doctor i'm a diabetes patient and it's type 2 but i'm 19 years old and how is that because diabetes type 2 it's for adult (elderly)?
means you are still making insulin but your muscles aren't responding to it anymore so the sugar stays in your blood. it can happen at any age and is commonly linked to obesity. loosing weight can help cure you of your type 2 diabetes whereas there is no cure for type 1 diabetes. (type 1 is when your pancreas has self-destructed so to speak and makes no insulin anymore).
hi dear doctor i'm a diabetes patient and it's type 2 but i'm 19 years old and how is that because diabetes type 2 it's for adult (elderly)?
type i vs. ii are about the mechanism of dm not the person's age. type ii can occur in infancy & becomes more common with? ing age. in type i beta cells which make insulin+amylin die & person dies within a couple of weeks without insulin. in type ii beta cells making super-normal amts insulin+amylin yet sugar still high; cells? response; internal protection to sugar overload. study dietdoctor.
hi doctor is diabetes type 2 for fat people or it can be for slim people?
type 2 diabetes but obesity is 70-90% of the predisposition along with ethnicity family history and advancing age.
hi doctor is diabetes type 2 for fat people or it can be for slim people?
"fat" people. diabetes type 2 is usually associated with "fat" people.
hi doctor i check my diabetes type 2 mounthly and every last times when i checked it was 6. 5 and that result it's not changing a year so am i well?
if at your young age you had a blood sugar problem you body is prone to get off track unless you pay attention to it. so keep doing the good things you've been doing and you have a great chance of staying well. if you backslide you have a good chance of not being well. if your doctor agrees you might spread your checking out a bit and see how that goes but you are still you so be careful. ok?
diabetes type 2- why do we get it if are not using much sugar?
genetics environmental obesity. diabetes is caused by many things. eating too much sugar does not cause diabetes unless it caused you to gain weight beyond normal then it can lead to diabetes.
hi is that true pre-diabet don't have symptoms? why my type 2 pre-diabetes(fasting glucose91 mg/dl hba1c5. 7%) have diabetes type 2 symptoms? thank you
you did not say your symptoms. diabetes type 2 mostly is the lack of adequate response of cells or tissues to put the sugar inside the cells (by insulin) and use it for energy. so you can surmise the symptoms of that. prediabetes is at the border hgba1c not at 6. 5. most symptoms are actually when sugar is low.
does diabetes type 2 correlate with slow wound healing?
poor healing.
does diabetes type 2 correlate with slow wound healing?
the only correlation of slow wound healing with diabetes is related to poor glucose control. the higher the hba1c the slower the wound healing process due to hyperglycemia.
can you tell me about diabetes type 2 and dental treatment_?
diabetes and oral health are connected and can effect each other. periodontal disease is worse in poorly controlled diabetics. so keep you mouth healthy and see your dentist regularly.
can you tell me about diabetes type 2 and dental treatment_?
proper dental care for diabetics? people go to there dentist twice a year d for professional cleaning and checkup my advise to you besides maintaining good oral hygiene through detailed flossing and brushing(diet also help) is to go to the dentist four times a year for cleaning and checkup (quarterly) good luck. .
can you tell me about diabetes type 2 and dental treatment_?
the question is very broad in scope with the limited space available to answer and you would be better off doing a google search for basic information from reputable sources. better yet discuss this issue with your own dentist and your endocrinologist or treating physician. the more you can control your blood sugar the better your periodontal health will be.
can you tell me is diabetes type 2 hyper or hypo secretion?
is under secretion of insulin relative to what is needed.
hi dear doctor can you tell me if the diabetes type 2 can go away not just be under controlled because i'm a diabetic and i want to remove it but how?
unfortunately the answer to this question is "no". i know a few folks whose diabetes is under excellent control and has been so for a # of years but they are still considered diabetic. once the damage done to the beta-cells of the pancreas will not revert and treatments may delay worsening of diabetes but will not cure it.
how does meth affect diabetes type 2?
you should be concerned about health in general with the use of illicit drugs. meth is a very dangerous drug that can cause irreversible multiorgan health issues including severe psychiatric issues.
how does meth affect diabetes type 2?
hi. it's just a hunch of mine but i don't think there's much meth is good for. if you're concerned about your physical and mental health i'll go out on a limb and suggest you quit meth. we all know addiction is very tough but help is available. good luck!
how does meth affect diabetes type 2?
methamphetamine will interfere with the circadian rhythm of sleep. this will increase insulin resistance and worsen glycemic control. if meth was found to be useful in treating diabetes believe me we would have gotten it fda approved!
how to know if i have diabetes type 2?
you go to a doctor and have blood tests done (fasting blood sugar and hgb a1c).
have diabetes type 2 feet are purpelish coloring what can i do?
skin discoloration may be due to arterial or vascular pathology. have it evaluated by a professional and get the appropriate treatment.
at what age can you develop type 2 diabetes?
it used to be considered a disease of only adults but now kids are getting it too. one reason for this changes is thought to be the increasing problem of obesity in children. the good news is that when obese kids lose weight & becomes non-obese then their risk of complications like diabetes type 2 goes back to that of someone who was never obese. so it's never to late to eat healthy & exercise!
can you tell me diet plans for diabetes type 2 & uric acid?
forget about diets for uric acid. they have very little benefit. a diabetic diet (low carbohydrate high protein) is an essential part of diabetic control.
diabetes type 2 using insulin 40unit. sugar high to 458. is that to much.?
your sugars are not optimal they should be not more than 120. you need to see your doc to adjust the insulin dose as well as modify your diet.
diabetes type 2 using insulin 40unit. sugar high to 458. is that to much.?
458 is a high number. please see your doctor to get your regimen adjusted. you might need a change in insulin additional insulin or addition of an oral medication.
can chemical products used in procesed foods be the cause of diabetes type 2)?
it is more likely that eating the processed foods are one of the causes because of the high glycemic impact that processed foods have.
could chemical products used in processed foods be the cause of diabetes type 2?
chemicals can cause problems but it is more likely that the processed foods are spiking your blood sugar. when a machine processes food there is very little digesting to do so it often turns quickly into sugar when you eat it. not good at all.
does diabetes type 2 eventually cause anemia and uremia?
uncontrolled diabetes can cause kidney damage and the lead to anemia and uremia.
diabetes type 2 without medicines?
what's your hba1c? metformin is a safe drug and should be the backbone of a type 2 diabetic's regimen.
diabetes type 2 suffering from diarrhea vomiting and lethargic due to work disciplinarian proceedings?
are you saying that the proceeding is making you nervous causing the diarrhea/vomitting? if that's the case check your bs to make sure you are not going low on the regimen and call your doctor to make the adjustment accordingly while you are going through this ordeal. i'm still not sure what your question is.
can impotence (caused by diabetes type 2) cause infertility? what are your expert opinions?
besides difficulty with erection i don't believe diabetes will cause sterility. .
diabetes type 2 can stop being a type 2 and be come normal readings?
type ii diabetes if caught early enough can be reversed. even if the patient is still diabetic in many cases with proper nutrition and exercise along with nutrition and supplements the patient can become diet controlled without medication.
diabetes type 2 can stop being a type 2 and be come normal readings?
i have had patients who exercise every day follow a plant based diet whose sugar levels have become normal. everyone of course is different but if you follow the regimen i outlined you will doing the best you can on your end your doctors will advise you going forward. my best.
diabetes type 2 can stop being a type 2 and be come normal readings?
type 2 diabetes is caused by a combination of insulin resistance genetics and a failing pancreas. as one loses weight insulin resistance improves and some people who are able to lose significant weight find that their diabetes resolves. however you always have a tendency to have high sugars as you eat high carbohydrate foods and regain weight.
having shortness of breath & yawning somewhat have diabetes type 2 what can i do?
if you are short of breath. it might turn out to be something like anemia or poor sleep but shortness of breath and yawning in a diabetic on actos (pioglitazone) w/ htn is coronary artery disease or heart failure until proven otherwise. you could also have a metabolic problem or infection but it's best to be safe. diabetic with htn over 65 + breathlessness on actos (pioglitazone) = chf= emergency room now. consider 911.
can thrombophlebitis or pylephlebitis lead to having diabetes type 2?
thrombophlebitis is vein inflammation from a blood clot. clots can travel to the lung and be fatal. pylephlebitis is an ascending infection to the portal vein in the liver and is life threatening. diabetes ii involves cell insensitivity to insulin. some remote reaction to blood thinners or antibiotics or critical illness might result in diabetes but is not common.
diabetes type 2 and dental treatment is it okay?
yes. it is very important to maintain dental appointments especially keeping your gingiva (gums) clean and healthy. periodontal disease can progress very rapidly in diabetics.
diabetes type 2 and dental treatment is it okay?
if well controlled there is no reason for concern. you may take longer to heal after extractions/surgery etc but not a health concern. you may even opt for 3 cleanings/yr instead of 2 to best stay on top of things. good luck.
diabetes type 2 and dental treatment is it okay?
good care of your gums and teeth is very important especially if you have diabetes.
diabetes type 2 and dental treatment is it okay?
diabetes will make gum disease more virulent with rapid deterioration of the gum and bone that supports your teeth. gum disease has been implicated in making diabetes worse. it's a vicious circle. with both diabetes and gum disease i recommend that you immediately call a periodontist the specialist that can best address your problems.
diabetes type 2 and slow wound healing what to do?
diabetic people heal the same as everyone else. wounds on lower legs heal slower especially if there is edema or arterial insufficiency. both of the latter are more common with diabetes. healing depends on the nature ; location of the wound. scurvy causes poor healing but is rare. infection always stops healing. alcohol iodine peroxide bacitracin neosporin ; triple antibiotic slow healing.
diabetes type 2 and slow wound healing what to do?
well controlled!
diabetes type 2 he feels light headed bright lights can't see shaking vomiting kidney pain body aches. should we take him to the er?
yes. how is the blood sugar control. it may not be well controlled and that can lead to some of these symptoms
can sugar alone(from soda)cause diabetes type 2? i eat healthily and am 146 pounds and 6 feet tall i drink 2 litres of coke over a span of two days
excess sugar can cause elevated sugars and if this is prolonged can put you at risk for diabetes. drink sugar free instead. it's healthier and you won't gain wait because of excess calories.
can sugar alone(from soda)cause diabetes type 2? i eat healthily and am 146 pounds and 6 feet tall i drink 2 litres of coke over a span of two days
any carbonated drink has other issues including phosphoric acid which can affect teeth and bones. the risk for dm type 2 is more complex than just sugar intake. genes play a role. so eating healthy is key for all of us. avoiding any carbonated drink is best. there is no data that sugar free is better and may be as problematic as fructose based drinks. so moderate your intake.
hey. eating 12 glass water per day will help treatment diabetes type 2? is that effective for treatment of diabetes type 2?
simple answer is no! calorie intake should be carefully arranged and regular exercise is a good idea. over time you should work towards getting rid of diabetes. there are many articles on the web that are designed to help you get rid of diabetes. won't happen overnight but before long you will be "teaching" your family and friends how to get rid of diabetes.
does a full blood count detect diabetes type 2 or diabetes type 1? is type 2 an autoimmune disease?
but a fasting blood glucose or hgb a1c test would show diabetes. it does not distinguish between the two types of diabetes however. type 1 is often considered an autoimmune disorder but type 2 more a lifestyle issue- too much fat not enough exercise. type 1 usually requires insulin and type 2 only on occasions (may reverse to normal with weight loss).
how can diabetes type 2 be removed completely?
the most effective way to reduce the risk of diabetes type 2 is to watch your diet exercise and maintain a healthy weight. there is no guarantee that one can "remove"it completely.
can a diabetes type 2 patient could have revital?
a 40 year old with type 2 diabetes should work carefully to rid yourself of diabetes. a nurse practitioner should be the best person to help you through this. it won't happen overnight but in a few months you should be without diabetes. please let me know how things are going.
diagnosed with diabetes type 2 and diabetic neuropathy affecting left foot. is it normal to have extreme pain only when stepping down with that foot?
more info is needed here. how long have u actually had dm? how was the diagnosis of diabetic neuropathy made? only 1 side? neuropathic pain usually occurs at rest/times when we are off our feet particularly at night. pressure may actually help the pain (or worsen it). what u describe is concerning for some form of foot injury or a cond called charcot foot. u need a good foot exam soon!
got diagnosed having diabetes type 2 since a year back. is there any way to may the sugar level normal as the criteria for military is to be normal?
exercise and diet is the first step to treatment of diabetes. often weight loss occurs and can also help. speak with primary doctor to make sure it's safe and get specific exercise and diet prescriptions.
got diagnosed having diabetes type 2 since a year back. is there any way to may the sugar level normal as the criteria for military is to be normal?
weight loss exercise and changing your diet can help normalize your blood glucose. it also depends how far from normal you are and whether its realistic to do this with diet exercise and weight loss alone. see your doctor for medications to manage your diabetes.
got diagnosed having diabetes type 2 since a year back. is there any way to may the sugar level normal as the criteria for military is to be normal?
at time you can control your sugar with diet alone often you may need medications and diest. get your a1c checked and discuss this with your doctor
got diagnosed having diabetes type 2 since a year back. is there any way to may the sugar level normal as the criteria for military is to be normal?
if you adhere to a strict diet you will be able to maintain a normal blood sugar. your doctor and a nutritionist will be able to help you.
got diagnosed having diabetes type 2 since a year back. is there any way to may the sugar level normal as the criteria for military is to be normal?
it's not something i would try and hide from them just as i haven't recommended that other patient hide their asthma in order to get into the military. you're jeopardizing your health by not being honest with them.
gfr 24 no protein in urine. what causes this? 61 years old diabetes type 2 for 20 years controlled. htn controlled. labs good!
diabetes and hypertension are the commonest causes of renal failure. it is imperative that you consult a kidney doctor nephrologist for continuing care. wish you good health!
hi what is the way to improve erection quality that has deteriorated due to diabetes type 2 my blood glucose is under total control at around 5. 1. i d?
please see your doc or a nutritionist. he/she will help you make healthy choices and also monitor and support you. there are many books on the market about this topic but having professional help and guidance is safest. w/hard work this can be reversed. doc can check hormones and blood vessels relative to ed. most ed is psychogenic. if so a psychologist can help you re-focus.
what could relieve or lower anxiety when working with others? zoloft (sertraline) 50mg metformin 500mg
metformin is for diabetes type 2 and zoloft (sertraline) is an anti-depressant. speak to your pcp to address this with you and find the best solution. also doing deep breathing helps! breathe in for 6 seconds pause then breathe out for 7 seconds. will relax you and get the parasympathetic nervous system involved. do at least 10 sets. you'll feel better right away! no meds!
