i have diabetis insipidus n i've gained 40 pounds how can i loose weight?
diabetes insipidus and its treatment does not cause weigh gain so i am a bit confused by the question. you can lose weight just like anyone else by eating less and exercising more. 30 minutes of aerobic exercise on 5 days/wk and a low calorie carbohydrate restricted diet.
what is the main difference between diabetes mellitus and diabetes?
i'd say 95+% of the time we say "diabetes" we are speaking of diabetes mellitus a condition characterized by elevated blood sugar and associated metabolic issues. there is a condition called diabetes insipidus but it is relatively uncommon.
what is the main difference between diabetes mellitus and diabetes?
usually when someone says diabetes they are referring to diabetes mellitus. there is a condition called diabetes insipidus but that is a completely different disease involving sodium and water concentrations in the blood and urine.
what type of head injury cause diabetes insipidus?
approximately 30 to 50 percent of patients who survived post traumatic brain injury demonstrate endocrine abnormalities diabetes insipidus is an exception as it does have a specific history. di most commonely associated with severe tbi and basilar skull fractureand cranial nerve involvement craniofacial trauma and post cardiopulmonary arrest. delayed onset of di isassociated with post pitutary lesi.
what is the difference between diabetes mellitus and type 1 diabetes?
"diabetes" refers to increased thirst and urination. two major types are "diabetes insipitus" and "diabetes mellitus. " diabetes mellitus known as "sugar" diabetes comes in two types type 1 (no insulin produced) and type 2 (old term was "adult onset"). here are some reference sites: <link> and <link> (diabetes insipidus);.
what can cause severe thirst (7-10 liters per day) other than diabetes insipidus without diabetes mellitus (normal blood sugar)?
psycogenic polydpsia can cause this but other physiologic causes must be ruled out by basic chemistries. you should see your pcp for blood work.
just been diagnosed with diabetes insipidus any tips?
see your doctor immediately if you notice the two most common signs of diabetes insipidus: excessive urination and extreme thirst. and follow his or her instruction control your wieght.
just been diagnosed with diabetes insipidus any tips?
do not try to control the excessive urination by withholding fluids. your body needs fluids to function normally and cannot stop making urine even when dehydrated. medication may be able to help reduce the amount of urine produced and the frequency of voiding as well as how water much you need to drink every day. water is the best thing to drink.
why is the urine of patients with diabetes mellitus bright (almost neon) yellow? also what causes the ph spike with diabetes insipidus?
bright urine most often comes from dehydration (too little fluid or excess loss of fluids) often seen in diabetes. it can also come from the fillers and buffers in pills including vitamins. ph spiking is alkalosis or excessively alkaline state from abnormal fluid and electrolyte dynamics. see your pcp or endocrinologist for electrolyte lab work and more info and discussion.
how would i know if i have liver disease with my frequent urination?
liver disease does not cause frequent urination. frequent painful urination is due to urinary tract infection and withut pain with big quantity of urine is caused by dibetes mellitus or diabetes insipidus.
how are diabetes insipidus and diabetes mellitus different?
diabetes mellitus is the typical "diabetes" that we are familiar with. it's caused by an insulin problem (too little or just not working well (resistance)) causing elevation in blood sugar. diabetes insipidus is a water problem characterized by lots of urination and high sodium level. it's caused by an adh (vasopressin) (antidiuretic hormone) problem (too little or just not working well).
how are diabetes insipidus and diabetes mellitus different?
both causes frequent urination however diabetes insipidu (di) is different from diabetes mellitus (dm). dm involves insulin problems and high blood sugar. di is related to how your kidneys handle fluids. it's much less common than dm. urine and blood tests can show which one you have. usually di is caused by a problem with your pituitary gland or your kidneys.
can anorexia low body weight cause diabetes insipidus or is it possible the diabetes insipidus caused the anorexia w/ great weight loss?
anorexia is not likely the cause of di and vise versa.
can anorexia low body weight cause diabetes insipidus or is it possible the diabetes insipidus caused the anorexia w/ great weight loss?
i already answered this question please look at the answer of a similar question by someone else.
diabetes insipidus == what are the symptoms?
symptoms of diabetes insipidus are excessive urination and extreme thorst especialy of cold water sometimes ice and ice water. extreme urination continues throghout the day and the night adults remain healthy as long as enough water is consumed to offset the urinary loss. in children it interfere with eating and weight gain and growth. they present with fever vomiting and diarrhea.
foods that help people with diabetes insipidus?
one component of effective management of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is the low sodium diet. restricted sodium intake limits renal solute load and permits full effectiveness of chorothiazide. the usual sodium intake for persons in the us is about 5000 mg/day. from a medical perspective the low sodium restriction for treatment of hypertension is 2400 mg/day.
can a rathke's cleft cyst cause weight loss speech & balance problems pins & needles all over general unwell? - high prolactin tsh fsh & norm t4.
a rathke cleft cyst typically occurs around the pituitary gland and can affect all the hormones the pituitary gland produces. these hormones include: prolactin tsh (thyroid) growth hormone lh & fsh acth (cortisol) and adh (vasopressin) (antidiuretic hormone). talk to your doctor about an abnormal cortisol level (adrenal insufficiency) or adh (vasopressin) (diabetes insipidus) given your current symptoms.
i have low blood pressure high pulse dizzyness light headed chest pain and i pass out. what could be wrong? doctors haven't been able to help me
many possibilities: diabetes mellitus diabetes insipidus hemorrhage from any cause (eg from heavy menses) addison's disease interstitial nephritis ingestion of various medicines or drugs cardiac arrhythmia postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome pulmonary embolism cardiac tamponade infection from any cause with fever and on and on. you need an internal medicine evaluation.
i am heat sensitive and have been for years it makes my heart beat fast and makes me feel tired and panicky thyroid normal am 37 low bp?
if you're heat sensitive tired with low bp consider dehydration. two major causes: sweating and not drinking enough? (if you have other fluid losses like diarrhea vomiting or bleeding they would also contribute to your symptoms). panicky does not fit- you may have two distinct issues. uncontrolled diabetes the rare entity diabetes insipidus and some drugs could contribute.
why are thiazide diuretics used in diabetes insipidus?
thiazides paradoxically reduce the amount of urine the kidneys produce in the nephrogenic form of di. thiazides are not used in the central form.
why does hypertension cause polyuria?
the most common cause of polyuria (p) is uncontrolled diabetes. other causes are diabetes insipidus either central or nephrogenic. i suspect that the person with hypertension (h) and p is taking a diuretic agent which causes one to excrete a lot of urine to control h. if the person you are referring to takes diuretics that could be the cause of p. if not the person should see a physician.
what is anti-diuretic hormone? what does it do?
hi. antidiuretic hormone (adh (vasopressin)) is a peptide hormone made in the hypothalamus and released from the posterior pituitary. it's release is regulated by circulating blood volume status and by solute concentration. adh (vasopressin) works to reabsorb water from urinary filtrate by the kidneys. diabetes insipidus is a rare condition deficient in adh (vasopressin) or where the kidneys can't respond to adh (vasopressin). siadh (vasopressin) is too much adh (vasopressin).
