what to do if i have high blood sugar and prediabetes type 1. 5 diabetes and type 2 diabetes?
talk with your doctor about lifestyle and diet changes. also talk about the need to start medications in the future.
what to do if i have high blood sugar and prediabetes type 1. 5 diabetes and type 2 diabetes?
easy recipe ideas: <link> kaushikmd. com/category/recipe/ some basics: <link> short article on diabetes: <link>
what to do if i have diabetes type 1 and i want to go on a diet?
see nutritionist- calculate calories eating now and in new diet reduce insulin proportionately to decrease in calories- follow sugars closely as that is an estimate- and work with your endocrinologist.
i have been diagnosed as hyperglycemic. i researched but managing it causes me frustration. exactly how is it managed? what is it? are my extreme sugar cravings associated with it? help
high blood sugar can be diabetes type 1 or 2. your endocrinologist can discuss in details what your blood work results entail & what tx options there are.
what is called type 2 diabetes disease?
type 2 diabetes can start in younger people but generally it is adult onset. people with diabetes type 1 disease require insulin. those with type 2 disease often can be controlled on oral medications although sometimes the disease progresses to where they will need insulin. complications of the disease in terms of microvascular injuries very similar between type 1 and 2.
what kind of condition is diabetes mellitus type 1 (diabetes type 1)?
due to destruction of the insulin producing cells of the pancreas the body is incapable of making insulin. it often but not always occurs in children and young adults. it must be treated with insulin. type 2 is due to the body's inability to use insulin efficiently. it can be treated either with pills or insulin and usually but not always occurs in adults.
what kind of condition is diabetes mellitus type 1 (diabetes type 1)?
actually the term 'juvenile diabetes' is no longer used since there are adults who develop type i diabetes due to the same autoimmune destruction of the pancreas resulting in zero insulin production. "insulin-dependent" diabetes is also inaccurate as many type 2 diabetics (related to insulin resistance and obesity) ultimately require insulin to control blood sugar.
what kind of condition is diabetes mellitus type 1 (diabetes type 1)?
type 1 diabetes mellitus known as childhood or insulin dependent diabetes occurs in about 1 in 10 cases of diabetes the rest being of type 2.
what kind of condition is diabetes mellitus type 1 (diabetes type 1)?
type 1 diabetes is an immune disorder in which the body attacks and destroys insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. as a result the body cannot produce insulin and glucose stays in the blood where it damages all the organ systems. because people with type 1 diabetes must take insulin in order to survive – and because it often strikes children - this form of the disease is commonly refer.
would it be considered impossible to lose weight with diabetes type 1?
but it is more difficult.
what do you suggest if i have diabetes type 1 and i want to go on a diet?
most type one diabetics are not overweight so i'm wondering if you are truly a type 1 diabetic. maybe you just mean that you are taking insulin shots? either way you would need to only take on a "diet" under the approval and supervision of a physician comfortable with managing that.
what is the pathophysiology of diabetes mellitus type 1?
in diabetes type 1 the islet cells on the pancreas are not able to produce insulin any more. for some reason the immune system typically attacks the islet cells and destroys them. in some cases it is thought to be caused initially by an immune response to cow's milk.
can type 1 diabetes be traced to a specific gene?
the diabetes type 1 can be genetic and may be developed if exposed to some kind of virus.
can diabetes in pregnancy cause anencephaly?
insulin dependent diabetes diabetes type 1 which is poorly controlled in early pregnancy is associated with a higher rate of neural tube defects. anencephaly is the most extreme form of a neural tube defect.
can i eat healthy and excersize and lose weight like a normal person even though i have diabetes type 1?
yes.
how to know what is are the differences between type 1 and type 2 diabetes?
in diabetes type 1 the body is not producing insulin while in diabetes type 2 the cells are not responding properly to the insulin and/or there is not enough insulin being produced.
can i use malunggay c instead of insulin? for diabetes type 1 person
for type 1 diabetes in which the problem is deficiency of insulin the only treatments that help are those that provide the body the needed insulin. the beta cells are destroyed by an autoimmune process leading to insulin deficiency. malunggay does not provide insulin. whatever benefit it may offer insulin replacement in type 1diabetes is not one of them.
can i use malunggay c instead of insulin? for diabetes type 1 person
type 1 diabetes is caused by the bidys inability to make insulin. only insulin can reverse the metabolic defects associated with this dsease.
difference in type 1 and type 2 diabetes signs?
there isn't much difference in the signs of diabetes type 1 versus type 2. type 1 disease however can often present with more severe and more sudden signs.
are people with diabetes type 1 generally not overweight compared to type 2?
however obesity is linked with an increased incidence of type 1 diabetes also.
does a full blood count detect diabetes type 2 or diabetes type 1? is type 2 an autoimmune disease?
but a fasting blood glucose or hgb a1c test would show diabetes. it does not distinguish between the two types of diabetes however. type 1 is often considered an autoimmune disorder but type 2 more a lifestyle issue- too much fat not enough exercise. type 1 usually requires insulin and type 2 only on occasions (may reverse to normal with weight loss).
when do diabetes type 1 syncope? what is the producer?
please rephrase your question. not certain what you are asking.
when do diabetes type 1 syncope? what is the producer?
if u mean when & why does a diabetic type 1 person becomes unconscious - it is when patient has very low blood sugar & this is an emergency. u must give some sugary drink right away like orange juice. this will not hurt the diabetic even if the sugar is very high. but u will definitely help by increasing blood sugar. very high blood sugar can also make them unconscious. u shd take patient to er
