why do patients with diabetes mellitus often develop albuminuria?
people with long-standing diabetes can develop nephropathy or kidney disease. when the kidneys are functioning properly there is only tiny amount of a protein called albumin found in the urine. as the kidney filtering fails in diabetic nephropathy there will be more and more protein spilled into the urine causing albuminuria (high amounts of albumin in the urine).
what health problems are associated with type 2 diabetes?
it is associated with kidney problems (diabetic nephropathy) eye problems (diabetic retinopathy) nerve problems (diabetic neuropathy) vascular disease (includes heart attacks strokes circulation problems) and stomach/intestine problems (gastroparesis). it is also associated with slow wound healing and with altered glucose (sugar) levels an extreme example of which is diabetc ketoacidosis.
i have type 2 diabetes and have prptien in my urine and have been put on a high blood pressure medication for this. what does protein in urine mean?
presence of protein in urine is a sign of kidney damage caused by diabetes. it is called diabetic nephropathy. the higher the protein level in urine the worse the damage. protein level less than 300 mg can be managed by your primary care physician. higher levels usually require care of a nephrologist.
can you tell me how diabetes mellitus could cause kidney failure?
it progressively worsens the kidneys. starts out by ruining different filters first more urine then start peeing proteins called albumins. this stage is called 'microalbuminuria'. as diabetic nephropathy progresses increasing numbers of glomeruli are destroyed. all this happens throughout the years.
could you describe how the chronic kidney disease secondary to diabetes mellitus works?
it progressively worsens the kidneys. starts out by ruining different filters first more urine then start peeing proteins called albumins. this stage is called 'microalbuminuria'. as diabetic nephropathy progresses increasing numbers of glomeruli are destroyed. all this happens throughout the years.
did kidney stone lead to protein and rbc in urine? and also weight loss too? if yes in what stage weight loss occurs? and when protein in urine occur
kidney stones can definitely cause both microscopic blood or grossly noticeable blood in the urine but not necessarily proteinuria. they don't cause weight loss per se though. protein in urine is usually a sign of kidney disease from inflammation high blood pressure diabetic nephropathy or tumor. hematuria and/or proteinuria require an evaluation by your physician nephrologist or urologist
what medication can be used to treat high blood pressure if you have diabetes nephropathy?
there are two types of medicines that are specifically made to treat hbp in a pateint with diabetic nephorpathy. they are called either an ace inhibitor (any medicine ending in an "pril" like lisionpril or accupril) or an arb like cozaar benicar or diovan (valsartan). these two types of medicine help control bp and slow protein spill in a patient with diabetic nephropathy.
what medication can be used to treat high blood pressure if you have diabetes nephropathy?
in general ace inhibitors (e. g. lisinopril) or arbs (e. g. diovan) are the blood pressure medications given to anyone at risk for kidney disease. though they are still under investigation for use in patients with diabetic nephropathy the studies available seem to indicate that they are useful in both type i & type ii diabetics.
what tests can be conducted to rule out kidney problems in a person who has diabetes and hypertension?
is a good test to quantify kidney function then can be repeated to see if there is any deterioration as time goes by. also test urine for protein in addition to checking for sugar proteinuria will signify kidney damage and indicate diabetic nephropathy.
