i have had blood in stool for couple months now im getting burning sensation and twitching through out body. i went to er but they said see gi dr. i was waiting on ins to kick in but now having these symptoms. should i go back to er? i have burning sensa
unfortunately the description of your symptoms does not allow me to provide a very educated suggestion as to the cause of your problems. in particular your description of burning sensation and twitching are not specific. in order to provide a more logical path to working out the cause of your complaints one would want to know about the nature of your burning (characterize it where it is is it associated with nausea vomiting diarrhea distention weight loss? what makes it better and what makes it worse? with regards to the twitching what is twitching are these uncontrolled movements? does it come and go? do you have and other medical history that is pertinent to understanding your problem? i cannot think of a scenario where these symptoms would be connected to blood in the stool as a unifying condition. there are many causes for stool in the blood hemorrhoids anal fissure ulcerative colitis ischemic colitis infectious diarrhea colon polyps colon cancer vascular abnormalities and diverticulosis. characterizing the nature of the blood in the stools may be helpful in determining the cause. in addition information such as amount if it has happened before if there is a family history of colon cancer your age other medical conditions are also important. if you have a strong family history of colon cancer or if you are 50 years of age or older you should have colonoscopy screening for colorectal cancer and continuing until age 75 years. to assess your risk for colon cancer you can use several tools on-line such as the one from the cleveland clinic (<link>
i have diverticulitis and am currently on a low residue diet. is coconut milk ok?
if you have diverticulitis with pain and fever stay on a low fiber diet for 4-6 weeks to allow healing. if you merely have diverticulosis then a high fiber diet is recommended and include 80-100 ounces of non cafeinated non alcoholic fluid per day and this can include coconut milk.
is the diet the same for diverticulosis and for diverticulitis?
if you have infection (diverticulitis) iiiyour doctor may put you on light diet untill the infection resolve then back to normal diet for dicertictulosis.
is the diet the same for diverticulosis and for diverticulitis?
when having active diverticulitis we give bowel rest with mostly liquids. diverticulosis usu highfiber low seeds.
inflammation of colon and belly fat on left side what could it be?
do you eat many nuts or a lot of popcorn or things with tiny seeds? do you have a history of diverticulosis or rectal bleeding when you eat the things mentioned above? any change in bms? any history of trauma to left abdomen? see fp for evaluation imaging &/or testing if necessary treatment.
what are the most common complications of obesity?
obesity is associated with diabetes high blood pressure sleep apnea infertility premature birth colon polyps hiatal hernia diverticulosis gallbladder disease osteoarthritis immobility restrictive lung disease cardiac disease gout stroke uterine fibroids breast cysts tumors cancer prostate cancer depression low esteem skin rashes premature death multiple meds surgery etc.
i usually strain during bowl movements and i have a small hiatus hernia which causes me no problems. will it enlarge if i keep straining?
but probably not. but straining at stool can cause other problems such as hemorrhoids inguinal hernias etc. and chronic constipation can lead to colon problems such as diverticulosis volvulus and even cancer. you should consult with your doctor to increase your fiber intake and other measures.
physician told me to put on as much weight as i can asap; have hiatal hernia diverticulosis acid reflux & ibs - and constipation. what foods are ok?
ask again and/ or consider a second opinion.
trying to find a diet for someone who has diverticulitis?
diverticulosis: hi fiber diet and and plenty of fluids. include fruits vegetables salads and whole grains. diverticulitis: low fiber diet no fruits vegetables salads or whole grains and plenty of fluids. until inflammatory/infection completely resolves approx 6 weeks.
left lower stomach pain gastric band removal 4 months ago blood test all good but orange mucus in every stool concerned! could this be cancer?
unclear what the orange mucus is. blood will sometimes appear orange in stool hemorrhoids not cancer would be the most comon cause of blood in the stools but this usually is bright red. you should have an md test for blood in the stool. if negative u can look for other causes (? diet) if positive you will need a colonoscopy to rule out diverticulosis polyp or less likely a cancer.
chance of colon cancer? age 44 female. diangosis w/diverticulosis 3 mo ago after divertic attack. ct showed moderate wall thickening and mod. fat stranding with visualized diverticulum in the area of pericolonic inflamation. remaining colon normal. ct wa
your history and ct study are classic for acute diverticulitis. nevertheless we always advise having a colonoscopy after your first episode of diverticulitis (well-after the episode resolves) since inflammatory bowel disease or even colon cancer can demonstrate comparable ct findings as described.
chance of colon cancer? age 44 female. diangosis w/diverticulosis 3 mo ago after divertic attack. ct showed moderate wall thickening and mod. fat stranding with visualized diverticulum in the area of pericolonic inflamation. remaining colon normal. ct wa
the two conditions are unrelated so you are really asking if the diverticulitis diagnosis is correct. the ct description is consistent with diverticulitis. as long as there is no abscess or perforation antibiotics should resolve the symptoms. otherwise surgery. if there is a cancer causing the problem the symptoms will not resolve without surgery.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
more likely come from ulcers & hiatal hernia than from diverticulosis. ejection fraction on hida scan varies according to source: some give 30-35%; others give 35-75%. r u being treated for the ulcers & probable reflux from hiatal hernia? if not see doc for rx: h2 blockers like zantac (ranitidine) or better proton pump inhibitors like prilosec/prevacid/protonix; dos may also rx 1 of those + 2 antibiotics.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
these symptoms are more likely related to your gallbladder. most docs would tell you to remove your gallbladder but this can create problems too. i've had many patients have great success with natural therapies to dissolve gallstones & flush them out of the liver/gallbladder. see <link> & the amazing liver and gallbladder flush by andreas moritz.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
can cause nausea and abdominal pain.
do i really have to eat a diet high in fibre if i suffer from diverticular disease?
diverticulosis is manageable not curable. once the pockets in the colon form they don't go back again. high fiber diet is the rule to reduce the number of attacks and to try to prevent more diverticuli from forming.
do i really have to eat a diet high in fibre if i suffer from diverticular disease?
you don't have to do anything you don't want to do but it would help. constipation is something to be avoided if you have diverticulosis.
can an endoscopy show if you have an ulcer and hiatal hernia and diverticulitas?
upper endoscopy can show the hiatal hernia and an ulcer. a colonoscopy is needed to show diverticulosis or diverticulitis.
can an endoscopy show if you have an ulcer and hiatal hernia and diverticulitas?
the upper endoscopy can show a hiatal hernia and also ulcer changes in the upper gi tract. diverticulitis is a diagnosis made on clinical presentation (abdoinal pain and fever) and cat scan of the abdomen which will show the inflammation in the large colon. for diverticulosis (no active inflammation) the colonoscopy can show this disease.
are artificial sweeteners such as equal splendid etc. a bad choice for people with diverticulitis and if so what is an acceptable substitute?
there is no known direct link with sugar or its substitutes causing diverticulitis flare up. however sugar and sweeteners can cause diarrhea or other gi symptoms in certain patients. in general if you have diverticulosis a high fiber diet will help. and that would include avoiding food high in sugar. if you have chronic diverticulitis it may time to visit a surgeon.
what can cause pain in the lower right side of abdomen? i recently been having pain in my lower right side of abdomen and now i feel the pain in my whole entire stomach abdomen area. and experiencing chest pains and occasional weakness in the left arm mos
depending on your age and other comorbidities (like your general health if you have risks for heart disease if you smoke etc) you really ought to consider getting back to your doctor asap. really until proven otherwise this sounds like a heart problem. however if that's definitively been ruled out to your doctor's and your satisfaction there certainly some other more benign things to think of. the first thing people think of with the right lower quadrant is related to the appendix. depending on the scan you had (contrast or not) they may have also been able to rule out diverticulosis (which may or may not hurt and if becomes infected is called diverticulitis). depending on age and risks you could have a blockage in the gut. sometimes people present to me with these symptoms and are just simply constipated (but -- that's a diagnosis i'd only make after an extensive evaluation of the other things i've listed here). i've had patients with gall bladder problems present with right lower abdominal pain and ct scans aren't sensitive enough to make that diagnosis for some reason. you should also consider ulcer disease. so lots to consider but i think the safest thing to do is get back with your doctor as soon as you can. good luck to you!
what are symptoms of ovarian cancer also compacted bowel and very short of breath?
but those symptoms occur with ibs constipation diverticulosis and a million other diseases. i would see a md.
