i have diverticulitis and am currently on a low residue diet. is milk a low residue drink?
if you temporarily are on a low fiber diet the easiest way to follow that diet is no fruits no vegetables no whole grains! meat fish chicken and dairy are fine. you may have white rice and white bread. only exceptions to fruit/veggies is mashed potatoes and non chunky apple sauce. not a healthy diet in the long run but necessary in the short(4-6weeks) to allow the colon to heal and recover.
i have diverticulitis and am currently on a low residue diet. is milk a low residue drink?
yes it is but if you are lactose intolerant you should avoid milk. a low residue diet contains a low amount of fiber. fiber causes gas production in the colon-- so does milk if you are lactose intolerant.
i have diverticulitis and am currently on a low residue diet. is coconut milk ok?
if you have diverticulitis with pain and fever stay on a low fiber diet for 4-6 weeks to allow healing. if you merely have diverticulosis then a high fiber diet is recommended and include 80-100 ounces of non cafeinated non alcoholic fluid per day and this can include coconut milk.
i have diverticulitis and am currently on a low residue diet. is coconut milk ok?
pure coconut water has good electrolytes coconut milk has additional fats and carbohydrates which gives calories regarding diverticulitis is a disease of western world infrequently ( rarely ) seen in the developing world where bulk high fiber less processed food is consumed.
is the diet the same for diverticulosis and for diverticulitis?
if you have infection (diverticulitis) iiiyour doctor may put you on light diet untill the infection resolve then back to normal diet for dicertictulosis.
is the diet the same for diverticulosis and for diverticulitis?
when having active diverticulitis we give bowel rest with mostly liquids. diverticulosis usu highfiber low seeds.
inflammation of colon and belly fat on left side what could it be?
diverticulitis leaps to mind although you are young for it. also hernia trauma associated skin infection tick-bite or other insect skin rash from chemicals and a myriad other possible causes! see your doctor to figure it out!
inflammation of colon and belly fat on left side what could it be?
there are a number of causes for inflammation of the colon. common causes include diverticulitis and bacterial or viral infections. a careful history and physical exam along with reviewing any diagnostic studies needs to be done. you certainly should seek out a trusted physician to get your answer.
i go days without having a bowel movement. what kind of diet should i have? it's harder for me to lose weight?
constipation can lead to all sorts of troubling problems like hemorrhoids diverticulitis anal fissures etc. increase your fiber (through ruffage or by pills/supplements like metamucil) drinks lots of water add a stool softener (like colace) to your diet and if you need a push to get things moving try a gentle laxative (milk of magnesia prune juice). avoid straining for your stools.
i have diverticulitis and gallstones. i need help with a diet plan!
gallstones cause symptoms when they block the function of the gallbladder after eating fatty foods. thus avoiding fatty foods like fried and high fat foods may be helpful. for diverticulitis the blockage of diverticular sac openings is the root cause for inflammation. avoiding constipation by eating more fiber and drinking more water and to exercise more frequently.
i have diverticulitis and gallstones. i need help with a diet plan!
diverticulitis: all that stui about seeds fruits etc has no supportive evidence at all. eat and enjoy. gall stones. no evidence that avoiding fatty food helps at all its all mythology but dietitians make a living prescribing them. obviously if something doesn't agree with you use common sense and avoid.
i have diverticulitis and gallstones. i need help with a diet plan!
1st have gb removed. high fiber diet and avoidance of certain foods like corn nuts seeds. removing gb will help doctor figure out which is the cause of the abd. pain if it flares up again. colonoscopy needed to identify severity of diverticulitis.
what can be left lower abdominal pain and nausea in a 61 yr old man overweight and high blood pressure?
many different problems can cause left lower abdominal pain some minor (irritable bowel) some serious (diverticulitis kidney stones colon cancer). in order to get to the bottom of this a complete history must be taken followed by a careful physical exam lab tests and other tests which may include x-rays and/or endoscopy. please make an appointment to see your primary care doctor.
my left side below the belly hurts is that possible for appendicitis? i did eat some junk food these days could that be the problem?
if you have left sided appendix it is possible appendicitis rarely cause left side only pain most of the time diverticulitis is the culprit you already know your problem stop eating jung food and see your doctor.
trying to find a diet for someone who has diverticulitis?
diverticulosis: hi fiber diet and and plenty of fluids. include fruits vegetables salads and whole grains. diverticulitis: low fiber diet no fruits vegetables salads or whole grains and plenty of fluids. until inflammatory/infection completely resolves approx 6 weeks.
can the cambridge diet help with the bowel disease diverticulitis?
this diet plan is intended for people to lose weight. any claims to help or cure bowel disease such as diverticulitis has not been claimed.
can the cambridge diet help with the bowel disease diverticulitis?
there are no clear dietary factors to trigger or protect against diverticulitis.
chance of colon cancer? age 44 female. diangosis w/diverticulosis 3 mo ago after divertic attack. ct showed moderate wall thickening and mod. fat stranding with visualized diverticulum in the area of pericolonic inflamation. remaining colon normal. ct wa
your history and ct study are classic for acute diverticulitis. nevertheless we always advise having a colonoscopy after your first episode of diverticulitis (well-after the episode resolves) since inflammatory bowel disease or even colon cancer can demonstrate comparable ct findings as described.
chance of colon cancer? age 44 female. diangosis w/diverticulosis 3 mo ago after divertic attack. ct showed moderate wall thickening and mod. fat stranding with visualized diverticulum in the area of pericolonic inflamation. remaining colon normal. ct wa
the two conditions are unrelated so you are really asking if the diverticulitis diagnosis is correct. the ct description is consistent with diverticulitis. as long as there is no abscess or perforation antibiotics should resolve the symptoms. otherwise surgery. if there is a cancer causing the problem the symptoms will not resolve without surgery.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
more likely come from ulcers & hiatal hernia than from diverticulosis. ejection fraction on hida scan varies according to source: some give 30-35%; others give 35-75%. r u being treated for the ulcers & probable reflux from hiatal hernia? if not see doc for rx: h2 blockers like zantac (ranitidine) or better proton pump inhibitors like prilosec/prevacid/protonix; dos may also rx 1 of those + 2 antibiotics.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
these symptoms are more likely related to your gallbladder. most docs would tell you to remove your gallbladder but this can create problems too. i've had many patients have great success with natural therapies to dissolve gallstones & flush them out of the liver/gallbladder. see <link> & the amazing liver and gallbladder flush by andreas moritz.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
can cause nausea and abdominal pain.
can you drink a protein pwder when on liquid diet for diverticulitis?
it should not affect the diverticulitis.
can you drink a protein pwder when on liquid diet for diverticulitis?
the liquid diet is chosen to avoid any solids in the food you are eating. a protein drink would therefore qualify.
can you drink a protein pwder when on liquid diet for diverticulitis?
liquids are not restricted in diverticulitis.
do i really have to eat a diet high in fibre if i suffer from diverticular disease?
you need to eat 205to35 grms of fiber daily if you suffer fro diverticular disease only exception is during acute diverticulitis when you have to be on low residue diet consistiong of water fruit juices. broth and ice pops to regular diet to low fiber to finally high fiber diet 25to35 grms per day.
does diverticulitis cause weight loss?
it can do so secondarily. the disease itself doesn't cause weight loss but it can make you feel sick and weak and decrease your appetite which can consequently cause weight loss.
does diverticulitis cause weight loss?
the pain and inflammation of this condition which affects the colon can cause weight loss. i would be concerned about cancer in this case also. please be sure your doctor has ruled out cancer of the colon. it would be rare in someone as young as you but it is not unheard of. if your doctor does not seem interested in checking for cancer get another opinion. better safe than sorry.
clear liquid diet 4d how long b4 bowels r cleaned out. still passing stools small thin & mushy. cld that be from old trapped stuff hx: diverticulitis?
4 days of a clear liquid diet results in no residual non absorbable products in small intestine. when this liquid material is partially absorbed in the 12 or more feet of colon which contains suface colonocyte cells and bacterial it comes out as you describe as small thin and mushy. has nothing to do with a resolved diverticular problem.
can an endoscopy show if you have an ulcer and hiatal hernia and diverticulitas?
upper endoscopy can show the hiatal hernia and an ulcer. a colonoscopy is needed to show diverticulosis or diverticulitis.
can an endoscopy show if you have an ulcer and hiatal hernia and diverticulitas?
the upper endoscopy can show a hiatal hernia and also ulcer changes in the upper gi tract. diverticulitis is a diagnosis made on clinical presentation (abdoinal pain and fever) and cat scan of the abdomen which will show the inflammation in the large colon. for diverticulosis (no active inflammation) the colonoscopy can show this disease.
are artificial sweeteners such as equal splendid etc. a bad choice for people with diverticulitis and if so what is an acceptable substitute?
there is no known direct link with sugar or its substitutes causing diverticulitis flare up. however sugar and sweeteners can cause diarrhea or other gi symptoms in certain patients. in general if you have diverticulosis a high fiber diet will help. and that would include avoiding food high in sugar. if you have chronic diverticulitis it may time to visit a surgeon.
friday started diverticulitis. been on liquid diet 3 days and taking keflex 500 mg 4 day since sat. have had 2 small bm today. can i eat pudding now?
if the symptoms are improving you don't feel bloated you have nor pain nausea or vomiting you can probably start advancing your diet back to normal. take it slow and if your symptoms worsen back off.
hi i've had a dull ache in my lower left abdomen for a couple of weeks now sometimes it moves to my lower left groin. on a diet getting wind.
with this description in the absence of any bowel irregularities a hernia comes to mind. with bowel irregularities and a fever this could be colitis or diverticulitis. could even be a left-sided kidney stone.
i have a pain on left side chest goin into back and abdomen fast pulse nausia dizzyness?
the symptoms you describe could represent a heart attack. there are other possibilities such as pancreatitis diverticulitis pneumonia pulmonary embolus (blood clot to the lung) etc. in any event you should be seen emergently in an emergency department.
several weeks llq pain on palpatation obstruction series neg. doc bent left leg pain was felt. wants ct abd/pelvis w&w/o contr. what is suspected?
he most likely suspects diverticulitis. you should not need a scan with and without. the with portion is all that really matters. the without will just increase the amount of radiation that you get.
several weeks llq pain on palpatation obstruction series neg. doc bent left leg pain was felt. wants ct abd/pelvis w&w/o contr. what is suspected?
although acute diverticulitis is uncommon in patients your age it can happen in even youunger ones. ct-scan of the abd-pelvis is indicated if you have significant tenderness. acute diverticulitis ocurs when a diverticulum(a weakness in the large-intestine wall that results in a "pouch") ruptures and causes local or diffuse peritonitis.
stress echo showed heart wall abnormality cardiologist wants to do a lhc to see if blockage in lad. safe while being treated for diverticulitis?
if there is a good reason for the angiogram to be done in the face of diverticulitis it should be a reasonable risk.
i am experiencing abdominal pain (side: left upper) (severity: moderate) chest pain on deep breaths and low back pain. my ribs hurt alot. what is it.
how long worsening? any trauma? any fever? these are the things we need to know before attempting a differential. it could be a lot of things from a broken rib to a injured spleen to diverticulitis. bottom line: you need to see a doctor.
l sided abd pain between end of ribs and hip x's 2 days. no nausea vomiting fever or change in bowel patterns tender on palp. diverticulitis?
maybe should see your doctor for a physical exam and possible radiology studies.
l sided abd pain between end of ribs and hip x's 2 days. no nausea vomiting fever or change in bowel patterns tender on palp. diverticulitis?
without fevers or chills i think it is unlikely this is due to diverticulitis. other sources could be a kidney stone or a rare type of a hernia. other likely causes would be just routine muscle strain.
what can cause lower right side pain? blood pressure high also. had appendix already removed months ago. hurts by groin area.
hernia. groin strain. diverticulitis. ulcerative colitis. crowns ds. meckle's diverticulitis. bruising/injury. the list is not exhaustive. the way the figure out the true cause is to work with your doc ; give a full history about the pain and have an examination.
will diverticulitis aggravate an aortic aneurysm?
diverticulitis is not related to aortic aneurysm. however if there is constipation would suggest a good bowel regimen to avoid excessive straining.
will diverticulitis aggravate an aortic aneurysm?
they are not usually related but i have seen very rare cases of aorto-enteric fistulas from diverticulitis eroding into the aorta. extremely rare.
what can cause pain in the lower right side of abdomen? i recently been having pain in my lower right side of abdomen and now i feel the pain in my whole entire stomach abdomen area. and experiencing chest pains and occasional weakness in the left arm mos
depending on your age and other comorbidities (like your general health if you have risks for heart disease if you smoke etc) you really ought to consider getting back to your doctor asap. really until proven otherwise this sounds like a heart problem. however if that's definitively been ruled out to your doctor's and your satisfaction there certainly some other more benign things to think of. the first thing people think of with the right lower quadrant is related to the appendix. depending on the scan you had (contrast or not) they may have also been able to rule out diverticulosis (which may or may not hurt and if becomes infected is called diverticulitis). depending on age and risks you could have a blockage in the gut. sometimes people present to me with these symptoms and are just simply constipated (but -- that's a diagnosis i'd only make after an extensive evaluation of the other things i've listed here). i've had patients with gall bladder problems present with right lower abdominal pain and ct scans aren't sensitive enough to make that diagnosis for some reason. you should also consider ulcer disease. so lots to consider but i think the safest thing to do is get back with your doctor as soon as you can. good luck to you!
what's the benefit of popcorn?
aviid if you have diverticulitis.
what can cause right side pain. by groin area. blood pressure was high also. appendix removed already. ct scan normal. no kidney stone. or hernia?
right sided groin pain can result from many conditions including bone/joint problems other intestinal problems (besides the appendix) like diverticulitis genitourinary (reproductive and urinary tracts) like epidymitis (inflammation of structures surrounding the testicle) or bruising to the muscle/tendons. each of these need further evaluation by your physician.
