what causes obstructive sleep apnea in children who already have their adenoids & tonsils out?
obesity muscle tone problems children with genetic diseases (e. g. down syndrome) abnormal face and underbite (retrognatia). see a pediatrician for evaluation and tests.
why do people with down syndrome tend to be overweight?
our culture often places emphasis on food as rewards or as a sign of love. sadly the down syndrome kid is vulnerable to a lifetime of joint problems scoliosis& other issues aggravated by being over weight. it is critical in these kids to limit their diet to healthy foods & avoid the trap of feeling sorry for them ( thus giving them food for comfort). these kids can be nl wt if u let them.
why do people with down syndrome tend to be overweight?
they tend to be of short stature. as a result their caloric requirement is relatively low so it's easy to eat more than is necessary to maintain stable weight. there may be other genetic predispositions to obesity as well that are poorly understood.
if baby's heart rate is low is it a sign of down syndrome?
while children with downes syndrome may have a slow heart rate there are many other causes of slow heart rate such as hypothyroidism and others. down's syndrome is best characterized by the constellation of associated characteristics and chromosomal abnormality.
if baby's heart rate is low is it a sign of down syndrome?
the heart rates of a down syndrome fetus are the same as a normal fetus.
why are people with down syndrome more prone to congenital heart disease?
with down syndrome every tissue cell in the body have too much chromosome information in every cell. the extra information confuses the creation of complex body parts and for ds patients the brain heart intestines hands. feet and facial structures all have variable changes related to the defect.
what will be done for a? child with down syndrome and ventricular septal defect?
the approach to and reasons for repair for a ds kid is the same as for any other. the projected lifespan of a ds child with proper medical care for their main problems is >60 years. with holding care from such a child would violate federal "baby doe" statutes and place the licenses of any personnel involved at risk. child & family services of the involved state would also become involved.
what are the tests for fetal hydrops?
fetal hydrops can only be diagnosed with prenatal ultrasonography and certain blood tests can help with its etiology (e. g. torch titers). prenatal genetic diagnosis is also warranted in such cases to assess for down syndrome or other severe anomalies. this can be achieved with cordocentesis amniocentesis placental biopsy or cell-free fetal dna isolation from the maternal blood.
what can i do if my baby has a spot on it's heart?
a "focus" or spot on the heart is relatively common and usually insignificant. it can be a marker for down syndrome though so if a spot is seen you will usually be offered follow-up testing for genetic problems. this is usually done through a more intensive ultrasound to look for other more conclusive markers of down syndrome but also through blood testing or amniocentesis.
what sort of problem is an atrio-ventricular septal defect?
also known as an av canal atrio-ventricular septal defectt is a type of congenital heart defect. there is a an asd and vsd together creating a defect in the center of the heart. there is also one common av valve rather than 2 distinct valves (mitral and tricuspid valves). it is commonly but not necessarily associated with down syndrome. surgical repair is required in infancy.
what sort of disorder is an endocardial cushion defect?
also known as an av canal or atrio-ventricular septal defect it is a type of congenital heart defect. there is a an asd and vsd together creating a defect in the center of the heart. there is also one common av valve rather than 2 distinct valves (mitral and tricuspid valves). it is commonly but not necessarily associated with down syndrome. surgical repair is required in infancy.
what are the symptoms of heart disease in down syndrome?
down syndrome can have multiple congenital heart disease which includes atrial septal defect hypoplastic left ventricle tetrology of fallot transposition of great vessels and ventricular septal defect. some defects can have very few or no sign and symtoms while other may have bluish tinted nails or lips or fast or trouble or others may tire easily when feedind or to be very sleepy.
why is atrioventricular septal defect common? with down's syndrome?
the association of atrial septal defect with down syndrome is part of the constellation of body abnormalities that characterize it.
why is atrioventricular septal defect common? with down's syndrome?
researchers suspect that down syndromes chromosomal defect (an extra chromosome) may somehow affect the production of proteins used to create connective tissues. the tissue between the pumping chambers of the heart s one particular form of connective tissue.
why are av canal defects associated with? down syndrome?
the extra chromosome in every cell causes confusion in the formation of every complex organ system of the body. the heart is quite complex and the av canal defect is more or less a failure of the heart to complete itself (the walls between chambers form near the end of the normal process). the pattern of facial features hand features etc all represent this pattern of interference in formation.
why are av canal defects associated with? down syndrome?
while not every baby with down syndrome has this heart condition it is one of the most common heart defects associated with ds. it is generally quite easy to diagnose once the baby is born.
what do you do about an av canal defect in a child with? down syndrome?
the timing of repair depends on the health of the child and the degree of the defect. your cardiologist and surgeon can discuss these options in more detail.
what causes atrioventricular septal defect (avsd) in babies?
the cause of avsd is not known. there are known associations most notably trisomy 21 or down syndrome. nearly half of the children with avsd have trisomy 21.
what is the reason of chd in newborn?
congenital heart disease is present in 6-<negative_smiley>1000 live births. the cause of chd is unclear but involves both genetic and environmental influences. many genetic syndromes are associated with chd (down syndrome turner syndrome vacterl association etc). maternal disease may also contribute (diabetes lupus rubella) as can some medications and alcohol. usually the exact cause is unknown.
what does a calification means on a unborn fetus heart?
on the anatomic survey sonogram of the baby's organs there is a fairly common finding called an echogenic intracardiac focus that looks like a bright spot on the baby's heart sometimes described as looking like a calcification (calcium deposit in the muscle of the heart). it is considered a 'soft' marker for down syndrome and very rarely can indicate the baby has down's. more often baby: fine.
