severe pain from mid spine up thru eye. stiff and swollen neck. trembling & spasmatic muscle. disorientated and severe headache have cellulitis on face. temp is only 97. 3 tho. scared what is wrong?
a 31 yo women with hx of preeclampsia with a severe headache disoriented and 'cellulitis of the face' but without fever plus the pain from mid-spine to eyes of undescribed duration and unknown history of recent trauma such as a strain fall or near fall; exposure to illness or recent travel leaves too many questions. the answer is to see a doctor urgently if this is new onset and progressing!
pregnancy and gastric bypass surgery? what happens to a developing fetus if the b-vitamins and protein is not accessible after gastric bypass surgery?
it is very possible to have a healthy happy pregnancy following gastric bypass. many pregnancies are healthier after bypass than before because of a decrease in complications related to obesity. the risks associated with gestational diabetes pre-eclampsia and c section among others all decrease after successful bypass. it is important that you try to wait to conceive until you have had the majority of your weight loss and your weight has stabilized. this is usually around 12-18 months. people have been pregnant successfully sooner but there is more risk. following bypass the absorption of nutrients is changes due to the new anatomy. additionally your intake is limited because your stomach is now a small pouch. for these reasons it is important to work closely with your ob and a nutritionist through your pregnancy. around 80% of women meet all their needs on their own. some women need to drink liquid protein supplements to ensure they get enough protein. rarely women need iv nutrition supplementation usually only late in pregnancy. vitamins are still accessible to your baby so long as your own body has adequate stores. you should take a prenatal vitamin and speak with your doctor regarding the need for folate b-12 calcium iron or vitamin d supplements. likely you are already taking b 12 supplements and these will continue. your physician will continue to monitor your levels through blood tests during pregnancy. remember you do not know you are pregnant during those early important weeks so if you have any plans for pregnancy be sure to work closely with your doctor and nutritionist to stay healthy.
what are some things you can do to increase your chances to concieve with being overweight and having one right ovary?
- losing weight if overweight improves chances of conceiving decreases risk of miscarriage decreases risk of developing maternal complications such as preeclampsia and gestational diabetes - seek infertility evaluation to confirm that fallopian tube(s) are patent and that ovulation is occuring - depending on how long you've been ttc may start infertility treatment.
is a taller mother (greater than 165 cm) much less likely than the average to observe the risks associated with triplets? e. g. i have found several studies on pubmed like these below but no evidence to the contrary and don't know what exactly to conclude
triplet pregnancies are inherently risky for any woman. the likelihood of premature delivery is virtually certain. the risk of preeclampsia is elevated as well. the vast majority of triplets are delivered by cesarean regardless of the stature of the woman.
is there any relationship between maternal weight gain during pregnancy and gestation period/duration for singletons? for twins?
too little weight gain or excessive weight gain could be associated with indications for early delivery (iugr pre-eclampsia gestational diabetes ect). there is no specific concrete direct relationship between pregnancy duration and maternal weight gain.
is obesity dangerous to a pregnancy?
gestational diabetes preeclampsia infection thrombosis obstructive sleep apnea labor problems increase risk of c section problems pregnancy loss obesity increases risk of miscarriage and still birth. please see your ob-gyn for help. these are just a few of the increase risk with obese patients. you doctor will help you. blessings to you!
what risks does obesity have in pregnancy?
pre-eclampsia and eclampsia are much increased in the obese pregnant female. the hyperinsulinemia will usually cause and increased birth weight and a debate is on about the long term impact of the child. an obese pregnant female should gain much less weight than her thinner counterpart.
what are the tests for overweight mother?
u shd b evaluated 4 the usual weight-related chronic medical probs as being pregnant can initiate / indicate the future development of diseases like (1) diabetes (2) preeclampsia / hypertension & (3) others. to check for (1) ur doc orders n oroglucose tolerance test (ogtt). for (2) screen urself 4 high blood pressure by going to the pharmacy &using their booth for 1 wk (keep a record 4 ur doc)
type 1 diabetes and pregnancy. what is risk of baby dying?
mortality rate is about 3%. there is an increased likelihood of pre-eclampsia pre-term delivery cesarian section and having a large baby. thus risks are much higher than for women who do not have diabetes. pregnancy outcomes for uncontrolled diabetes can be quite poor. good luck.
how can my diet have an impact on my pregnancy?
everything from mom's excessive weight gain with risk for diabetes high blood pressure eclampsia etc to adverse effects on developing fetus- malformations small for dates poor neuro development etc.
do doctors screen for metabolic disorders after birth?
for a\child the family hx is most important. if the mother had pre- or full eclampsia or gestational diabetes that is quite significant. as are the parent's hx for truncal obesity cholesterol problems diabetes an mi's.
im 11 weeks and was told i was showing sign of preeclampsia. is this possible this early? i went to the doctors recently for a check up on my pregnancy. im 11 weeks now and having major concerns about my health. i was diagnosed with sinus arrhythmia and w
hello. my understanding is that preeclampsia is defined as the new onset of elevated blood pressure and protein in the urine after 20 weeks of gestation. it often develops during the second half of a pregnancy or up to 6 weeks after the birth. it may be detected through blood pressure elevation and evaluation of blood/urine in the early stages. if you feel that nurse is being less than professional and the doctor is not willing to address it; you can talk to the medical facility's patient contact representative who is there to assist with this type of situation. i am sorry i don't have a recommendatio for the urine sample problem. congratulations on your pregnancy.
i'm 25 weeks pregnant and for 3 days have been having blurry vision seeing double out and also a chest tightness breathlessness & heart palpitations?
you need to see a doctor to rule out preeclampsia or other serious condition.
is preeclampsia very rare in healthy people? do benign heart palpitations increase my chance of preeclampsia when i am pregnant?
you are not spared the risk of preeclampsia even if you are "healthy". preeclampsia is relatively common especially in 1st pregnancies. heart palpitations do not make it more likely. some things that increase your chances. are diabetes obesity high blood pressure kidney disease or a family history of it. most women who get preeclampsia during pregnancy are normal women with normal pregnancies.
what cause cardiac arrest during c sections?
bleeding clot embolism anesthesia or drug toxicity or interaction pre-existing heart or lung disease. specific: amniotic or air embolism eclampsia and hypertension there are more but this is a sample.
i'm 23wks preg and i'm having headaches heartrate ranges from 98-111bpm heartburn is increased and baby is kicking is it normal? i take 2ltrs+ water
heart rate can increase in second trimester due to increase in blood volume. headache may be migraine ( more common first trimester) tension stress hormones. dehydration or foods keep a diary. do you have ankle swelling? blurred vision? since you are > 20 weeks check your blood pressure and urine for protein you may have pre-eclampsia. see your doctor/ ob over next 24 hours.
i'm 35 weeks pregnant and it seems just walking 2 feet makes me dizzy and my heart beats fast. hard to catch my breath. what can i do to reduce this?
you may have gained a lot of weight during your pregnancy. also your body mechanics are almost certainly off in that you are now walking around with this big additional weight in front of you. in addition you may have medical problems with high blood pressure associated with pregnancy called preeclampsia. go see your ob and discuss your concerns today.
what's a hypertensive crisis? if i notice a spike in my blood pressure what should i do?
extremely high blood pressure — a top number (systolic pressure) of 180 millimeters of mercury (mm hg) or higher or a bottom number (diastolic pressure) of 120 mm hg or higher — damages blood vessels. they become inflamed and may leak fluid or blood. as a result the heart may not be able to pump blood effectively. causes of a hypertensive emergency include: forgetting to take your blood pressure medication stroke heart attack heart failure kidney failure rupture of your body's main artery (aorta) interaction between medications convulsions during pregnancy (eclampsia). a hypertensive crisis is divided into two categories: urgent and emergency. in an urgent hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high but your doctor doesn't suspect you have any damage to your organs. in an emergency hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high and has caused damage to your organs. an emergency hypertensive crisis can be associated with life-threatening complications. signs and symptoms of a hypertensive crisis that may be life–threatening may include: severe chest pain severe headache accompanied by confusion and blurred vision nausea and vomiting severe anxiety shortness of breath seizures unresponsiveness. if you experience a severe increase in your blood pressure seek immediate medical attention. treatment for hypertensive crisis may include hospitalization for treatment with oral or intravenous medications.
please help im 33 weeks pregnant. shortly after eating will feel bloated breathless dizzy get sensitive with noise very uneasy cold hands&feet weak?
please take this urgently to your ob. you sound like you may have developed gestational diabetes or even another dangerous condition known as pre-eclampsia.
preeclampsia and high blood pressure during pregnancy. how to deal with this?
there are significant risks associated with preeclampsia and high blood pressure in pregnancy. sometimes blood pressure medicine is needed but not always. patients need to be closely followed with visits and also labs. some patients need to be delivered early depending on the severity of the disease. talk to your doctor and follow the directions that they give you.
what are the risk factors for becoming pregnant with hypertension?
mild high blood pressure may get better early in pregnancy. hypertension is caused by kidney disease in up to 10% of patients and if kidney function is significantly impaired there is serious risk for miscarriage and pregnancy complications including pre-eclampsia. no matter what the cause bp needs to be controlled sometimes with medication. a specialist in high risk pregnancy may be needed.
should i be concerned about pregnancy-induced hypertension?
in the sense that it is an issue that needs to be managed during pregnancy. usually pregnancy induced hypertension is either preeclampsia or not. if it is preeclampsia then you need to determine if it is mild or severe. if it is gestational hypertension then as long as your blood pressure is controlled and the baby's growth is ok then you can deliver at 39 to 40 weeks.
what are the common symptoms of preclampsia?
read this for lots of information: <link> mayoclinic. org/diseases-conditions/preeclampsia/basics/definition/con-20031644
what is my percent of a chance i will get preeclampsia or blood clots in pregnancy if i got no risk factors? 50% chance or less?
the chance of getting pre-eclampsia is 7. 5% worldwide. (7. 5 per 100) risk varies somewhat by country. in canada the risk is probably slightly lower. the risk for a blood lot is. 0625% (1 in 1600). its not that common. best wishes
what is my percent of a chance i will get preeclampsia or blood clots in pregnancy if i got no risk factors? 50% chance or less?
if no htn non smoking and healthy life style with periodic prenatal medical follow up
what is my percent of a chance i will get preeclampsia or blood clots in pregnancy if i got no risk factors? 50% chance or less?
if you have no risk factors (such as bmi > 35 kg/sq m age over 40 mother or sister with pre-eclampsia or clots or a history of clotting or hypertension yourself) then your risk is probably less than 10%. please ask your obstetrician for a specific assessment of your risks as he/she can examine you and run diagnostic tests to more accurately stratify your risks. best wishes to you.
what is my percent of a chance i will get preeclampsia or blood clots in pregnancy if i got no risk factors? 50% chance or less?
certainly much less than 50%. this seems like an odd question: either not enough information or some other issue.
what is my percent of a chance i will get preeclampsia or blood clots in pregnancy if i got no risk factors? 50% chance or less?
the risk of a blood clot or dvt in pregnancy is anywhere from 1 in 500 to 1 in 2000. preeclampsia risk is higher in a first pregnancy approximately 6% and only about 1/2 the risk in subsequent pregnancies. i hope your pregnancy is a healthy and happy event.
what are the signs of preeclampsia at 23 weeks?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
what are the signs of preeclampsia at 23 weeks?
the diagnosis of pre-eclampsia is suspected when the b/p reaches 140/90 for the first time during the pregnancy and there is a high level of protein in the urine ( 300 mg. or more/24 hours). this signifies a decrease in organ perfusion and that means to the baby too. close monitoring is imperative!
what is preclampsia?
a potentially deadly complication involving high blood pressure in pregnancy.
what blood tests do dr's run if they suspect preeclampsia?
best tests is to determine the protein in the urine after its collected for 24 hours. if over 300 mg then a positive test. bloodwork to include a chemistry panel and for elevated liver enzymes blood count to check anemia and platelets. these are the routinely performed labs good luck.
what blood tests do dr's run if they suspect preeclampsia?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
what is the frequency of for a healthy woman to die of a heart-attack during child-birth?
sudden death hypertensive crisis eclampsia air or pulmonary embolus.
when you are pregnant and your blood pressure is low what does that mean?
during the 1st trimester of pregnancy it is normal for your blood pressure to fall below it's normal levels. blood pressure then slowly rises throughout the remainder of the pregnancy. if your bp becomes elevated at any time during pregnancy this may be a sign of preeclampsia and you should see your ob immediately.
what is a dangerous blood pressure in pregnancy?
bp of 140/90 or higher is considered high for pregnant pts. when the bp is high enough to cause protien to show in the moms urine (kidey damage) its called pre-eclamsia. when mom has a seizure its called eclampsia. eclampsia is the second leading cause of fetal death in usa. pre-eclamsia can cause low birth weight and premature birth.
what are chances of high blood pressure later if preeclampsia?
the bp is checked after delivery to make sure mother is fine after preeclampsia. bp usually returns to normal.
why does platelets go low in preeclampsia?
get chewed up by the inflamed blood vessels. preeclampsia is basically an inappropriate immune reaction of mother to fetus that causes blood vessels in the mother to narrow and clog. high blood pressure and drop in platelets both result from that.
why does platelets go low in preeclampsia?
there is evidence in the medical literature that toxemia of pregnancy isdue to vitamin deficiency causing loss of cellular energy. i suspect that the platelet drop is from the same underlyng cause.
when pregnant do they have you pee in a cup to check for things like preeclampsia?
it is important to do this. in pregnancy many infections have no symptoms and can be easily detected in urine. plus large amounts of proteins in urine can signal a possible preeclampsia.
when pregnant do they have you pee in a cup to check for things like preeclampsia?
a urine screening gives the ob info on several basic risks in pregnancy. puss or bacteria in the specimen suggests an infection which could create problems for mom & baby. sugar in the urine would be a sign of emerging diabetes of pregnancy. protein in more than minor amounts could be an early sign of the kidney damage in preeclampsia. a simple test with a lot of helpful info.
what symptoms appear when your blood pressure spikes from preeclampsia?
the most common signs of blood pressure elevation is headache that does not resolve with tylenol (acetaminophen) vision disturbances excessive swelling and general not feeling well.
what symptoms appear when your blood pressure spikes from preeclampsia?
your ankles swell you get protein in your urine and if untreated it progresses to eclampsia with convulsions. it's harmful to both mother and baby.
what symptoms appear when your blood pressure spikes from preeclampsia?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
what are the treatments for pregnancy-induced hypertension?
need to assess for preeclampsia/correct electrolyte or magnesium abnormalities. hypertension exacerbated by increased intravascular volume. beta-blockers diuretics calcium channel blockers aldomet (methyldopate) are among the drugs of first resort.
what effects does preeclampsia have on my baby?
babies of women with preeclampsia might be smaller because they did not grow well (due to higher blood pressure) or were born early because the women needed to be delivered preterm. there are other possible effects that are known or being studied but those are the main ones in developed nations.
what effects does preeclampsia have on my baby?
pre-eclampsia (or "toxemia") can have multiple effects on pregnancy -- the high blood pressure can restrict blood flow to the placenta causing growth restriction premature labor placental abruption (premature separation of the placenta form the uterine wall) and even more serious complications.
what is preeclampsia?
preeclampsia (also called "toxemia") is a triad of findings (high blood pressure swelling and protein in the urine) usually seen in the third trimester of pregnancy. typically seen in first pregnancies younger pregnant women multiple pregnancies and other risk factors pre-eclampsia can lead to serious complications. treatment: bedrest or hospitalization. cure: delivery.
what is preeclampsia?
a hypertensive disorder in pregnancy assoc with elevated blood pressure protein in the urine abn liver tests edema (swelling) sometimes. it is considered a high risk factor in pregnancy for both mother and fetus. treatment is medicines early on or delivery if far enough along. needs close follow up.
what are the causes of pregnancy-induced hypertension?
hypertension occurs in 3-4% pregnancies. most times it is a reflection of essential htn (perhaps exacerbated by wt gain and increased plasma volume). htn occurring after 20 weeks might reflect preeclampsia and if associated neurological changes eclampsia. thyroid abnormalities later in pregnancy can also affect bp and cause htn.
what are the causes of pregnancy-induced hypertension?
there are four types of high blood pressure (hypertension) that can occur in pregnancy: preeclampsia chronic hypertension preeclampsia superimposed on chronic hypertension and gestational hypertension. please see this link for complete info: <link>
what is pregnancy-induced hypertension?
elevated bps without protein in the urine or other signs of preeclampsia.
what is pregnancy-induced hypertension?
there are four types of high blood pressure (hypertension) that can occur in pregnancy: preeclampsia chronic hypertension preeclampsia superimposed on chronic hypertension and gestational hypertension. please see this link for complete info: <link>
what are the chances of getting preeclampsia in pregnancy?
first pregnancy young age advanced maternal age obesity diabetes pre-existing hypertension renal disease lupus are all risk factors.
what are the chances of getting preeclampsia in pregnancy?
the chances increase if you are younger; having the first baby; are over weight; have chronic high blood pressure; have diabetes or kidney disease; have a new partner.
what are the effects of preeclampsia in pregnancy?
there is a spectrum of conditions related to preeclampsia which include elevated blood pressure to a more severe condition called hellp which includes high blood pressure hemolytic anemia elevated liver enzymes and low platelets.
what are the effects of preeclampsia in pregnancy?
preeclampsia is a serious complication of pregnancy. it consists of retained fluids high blood pressure and the kidneys not being able to control protein loss. delivery is the cure. medications can be used to stabilize the event and to gain a little lung maturation time. the greatest complication is a seizure and transient liver damage.
why does my doctor measure my blood pressure so closely in pregnancy?
the whole prenatal visit is structured looking for preeclampsia. that is why we check your blood pressure dip your urine and weigh you. it is all to look for preeclampsia.
what are the risk factors for developing pregnancy-induced hypertension?
same as preeclampsia: preexisting htn diabetes obesity kidney disease.
what are the complications associated with pregnancy-induced hypertension?
pregnancy-induced hypertension (pih) has several risks associated with it. because of decreased blood blow to the uterus babies can be small or have low amniotic fluid levels this increases their risk of distress. placental abruption or stroke can occur if blood pressures are very high. pih is also a risk factor for developing pre-eclampsia or eclampsia.
will my pregnancy be adversely affected by my high blood pressure?
women with chronic hypertension have higher risk of preeclampsia abruption. fetuses of women with high blood pressure have greater chance of poor growth decreased blood flow and/or amniotic fluid sometimes fetal distress or other serious problems. with bp control frequently checked and stable bp values and fetal evaluation the risk of problems for baby can decrease. see internist before ttc.
will my pregnancy be adversely affected by my high blood pressure?
it's important that women with preexisting hypertension get pre conception counselling to understand their particular and unique risks. certain medications should be avoided. these pregancies are at higher risk for developing growth problems and toxemia or preeclampsia but with close followup you should hopefully have a safe and healthy pregnancy.
will my pregnancy be adversely affected by my high blood pressure?
untreated high blood pressure during pregnancy can potentially be very dangerous. it can be associated with a wide variety of complications ranging from poor fetal growth to seizures ( eclampsia). fortunately patients who attend clinic regularly rest and take medications when indicated rarely have severe complications.
will my pregnancy be adversely affected by my high blood pressure?
chronic hypertension increases the risk of pre-eclampsia abruption and fetal demise. control of blood pressure is important to reducing these risks. there are medications that are safe in pregnancy that may be indicated in your pregnancy. coordinate with an ob/gyn early in the pregnancy. high risk ob consultation may be indicated depending on the severity of the hypertension.
will my pregnancy be adversely affected by my high blood pressure?
uncontrolled high blood pressure is a risk factor for abruption stoke pre-eclampsia and low-birthweight babies. taking blood pressure medications can help reduce most of these risks. there is still a 30% risk of developing pre-eclampsia when you have hypertension even if it is controlled with medications.
what are the risks of developing high blood pressure or preeclampsia again?
a woman has a higher chance of developing preeclampsia if she has a history of it or hypertension is diabetic has certain kidney or autoimmune disease has >1 fetus is at an age extreme (young or midlife) etc. if she does develop preeclampsia complications include the condition progressing to eclampsia (convulsions) or to strokes kidney damage bleeding etc.
what are the risks of developing high blood pressure or preeclampsia again?
subsequent episodes are very probable.
what other illnesses have similar symptoms to pheochromocytoma?
anxiety panic attacks essential hypertension hyperthyroidism illicit drug use carcinoid syndrome cardiac arrhythmias menopause preeclampsia - to name a few.
what other illnesses have similar symptoms to pheochromocytoma?
anxiety and panic attacks hyperthyroidism use of illicit substances (drugs) carcinoid syndrome cardiac arrhythmias menopause preeclampsia un controlled hypertension.
what causes high blood pressure in a female who just gave birth?
high blood pressure can be induced by the pregnancy - either as part of a toxemia (eg pre-eclampsia) or as isolated pregnancy induced hypertension. it generally improves but duration is variable and could last 2 months. depending on severity it may require treatment. follow the advice of you ob or be referred to an internist or nephrologist or cardiologist.
what causes pregnancy induced hypertension?
my ob chairman told us this about a famous hospital where pioneers in pregnancy worked and studied complications like toxemia. it was called chicago lying-in hospital; it evolved into labor and delivery of the u chicago medical center. nearby is a row of plaques of famous researchers. there is one for the person who discovers the cause of preeclampsia. after all of these years it is still empty.
what are the chances my gestational hypertension will continue after pregnancy?
high blood pressure caused by pregnancy - gestational hypertension preeclampsia - will resolve after pregnancy. in most cases it resolves within a few days. other cases can take up to six weeks. if high blood pressure does not resolve then you most likely have chronic hypertension and not high blood pressure induced by pregnancy.
what is the significance of elevated hypertension?
if a woman has a history of hypertension in the past and the blood pressure suddenly increases she needs evaluation by a specialist in hypertension and/or maternal-fetal medicine specialist. she might be developing superimposed preeclampsia which can worsen quickly placing the woman and baby at risk. or she might not have that but may need medication change. only expert evaluation can tell which.
where do i find more information on cardiac output and pre-eclampsia?
i'm an internist but from what i remember from med school where i delivered 30 babies in 30 days at umdnj (1970) the cardiac output peaks at 7 months and decreases thereafter. pre-eclampsia is an abormal preg state where the mother develops severe high blood pressure and edema. needs aggressive treatment including lots of rest. but look for an obstetrician answer.
where do i find more information on cardiac output and pre-eclampsia?
check out the american medical association website.
what indicates toxemia? bp high number low number or is it just a change from previous?
toxemia also called preeclampsia is diagnosed after 20 weeks gestation if your blood pressure is greater than 140/90 on 2 occasions 6 hours apart and you have more than 300 mg of protein in your urine in a 24-hour urine sample.
what indicates toxemia? bp high number low number or is it just a change from previous?
pre-eclampsia (sometimes called toxemia of pregnancy) is the combination of high blood pressure (hypertension) protein in the urine and other symptoms during pregnancy. it happens when the blood vessels supplying the placenta are only able to accommodate the needs of the growing fetus by increasing the mother's blood pressure.
what indicates toxemia? bp high number low number or is it just a change from previous?
toxemia also known as preeclampsia is measured with elevation in blood pressure and protein in your urine. to qualify you will need elevation in bp > 140/90 with a certain amount of protein in your urine. furthermore you may have additional symptoms associated with your elevated bp such as persistant headache abnormal lung/liver function or platelet number that may qualify you for severe state.
what is the difference between hellp and preeclampsia?
up to 20 % of pregnant women with severe pre eclampsia or eclampsia will also have hellp syndrome. the cause is unknown usually before 37 wks preeclampsia by definition is high blood pressure and protein in the urine that presents in woman after 20 weeks of pregnancy. hellp as the letters stand for is: h= hemolysis (when red blood cells break down el= elevated liver enzymes p= low platelets.
what is the difference between hellp and preeclampsia?
are 2 different syndromes yet interdependent. hellp is progressing more rapidly than preeclampsia sometimes and when diagnosted delivery is always the way out. in preeclampsia depending on stage you can delay the delivery more or less.
whats severe preeclampsia or helpp please!?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
whats severe preeclampsia or helpp please!?
hypertension that is caused by pregnancy is preeclampsia. hellp is : hemolysis elevation of liver enzymes and low platelets. this is the most sever type of preeclampsia. delivery is often lifesaving for mother and baby.
whats severe preeclampsia or helpp please!?
severe preeclampsia is a marked increase in blood pressure along with swelling and protein in your urine. it can have serious consequences for you and/or the baby. hellp syndrome is a variation of severe pre eclampsia that has hemolysis elevated liver tests and low platelets that can be very dangerous. most women with hellp or severe preeclampsia are delivered shortly.
what is the best treatment for preeclampsia patient?
the only reeal cure for preeclampsia is delivery. we use magnesium sulfate to prevent seizures.
what is gestational hypertension?
in a person who develops elevated blood pressure during pregnancy or just after pregnancy the term gestational hypertension would apply. this is different than chronic hypertension which is bp elevation that was present before the pregnancy. gestational hypertension also includes diseases such as pre-eclampsia or toxemia.
where can i find more information on cardiac output and preeclampsia?
go to any medical library and borrow any obstetrics text and you'll learn all about it. here's an article but it won't be easy to find the full text: <link>
what causes rise in blood pressure + protein in urine other symptoms of preeclampsia?
there are many theories but know one knows for sure. many thins probably contribute.
what are the symptoms associated with fetal hydrops?
fetal hydrops usually causes few if any symptoms. decreased fetal movement is an advanced sign. maternal hypertension and headaches may herald the development of ballantyne syndrome (mirror syndrome) when the mother develops preeclampsia in response to fetal swelling. this is a dreaded complication that mandates pregnancy termination regardless of gestational age.
what can cause high blood pressure in a female who was perfectly fine before pregnancy?
there is a disease of pregnancy called pre-eclampsia or toxemia. it is described as occurring after 20 weeks of pregnancy and it often involves elevated blood pressure (bp) & protein in the urine. this is the most worrisome condition which would be considered as a reason for elevated bp. however elevated bp may be related to other causes also however it most certainly requires medical assessment.
what can cause high blood pressure in a female who was perfectly fine before pregnancy?
preeclampsia is the most common cause of elevated blood pressure in the latter part of pregnancy. it is especially concerning if your blood pressure rise is associated with headache vision changes or nausea and vomiting. see your doctor for evaluation.
what causes pulmonary edema on magnesium sulfate for early labor?
magnesium sulfate by itself do not cause pulmonary edema. it is use for preeclampsia - condition during pregnancy which can cause kidney or heart disease ( both of them can present with pulmonary edema ). it is also use as a tocolytic agent ( slow down contractions in premature labor ). other tocolytic agent ( terbutaline ) is more likely to cause pulmonary edema and then it can be used instead.
what causes pulmonary edema on magnesium sulfate for early labor?
magnesium sulfate acts as a cardiac depressant and can send a pregnant woman into pulmonary edema especially if additional factors are present: preeclampsia twins obesity smoking overdose with magnesium sulfate. diuresis with lasix (furosemide) and prompt discontinuation of the magnesium infusion drip will reverse this life-threatening complication rather rapidly. a cardiac echo is warranted.
what are the symptoms/dangers of pre-clampsia?
preeclampsia is the disorder of late pregnancy manifested by elevated blood pressure increased excretion of urinary protein and/or edema. there are other optional manifestations such as elevated liver enzymes. preeclampsia if left untreated will progress to eclampsia the hallmark thereof is seizures. it's very important that pre-eclampsia be identified and treated promptly.
what is pathophysiology polyhydramnions cause hypertension?
polyhydramnios is an over abundance of amniotic fluid. there are many causes including fetal anomalies diabetes and an unknown. a good ultrasound examining the fetus for abnormalities is indicated. polyhydramnios does not usually cause hypertension in the mother. that is more commonly due to either underlying high blood pressure or developing pre-eclampsia.
what is the treatment for proteinuria in pregnancy apart from controlling high blood pressure inducing abortion and delivery?
urinary protein (p) excretion is abnormal in pregnancy when it exceeds 300 mg/24 hours at anytime during gestation. p documented before pregnancy or before 20 weeks' gestation suggests preexisting renal disease. it's recommended that that the diagnosis of proteinuria be based on the 24-hour urine collection. preeclampsia must be excluded in women with p first identified after 20 weeks.
what are the signs of preeclampsia besides bp?
there are several signs and symptoms of preeclampsia. these can include high blood pressure protein in the urine visual disturbances headaches low platelets elevated liver function tests kidney failure or fetal growth restriction. it is important to remember that these symptoms can occur in other conditions and none of these alone means you necessarily have preeclampsia.
what are the signs of preeclampsia besides bp?
as mentioned above.
what are the signs of preeclampsia besides bp?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
what are the prevention of preeclampsia?
preeclampsia is most common in first pregnancies younger and older mothers multiple gestations and women whose mother had preeclampsia. women who already have high blood pressure diabetes or kidney disease are also at increased risk. exercise and eat a healthy well balanced diet before and during your pregnancy.
why my wife get the hipertensi before the birth now? but before the blood pressure is normal?
many people develop hypertension during pregnancy. for most it is a reflection of their changed circumstances (increased weight and increases in circulating plasma volume --which increase up to 30-40% during pregnancy). for some it is a warning that they will be susceptible to htn later in life. for some htn during pregnancy might be dangerous (particularly if w protein in urine)-preeclampsia.
what is essential hypertension? can it be cured controlled and occurr in pregnancy?
essential hypertension is blood pressure problems that can occur in someone who has a genetic predisposition or if they have risk factors such as heart disease obesity. etc. it can be controlled with medications maintaining a good exercise routine. it can occur in pregnancy also. eclampsia is the hypertension related to pregnancy and is different. all can be controlled with adequate care.
when all blood/urine tests are normal what numbers indicate high blood pressure in full term pregnancy. what numbers would necessitate an induction?
gestational hypertension is typically defined as blood pressures greater than 140/90 with no protein in your urine or lab abnormalities consistent with preeclampsia. if you have this at term delivery may be warranted. if you don't have high blood pressure before pregnancy and your systolic bp is greater than 160 or your diastolic is greater than 105 you need medication to bring down the reading.
what causes preeclampsia?
that is a good question it is easier to tell you the treatment than the cause. the treatment is delivery of the fetus and magnesium for the mother. also concerning is that women who have this are at increased risk of hypertension for the rest of their life.
what causes preeclampsia?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
what disease causes a woman miscarries due to high blood pressure?
severe pregnancy associated high blood pressure is called eclampsia hypertensive disorder of pregnancy or toxemia of pregnancy. regular medical care during pregnancy and through the delivery and post-delivery period can help prevent adverse outcomes.
what is the term for visual changes with headache due to preeclampsia?
moms who experience visual changes should see a health care provide right away.
what is the term for visual changes with headache due to preeclampsia?
keep in mind that visual aura of migraine is not exactly like the visual changes with preeclampsia.
whether if i do get preeclampsia again is it going to be risky to abort carry the baby?
if you have had pre eclampsia before you should find a high risk obstetrician to help you with your second baby. good luck!
why my bp is high150/100 even taking bp pill after c-section due to a week before sudden preclampsia at 32 weeks gave birth at 33 weeks before no bp?
you do not indicate when you delivered but if it was less than three months the elevated bp is likely related to the pre-eclampsia. it can take several months for the bp to normalize after having developed pre-ecalmpsia. the fact that you delivered at 33 weeks suggests that you bp was quite high and may even have been almost out of control. be patien and continue your bp medication.
why my bp is high150/100 even taking bp pill after c-section due to a week before sudden preclampsia at 32 weeks gave birth at 33 weeks before no bp?
high blood pressure from preeclampsia can develop suddenly in the third trimester. it may take weeks or months for your bp to return to normal. sometimes women who get preeclampsia will end up with chronic hypertension but most cases ultimately resolve.
what is preeclampsia and how do i know if i have it?
it is an illness characterized usually in the latter stages of pregnancy by fluid retention in the legs and face and alarmingly increasing bp measurements. untreated it can lead to stroke and even death and fetal demise.
what is preeclampsia and how do i know if i have it?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
what exactly would cause a seizure if you have preeclampsia?
preeclampsia causes seizures. this is called "eclampsia" and is quite serious even deadly for both mother and baby. the exact cause of these seizures is not known. the treatment is immediate delivery once the mother has been medically stabilized. delivery can be vaginal but is usually by c/s because of the time involved.
what precent of pregnancies get preeclampsia blood clots and stroke? i was a preemie and worry because of that i'm exposed to increase chance
rates of pre-eclampsia are fairly small - around 3-4%. while pre-eclampsia is a risk factor for stroke actual chance of having a stroke is very small. available data indicate 11-30 cases of stroke per 100 000 deliveries. pre-eclampsia a well-recongnized condition and can be effectively controlled. you should let your doctor know about your concerns and let them follow you closely.
what precent of pregnancies get preeclampsia blood clots and stroke? i was a preemie and worry because of that i'm exposed to increase chance
there isn't a set percentage of pregnancies that develop preeclampsia. however our ob/gyn colleagues have developed a list of risk factors that you can find online. the strongest risk factor is maternal age. being a premie is not on the list.
what could possibly cause "sparklers" in my eyes (exactly like the ones i had when i was pregnant and had preeclampsia) tubes tied not pregnant.
you should go see an ophthalmologist to have a dilated retinal exam. could be ophthalmic migraine or retinal tear. cannot diagnose without a complete eye exam. also should have your bp checked.
what to do if i have high blood pressure after birth anxiety attacks and now baby blues has anybody suffered from any of these?
preeclampsia which is high blood pressure during pregnancy and post partum depression along with anxiety can occur in women. these all ma be related to hormone changes during pregnancy. i am uncertain whether there is a correlation and relationship between the former and the latter
what are the symptoms of preeclampsia?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
what are the symptoms of preeclampsia?
symptoms can include excessive weight gain swelling high blood pressure protein in the urine headaches abdominal pain and others.
what to do if i discovered out today that i have preeclampsia?
be under the care of your ob. he will monitor the sx until you are safe to have your baby.
what to do if i discovered out today that i have preeclampsia?
my best advice to you is to follow the advice of your obstetrician (who knows you best and is in the best position to time the delivery of your baby - which is the ultimate "cure" for preeclampsia).
want my baby to be induced at 36 weeks been in hospital for 3 week do to hypertension hbp but my doctor is gone. will they do it if i ask? ! 35w today
there are a lot of factors to consider. do you have preeclampsia (toximia). how high is your blood pressure? have they done an amnio to assess the lung maturity of the baby? it is not reasonable to induce a premature birth just because you ask. there really needs to be a medical indication to do so. let they baby stay in as long as it is safe to do so.
what happens if you had preeclampsia with a previous child/ pregnancy is it safe to have another child?
you will be classified as a "high risk" pregnancy and closely monitored by your ob or turned over to the perinatologist! if you are in good health you should be in good hands. good luck!
what are my chances of getting preeclampsia again? how common is recurrence?
read this: <link> mayoclinic. org/diseases-conditions/preeclampsia/basics/definition/con-20031644
why do women with preeclampsia have nausea and abdominal pain?
nausea and vomiting scare general symptoms of preeclampsia which is causing pressure buildup in the venous system resulting in high blood pressure and potential renal failure.
why do women with preeclampsia have nausea and abdominal pain?
sometimes abnormal placentas begin to breakdown at 20wks leading to exposure of mom to some of dad's placental genes and lead to an "allergic" reaction where the vessels spasm and platelets are drawn away (thrombocytopenia). the spasm causes high bp ha liver dysfunction vision changes and protein in the urine; leads to maternal seizure decreased baby growth and sometimes placental abruption
what week does preclampsia occur durring pregnancy currently 17weeks pregnant?
preeclampsia usually occurs after the 20th week and can last in to the early weeks of postpartum. your physician will check regularly to make sure this is not a risk for you.
so what are the symptoms of eclampsia?
eclampsia means toxemia with seizures in a pregnant woman with out any preexisting brain condition. it is avery serious condition.
sister has been incredibly sick- high bp and symptoms of preeclampsia. will they take the baby early?
if she has preeclampsia the treatment is delivery.
should i go to l&d if headache blurred vision other symptoms of preeclampsia?
yes!
should i go to l&d if headache blurred vision other symptoms of preeclampsia?
get your husband to drive you to your maternity hospital asap or call 911 for an ambulance. do not drive yourself!
sister has bad preeclampsia ans now they think swelling of the brain. why?
hypertension is a prime issue in pre-eclampsia. severe hypertension may cause fluid to leak out of the circulatory system and into the tissue. if that tissue is brain brain swelling occurs. once blood pressure reduces resolution of edema by various means may begin. otherwise the prognosis is not good.
severe morning sickness pregnancy pregnancydieabieties preclampsia lost 25lbs induced early 1/2 blood loss acute kidney failure blood pressure 50/30 five blood tranfusions?
you're clearly high risk and need to be followed closely by a specialty team.
