what infection should i worry getting from animals after the tusnami?
animals can transmit diseases and infections to humans after a disaster such as a tusnami. some possibilities are: plague rabies malaria japanese encephalitis dengue
can my 1 year die after possible exposure to cold sore after touching band aid used to cover it possibly the cotton part nd putting finger in mouth?
6 weeks are at risk for herpetic encephalitis if they become infected with herpes simplex 1 although caution dictates advising one's pediatrician if a baby under 3 months gets a cold sore. primary infection in a 1-year-old can cause gingivo-stomatitis inflammation & ulcerations of mucous membranes of the mouth gums tongue & hard & soft palate that lasts about 2 weeks.
what are the symptoms of chagas disease?
acute phase: no symptoms or nonspecific fever syndrome. chronic phase: no symptoms (40-50%) cardiomyopathy with congestive failure (10-25%) esophagopathy and colonopathy (5-10%) peripheral neuropathy meningoencephalitis.
what effects do hiccups have on your heart? i've been having hiccups every 45 minutes for over a year now. should i get it checked out? they get closer together as i'm more active and further apart when i'm relaxed. i've gotten so used to them that i har
hiccups may be a sign of an underlying medical condition so yes you should "get it checked out" there are cases when an infection tumor or damage from trauma may affect the way your body normally controlls the hiccup reflex therefore increasing the occurence of hiccups. examples of such problems include stroke multiple sclerosis tumors meningitis encephalitis brain injury secondary to trauma metabolic disorders and drugs. in addition the following can trigger long-term hiccps: alcoholism anesthesia barbiturates diabetes electrolyte imbalance kidney failure and steroid use. this problem definitely warrants a visit to your primary care provider for a detailed history and physical. good luck.
what should you do when after valve replacement encephalitis is present?
endocarditis is the infection of a valve or artificial valve. cultures to determine cause of infection and appropriate antibiotics for six weeks is common.
what should you do when after valve replacement encephalitis is present?
most of the time the problem with a valve is "endocarditis" not encephalitis. endocarditis is an infection of the valve and can lead to loss of valve function. if a prosthetic valve gets endocarditis replacement of that valve is often necessary.
what do you know about central nervous system vasculitis?
cns vasculitis is an uncommon form of vasculitis. it usually has normal lab tests. it presents with abnormalities in the central nervous system that can look like cerebritis encephalitis or stroke. this is a very dangerous life threatening disease. if you have these symptoms go immediately to an er. this is normally diagnosed by angiogram or brain biopsy. it is treated by experienced rheum.
what do you do when after valve replacement encephalitis is present?
you are likely indicating a shunt infection. treatment include removing the shunt an treatment with antibiotics.
