i am in hospital w/a "gram+ bacillus" sepsis. 6/8 blood culture bottles are +. caused by a dirty cut then severe cellulitis. i have heart vegetation from it they say. also on cellcept. can you educate me on whats the significance of heart vegetation?
what you describe is endocarditis. the vegetations harbor the bacteria that are identified when blood cultures are obtained. sepsis heart failure as well as "septic emboli" are potential complications 6 weeks of iv antibiotics followed by repeat blood cultures and follow up echocardiogram to insure treatment was adequate.
i am in hospital w/a "gram+ bacillus" sepsis. 6/8 blood culture bottles are +. caused by a dirty cut then severe cellulitis. i have heart vegetation from it they say. also on cellcept. can you educate me on whats the significance of heart vegetation?
bacteria in the blood can attach to the heart valves which causes a vegetation. the condition is called endocarditis. endocarditis can result in sustained bacteria presence in the blood as well as the bacteria can erode the valve or valve structures making the valve leak. if significant valve leakiness (regurgitation) occurs it may have to be surgically replaced.
why does subacute bacterial endocarditis may give embolic manifestation but not in acute rheumatic fever?
rheumatic fever is a misguided attack on your heart by your own immune system. rheumatic fever creates damage that can cause susceptiblity to endocarditis. in bacterial endocarditis colonies of bacteria develop on a heart valve or other intravascular structure. clumps of bacteria infection fighting cells or other debris can break off and travel through the body.
why does subacute bacterial endocarditis may give embolic manifestation but not in acute rheumatic fever?
and rheumatic fever are separate issues. effects on heart valve from rf take years to develop with endocarditis is an active vegetation infection of the valve. confusing right?
i have shortness of breath dizziness low blood pressure and have had endocarditis from a bacteria infection i got when i had 5 teeth pulled. and heart palaptaions. what could be wrong
infectious endocarditis can cause damage to heart valves presenting the symptoms described. this can be a very serious condition. see a physician asap for a diagnosis and proper treatment.
i have shortness of breath dizziness low blood pressure and have had endocarditis from a bacteria infection i got when i had 5 teeth pulled. and heart palaptaions. what could be wrong
your clinical presentation is consistent with septic shock secondary to bacterial endocarditis. if that is indeed the case you should immediately go to the hospital for additional tests (blood cultures echocardiography) and treatment (iv antibiotics).
i had rheumatic fever what is the likelihood of contracting endocarditis?
becsb i would recommend you get an echocardiogram (ultrasound) of your heart to assess the valves. if the valves are normal your risk for endocarditis is minimal and you would not require antibiotics prior to procedures. the acc guidelines recently changed for antibiotic prophylaxis to: anyone with complex congenital heart disease prior endocarditis or mechanical heart valves.
i had rheumatic fever what is the likelihood of contracting endocarditis?
you state you "had" rf. an old infection can cause some permanent issues but it would be unlikely that you would develop endocarditis after the infection.
i have been diagnosed with a right bundle branch block of the heart. can i reverse this?
bbb is due to slow conduction down the right bundle. it is usually asymptomatic and benign. rarely it is caused by other conditions such as cardiomyopathy endocarditis pulmonary hypertension lyme disease. if one is otherwise healthy there is nothing to worry about.
is mitral stenosis typically the result of rheumatic heart disease?
rheumatic heart disease is pretty rare these days due to aggressively treating strep throat with antibiotics. however it is still the most common cause of mitral stenosis. in general the causes of mitral stenosis include rheumatic fever infective endocarditis and just the wear and tear of natural aging.
if your troponin level is normal does it mean that your heart valve is allright & not infected by bacterial endocarditis? ty
elevated troponin is most often associated with heart muscle damage as in a heart attack. heart valves may be damaged (by infection or other processes) that may not lead to an elevated troponin. an ultrasound of the heart should help detect important damage to any involved valves.
if your troponin level is normal does it mean that your heart valve is allright & not infected by bacterial endocarditis? ty
it depends on what bacteria and if there were heart muscle damage. . not all bacterial endocarditis patients who need their heart valves replaced have elevated troponin. i hope this helped. and with you the best luck!
is having high palpitations (12<positive_smiley> normal after having a mechanical valve replacement? i have inflammation on my lungs and a bit of fever.
you need to go to a physician immediately. do not wait. this could be potentially life-threatening if you have a heart valve infection (endocarditis). get this evaluated and hope you are better soon. please go after reading this.
i have taken an echo cchest xray and ecg one year before. in the echo iam having mil mitral valve prolapse with mild regurgitation. ef 75%. this is ok?
prolapse may be a risk for endocarditis strange rhythms and odd chest pain the click murmur so called barlow's syndrome. ejection fraction 75% is normal.
what are causes of bradycardia?
1. medications 2. high vagal tone as is present in lance armstrong 3. conduction system disease 4. infections/endocarditis with a ring abscess 5. sick sinus syndrome 6. atrio-ventricular conduction delay 7. abnormal electrolytes (high potassium 8. kindey failure.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
according to the ama antibiotics before dental procedures are needed if you have anything foreign in your heart have had endocarditis before or have a congenital condition of the heart. as always though dentists usually defer to whatever your heart doctor or family physician wants you to do.
if cardiomyopathy was bad enough to cause low fevers cp breathlessness and palps would it show a sign like increased inflammatory markers a murmur low o2 weird bp and/or ekg changes?
keep in mind that cardiomyopathy is a general term describing a change in the muscle of the heart. thickening thinning weakening stiffening etc. what causes low grade fever and elevated inflammatory markers would be something like myocarditis pericarditis or endocarditis. "itis" means inflammation. so fever elevated inflammatory markers are associated with autoimmune or infectious origins.
why have i been hyperventilating for months but do not have anxiety; accompanied by palpitations pleurisy and a high pulse rate. im 23 w/ sle?
as you may know sle affects multiple organs. it can cause pleurisy as a result of pericarditis myocarditis endocarditis pleural inflammation pleural effusion interstitial lung diease and even pulmonary embolism. as high pulse rate could possibly mean something potentially life threatening like pulmonary embolism i would consider going to er if you are not followed by your doctors closely.
i have a few splinter hemmorhages under my fingernails. my heart skips beats at least 5 times a day it really "thumps" hard. endocarditis?
but would agree that prudence suggests a visit to cardiology just to be safe. however can be many other reasons for splinter hemorrhages even though this may be associated with bacterial endocarditis. if you have a fever do not hesitate to get evaluated.
i have a few splinter hemmorhages under my fingernails. my heart skips beats at least 5 times a day it really "thumps" hard. endocarditis?
it is possible so see a cardiologist asap.
is torn chordae tendineae of the mital valve iconsidered a heart attack?
although a torn chordae tendinae can result from a heart attack the two are not synonymous. tearing of the chordae (part of the mitral valve apparatus) is more often related to other structural diseases of the mitral valve like mitral valve prolapse and endocarditis (infection of the mitral valve) or chest trauma in some situations. heart attack only rarely causes a torn chordae.
i have a vsd problem and i am underweight. i generally have high pulse rate. is this is the reason of being underweight or fail to gain weight?
to american doctors vsd means ventricular septal defect. this heart defect has a wide spectrum of severity. if the vsd significantly effects heart function you will be short of breath and retain water (gain weight). a less common result of vsd is endocarditis (infection inside the heart). this could cause weight loss and high pulse. you would also have a fever.
i'm having my second echo and ecg test after 15 days. can citalopram 20 and propranolol 10 which i'm on it conceal the severity of mvp mr?
to evaluate mvp and mitral regurgitation an echo done 2 weeks apart should not reveal any new findings. unless for some reason severe endocarditis involving the mitral valve was being considered. cheers c
how likely is it for icd or defibrillator to become infected?
the most likely time of infection of the device is during insertion or subsequent replacement. due to the wires in the heart occasionally you can get infection in the heart (endocarditis) due to bacterial that somehow find their way into the blood stream and then can infect the wires of the device. overall the risk is low but when it happens it is a serious condition that requires prompt attention.
will cardio exercise cause leakage of your mitral heart valve if your mitral valve is weakened due to endocarditis?
cardio improves overall heart-lung-muscle function. a leaking valve will not be damaged per se. however depending on the amount of valve damage and leak from the endocarditis total cardio performance may be limited. discuss with you doctor about performing an exercise stress test before engaging in strenuous cardio exercise.
will cardio exercise cause leakage of your mitral heart valve if your mitral valve is weakened due to endocarditis?
exercise generally beneficial & if symptoms are pronounced with exercise medication or surgical intervention may be required.
how is rheumatic fever and a heart murmur linked to dental care?
the concern is the "remote" possibility that bacteria from the mouth could enter your blood steam via cut or scrape extraction etc and colonize on the heart valves. this can cause bacterial endocarditis. another concern is the possibility these clusters of colonization can bread off and clot in another part of the body. some patients need antibiotic before dental treatment. discuss with your md.
what are the most commom symptoms of endocarditis? could cause endocarditis bradychardia or only tachycardia? fever level by endocarditis? thanks
throw some infected clots to parts of the body including the brain. there can be brain abscess with headache and confusion fever slow or fast heart rate depending on areas involved in the heart. flame hemorrhages in eyes and under the nails sob chest pain blood in urine joint pains body aches murmur. so you see the signs and symptoms are so varied you have to rely on your doctor.
i notices splinter hemorrhages on two of my nails. i also have a cough and sore throat. and mild palpitations. could it be myocarditis?
splinters can be seen in patients with endocarditis (infection of the heart valve) but rarely present with a cough and sore throat. . they usually are not seen in myocarditis
i have splinter hemorrhages on both thumbs the last 3 months. also have been having palpitations (have mvp) and fatigue; no fever. 50 yr old woman. ?
the most common cause of splinter hemorrhages is trauma. if you're worried about endocarditis ask your doctor for a blood culture and an echocardiogram.
had echo4heart murmur+tachycardia-april. told was ok. have: nausea fever swollen lymphs heam+protenuria now spintter hemorrhages. no infection. ideas?
there is no infection? may need a tee to rule out endocarditis & blood cultures.
how serious is aortic valve sclerotic but opens well should i be worried? should i be on heart meds
aortic valve sclerosis most commonly develops in older folks whose valve leaflets get calcium deposits as part of atherosclerosis. if it develops in younger individuals usually another cause is implicated such as rheumatic fever (which is non-existent nowdays) or some valve infection (endocarditis). also don't forget inborn cases. depending on the cause and severity of it treatment is chosen.
my heart rate per minute is 41. i'm 42 years old i had endocarditis and had a valve replaced and one repaired about 3 months ago. i was very physical?
wold recommend speaking with your doctor. one of the complications of those surgeries can be slow heart rate but not enough data here to know the probability in you.
my heart rate per minute is 41. i'm 42 years old i had endocarditis and had a valve replaced and one repaired about 3 months ago. i was very physical?
you need to continue close rehabilitation with your cardiology/cardiothoracic surgeon. don't miss those appointments and therapies. also change your lifestyle.
i have had 2 tricuspic valve replacement one in july 2015 & another in november 2015. i had infective endocarditis and now have pain left of incision.
do you do drugs? you had the valve replaced twice within 4 months. do you know the organism? for how long were you on iv antibiotics the first and second times. before the first operation were you on antibiotics? was the organism resistant? did you had pulmonary septic embolism? is the pain constant do you have fever is it localized is the area of pain expanding? if yes to all you may have
took 1000 mg of amoxicillin before my dentist check up. 7 hours later feel worse irregular heartbeat. had this before with amoxicillin. is it meds?
amoxicillin isn't known to cause palpitations so it may be coincidence. or you may have an allergic reaction to amoxicillin but that usually causes rash and itching. btw if you need endocarditis prophylaxis the dose is 2 g of amox - but why are you taking it at all? the indications are: prosthetic heart valve and certain congenital shunts. irregularity may be due to your heart issue not meds.
life therapy of antibiotics for enterococcal endocarditis 76 male mitral valve and pacemaker?
the combination of ampicillen and gentamycin can be an effective treatment for enterococcal endocarditis.
resting hr 120-160 found in notes i also have left ventricular ejection fraction 52% been passing out a lot should i be worried/is this the cause?
uat your age you should not have that fast of heart rate and should have better ejection fraction you should see a provider to do more testing and review you lab test echo any infection or autoimmune disease there are many causes from endocarditis thyroid disease etc go to your provider
knowing meth cocaine heroine ect are a danger to the heart. is it possible to get a heart attack stroke or infarct later during recovery? if so why
if you injected the drug under unsanitary conditions and bacteria settled on your heart valves and colonized there you could send septic emboli to different parts of your body especially your brain. archneur. jamanetwork. com/article. aspx? articleid=1151759 multiple septic brain emboli in infectious endocarditis. . cardiac ultrasonography showed mitral valve vegetations consistent with infective.
please tell me the difference between pericarditis and bacterial endocarditis?
pericarditis is inflammation of the lining around the heart - the pericardium generally with a fluid collection between the pericardium and the heart. endocarditis is an infection of the inner lining of the heart generally on a valve surface either natural or artificial.
please tell me the difference between pericarditis and bacterial endocarditis?
pericarditis is an inflammation of the pericardial sac surrounding the heart. while infection can be a cause it is low on the list. bacterial endocarditis is an infection involving the inside of the heart or heart valves.
please help really worried? they want to test for endocarditis.
ie is a rare infection inchildren without underlying heart disease. it is usually caused by bacteria and can be serious however your doctor may want to look r/o ie because of fever or infection form an unknown source. it consist of blood tests and an echocardiogram usually. most of the time these test are negative. if positive it is very important not to delay treatment.
which streptococcus group causes infective endocarditis?
group b strep is a common cause of endocarditis but virtually any strep strain could cause endocarditis.
what is the most common bacterium causing acute infective endocarditis?
staph endocarditis is most common pathogen. ithere are strep and other bacteria but clinical settings may va
why do i almost never get a raised temperature? not even with crohn's endocarditis pneumonia swine flu central line sepsis. is this common?
some individuals have a low basal body temperature some may be hypothyroid some may have a defect in the body's "thermostat" in the hypothalamus. but not becoming febrile with the conditions you mention is quite rare.
why is it that homograft aortic valve replacements have a lower risk of infection?
i wouldn't really count on that -- and you still take the standard precaution and antibiotic prophylaxis for endocarditis.
what bacteria leads to endocarditis?
read this: <link> nlm. nih. gov/medlineplus/ency/article/001098. htm.
what is oslar nodules?
osler's nodes are painful red raised lesions on the hands and feet associated with a number of conditions including infections of heart valves (endocarditis). they are the result of immune complex deposition.
will drinking alcohol socially cause leakage of heart mitral valve if you have a weakened mitral valve due to endocrdidtis.
linkage of the mitral valve due to endocarditis is usually due to damage done by the infection. social alcohol drinking is not usually associated with significant changes in the cardiac structure or function.
will drinking alcohol cause leakage of your mitral heart valve if you have a weakened mitral valve due to endocarditis.?
alcohol is not likely to directly effect a endocarditis damaged valve. however heavy alcohol usage can cause alcoholic cardiomyopathy. this toxic effect injures the heart muscle diminishes the muscle function and dilates the heart. dilation of the heart causes valves to leak. "echocardiogram may show enlarged heart chambers leaking valves and reduced pumping efficiency" <link>
will drinking alcohol cause leakage of your mitral heart valve if you have a weakened mitral valve due to endocarditis.?
between alcohol & mitral valve regurgitation.
will drinking alcohol cause leakage of your mitral heart valve if you have a weakened mitral valve due to endocarditis.?
alcohol won't exacerbate the leakage. what it can do when used excessively is to weaken your heart muscle and then that can weaken your mitral valve.
what activities should i avoid since i have patent ductus arteriosus?
i assume it is too small to bother closing. you should avoid poor dental hygiene and iv drug abuse (to avoid endocarditis). otherwise feel free to do whatever.
what are some facts i should know about brain aneurysms?
typically occur at vessels near base of brain but can occur elsewhere. most are congenital berry aneurysms but some may be acquired later in life secondary to uncontrolled hypertension. the small ones are benign usually unless they are infected such as mycotic (bacterial endocarditis). seems that those larger than 9mm have a greater tendency to burst. if bleed occurs it is an emergency.
why does digit clubbing and pethicheae arise as complications of infective endocarditis?
peripheral manifestations of endocarditis are do to antigen-antibody complex deposition including these . they develop in so-called subacute bacterial endocarditis that has gone on for weeks prior to being treated.
what streptococcus causes infective endocarditis?
it is estimated that about 2/3 of the cases of endocarditis are caused by streptococcal bacteria. streptococcal bacteria causing endocarditis include streptococcus viridans as well as groups a c and g streptococcal bacteria.
what streptococcus causes infective endocarditis?
are the most common cause of this infection. the alpha refers to the partial hemolysis found on a blood agar plate producing a green color as compared to the complete hemolysis of the beta strep. this green color is from where the term viridans streptococcus comes from. there is however no organism formally called streptococcus viridans.
what causes cardiogenic shock?
heart attack acute myocarditis and stress induced cardiomyopathy can all cause weakness of heart pump and cardiogenic shock. acute valve problems or dysruption of heart muscle can happen with heart attacks and infection of the heart (endocarditis) and cause cardiogenic shock. severe heart rhythm problems can also cause ineffective heart pump function and cardiogenic shock.
what are the presenting symptoms of an infection of heart valves?
an infection of the heart valves known as endocarditis is a very serious disorder. symptoms usually stem from infection in the blood stream and include fever chills possible low blood pressure or even shock heart failure shortness of breath and may include severe damage to the infected valve causing severe leakage of the valve requiring emergency valve replacement surgery.
what are symptoms of endocarditis?
fever skin hemorrhages especially under the nails blood in urine heart failure weakness and pain in locations affected by thrombo-emboli from the cardiac vegetations.
what things affect the chances of getting mitral regurgitation?
there are several causes of leaking mitral valves. patients with severe mitral valve prolapse or valve infections (endocarditis) can develop regurgitation. long standing hypertension or heart attack can result in valve leakage. congenital conditions are another cause. in the past rheumatic fever was an important cause.
which heart diseases leads to valvular heart disease?
in the past rheumatic fever was an important cause of valvular heart disease. today ageing is a common cause of valvular disease such as aortic stenosis. drug abuse can result in valve damage due to bloodstream infection called endocarditis. untreated high blood pressure can cause enlargement of the heart and leakage of the valves.
what is the difference between endocarditis myocarditis and pericarditis?
endocarditis refers to an infection of the heart valves. myocarditis is inflammation/infection of the heart muscle. pericarditis is inflammation the pericardium which is the sac surrounding the heart.
what is the difference between endocarditis myocarditis and pericarditis?
itis is a suffix indicating inflammation. if the pericardium the sack around the heart is inflamed then it called pericarditis. if it's the muscle itself it's called myocarditis. if the valves are damaged and inflamed then it's endocarditis.
what is endocarditis?
infective endocarditis (ie) is an infection of the endocardial surface (lining) of the heart which may include one or more heart valves the walls or a septal defect. people at greatest risk of endocarditis have a damaged heart valve an artificial heart valve or other heart defects.
what is endocarditis?
infection of heart valve. frequently diagnosed by echocardiogram. serious stuff. get evaluated if concerned.
what is endocarditis?
this is infection inside the heart. it is is caused by bacteremia which gives the bacteria an opportunity to seed an area in the heart. it occurs in areas of the heart with structural abnormalities like abnormal heart valves. iv drug abusers are at particularly increased risk of endocarditis. endocarditis can be difficult to diagnose because symptoms are nonspecific.
what causes endocarditis?
bacteria are on #1 on the list but fungus can do it too. humans don't get heart worms thank goodness. viruses cause other kinds of mischief in the heart.
what causes endocarditis?
a number of microorganisms can cause endocarditis especially on the valves of the heart. these occur more commonly on deformed valves. iv drug use may cause endocarditis from injected organisms. non-infectious endocarditis can occur from autoimmune disorders.
what are the symptoms of endocarditis?
fever weakness shortness of breath loss of appetite weight loss. signs include anemia new or changing heart murmur peripheral emboli and hematuria. diagnosis is made by blood culture and/or demonstration of valvular vegetations on echocardiography.
what are the symptoms of endocarditis?
endocarditis (infectious) is when the heart and heart valves become colonized by bacteria. the most common symptoms are fever rash small hemorrhages under the finger nails and tender left flank from spleen enlargement. along with these and most diagnostic are the presence of abnormal heart signs or murmurs.
who is at risk for endocarditis?
biggrst at risk individuals are those with congenitally abnormal or prosthetic valves. also individuals with recurrent bacterial blood infections (e. g. iv drug users). confirmed by echocardiography.
who is at risk for endocarditis?
heart valve disease iv drug abuse central iv line dental surgery.
will endocarditis complicate my pregnancy?
any infection can occur at any time but in perfectly healthy women pregnancy does not increase the risk of endocarditis (infection of the heart valves). for women with mild heart valve issues the american heart assoc. no longer recommends (based on data) that antibiotics need to be given before delivery (vaginal or cesearan section) just to prevent a valve infection.
will endocarditis complicate my pregnancy?
the fact you had endocarditis previously complicates your pregnancy as far as needing appropriate specialists involved in your care. echocardiography should be performed and cardiology involved in your care as well as a high risk ob.
will endocarditis complicate my pregnancy?
did it complicate your life before pregnancy? if the answer is no pregnancy won't increase your risk. but delivery can - if you have an artificial valve certain types of uncorrected congenital heart disease or previous endocarditis.
will daily aspirin help in the reduction of blood clots in a patient with endocarditis?
what type of endocarditis are you asking about? aspirin may help but typically anticoagulantion with heparin then coumadin (warfarin) is used to prevent embolization. check with your cardiologist.
will daily aspirin help in the reduction of blood clots in a patient with endocarditis?
the endocarditis needs to be treated properly with antibiotics. anticoagulant therapy is controversial but warfarin is most used.
what is the difference between infective and non-infective endocarditis?
infective endocarditis is infection of one or more heart valves by a microorganism. non-infective endocarditis is inflammation of a heart valve not caused by an infection. nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis is found in patients with malignancy chronic wasting diseases rheumatic and congenetal heart diseases and autoimmune diseases such as sle.
what is the difference between infective and non-infective endocarditis?
endocarditis is damage to the heart valves. infective endocarditis is caused by bugs such as staph aureas. non infectious endocarditis can be caused by certain cancers autoimmune and rheumatologic sources.
what is the survival rate of endocarditis caused by aspergillus?
endocarditis is a very serious illness and aspergillus induced endocarditis will likely be difficult to treat. survivability always depends on preexisting health conditions physical health age and cardiac function.
what is the survival rate of endocarditis caused by aspergillus?
it really depends on many factors such as the overall health of the patient the degree of infection and how early and aggressive therapy is. mortality generally exceeds 50%.
what are the causes of rapid chf?
sudden chf (flash pulmonary edema) is typically caused by sudden ischemia due to coronary disease sudden valvular dysfunction (ex sudden chordal tear in mv disease ischemic mitral regurg endocarditis) persistent high elevations in bp (ex-renal artery stenosis) or sudden arrhythmia (example sudden rapid afib partic if associated w valvular disease or lv dysfunction).
what does it mean to have a vegetative growth on a heart valve?
this is almost always associated with endocarditis which is an infection of the heart valve.
what are the causes mitral stenosis?
most common cause although rare these days in the westernized world is rheumatic fever (due to strep infectipns) in young age which leads to scarring of the valve over time with narrowing - stenosis. other infections (endocarditis) can lead to mitral stenosis as well.
which drugs are used to manage coarctation of the aorta?
antihypertensive medications should be used in treatment for coarctation patients. it however is only supportive therapy and a mechanical intervention (stent vs surgey) will be required. bacterial endocarditis prohylaxis should also be used in this patient poulation for such procedures as dental work etc.
why does infective endocarditis attack the mitral valve?
valve can be involved.
why does infective endocarditis attack the mitral valve?
endocarditis can affect any valve usually depends on source and any pre-existing abnormalities.
what are the effects of diphtheria have on the mitral valve?
c. diphteriae can cause infection on the mitral valve and this is called endocarditis.
what is the definition of an inflammation of a heart valve?
the most common type of inflamed heart valve is due to infection known as endocarditis. this is a life-threatening condition caused by germs especially bacteria that attack heart valves causing holes growths thickening and scarring. this can lead to leaky valves. people with valve disease (except mild mitral valve prolapse without thickening or regurgitation) are at increased risk.
what is inflammation of a heart valve called?
do you have the right term here. while inflammation can affect any organ in the body inflammation of a heart valve other than that which leads to myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve is not usually discussed. atherosclerosis can affect the heart valves and inflammation is a contributor to that but that is a separate issue. did you mean infection? that would be infective endocarditis.
what is insufficiency of the aortic valve?
aortic valve leak is called aortic insuffiency. it can be due to multiple causes such as rheumatic fever rheumatoid arthritis aortic root aneurysm endocarditis etc.
why does bacterial endocarditis usually attack the mitral valve and not the others?
bacterial infection of the heart valves is rare. any valve can become infected but usually an abnormal or damaged valve is the most susceptible. mitral valve prolapse is one of the more common valve abnormalities and may be more likely to get infection.
why does bacterial endocarditis usually attack the mitral valve and not the others?
ie can affect any valve and often involves the aortic valve. those who use iv drugs are more prone to have infection of their tricuspid valve.
why does bacterial endocarditis usually attack the mitral valve and not the others?
endocarditis may also affect aortic and tricuspid valves as well as prosthetic valves.
why does bacterial endocarditis usually attack the mitral valve and not the others?
endocarditis usually occurs on a previously abnormal or damaged valve. it may seem that the mitral valve has a higher incidence but it really may occur on any valve.
what kind of heart problems make having dental work dangerous?
people with prosthetic heart valves should be pre-treated with antibiotics to decrease the likelihood of an infection known as infective endocarditis (ie) following dental procedures. others who should be pre-treated with antibiotics include those with a history of ie or who have had a heart transplant in which the new organ developed valve problems and some people with congenital heart defects.
which heart valves usually need replacing?
aortic mitral ( significant number can be repaired) tricuspid also can be repaired pulmonary uncommon does depend on cause congenital degenerative rheumatic bacterial endocarditis.
what causes a fever when my child has aortic stenosis?
a child with aortic stenosis can get sick like anyone else. the most important thing is prolonged fever may be an indication of endocarditis (heart valve infection). if fever is persistent then blood cultures should be done.
what is mitral insufficiency's etiology?
the most common causes of mitral regurgitation are: myxomatous valve degeneration/valve prolapse ischemic heart disease dilated cardiomyopathy rupture chordae/papillary muscle endocarditis.
who is more likely to get heart valve disease?
usually patients 75 years of age and older are more likely to get heart valve disease. patients with a history of infective endocarditis heart attacks heart failure and/or rheumatic fever are also or more likely to develop heart valve disease.
who is more likely to get heart valve disease?
there are so many causes of valve disease. in the past strep infections like strep throat was the most common cause but with antibiotics this has become rare in the us. there are congential causes of valve disease the most common is a 2 leaflet aortic valve (bicuspid). getting older and wear and tear can result in valve disease. and infection called endocarditis is another cause.
what causes insufficiency of the aortic valve?
used to be rheumatic heart disease but we see that infrequently now. congenital problems like a bicuspid aortic valve. hypertension. dissecting aneurysm. syphilis. marfan's syndrome. ankylosing spondylitis. reiter's syndrome. lupus. infection (endocarditis).
what causes insufficiency of the aortic valve?
a congenitally bicusip aortic valve and annuloaortic ectasia (these 2 account for most cases in developed countries). also: marfan's syndrome syphilis (rare nowadays) ankylosing spondylitis endocarditis aortic dissection rheumtoid arthritis and degenerative calcific aortic sclerosis. rheumatic heart disease is the most common world wide cause but uncommon in the usa.
what is a lesion on the mitral valve called?
there are many types of lesions affecting the mitral valve but the question suggests you are asking about a vegetation protruding from the edge of the valve leaflet typically caused by bacterial infection like bacterial endocarditis.
what is a lesion on the mitral valve called?
most lesions on the mitral valve are referred to as vegetations. this represents a localized area of infection which constitutes the diagnosis of endocarditis. not all lesions on the mitral valve for vegetations. other potential lesions include marantic endocarditis (not infectious) and fibroelastoma (benign tumor).
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for endocarditis?
endocarditis is a severe infection in the heart that needs urgent treatment with medications by vein in a hospital setting where you can be monitored very closely. now if you have some types of heart defects and want to "prevent" endocarditis then under some circumstances you will need to take antibiotics by mouth (or vein) an hour before some types of medical procedures.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for endocarditis?
endocarditis is an infection inside the heart. it can affect the heart valves or muscles. certain infections can be cured with antibiotics certain require surgery. endocarditis can be a life-threatening condition.
what predisposes someone to aortic stenosis?
aortic stenosis is a narrowing of the aortic valve. this causes a characteristic murmur heard on the right upper chest near the breast bone. it sometimes happens with age or after infections such as endocarditis or sometimes rheumatic fever.
what puts someone at risk for aortic regurgitation?
acute: blood infection leading to valve infection (endocarditis) trauma a tear in the aorta (dissection) marfan's syndrome. chronic: high blood pressure/aneurysm congenital bicuspid valve syphilis behcet's takayasu and reiter syndrome ankylosing spondylitis rheumatoid arthritis and idiopathic (cause unknown) - this is a board question!
what does my oral health have to do with my heart health?
endocarditis is an infection of a heart valve which can occur after oral surgery or dental cleaning. if you have a heart condition ask your doctor or cardiologist if you need prophylactic antibiotics before dental work. when the gums are disturbed by cleaning or brushing bacteria can enter the blood stream and attach to heart valves or the lining of the heart.
what is infective endocarditis? does infective mean it's contagious?
infective endocarditis is a bacterial blood infection that has infected the heart as well. it is not contagious.
what is infective endocarditis? does infective mean it's contagious?
even though it is called infective endocarditis it is not a contagious disease the way some other diseases are e. g. hicken pox is. the name implies that it is an infectious process that involves the structures of the heart (valves the covering of the heart and sometimes the muscles of the heart).
what is infective endocarditis? does infective mean it's contagious?
usually bacterial (rarely fungal) this infection affects the valves in the heart by causing an active infection damaging the valves. in normal people this is rare but those with congenital abnormalities of the valves or heart are more susceptible. iv drug use can also increase the chances of this infection. it can be acute which is very serious or subacute which tends to be harder to detect.
what is the life expectancy for someone who has an aortic valve regurgitation if not replaced?
many patients live a full life with aortic insufficincy. however if the disease produces chf or left heart dysfunction replcement is necessary. pts with valve issues are at increased ridk for endocarditis. hence antibiotics for dental work and other invasive procedures.
would endocarditis show symptoms within the same day as your dental visit?
the "full-blown" symptom of endocarditis take several days however you may develop fever as the bacteria enter the blood stream (bacteremia). it is probable that in most cases the bacteria is cleared by the immune system however sometimes the bacteria can settle in certain areas such a damaged or a synthetic heart valve and form vegetations (it takes about 5 days to be detected by ultrasound).
would endocarditis show symptoms within the same day as your dental visit?
endocarditis (particularly after a dental visit where the bacterial inoculation is not huge) is usually a slowly developing condition that occurs over several days to weeks (or sometimes months). unexplained weight loss low grade persistent fever decreased energy little blood blisters under the nail-beds could all be signs. blood tests including multiple cultures help make the diagnosis.
what does your gum disease have to do with your heart health?
if gums are diseased or inflamed they might lead to a condition known as bacterial endocarditis due usually to the bacteria streptococci viridans. this bacteria lives in the mouth and if gums are inflamed the bacteria can get in the bloodstream causing damage to the heart and heart valves.
what kind of infection is infective endocarditis?
infective endocarditis is usually bacterial infection of the heart valves but fungi can also cause endocarditis.
what is subacute bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis?
this is antibiotic therapy given before a procedure which may induce bacteria into the blood stream in a patient with pre-existing heart valve abnormalities. there is very little evidence outside of some animal studies to suggest the efficacy of this but it is often used because the doctor believes it is effective or in fear of subsequent litigation if they fail to do so.
what is subacute bacterial endocarditis?
subacute infective endocarditis is an infection of the endocardial surface (lining) of the heart which may include heart valves the walls or a septal defect. people at greatest risk of endocarditis have a damaged heart valve an artificial heart valve or other heart defects. iv drug abusers are at great risk. symptoms may be vague and diagnosis is often delayed. treatment is essential.
what is subacute bacterial endocarditis?
infection of heart valve frequently diagnosed on surface or transesophageal echocardiogram.
what is subacute bacterial endocarditis?
the "subacute" part means the patient is not obviously sick. the infection is always serious and must be treated as soon as possible with powerful antibiotics.
what is subacute bacterial endocarditis?
hi. subacute bacterial endocarditis (sbe) is a bacterial infection of one or more heart valves. risks for sbe include heart valve abnormalities dental accesses and iv drug abuse. it is very serious and treatment to save valves (if possible) requires prolonged iv antibiotics. sometimes valves need replacement. good luck.
why are iv drug users more susceptible to endocarditis?
endocarditis is more likely to occur when there are a lot of bacteria in the blood stream. iv drug abusers break their skin frequently; the skin acts as a normal barrier to infection. also if sterile technique is not used (which it rarely is) bacteria are introduced directly into the blood stream. in addition the immune system of drug addicts is often compromised.
what is the best antibiotic way to treat mitral valve prolapse?
the risk of anaphylaxis and death is higher for taking an antibiotic (amoxicillin is the one that has been used) than for getting endocarditis (infected heart valve) from mvp. the american heart association stopped advising antibiotic prophylaxis for mvp in 2007.
what are the tests for bacterial endocarditis?
they include blood cultures complete blood count chemistry profile and most importantly an echocardiogram or cardiac ultrasound. a echocardiogram particularly a transesophageal echocardiogram can detect with a high degree of certainty infection of the heart valve known as valvuvlar vegetations and can also assess the heart for valve leakage and heart failure.
what is the treatment for bacterial endocarditis?
broad spectrum antibiotics to start. in severe cases of endocarditis open heart surgery to replace the infected valve is a life saving necessity provided that the damage to both the valve and the heart is not beyond repair.
what is relationship of gum and heart disease?
researchers have found that people with periodontal (gum) disease are almost twice as likely to suffer from coronary artery disease as those without periodontal disease. periodontal disease can also exacerbate existing heart conditions. patients at risk for infective endocarditis may require antibiotics prior to dental procedures. so get to your dentist for frequent cleanings and floss!
what is the chance i have endocaditis again having same symptoms as last time?
go back to see your cardiologist. there is a chance that you have recurrent endocarditis and you should have blood tests including blood cultures to look for bacteria and also have a repeat echocardiogram.
what disadvantages do you have when you have valvular heart disease?
this depends on the valve involved the cause of the diseased valve and the degree to which it affects function. damaged valves also creates the risk of secondary valve infection (infective endocarditis) which can be life-threatening need long courses of antibiotics or require valve replacement. restrictions depend on disease severity. this should be discussed with cardiologist.
what are the dangers and restrictions of having valvular heart disease?
this depends on the valve involved the cause of the diseased valve and the degree to which it affects function. damaged valves also creates the risk of secondary valve infection (infective endocarditis) which can be life-threatening need long courses of antibiotics or require valve replacement. restrictions depend on disease severity.
what are the activities allowed with valvular heart disease.?
this depends on the valve involved the cause of the diseased valve and the degree to which it affects function. damaged valves also creates the risk of secondary valve infection (infective endocarditis) which can be life-threatening need long courses of antibiotics or require valve replacement. restrictions depend on disease severity. this should be discussed with cardiologist.
why does infective endocarditis attack the mitral valve and not the other ones?
the left sided valves (aortic and mitral) are commonly the most fequent infected. this can result from dental work infections elsewhere. the right sided valves can get infected too with the tricuspid eing more frequently involved. ths is seen in i've drug users frequently.
why does infective endocarditis attack the mitral valve and not the other ones?
current info does substantiate such a periodontal cardiac relationship. flossing is important in maintaining proper periodontal health.
why are iv drug users more susceptible to endocarditis?
when you are more focused on getting the drug into your vein than the equipment you use it increases your risk. drug addicts pay little attention to sanitizing the skin and using germ free needles to inject the drug. anytime a germ has a chance to enter your body through poor hygiene you may develop endocarditis.
why are iv drug users more susceptible to endocarditis?
one's skin is a normal barrier to infection. iv drug users break the skin frequently. in addition if the needles and/or skin are dirty bacteria can be injected directly into the blood stream and get to the heart. also iv drug users often have compromised immunity.
what is meant by infective endocarditis?
infective endocarditis (ie) is an infection of the endocardial surface (lining) of the heart which may include one or more heart valves the walls or a septal defect. people at greatest risk of endocarditis have a damaged heart valve an artificial heart valve or other heart defects.
what is meant by infective endocarditis?
endocarditis is an infection of a heart valve. generally confirmed on echocardiogram.
what is meant by infective endocarditis?
it is usually when there are bacteria in the heart usually growing on one of the valves. it can also be caused by fungi. people with certain forms of congenital heart defects immune disorders and iv drug abusers are those most commonly affected.
what are things to watch for with heart murmurs?
the majority of heart murmurs are "innocent" and they even develop as a result of becoming an accomplished athlete. find the cause. it may warn of treatable illness it may be something that needs watching it may be one of those valve problems that requires antibiotic prophylaxis for endocarditis when you visit the dentist or have other procedures.
what can cause severe aortic regurgitation?
acute valvular bacterial or fungal endocarditis trauma acute aortic dissection sinus of valsalva aneurysm acute deceleration compressive aortic valve injury trauma to include some.
what are the risks of developing endocarditis due after a dental abscess?
only if you have predisposing conditions you are at risk to develop sub acute bacterial endocarditis of oral origin. there is not much evidence of acute bacterial endocarditis in a healthy individuals with dental abscess. a great resource is americanheart. org.
what are the risks of developing endocarditis due after a dental abscess?
you have a higher risk of developing bacterial endocarditis (an infection of the inner lining of the heart) if you have poor hygiene or active dental abcesses. this is why it is important to have dental exams and cleanings twice a year and treat all infections quickly. your dentist will protect your heart if needed with antibiotics before dental care given your edical history.
what are some of the major causes of stroke?
hypertension for many years atrial fibrillation and arteriosclerotic blockage in the carotid (neck) arteries are the 3 commonest causes. rarer causes are: ruptured berry aneurysms cns infections vasculitis endocarditis hypercoagulable states and strokes of unknown cause (cryptogenic).
why should i take antibiotics at the dentist's for a heart murmur?
most people with a heart murmur even if the murmur is not a normal murmur do not require prophylactic antibiotics with dental work. the theoretical reason for antibiotics before dental work is to prevent endocarditis if there is associated bacteremia (bacteria entering the bloodstream) with dental care. however in most murmurs the risks are low. best advice ask your doctor.
why should i take antibiotics at the dentist's for a heart murmur?
antibiotics are used before dental treatment in order to reduce the incidence of infective endocarditis. a big word that means infection of the heart. consult your physician before taking antibiotics since the recommendation has changed over the years. hope this helps .
why should i take antibiotics at the dentist's for a heart murmur?
antibiotic prophylaxis was standard for many years for several conditions including heart murmurs or mitral valve prolapse prior to dental visits to reduce the chance of endocarditis. . it has been proven that statistically the risk of developing a bacteremia from a dental procedure is extremely low; the side effects and risks of taking the antibiotics are higher and therefore no longer indicated.
why do people are antibiotics necessary for people with congenital heart disease before operations?
of congenital heart disease and the kind of operation but it is to try to prevent an infection in the heart inner lining so called bacterial endocarditis.
what alternatives to antibiotics can dentists prescribe for someone with mvp?
the use of antibiotics before a dental procedure is no longer recommended by the american heart association in patients with and without symptoms associated with mitral valve prolapse. patients with history of endocarditis an artificial valve congenital heart defect significant heart dysfunction or heart transplant may need antibioitics. consult your cardiologist with any of these conditions.
what is the definition or description of: bacterial endocarditis?
usually involving a bacteria (or sometimes a fungus) which attach to diseased or artificial heart valves. the bacteria usually get into the bloodstream from dental or other surgical procedures but may enter through an inadvertent event. this is a very serious infection requiring hospitalization and often weeks of intravenous antibiotics.
what is the definition or description of: bacterial endocarditis?
bacterial endocarditis is an infection of the innermost lining of the heart muscle the endocardium by any of a variety of bacterial organisms. often bacterial endocarditis occurs in patients with existing structural heart conditions such as abnormal cardiac valves or abnormal communications between heart chambers. the bacteria may be introduced into the bloodstream during invasive procedures.
what is the definition or description of: infection of heart valves?
when a bacteria gets in the bloodstream there is a chance of attaching to a heart valve. this is called endocarditis. if this happens the bacteria can grow causing lesions called vegetations to appear which can break off and plug small blood vessels in the hand foot or brain. the bacterial growth can also cause the valve to leak. if this is significant valve replacement may be needed.
why infective endocarditis mostly affect valves of the heart?
blood flow and thus immune protection. also they are exposed to turbulent intracardiac flow.
what causes a leaky heart valve?
leaky heart valves occur congenitally when some aspect of the valve leaflets/annulus/supporting structures is abnormal at birth. they can also be acquired as a result of changes in the heart structure/valve structure/aorta/lungs over time. heart attacks can damage valves as can infectious endocarditis cardiomyopathy enlarging aortic root pulmonary disease causing pulmonary hypertension.
what is a rare cardiovascular disease originating from a bacteria or virus?
maybe not rare: cardiomyopathy heart failure bacterial endocarditis valve destruction and leakage sepsis pericarditis constrictive pericarditis death.
what is a rare cardiovascular disease originating from a bacteria or virus?
a number of bacterial and viral illnesses affect the heart. they include myocarditis pericarditis endocarditis myocardial abscess and post streptococcal rheumatic fever. they are caused by a wide variety of bacteria and viruses.
what are the causes of a bacterial aneurysm?
may follow bacterial endocarditis and sepsis with bacteremia and localized distant site or a known aneurysm may become infected by bacteremia or extension to gi tract as aortoenteric fistula usually called mycotic-infected aneurysm any bacteria can be involved staph and some gram negatives are more common-like e coli several fungi have historically been involved.
what is valvular inflammation?
if you mean an valve inflammation from an infection that condition is called endocarditis and typically requires antibiotic therapy and concern for damage to the heart valves. if you mean vascular inflammation the term is vasculitis and has a whole set of specific conditions with various causes and treatments not able to be covered well in 400 characters or less <positive_smiley>.
what does be the effect on the heart if you have tooth decay?
if the tooth becomes abscessed it will increase the inflammation in your body which can increase the risk of heart problems. also if there are problems with the valves in your heart you could be at risk for bacterial endocarditis.
what are the causes of a ruptured heart valve?
most commonly due to endocarditis heart valve infection.
what causes cardiomyopathy to lead to infective endocarditis?
cardiomyopathy by itself does not 'lead' to endocarditis. endocarditis is an infection of the lining of the heart and usually heart valves. however if you have cardiomyopathy there may be abnormalities of the heart valves too particularly leaking valves. this may slightly raise the risk of getting endocarditis in certain circumstances.
what causes cardiomyopathy to lead to infective endocarditis?
cardiomyopathies increase the risk of endocarditis because of the collateral processes causing the cardiomyopathy some of which cause valve lesions.
what causes fatigue hair loss infertility insomnia non threatening heart murmur?
any chronic illness would cause all of those symptoms. for example advanced kidney disease cirrhosis. anemia diabetes thyroid deficiency adrenal insufficiency to name a few. any serious infection (for example sub-acute bacterial endocarditis) could also cause all of those sx.
what should you do when after valve replacement encephalitis is present?
endocarditis is the infection of a valve or artificial valve. cultures to determine cause of infection and appropriate antibiotics for six weeks is common.
what should you do when after valve replacement encephalitis is present?
most of the time the problem with a valve is "endocarditis" not encephalitis. endocarditis is an infection of the valve and can lead to loss of valve function. if a prosthetic valve gets endocarditis replacement of that valve is often necessary.
what type of fever we have when there is infective endocarditis?
most common is a fairly constant low grade fever of <101 degree f.
what type of fever we have when there is infective endocarditis?
because during most cases of endocarditis the bacteremia is low grade and constant the fever pattern (assuming no interruption by antipyretics or antibiotics) is also low grade. if spikes occur they may be related to metastatic foci of infection occurring because of the bacteremia. complicated infection and hope you have a top-notch infectious disease expert and a good cv surgeon following you.
what tests need to be done to diagnose endocarditis? can the er detect. endocarditis?
first the symptoms need to fit to even suspect endocarditis. it is not a completely simple thing to diagnose and an er is probably not the best place to do this because follow-up is needed and you don't get that in most er's. but multiple blood cultures growing bacteria is the best test to confirm endocarditis.
what tests need to be done to diagnose endocarditis? can the er detect. endocarditis?
requires multiple criteria in the appropriate setting for diagnosis. difficult to nail down the diagnosis in the er. blood cultures physical exam appropriate history and imaging including an echocardiogram and often a tee are needed for the diagnosis.
what is the inflammation of the inner lining of the heart called?
the endocardium is the inner lining of the heart. if inflamed we call it endocarditis.
what's the chance of having bacterial endocarditis if i have fever?
less than 1% of people with fever have endocarditis. do you have valvular heart disease or an artificial heart valve or a pacemaker? if not your risk is low. if your fever does not resolve or if it is associated with chills lethargy or weakness see your doc.
what's the chance of having bacterial endocarditis if i have fever?
very very low. do you have an underlying heart defect? a bicuspid aortic valve? the most commom cause of a fever is just a simple virus. someone with bacterial endocarditis typically has many additional symptoms and is quite sick.
what's the chance of having bacterial endocarditis if i have fever?
you would require an infection with the right bacteria have suseptibilty to endocarditis possibly have heart issue (valve) that predisposes to getting a heart infection. most general fevers are not endocarditis. discuss symptoms with your doctor.
what are the chances of getting endocarditis after a dental cleaning if you take amoxicillin beforehand and have a congenital heart condition?
the risk of developing endocarditis after teeth cleaning is small. congenital heart disease increases the risk. factors that decrease the risk are 1) keep your teeth and gums healthy between cleanings 2) don't smoke 3) get regular teeth cleanings. antibiotics probably decrease the risk but the most important factors are keeping your teeth and gums healthy.
what are the chances of getting endocarditis after a dental cleaning if you take amoxicillin beforehand and have a congenital heart condition?
if you are following the american heart association recommended premedication regiment you are safe make sure you follow up with your cardiologist periodically
will a torn chordae tendineae of mitral valve from endocarditis heal without surgery?
a ruptured chorda tendinae would be very unlikely to reattach. if the mitral insufficiency produced is signficant volume and it usually is surgical intervention is most often necessary. some folks with ruptured chordae don't need immediate surgery but eventual surgery remains likely.
with a ruptured chordae tendenineae from endocarditis and not having surgery will the mitral prolapse and regurgitation stop?
endocarditis causes inflammation and direct damage to the valve tissue. often if the valve remains intact without serious damage then the regurgitation may slightly improve as inflammation imrpoves with treatment of infection. but if valve leaflet damage or chordae rupture occurs (the "ropes" that the valve uses to rest in the correct position) it is unlikely to improve without surgery.
with a ruptured chordae tendenineae from endocarditis and not having surgery will the mitral prolapse and regurgitation stop?
it will persist and if the mitral regurg is serious enough it will eventually cause major cardiac issues including congestive heart failure. do not avoid surgery if it is needed.
what do you advise for heart murmur. can i take the risk?
need to check on is the need for prophylactic antibiotics for major dental procedures and certain surgeries to prevent endocarditis. risk of physical activity depends on the heart defect.
what are the chances of getting tetanus i. endocarditis sepsis bacteremia if you got amoxicillin 30 min before gettin cut by dirty blade desinfec kmno4?
was this a fraternity initiation or some other odd ceremony? a knife is disinfected with potassium permanganate but still dirty you're given a prophylactic antibiotic and then cut with it. phone your physician. you'll need a tetanus booster and watch the wound for signs of infection. if you take endocarditis prophylaxis at the dentist your physician will advise you.
when a blood infection has spread to the heart how long can you survive?
if the bacteria begin growing on the heart valves the key to survival is early detection and antibiotic rx and/or perhaps surgery. nevertheless treatment is not always successful and many of these patients do die. historically the course was a few months -- mozart's six-month illness is perhaps typical of his era. most often sepsis does not result in endocarditis especially if the heart is ok.
what does chest pain from mitral valve prolapse feel like? and is it life threatening
chest discomfort fatigue shortness of breath and anxiety are common with mitral valve prolapse. the prognosis is considered to be benign with chance of complications at about 2% per year. if no complications (like atrial fibrillation heart failure infective endocarditis or embolism - blood clots - to the brain) then not to worry. do keep your regular checkups. hope that helps.
what causes a heart to get structurally damaged?
some structural heart conditions you are born with like abnormal vessels (tetralogy of fallot) or a patent foramen ovale. valves can be damaged by a bacterial infection like endocarditis. the heart muscle can enlarge due to congestive heart failure hypertension or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. viral infections (myocarditis) can alter the heart structure as well.
what kinds of bacteria cause endocarditis?
read this: <link>
what can cause mitral valve prolapse?
endocarditis can cause prolapse genetics heart attack inflammatory disease and other things
what bacteria causes endocarditis? how is it treated?
read this: <link>
should i pre-medicate to prevent infective endocarditis?
in 2007 the american heart association american college of cardiology and american dental association downgraded its recommendations based on new research which showed that endocarditis is in most instances rarer than then the rare serious side effects of antibiotics. people with artificial valves or certain uncorrected forms of congenital heart disease do need prophylaxis. others don't.
should i pre-medicate to prevent infective endocarditis?
antibiotic prophylaxis recommendations have changed significantly. talk to your physician or cardiologist.
should i pre-medicate to prevent infective endocarditis?
it depends on whether the situation your facing is likely to produce significant bacteremia (bacteria in blood) and whether you have a significant structural abnormality of your heart that would make you more susceptible to acquire infective endocarditis.
what does vegetation of the cardiac valve mean?
this means there might be an infection on the heart valve or endocarditis -- this is a serious condition that merits prompt treatment and usually hospitalization.
should we get prophylactic antibiotics after csection to prevent endo carditis?
although post-partum endocarditis has occurred it is so infrequent and there is so little evidence to support efficacy of prophylaxis that this would not be a routine procedure. depending upon the risk factors in a given patient however these may be felt to be greater than the risk of prophylaxis by a given physician. this is a judgement call by the experienced informed clinician.
can you treat right bundle branch block?
isolated rbbb does not require treatment. sometimes bbbs are a market for other problems: cardiomyopathy endocarditis lyme disease. in that case the underlying cause should be treated.
scarring on mitral valve from endocarditis had 2 strokes what are cjances of a 3rd?
you need an expert cardiology review and then treatment directed at reducing embolic showers that cause your strokes. but even with full workup any answer is still a guess! sort of like asking the chances of a 3rd heart attack after already having heart disease severe enough to cause 2 heart attacks! but there are ways to reduce your risks. see your doctor!
what is the relationship between inflammation of the heart (carditis) and infection with group a beta-hemolytic streptococci?
beta hemolytic strep is a common cause of bacterial endocarditis an infection of the heart valve(s).
why do heroin addicts often end up needing heart surgery?
intravenous drug use is can introduce bacteria into the blood stream either from the needle or the skin. these bacteria can infect the heart valves. this is called endocarditis. this can sometimes be treated with antibiotics (and treatment for drug addiction) but sometimes also requires surgery.
