wanted to know if all people who are obese/overweight have fatty liver?
data by several investigators show that 70 per cent of obese have nafattyliver disease.
what to do if i heard of this thing called fatty liver. i think i am overweightto know if everybody who is overweight or obese including children have fatty liver?
there is no direct treatment for fatty liver but a diet given to you by a dietician can be helpful. weight loss can also help as well as exercise.
when i got my knee replaced i was overweight then i lost about 60 lbs. then gained the weight back all this over 5yr. what problems can this cause?
the yo-yo weight loss multiplies the many weight related problems. rapid weight gain is a severe metabolic stress that can lead to diabetes htn heart disease sleep apnea depression and fatty liver. every pound adds 5 pounds of stress across your knees. learn how i got off the yo-yo and how you can too at www. drgrieco. tsfl. com.
white spots and stripes on liver liver values very high no alcohol/drugs no hepatitis 2 cysts on galbladder ~3mm 1 in ovary ~4cm no over weight?
if you have elevated enzymes that are emanating from the liver you have hepatitis. this may not be viral hepatitis but commonly nash or fatty liver will produce such increases. no idea what you mean by spots and stripes on liver. discuss these things with your doctor - communication is important. best wishes.
i m 27 male diagnosed with fatty liver grade 2 what should i do to cure this permanently 100 percently.
in my practice most cases of fatty liver are related to poor diet that is one overloaded with carbohydrates. change to a low carb diet (atkins south beach mediterranean) and your fatty liver will return to good health.
what is the definition or description of: alcoholic liver disease?
this is more complex than can be answered here. the effect of alcohol on the liver can be acute causing alcoholic hepatitis to more chronic forms that cause fatty liver infiltration( steatohepatitis) to long term scarring and damage as in cirrhosis which can be life threatening.
what can cause an enlarged liver 22cm with fatty infiltration with normal blood levels i am not obese and i do not drink alcohol. no meds?
fatty liver disease is most often the result of excess alcohol and/or obesity but some other causes are: diabetes abetalipoproteinemia glycogen storage diseases weber-christian disease acute fatty liver of pregnancy lipodystrophy inflammatoty bowel disease hiv hepc malnutrition alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency and many meds. . consult doc to search for your cause. good luck.
what can cause an enlarged liver 22cm with fatty infiltration with normal blood levels i am not obese and i do not drink alcohol. no meds?
non alcholic fatty liver disease: common causes- obesity dyslipidemias associations with dm htn. need to do liverenzymes lipid profile iron studies copper studies r/o drug induced from depakote cardiac med-amiodarone steroids(hiv meds- not applicable to you). blood counts needed. viral hepatitis panel especially hep c needed. if liver enzy. elevated called nash. can lead to cirrhosis in some pts.
what can you do to help reduce fatty liver? also is south beach diet safe for fatty liver
vitamin e has also been shown to help. you do have a risk of gall stones with rapid weight loss. ironically patients who had some fat when they dieted as opposed to no fat developed fewer gall stones.
what are the reasons for a cirrhosis of the liver?
in us there most common causes of cirrhosis are heavy alcohol use hepatitis c and fatty liver disease. hepatitis b is somewhat uncommon because of universal vaccination easy to treat and control the virus. it is more commonly seen in asian-american population. fatty liver disease can occur because of obesity uncontrolled diabetes high blood pressure and cholesterol.
what is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (or nafld)?
this is a disease where fat is abnormally deposited in the liver. it can lead to inflammation and ultimately cirrhosis. it is the most common liver disease in the us and is related to obesity diabetes elevated triglycerides and genetics.
what is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (or nafld)?
this is a condition commo or associated with obesity but may be caused by other conditions where excess fat accumulates in the liver and may impair liver function. many liver diseases are commonly associated with alcoholic intake and this distinguishes it form that cause.
i have fatty liver disease with cirrhosis. i take 800 mg. vitamin e. recent blood work shows almost normal count. can i try green coffee bean extract?
ok as long as you don't drink alcohol unfortunately it a progressive disease. you have to be under good medical supervision some end stage liver disease patients need liver transplantation.
i found out i have fatty liver disease in march. i have changed my diet. i lose about ten lbs a month. could this be from something worse? i walk 2-3 times a week
gallstone attacks/biliary colic is right sided above the umbilicus lasts 20 minutes or longer associated with nausea and occasional vomiting. a fatty liver can mimic gallstone attacks. if your fatty liver is improved with medical therapy and your symptoms persist go for a surgery consult. cholecystitis or gallstones can be dangerous to your overall health.
is it possible to feel muscle pain in right flank by kidneys because of fatty liver from obesity? i have lost 52 lbs since march
it's not the most common location but it one of the known referred pain patterns of the liver. if the pain is persistent moderate to severe in intensity getting worse or you have nausea or vomiting i would strongly encourage you to seek the input of your physician. best of luck.
is it possible to feel muscle pain in right flank by kidneys because of fatty liver from obesity? i have lost 52 lbs since march
could be fatty liver kidney stones gallbladder muscle spasm other. weight loss can increase risk for gallstones perhaps for kidney stones. see your doc.
is it possible to feel muscle pain in right flank by kidneys because of fatty liver from obesity? i have lost 52 lbs since march
ms angiebanks73--when i last answered your question you had lost 46 lbs now at 52? that is phenomenal! anyhow fatty liver by itself typically does not cause pain. acute hepatitis--either from infection/alcohol/or drugs can cause pain but you will have other symptoms as well. from knowing a bit of your history i sincerely doubt the liver is the cause of your pain. please consult doc. good luck.
i have been dieting since march cuz i found out i have fatty liver from obesity. i lose 12-15 lbs a month. could this be from something more serious?
fatty liver has two causes alcohol excess and obesity. if you don't drink very much alcohol then obesity is likely the culprit. your weight loss is excellent keep it up by using diet and exercise. fatty liver can be reversed with weight loss. if it persists there is a risk of cirrhosis so you are doing exactly the right thing. well done!
i have been dieting since march cuz i found out i have fatty liver from obesity. i lose 12-15 lbs a month. could this be from something more serious?
since you indicate you were/are obese and have been dieting the weight loss is most likely the result of improved diet. there is nothing wrong with the rate at which you are losing but it is worth talking to your doctor to rule out any other issues. how close are you to your healthy weight? as you approach a healthy weight weight loss will slow down.
if a obese person completely changes their diet and walks daily does that warrant losing 3 lbs a wk? seems like a lot to me. i weigh 270 i was 320. or could this be fatty liver getting worse
the heavier the weight the faster you'll lose but it will slow down since your metabolism with weight loss slows down as well. so 3 ibs per week at 320 or 270 with the right diet and exercise is normal but it'll most likely slow down th fatty liver will improve with weight loss.
if a obese person completely changes their diet and walks daily does that warrant losing 3 lbs a wk? seems like a lot to me. i weigh 270 i was 320. or could this be fatty liver getting worse
sarcopenic obesity is loss of essential muscle mass due to improper weight loss techniques. you need to analyse your bia to measure lean muscle mass and keep an account of improvement in fat mass vs lean mass. rapid weight loss will create more skin flaps and bone loss in addition to loosing muscle.
if a obese person completely changes their diet and walks daily does that warrant losing 3 lbs a wk? seems like a lot to me. i weigh 270 i was 320. or could this be fatty liver getting worse
at 270 i would anticipate a maintenance calorie intake of about 8 cal/pound or 2100 cal/day. if you ate 1000 cal/day that would be a reduction of 1100 cal/day. 3500 cal= 1 pound. you could lose 10 lb/mo at that target. still possible. keep up the good work.
i have fatty liver from obesity. i have been dieting and exercising. i don't want to damage my liver more but would it hurt to eat non diet food once in a while?
the best thing you can do for yourself is to change your lifestyle. . not just go on a "diet". i don't know what you mean by "diet foods" but i think you are craving the "non-diet" foods because you have not found food that you like which are also healthy. once you find these. you will rarely crave "non-diet" foods. see my website for more info: www. jhsurgery. com.
i have fatty liver from obesity. i have been dieting and exercising. i don't want to damage my liver more but would it hurt to eat non diet food once in a while?
fatty liver is a result of insulin resistance and the sugar that isnt absorbed is being deposited around your liver as fat. try to stay with in a calorie range recommended by your doctor try to eat at least three meals a day and not to skip meals. smaller frequent meals are best.
i have fatty liver from obesity. i have been dieting and exercising. i don't want to damage my liver more but would it hurt to eat non diet food once in a while?
anything in moderation should be ok; however eating poor food puts you at risk for increased cravings and more susceptible to back sliding on a program that seems like it is working for you. treat yourself with fruits rather than fats. if you plan to eat "non diet" foods refrain from those high fats and compensate during other meals. remember it's not a treat if it harms your body.
i have fatty liver disease w/borderline enlargement. i have been dieting and exercising since march and lost 42. how likely will this turn to cirrhosi?
non alcoholic statohepatitis rarely causes cirrhosis but is the most common cause of idiopathic cirrhosis.
i have fatty liver disease w/borderline enlargement. i have been dieting and exercising since march and lost 42. how likely will this turn to cirrhosi?
unless you have an underlying liver disease additionally such as alcoholic liver disease or hepatitis b or c fatty liver disease rarely progresses.
is hair loss linked to fatty liver from obesity?
fatty liver & hair loss are not directly related. hair loss may be due to hormonal factors thyroid disorder hair products medications skin diseases scalp infections etc. see your doctor for evaluation.
is hair loss connected to fatty liver from obesity?
polycystic ovary syndrome can be associated with fatty liver high triglycerides low hdl high risk for diabetes irregular periods hair in unwanted areas and also male pattern hair loss. insulin resistance is a common factor among the symptoms. resulting high insulin levels interfere in normal menstrual cycles allowing for more testosterone like hormones to build up causing hair loss in some.
i have a fatty liver no diabetes not obese no high cloesteral but pain near liver area any suggestions blood works good?
while most patients with fatty liver are indeed fat. some patients are thin with fatty liver. i found these patients in general tend to have low hdl and/or elevated triglycerides. sometimes i will biopsy the liver to confirm that the condition really is indeed due to fatty liver.
i have a fatty liver no diabetes not obese no high cloesteral but pain near liver area any suggestions blood works good?
i suggest u check liver enzymes also for hepatitis a b c cmv ebv check ggt as well as liver ultrasound for work up. also see a gastroenterologist.
i am 38 f weigh 276 lost 44 lbs since march. when will i finally get relief from my fatty liver?
for somebody losing weight trying to get to a normal weight and get rid of fatty liver she will know it when she gets there. different people get fatty liver at different weights. people can get fatty liver even if they're under 200 pounds. so the goal is to lose weight a couple of pounds a week all the way down to normal weight. exercise is important also.
in a nutshell what is chronic liver disease?
in the usa the common forms of chronic liver disease are cirrhosis from alcohol use chronic fatty liver from obesity and liver damage after viral hepatitis. ongoing liver inflammation or scar from one of these is called chronic disease. the liver helps so many natural processes that people with liver damage have many troubles. water retention bleeding food intolerance low blood counts etc.
is chronic liver disease usually caused by alcoholism and poor diet?
there are different causes of chronic liver disease chronic alcohol abuse can definitly lead chronic liver problems such as fatty liver and cirrhosis. poor diet can lead to obesity which is quickly becoming a leading cause of chronic liver disease as well. the other leading causes of liver disease would be infection with hepatitis b or c viruses.
i'm trying to lose weight but i'm afraid that i might permanently damage my digestive system. any thoughts?
there is not any significant risk to your digestive system from weight loss. starvation or rapid weight loss can cause fatty liver. many weight loss supplements in addition to being ineffective have compounds in them which can occasionally cause liver damage. low carb diets can cause constipation and other health problems.
i had fatty liver how to diet?
fatty liver can be big droplets of fat (macrosteatosis) - likely to respond to diet at least in the first instance for most - or small droplets (microsteatosis) caused by medications for example. diet will not improve the latter. if the diagnosis has 'only' been made on ultrasound be wary as us only detects sound wave reflections; early cirrhosis (no alcohol necessary) can mimic. see liver md.
i had fatty liver how to diet?
see a doctor especially if you had a medical condition in the past that is potentially serious.
i had fatty liver how to diet?
your diet should be low in fat especially saturated fat and trans fat. equally important is low total caloric intake and exercise with the goal of gradual and sustained weight loss.
is it safe to take prilosec bid with fatty liver disease?
yes.
is there any bookmaker for fatty liver disease? ct revealed a mild fld 2 years ago now i would like to check the progress. usg won't reveal i guess?
please check your liver enzymes -- and how are you doing with your weight management?
is there any bookmaker for fatty liver disease? ct revealed a mild fld 2 years ago now i would like to check the progress. usg won't reveal i guess?
perhaps the defenitive answer to determine extent of liver damage would be a liver biopsy if one not done in the last 3-5 years.
if i have fatty liver disease do i need to go to the doctors often or do blood tests often?
throw away the alcohol and find a form of aerobic exercise that you enjoy. then check in with your physician! i'll bet you will both have a pleasant surprise.
if i have fatty liver disease do i need to go to the doctors often or do blood tests often?
fatty liver may be part of general obesity and metabolic syndrome or due to excessive alcohol intake. you need to address the underlying cause of fatty liver. blood tests may not show much abnormality in early disease. you could prevent further damage to the liver by taking preventive measures.
is there a relationship between slightly elevated liver enzymes and roux-en-y gastric bypass surgery?
very well may be fatty liver disease and it is not too uncommon to detect an increase in lfts after rapid at loss.
is there a relationship between slightly elevated liver enzymes and roux-en-y gastric bypass surgery?
related to fatty liver or gallstones.
is liver disease really serious?
there are many varieties of "liver disease. " hepatitis c can cause eventual cirrhosis. alcohol excess can cause cirrhosis. some liver disease caused by hepatitis a or b or from some medications can fully resolve with no further problems. fatty liver damage can rarely progress to a serious problem. so it depends. your doctor would know best what a person's future risks may be.
i have fatty liver but no alchol no hepititis not over weight chlosteral good severe nausea for several years taking phenergan (promethazine) have gi app. in six wk?
nausea over several years raises the possibility of gastroparesis (sluggish stomach emptying) that often accompanies diabetes of longstanding. diabetes as you may glean is an independent risk factor for fatty liver along with the other risks you mentioned: alcohol obesity high cholesterol.
i have fatty liver but no alchol no hepititis not over weight chlosteral good severe nausea for several years taking phenergan (promethazine) have gi app. in six wk?
need more history lab and evaluation of liver by ultrasound or ct scan.
i am 38 yrs old. stopped smoking two years ago. i have lost 33lbs because of diet and exercise since march because i found out i have fatty liver disease. my back started hurting after i lost 25 lbs. i have had mri and they say i have arthritis and spina
i want to commend you on your successful weight loss through lifestyle changes. unfortunately the last part of your question was cut off. however with your history it is important that work with a specialist who is familiar with back problems like a physiatrist or orthopedic physician who can best direct your treatment and make sure that you are doing appropriate exercise and if needed pt.
is flax seed good for fatty liver from being obese?
fiber such as ground flaxseed can be added to meals in small increments. fiber binds to fats in the gut and slows or prevents their absorption. fatty liver or steatosis can lead to scarring of the liver. you may also want to decrease your saturated fat intake such as fatty red meats.
i have fatty liver from being obese. my liver area feels like its burning what could this be? my enzymes are good. liver is borderline enlarged
hunger pains.
i am obese 38f. i have lost 38lbs. because i found out i have fatty liver. my right area still aches. does this mean its getting worse
fatty liver is typically painless. losing weight should help no matter what. sometimes you will develop gallstones when losing weight. this would cause the right side pain.
i am worried about getting cirrhosis. i am 38 obese female. i have however lost 38 lbs in 4 months. what is the chances?
unless you had advanced liver disease such as fatty liver and your enzymes were creeping up it's unlikely you'll develop cirrhosis that fast. that's not a dangerously high amount of weight to lose in that time frame. and losing the weight may actually reduce your health risks including liver disease in the long run. you must still be vigilant by keeping healthy and having regular checkups.
i have fatty liver from being obese. why would i feel a burning in this area does that mean its getting worse? i am losing weight
if you are having pain in your right upper quadrant it may not be from fatty liver disease and may actually be from problems with your gallbladder. you should see a doctor have a complete metabolic panel drawn and have a right upper quadrant ultrasound done.
i have fatty liver from being obese. why would i feel a burning in this area does that mean its getting worse? i am losing weight
fatty liver is common in the u. s. and can happen in people who have high triglycerides metabolic syndrome pre-diabetes obesity etc. people usually don't feel anything with mild fatty liver so if one feels pain swelling bloating burning etc. a doctor can evaluate to see if there is also another problem such as gall bladder disease pancreatitis an ulcer a cancer tumor etc.
if you had beginning cirrhosis from fatty liver from being obese would your blood work be completely normal and ultrasound only show fatty liver?
fatty liver is associated with obesity and prediabetes. in my practice i will approach this as a serious predictor of future health issues beyond the liver and will work with patients to change lifestyle and diet. fatty liver does lead to cirrhosis and that can cause other issues. early in the disease the liver enzymes in the blood can be normal although you may have ultrasound changes.
if you had beginning cirrhosis from fatty liver from being obese would your blood work be completely normal and ultrasound only show fatty liver?
hepatosteatosis (fatty liver) in early stages would not show any changes in the blood though the ultrasound would show fatty changes. in later stages (stage 3/4) you may have some elevated liver enzymes secondary to onset of cirrhosis. weight loss is the only cure for early disease.
if you had beginning cirrhosis from fatty liver from being obese would your blood work be completely normal and ultrasound only show fatty liver?
most likely the liver enzymes would be elevated in the blood (alt and ast).
i am 38f obese. wt285. fatty liver with borderline heptomegly. i am losing 4 lbs a wk. i am dieting and walking how do i slow it down?
ideally when losing weight with fatty liver disease you want to avoid excessively fast weight loss - there is evidence to keep weight loss at a rate less than 3. 5lbs/week; as too rapid weight loss can make things worse. this means you may need to back off a bit on your caloric restriction and/ or be mindful of the vigorousness of your exercise. though it sounds like you are making great strides.
i am 38f obese. wt285. fatty liver with borderline heptomegly. i am losing 4 lbs a wk. i am dieting and walking how do i slow it down?
you are off to a good start. losing weight should reduce the fat in your liver. controlled trials have also shown that vitamin e at 800 iu help about 40 percent of patients with fatty liver.
is it safe to color your hair if you have fatty liver from being obese? i have lost 41 lbs from diet and my hair is falling out
if you choose a good hair salon use good chemical to color your hair then is is safe. your hair falling out canbe from reaction of chemicai fom stress or thyroid problems. you need to see doctor for evaluation. as far as fatty liver it can be from high chol hepatitis alcohol and not from obese. you need to get evaluate with this as well.
is it safe to color your hair if you have fatty liver from being obese? i have lost 41 lbs from diet and my hair is falling out
using hair-coloring product as instructed should be fine--no concern for fatty liver issue you have. congratulation on losing the weight; great job. the hair loss is not uncommon if wt loss is rapid (your body is experiencing a bit of a shock including hair) and should be temporary. your hair will grow back. again congrats and good luck.
i am obese 38 f. with fatty liver and borderline enlarged. when will i start feeling some relief in this i have lost 44 lbs since march?
fatty liver is when fat is deposited in the liver. it can be caused by chronic moderate to severe alcohol consumption or by some medications. the most common form though is related to obesity elevated triglycerides and diabetes. it can lead to cirrhosis over time. a person does not have to be enormous to get fatty liver and some people are more prone to getting it than others are.
i am 38 f obese. wt 278 with fatty liver and borderline enlargement. i have lost 42 lbs since march. how long does it take for liver to get bk to norm?
completely normal but you have done an amazing job at decreasing your risks for chronic liver problems and diabetes. keep it up!
i am 38 f obese. wt 278 with fatty liver and borderline enlargement. i have lost 42 lbs since march. how long does it take for liver to get bk to norm?
depends on overall weight weight loss amount of fat deposition in liver if associated liver inflammation other factors. follow up with doc lab tests peeiodic sono.
i have fatty liver from being obese and i am losing wt. i have this ache in right kidney area is this my fatty liver?
ally not painful. it is likely your ache is musculoskeletal in nature but would require an examination to be more certain.
if you are losing wt and exercising and have a fatty liver from being obese and have lost 42lbs since march how likely is that progress to cirrhosis?
losing 42lbs=phenomenal success! although fatty liver is the #1 cause of liver disease in america now your chance of developing cirrhosis is significantly subsiding with wt loss. u are young and already taking the right step with good success. wt loss will help fatty liver but it will take time. avoid excessive alcohol. live healthy live well live long! keep up the good work. good luck.
i was wondering is corn bad for a fatty liver from being obese? i am losing weight but miss eating that
continue with your progression. don't stop your life just with moderation. there is an old joke from doctor to patient: "sir what works better in your life working out 1 hour a day or being dead 24 hours a day? ".
i was wondering is corn bad for a fatty liver from being obese? i am losing weight but miss eating that
yes you can have some corn. you should live your life don't just stay alive. corn-syrup is not so healthy especially in excess but fresh corn-on-the-cob is part of a good summer fun/joy and can be an integral part of your healthy diet. u are already taking steps to ensure healthy diet some fresh corn will not hurt you or your liver. i had some last night! enjoy.
i was wondering is corn bad for a fatty liver from being obese? i am losing weight but miss eating that
corn is filled with a sugar named fructose. frtuctose is metabolized differently than other sugars in that it must first be stored as triglycerides prior to being burned as energy. this metabolic process will contribute to fatty liver. my recommendation to you is to not eat any corn severely cut back on all sugars and other carbohydates. this will not only help your liver but help you lose wt.
is flax oil good to help fatty liver from being obese? i am dieting and losing weight and exercising
there are some small i mean small studies that suggest some benefit in fatty liver disease for flaxseed oil but it's not great. it's unlikely to harm you but make sure you don't consume too much as even if its good the high caloric density can catch up with you and cause weight gain. good luck.
is flax oil good to help fatty liver from being obese? i am dieting and losing weight and exercising
for several things. however put all your energy and thoughts towards weight loss exercise eating healthy cutting down on sugary/sweet stuff.
i have fatty liver w/ borderline enlargement from being obese. for the past week i wake in am with a little blood in sputnum. could this be cirrhosis?
at your age i doubt very much that your fatty liver is severe enough to cause esophageal varices which could bleed and cause you to have blood in your throat. the most likely explanation is an inflammed back of the throat causing a bit of a capillary leakage. however you should be examined to properly determine where this blood is coming from please.
i have been dieting due to fatty liver from obesity. i have lost 47lbs since march. is it safe for me to have some mashed potatoes and gravy?
some fatty meals are ok. the low saturated fat/total fat that some hepatologists recommend in the setting of fatty liver disease is an overall goal but "cheat" meals are fine.
i have been dieting due to fatty liver from obesity. i have lost 47lbs since march. is it safe for me to have some mashed potatoes and gravy?
congrats on the loss of 47 pounds! pretty much anything in moderation is ok. however gravy is predominately fat; therefore if your goal is to reduce fatty foods a better choice would be a sweet potatoe with no gravy. choose healthy carbs and avoid fatty foods like gravy to continue losing weight and improve your condition. indulging in fatty foods is likely to leave you craving more.
is there any effect of weight loss surgery on metabolic disorders?
gastric bypass will be done after extensive screening & suitability as it gives profound changes in body 83 % diabetes 69 % of hypertension will be resolved long term mortality will decrease improves fatty liver bad is inability to adjust body pains aches due electrolyte imbalance due to vomiting osteoporosis calcium malabsorption fall of t3 (liothyronine) and leptin levels effects on intestinal flora.
is it possible to feel fatty liver ache from obesity even in your lower right back under ribcage?
fatty liver is asymptomatic in most patients but occasionally people complain of some vague discomfort in the liver area which is in the right upper quadrant (under the ribcage). it's still debatable whether it is a liver related pain or rather a gallbladder one that seems to be more frequently affected in individuals with fatty liver disease.
i was diagnosed with fatty liver from obesity with borderline enlargement. i am losing about two lbs a week for total of 50 since march. i am worried about cirrhosis?
an extensive fatty liver can lead to nash (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis) which could lead to cirrhosis. cirrhosis is essentially scarring of the liver. chronic inflammation from fatty infiltration can lead to cirrhosis as it is an inflammatory condition. losing weight however can reverse this process and restore the liver to its normal state. continue with the weight loss and this should improve.
i have high sgpt and high insulin. i am 32 years old with a bmi of 31. 2 and have recently had a baby. i have pcos and had gestational diabetes. ?
elevated liver function is likely due to "fatty liver". one can perform an ultrasound to detect this. it requires weight loss and low fat diet. this will also help your insulin resistance. see an endocrinologist.
i have fatty liver from obesity but have lost 50 lbs since march and 7 in on my waist under my right rib on back it is sore when pushed on? fatty live
angie i have followed with interest your progress. congratulations on your ongoing weight loss. i look forward to hearing that this has resulted in a drop in liver tests. stick with the diet avoid alcohol control diabetes & cholesterol (if present). discomfort as described may not be due to fatty liver & deserves a physical exam & maybe x-rays from your doctor that we can't provide you here.
is it possible to still lose weight with no exercise but your eating healthy? i do have fatty liver but haven't exercised in a few days
the key may be in fatty liver due to possible choline deficiency and related to sugar intake. exercise is an important part of health but diet is even more important. eggs are a good source of choline but cancel all sugar in your diet.
i am worried i am losing too much weight for my fatty liver from obesity. i am losing 3lbs a week. i am only eating healthy and walking 1 mile a day. should i slow down?
no you are not losing it too fast! 2-3 ibs a week is recommended rate of weight loss! however after losing 10-12 ibs stabilize yourself to maintaing that weight for next two mnths at least. weight loss is not too hard! maintaing that less weight and continuing with new lifestyle is bigger challenge!
i have lost 50 lbs since march by walking a mile a day and changing diet i am concerned my fatty liver is getting worse. seems like the lbs keep falling off is this normal?
your name is familiar. trying to lose that much weight this fast? a mile a day is good for about 140-200 calories a day; roughly 3500 calories to the pound-that's a lot of walking. cut out and/or spend 500 calories/day lose about 1. 5 pounds/wk. with wt loss the fatty liver should get better-smaller more normal lab results. if weight is lost involuntarily it could be problem follow up w/md(.
i have lost 55 lbs since march because i found out i have a fatty liver from obesity. my question is it possible to lose weight without exercise? i started new job and haven't been able to walk in several days
to help lose weight you still need 150minutes per week of exercise. you can break up this time as 15 minute intervals (everyone can do that) to help accomplish this goal. i usually recommend about 1200cal/day with one 500cal meal at night and three 200cal snacks for the day. drink alot of water (0. 5oz per pound you weigh) to help with the positive results.
i have lost 55 lbs since march because i found out i have a fatty liver from obesity. my question is it possible to lose weight without exercise? i started new job and haven't been able to walk in several days
not impossible. glad you are not giving up! cut out all junk food fried food treats soda. . do five small meals/day @300 cal/meal consisting of 3oz of protein veg/salad&include a plain potato/red garnet yam in two of the meals or do 3@500 ea. walk @lunch jog in front of the tv walk on the weekend take the steps at work not the elevator. if steps @ work use them for noon exercise. you can do it.
i have itching all over my body could it related to my fatty liver disease? this has been going on for months now.
lots of liver diseases can have itching (pruritus) associated. a number of nonliver diseases also. don't assume due to fatty liver. see md.
i have itching all over my body could it related to my fatty liver disease? this has been going on for months now.
most forms of liver diseases causes pruritis multiple theories as to why not yet clearly proven.
if i have mild non-alcoholic fatty liver disease should i have a few drinks during new years?
fatty liver especially caused by drinking alcohol will lead to cirrhosis please do not drink protect your liver.
i am sure i have ascites. my girth goes from 39 to 48 inches in an hour or so then i can't breathe. they are telling me i'm just fat. my liver # are up. what should i do?
ask for an ultrasound. if you are fat you may have fatty liver.
i am losing about ten lbs a month. i found out i have fatty liver in march and i changed my diet. i do exercise some. does that warrant losin that much weight? or could it be something more serious. <negative_smiley>
unintended weight loss can be seen with infections inflammation parasites cancer overactive thyroid depression other. hair loss can be from weight loss mineral or vitamin deficiencies or above mentioned factors.
i am losing approximately ten lbs per month. since march ihave lost a total of 60 lbs. i found out i have fatty liver and i changed my diet completely and do some exercises. i do have right shoulder blade back pain but have had x-rays and mri. could the
is to much with out diet. have to be chek gallbladder liver pancreas blood sugar thyroid. others. i will like to recommended a complete medical examination and determine the cause. could be serious. please check with your pcp or a gastroenterology spec.
i am losing approximately ten lbs per month. since march ihave lost a total of 60 lbs. i found out i have fatty liver and i changed my diet completely and do some exercises. i do have right shoulder blade back pain but have had x-rays and mri. could the
gall bladder attacks usually refer pain to the right shoulder. this is especially true after severe dieting and weight loss. see a gastroenterologist.
i am losing approximately ten lbs per month. since march ihave lost a total of 60 lbs. i found out i have fatty liver and i changed my diet completely and do some exercises. i do have right shoulder blade back pain but have had x-rays and mri. could the
your problem is either a bursitis under the shoulder blade a pinched nerve in your neck or a pinched nerve in your arm. please see an upper extremity orthopedic surgeon.
if i lose wight will my fatty liver disease go away?
fatty liver is typically due to obesity diabetes high cholesterol too much alcohol or a combination of these. lose 1-3 pounds per week (drop 10-20% of present total weight) to address obesity-associated fatty liver. eat right (minimize fats; supplement fibers) exercise and you should be fine. roughly for every 3500 calories you lose you drop a pound of fat (that's 500 calories a day).
i have lost 60 lbs since mar. my liver dr says i need to slow down. i have fatty liver from obesity. how do i slow it down? i am eating good
go over diet plan with dietician. too much of a good thing may not be so good.
i have fatty liver from obesity alt is 9 ast is 10 total bilirubin is 1. 3 and direct is 0. 2 is that high for bilirubin?
you most likely have gilbert's syndrome. this is not a serious condition that occurs because of impaired conjugation of bilirubin. the total bilirubin is elevated because the indirect bilirubin or unconjugated bilirubin is high. your liver function is otherwise normal but if you have fatty liver avoid alcohol and other hepatotoxic agents. optimize your weight and follow-up with gi.
i have chronic pancreatitis and fatty liver disease and now i have a swollen hard stomach - could they be connected?
u will need to talk w ur gi doc. if u have portal vein hypertension it can cause fluid build up. also pancreatitis can cause ileus ( slowing of bowel) and this can also b related to pain meds. call ur doc as u will need further tests.
i have chronic pancreatitis and fatty liver disease and now i have a swollen hard stomach - could they be connected?
need to see your doc/gastroenterologist. symptoms could be related to liver pancreas or other causes.
i had an mri last week and results came that i have a fatty liver. i am overweight. is my liver condition reversible with a strict diet? thank you.
it does take more than just diet. you need to know if there is any insulin resistance and cholesterol and triglyceride panel. i like to use lipoid acid as it helps get rid of the fatty liver.
i had an mri last week and results came that i have a fatty liver. i am overweight. is my liver condition reversible with a strict diet? thank you.
fatty liver is a on condition seen in overweight. avoiding starch and sugar and being on a higher protein lower car and plant/fish based fat will help with weight loss and resolution or improvement of fatty liver.
i had an mri last week and results came that i have a fatty liver. i am overweight. is my liver condition reversible with a strict diet? thank you.
if the cause is only obesity and you do not have other conditions like diabetese alcohol intake etc causing it you may be able to reverse it by going on diet loosing weight and regular exercise regemen good luck but check with your doctor as he/she will have more information about your condition as to why the mri was ordered in first place.
is palmar erythema always associated with liver disease? i had my lft done and the bilirubin count was. 70 sgot-56 & sgpt-85. what does this mean?
palmar erythema is associated with estrogen levels and pregnant women will develop this. in a normal person liver illness slows the degradation of estradiol causing levels to build up. in males liver disease does the same. palmar erythema is most often not pathologic. however you do have mild liber enzyme elevations. many causes but the most common causes a deal with is fatty liver.
what is metabolic syndrome?
metabolic syndrome a. k. a insulin resistance syndrome or syndrome x refers to a syndrome of associated metabolic and vascular risks that cluster in a person or family members: high glucose high bp low hdl/high triglycerides high inflammation and increased weight --- which can lead to type 2 dm gestational dm coronary heart disease/stroke pcos fatty liver. lifestyle changes are key.
what is fatty liver disease?
fatty liver is essentially the abnormal deposition of fat in the liver. it can lead to inflammation and ultimately cirrhosis. the causes include alcohol non-alcoholic fatty liver and medications. non-alcoholic fatty liver is the most common and is related to obesity high triglycerides diabetes and genetic predisposition.
what is fatty liver disease?
read this short article: <link> kaushikmd. com/fatty-liver-on-a-rise-with-diabetes-and-obesity-epidemics/ how to revert it: <link>
what is fatty liver disease?
fatty liver can develop as a result of alcolhol use.
why is it important to lose weight?
excess body weight often leads to other medical problems including an increased risk for: hypertension (high blood pressure) heart disease diabetes strokes certain cancers back problems high cholesterol high triglycerides fatty liver disease kidney problems intestinal disorders gastro-esophageal reflux disease musculo-skeletal injuries depression anxiety low self esteem etc. etc.
what is excess fat in the pancreas called?
some refer to it as pancreatic lipomatosis. it's like calling fatty liver steatosis. excess fat in any organ is not healthy and may have an adverse effect on organ function.
i have fatty liver do to heavy drinking 4 many years i have compleetly stoped & even eat healthy well i be ok or is it damaged 4 good? i'm 26 male
you should do well if you continue to avoid all forms of alcohol work on healthy weight loss and exercise will help too. the fact that you're young helps too. hopefully you're decisions and life style changes right now will pay large dividends down the road. good luck.
what are disadvantages of obesity?
medical consequences of obesity are many. obese people can get cholesterol plaques in the arteries high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes. liver damage from fatty liver (fat building up inside the liver) can start in teenagers but heart damage should not appear until adulthood. other problems include being teased by others and being too out-of-shape to fully participate in games & sports.
what are the consequences of childhood obesity?
medical consequences of childhood obesity are many. obese kids can get cholesterol plaques in the arteries high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes. liver damage from fatty liver (fat building up inside the liver) occurs in teenagers but heart damage should not appear until adulthood. other problems include being teased by others and being too out-of-shape to fully participate in games & sports.
what part of the body does obesity most effect?
complications of obesity effect about every major organ system. significant increase risk of heart disease the major cause of fatty liver which can lead to steatohepatitis and cirrhosis major risk factor for type 2 diabetes sleep apnea gout reproductive organs decrease in fertility. high cholesterol & triglycerides. fat especially the viceral or deep abdominal fat causes inflammation of body.
what is insulin resistance?
insulin resistance is a state in which a given concentration of insulin produces a less-than-expected lowering of blood sugar or that a supra physiological level of insulin is needed to maintain bs. in many scenarios ir poses a significant risk factor for developing fatty liver and diabetes.
what kind of diet maybe helpful for bad liver they told me to get on a diet what foods should i avoid?
i suspect you may have fatty liver but if not sorry my bad! if fatty liver is the case the best diet would be one that is poor in fat especially saturated one and rich in fiber that catches and eliminates it from the intestines. i give my patients a good rule - anything that is white or made out of white is full of fat or can easily be converted into it - eggs milk (whole) flour sugar rice.
i have fatty liver probly due to alcohol i stoped drinking & eat healthy will my liver go back 2. normal?
you can help it by eating foods that contain choline and take a well rounded multivitamin. look up choline containing foods on the computer.
what is the treatment for grade2 faty liver?
fatty liver comes from obesity and diabetes. in some cases it is reasonable to consider weight loss surgery if that is the cause. all conditions melt away.
why is child obesity bad? im doing an essay and i need to know n ow!
for one thing-it can lead to diabetes at an early age- no child should become diabetic from eating the wrong food or eating too much. it can also lead to hypertension hip problems sleep apnea and fatty liver. no child should ever lose his liver because he didnt eat right or in the right portions.
what choices do i have for treating chronic liver disease?
depending on the cause chances can be very good. if due to alcohol must stop drinking; if hepatitis viruses there is rx and must stop drinking; if iron overload- get bled; if autoimmune- get rx; if fatty liver-lose weight rx diabetes. chronic liver disease can be just that-chronic; with long term good quality of life. lots of meds available to improve or at least prevent progression.
what effect does childhood obesity have on his adult life?
obesity affects almost all body system in a human. some example: cardiovascular (cholesterol high blood pressure atherosclerosis) endocrine (type 2 diabetes polycystic ovarian syndrome) lung (asthma obstructive sleep apnea) psych (negative self image depression poor quality of life) reproductive (irregular menstrual periods lack of periods). liver (non alcoholic fatty liver).
i am male of 45. i have had blood tests recently. i have ggt 63 and alt 53. i am about 20 kilos overweight. can this be reversed.
yes if it is from a fatty liver and you go on a low fat diet stop alcohol and lose weight it can be reversed.
if iam 28 yrs old got fatty liver not obese not diabetic no medecines no alcohol can i rule out hep if i tested neg hiv hep a b c 1 5 post exposure?
if you have tested negative for viral hep recently you can probably rule it out. there are other causes of nash (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis or fatty liver). medications autoimmune or inherited liver disease rapid weight loss and malnutrition. make sure you rule these out as well.
what kinds of illnesses cause hair loss? i am 38 f. i do have fatty liver from being obese and habe lost 35 lbs.
actually any change in your body even a good change like weight loss can cause a temporary increase in the normal rate of hairs falling out. but this is a short phase and when the hairs grow back your hair will be as full as ever.
why would your liver area feel like a burning with fatty liver from being obese? i am losing weight.
mild fatty liver is common in the u. s. and can happen in people who have high triglycerides metabolic syndrome pre-diabetes obesity etc. people usually don't feel anything at the liver so if one feels pain swelling bloating burning etc. a doctor can evaluate to see if there is also another problem such as gall bladder disease pancreatitis an ulcer a cancer etc.
why would your liver area feel like a burning with fatty liver from being obese? i am losing weight.
the liver covers a large area in your upper abdomen so you'll have to be more specific. does it hurt in the middle? or on the right side? it could be heartburn gastritis gallstones that you are getting discomfort from. it is hard to tell without knowing where your pain is. try prilosec and if it helps it was likely gerd. if not see your doctor.
what foods should i avoid with a fatty liver from being obese? i am scared to eat anything thinking it will make it worse
but some hepatologists suggest avoidance of saturated and total fat. in the end there isn't a clear dietary winner but a healthy diet with limited processed foods with sound vegetable and fruit intake will almost always be reasonable. but calorie control is key. as whatever diet allows for safe controlled weight loss will likely help improve your fatty liver disease.
what foods should i avoid with a fatty liver from being obese? i am scared to eat anything thinking it will make it worse
the treatment of fatty liver disease is losing weight. i would avoid carbohydrates and foods high in fat content. trying to get more vegetables in your diet. calorie restriction is necessary along with lifestyle changes. fatty liver improves with weight loss. don't be afraid to eat just don't eat the wrong foods. try to keep your calories restricted. increase physical activity.
what is a substitute for margarine/butter if you have fatty liver disease from being obese?
lower lipids by going low carb. a low fat diet has never been beat in metabolic syndrome studies by a low fat diet! butter is better than margarine although i do recommend smart choice! think about what they feed a goose to get pate fois gras: corn with a choker on the neck. this is a high carb diet in extreme but it will give you a fatty liver ie. goose!
what is a substitute for margarine/butter if you have fatty liver disease from being obese?
there are several good products available at your local supermarkets. look at and read the labels. there are other things you should do besides changing your margarine/butter. a good source of info for this is a registered dietician. you can find one easily at your local hospital. folloow with your family doc also.
i'm four weeks out after having a gastric sleeve done. i had a cmp done and my alt is 218 and my ast is 131is that normal after surgery?
it isn't normal but we occasionally see elevations in liver enzymes after weight loss surgery. it may be that you ready had fatty liver disease and the operation has caused some stress and a subsequent rise in liver enzymes. it is usually self limited and doesn't require any treatment. just have it checked periodically to make sure it doesn't get worse.
is fatty liver irreversible?
several things can contribute to fatty infiltration of the liver including 1) excess weight over a long period of time 2) pregnancy 3) diet 4) medical conditions like diabetes and 5) medications including chemotherapy. depending on the contributing factors some of the problem may be treated effectively with weight loss tight glucose control and/or dietary modification.
is fatty liver irreversible?
weight loss is the best treatment to improving fatty liver but vitamin e can sometimes help the inflammation.
is fatty liver irreversible?
to revert your fatty liver read these 2 short articles: 1. <link> 2. <link> for heartburn: <link> for dry eyes: take omega-3 2000mg/day (nordic naturals is a good brand)
is fatty liver irreversible?
mild fatty liver can be reversed. the liver is remarkable organ that can refenerat itself and repair much damage. the cause of fatty liver can be obesity high triglycerides high blood pressure diabetes. nd this can bereversed by changing diet. however sometimes this an progress and do permanent damage to your liver. alcoholic liver disease. is not reversible.
what are the causes of liver disease and are they affected by alcohol consumption?
some liver diseases are inherited but most are caused by hepatitis virus alcohol damage or fatty liver disease that can progress to non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis. alcohol consumption in the face of known liver disease would be a bad idea.
what could rapid weight loss and hair loss be a sign of? i found out i have fatty liver in march. changed my diet and exercise a little. but that seems like a lot of weight. 60lbs so far
unintended weight loss can be seen with infections inflammation parasites cancer overactive thyroid depression other. hair loss can be from weight loss mineral or vitamin deficiencies or above mentioned factors.
would type 2 diabetes cause liver pain?
fatty liver associated with diabetes and that can theoretically stretch the capsule of the liver but i would look for other reasons. gallbladder?
what are health risks of obesity as a huskie?
there are many health risks of obesity. heart disease diabetes stroke joint and body pain fatty liver acid reflux bowel issues sleep apnea and other pulmonary issues social stigmatization emotional risks like increased stress and depression.
what could cause borderline enlarged liver and weight loss and night sweats? i do have fatty liver. been tested for hiv and hep. and all blood work good
welcome back. had thyroid function tests? female hormones out of whack? periods are ok? the fatty liver was presumed to be due to obesity which is why you went on the reducing diet. blood work good is reassuring as was the mri tests you mentioned in another question. checked for parasites? tb?
what cause weight loss and borderline enlarged liver. ultasound showed fatty liver but nothing else. all blood work good. enzymes great. all heps ok.?
welcome back. don't know your current weight. you have lost over 60 pounds since march. what was weight then now? still overweight? that could still explain the fatty enlarged liver. previously you stated all tests including various imaging tests were normal: reassuring.
is taking whey protein good for fatty liver and get rid of belly fat for 43yr old male 210ilb 5'10 with borderline high cholesterol taking no medicati?
protein will not affect fatty liver nor get rid of belly fat. you may have a genetic predisposition to store fat around your waist. fatty liver could be due to high lipid levels from genetic and dietary factors excessive alcohol use and other liver problems. if not doing already making lifestyle changes including eating healthy 5 times per day and exercising 2 1/2 hours per week can help.
is taking whey protein good for fatty liver and get rid of belly fat for 43yr old male 210ilb 5'10 with borderline high cholesterol taking no medicati?
fatty liver occurs in about 1/4 of americans ; correlates with obesity elevated cholesterol diabetes significant alcohol intake. fatty liver can progress to cirrhosis so patients with fatty liver (especially if abnormal liver tests) really need to: stop drinking lose weight control their sugar ; cholesterol. don't waste health ; money by relying on fad gimmicks but ignore the hard work ahead.
why is my health so bad and i am only 18? i have hbp high liver enzymes erectile dysfunction major anxiety and more. i eat healthy and excercise.
many consider a low fat high (complex) carb diet healthy. hi carb diet increases triglycerides insulin estrogen(e2) and lowers testosterone (t) the htn can result from high trig + insulin + low t. the ed from high e2 & low t. the anxiety from hypoglycemia - from high insulin & low fat high carb diet. the fatty liver is result of storage of carbs as trig in liver. mdwellnessmd. com.
i'm female i started losing my hair about 2-3yrs ago but i also started gaining a lot of facial hair. could being 100+ lbs overweight add to hairloss?
obesity in woman is associated with something called androgenization which means that estrogen is converted in to a male hormone. that causes the facial hair and hair loss. it is a pre diabetic state often causing polycystic ovary syndrome infertility lipid abnormalities fatty liver and other problems. the good news is that these things respond well to 10% or more weight loss.
what is grade 2 fatty liver. high triglysarides level in blood-174 cholestrol level is 250 i have gall stone measuring 8mm mobile. i am obese. ?
fatty liver can be benign (just fat) or develop into an inflammatory condition (called nonalcoholic steatohepatitis - nash) which can cause cirrhosis. grade 2 means that there is moderate fat and injury. stage would be the scarring that is present. weight loss is key to treatment but so is getting the cholesterol triglycerides and diabetes (if present) well controlled.
what is grade 2 fatty liver. high triglysarides level in blood-174 cholestrol level is 250 i have gall stone measuring 8mm mobile. i am obese. ?
grade 2 is to help quantify how much. but fatty liver can lead to inflammation in the liver and eventually if bad enough to cirrohis if not caught early and treated. mainstay of treatment is weight loss.
is it true that everybody who is overweight or obese including children have fatty liver?
it is generally true that obese individuals have fatty liver. of the over 5000 operations that my partners and i have done i would say that pretty much everyone who is obese has fatty liver to some degree. some have it really bad and some have a very mild amount. the good news is that when you lose weight most of that goes away.
what is the management of nash and nafld in 24 y bmi of 19. 5 healthy male no alcohol or meds or anything synthetic even home made food?
the key will of course be increasing your level of aerobic fitness. i trust the diagnosis is right & that other causes of fatty liver / elevated enzymes (especially hepatitis c) have been ruled out. i hope you will not let somebody's idea that "synthetic is bad" limit your willingness to take medication. betaine in beet juice and of course vitamin e are things to talk about with the team.
what other than biopsy to detect nash or nafld if ultrasound was negative and alt was average 120 for more than 7 months. fully neg workup 24y m. bmi 20?
ultrasound when performed properly is an excellent test for both nafld and/or nash. you do not have the characteristic risk factors for fatty liver although i have observed it in normal weight vegetarians. you state that a previous work-up was negative. i would want to know specifically if you were tested for viral hepatitis especially hepatitis c. ask for hcv rna pcr.
i have a bmi of 21 but my doctor says i have a fatty liver. what can i do to lose the fat on my liver? no major health issues. is it my hrt responsibl
fatty liver has nothing to do with your heart. if you are alcoholic stop drinking and do regular exercise.
what is the cure for obesity?
significant scientific evidence has now proven that bariatric surgery may very well be the most reliable cure for obesity. it definitely is the best way to reverse the risks of diabetes hypertension fatty liver disease and so on. of course part of that process will also include limiting calories and exercising and participating in psychotherapy. but it is possible to reverse this problem.
i got a blood test and had this two enzymes elevated: alt 67 ast 60. i don't drink eat healthy and work out 5 or 6 days a week suplements?
have you been tested for hepatitis a b c? a liver ultrasound would check for liver disease such as fatty liver. a gastroenterologist is best qualified to evaluate and advise you about the cause and significance of the elevated liver enzymes.
i am umar and i want to ask what are the main obesity problems? my age is 18
high blood pressure high cholesterol and triglycerides gall stones sleep apnea diabetes heart disease inflamed pancreas fatty liver colon cancer
i have simple fatty liver. losing weight & eating healthier but very nauseaed. my doc said being overweight is the cause of nausea does this sound ok?
you may have a gerd i e irritable gastic esophageal dysfunction and pain. do not lay down after eating
i have simple fatty liver. losing weight & eating healthier but very nauseaed. my doc said being overweight is the cause of nausea does this sound ok?
by eating healthier that shouldn't mean starving yourself. eating less calories per day with smaller more frequent meals is the way to go. if you're skipping meals or not eating often enough bile transit can slow leading to increased risk of gallstones. if your nausea isn't resolving or stomach becomes painful get checked out. i'm also assuming your not pregnant as a cause of nausea.
i have type 2 diabetes high ferritin and fatty liver? my gi told me just drink sylymarin. is it ok? i'm starting to get afraid. 30/f
are you taking any iron? how high is your ferritin? if it is really high and you are not taking any iron you should be evaluated for hemochromatosis especially in the presence of diabetes and liver disease. you could ask your doctor to do hemochromatosis profile and if positive you will need liver biopsy and you will need members of family tested. treatment is phlebotomy to remove iron.
i have the following blood results gamma gt 197 alt 48 ferritin 338. i don't drink alcohol not obese no diabetes. pain in right side. 48yo female?
"hepatitis" means inflammation of liver--due to viral infection (cytomegalovirus epstein-barr virus a b c d etc) familial diseases (hemochromatosis wilson's alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency etc) infiltrative disease (steatohepatitis from fatty liver granulomatous hepatitis foreign body reaction) toxic (alcoholic tylenol) ischemic congestive pregnancy-related etc. get checked.
what are the ways that fast foods and lack of exercise affect the liver?
liver is not easily affected by lifestyle factors except by alcohol and by obesity. fatty liver is common in many overweight people. this in the long range can cause chronic hepatitis but not in everyone who is overweight. but it is good to exercise and avoid fast foods so that you do not become overweight which will create all kinds of chronic diseases like heart disease diabetes and cancer.
i eat alot now i just got love handles how much are implants for butts?
you don't need expensive surgery just keep over eating and the extra fat will son go to your butt chest and neck then you will develop high blood pressure fatty liver diabetes if it's in your family then sleep apnea arthritis in your knees and maybe heart disease after u pay for all of these you will have no extra $ you could also eat less live with small butt and be healthy. . its al
i have a bilirubin level of 31. 7 umol/l & my liver us showed fat build up. all other blood levels are within normal range. bmi is 21. any huge concern?
isolated in a young man can be due to gilberts disease which is a benign congenital condition with defect in the glucorindation of bilirubin. however the etiology of the fatty liver is unclear. i guess a gi specialist will help since your bmi is normal
i am 33years old. my bmi is 43. i just had my fifth child. i have been diagnosed with severe fatty liver from a ct scan. what can i do to help this?
high protein/low carb diet about 1200 cal/day and a regular walking program. little by little the fat melts away. good luck.
i am 33years old. my bmi is 43. i just had my fifth child. i have been diagnosed with severe fatty liver from a ct scan. what can i do to help this?
weight loss slowly but surely via healthy nutrition & regular exercise is best way to solve fatty liver. check out <link> for more info on fatty liver. however morbid obesity as defined as bmi greater than 40 also qualifies one for bariatric surgery. in meantime avoid alcohol & acetamihophen
what will be done 4 a fatty liver? don't drink or obese my emzymes r high but r going down slowly caused by meds. no gallstones or hep etc
while obesity is the most common cause of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) there are other causes including poorly controlled diabetes drug toxicity weight loss surgery and toxins. in your case since you refer to this being caused by some medication the best thing to do is to remove the offending agent meanwhile avoid fatty foods and avoid alcohol until you are cleared by your md.
what will be done 4 a fatty liver? don't drink or obese my emzymes r high but r going down slowly caused by meds. no gallstones or hep etc
and loose weight.
what led to fatty liver i do not drink what is metabolic syndrome?
high cholesterol or hyperlipidemia problem- often associated with metabolic syndome- a collection of conditions that 'travel' together fequently- diabetes high blood pressure and lipid problems.
what does stage 2 fatty liver mean? is it reversible? how long it takes to become normal liver? please help.
fatty liver disease occurs in pperson who ate either alcoholic or have metabolic syndrome which consists of abnornal lipids overweight and diabetes. fld is treatable in early stages without any medicine. it requires a strong will to achieve a lifestyle modifications. it includes healthy diet and regular exercise. good luck!
what is the percentage of a fatty liver turning into cirrosis. am 34. non alcoholic. a bit overweight and got fatty liver since 8 yrs. pcp said 1 %?
to develop cirrhosis. fatty liver is endemic in our society and directly related to the obesity epidemic in america. a fatty liver in and of itself without symptoms causes no significant problem. i would stop worrying about some unlikely disease process and investigate weight loss options.
what is the percentage of a fatty liver turning into cirrosis. am 34. non alcoholic. a bit overweight and got fatty liver since 8 yrs. pcp said 1 %?
phoschol and methionine as well as alpha lipoic acid can help fatty liver and decrease chance of future problems.
my husband is overweight and bloodwork just showed that his liver levels are elevated. he goes back in 4wks to re-test. what could this be?
fatty liver alcohol medications viral hepatitis gall stones to name a few.
my husband is overweight and bloodwork just showed that his liver levels are elevated. he goes back in 4wks to re-test. what could this be?
it is possibly fatty liver but we can not be sure just by the liver enzyme levels. ultrasound will help us know more about liver. weight loss should improve if liver enzyme levels if it is really fatty liver.
my husband is overweight and bloodwork just showed that his liver levels are elevated. he goes back in 4wks to re-test. what could this be?
the fact that he is overweight make me think of fatty liver disease which is an infiltration of liver tissue with fat. if he drinks alcohol he should quit. besides helping improve any liver abnormality from alcohol it will also help weight loss by cutting calories.
my brother is 35 he has increased alt levels 100 he has gained weight in 6 months & was on a junk diet for last 3 months. rx? advise diet too please
he needs to change his diet increased in liver enzymes in this case could be an indication of fatty liver. more than a diet is a change in lifestyle. the diet would be less processed food and more fresh foods like vegetables fruits whole grains beans meat with no fat chicken without skin and no fried everything baked broil or grilled dairy products 1% or fat free. www. choosemyplate. gov.
my brother is 35 he has increased alt levels 100 he has gained weight in 6 months & was on a junk diet for last 3 months. rx? advise diet too please
an alt (liver enzyme) elevation is a sign of liver inflammation or hepatitis. if diet has been poor (w/ weight gain) a possibility is pre-diabetes/ 'fatty liver disease' (nash) if alcohol intake is moderate alcoholic hepatitis/fatty liver is possible. he may need further testing: ultrasound and labs for viral hepatitis hemochromatosis auto-immune hepatitis. avoid alcohol hi carbs fats.
my brother is 35 he has increased alt levels 100 he has gained weight in 6 months & was on a junk diet for last 3 months. rx? advise diet too please
usually when we see an otherwise healthy person with elevated liver tests we want to make sure nothing more serious is going on other than having a "fatty liver". we would have them abstain from alcohol recheck labs in about 2-3 months including hepatitis labs and some others. i wouldn't attribute abnormal liver tests solely to poor diet and weight before a more thorough workup is done.
my ankles are swelling some. i am 38 obese f. i have fatty liver. would this be the onset of cirrhosis? all blood work is good
your obesity makes it difficult for the veins to return blood to your heart. the swelling most likely is due to varicose veins from that obesity. knee high 20-30 mm compression hose will help. they are available on the web at brightlifedirect. com.
my ankles are swelling some. i am 38 obese f. i have fatty liver. would this be the onset of cirrhosis? all blood work is good
if your blood work is good then the swelling may be due to poorly working valves in your blood vessels that are allowing fluid yo accumulate.
my ankles are swelling some. i am 38 obese f. i have fatty liver. would this be the onset of cirrhosis? all blood work is good
ankle swelling can be from a variety of causes including liver failure. most likely your is from venous reflux ( blood work normal) disease. this is due to des tension of the internal valves in he veins allowing fluid to build up in the ankles when standing. try elevating feet 4 x per day.
my liver is border line enlarged from fatty liver from obesity. is this something that can be seen physically or am i imagining this?
fatty liver mirrors the obesity epidemic in the us. you may not have any physical signs of fatty liver and your liver function tests may also be normal.
my right side under my rib cage near my back. hurts when you push on it. i do have fatty liver from being obese but i am dieting and losing weight. ?
fatty liver is due to sugary foods and liver pain is usually due to liver sludge with stone formation. need to clean the liver frequently. to help with liver pain use phosphatidyl choline and betaine hcl - betaine hcl with make the bile flow and phosphatidyl choline lubricates so liver pain gets better. initial dosing might be higher hcl 4gm twice daily and phoscholine will need 2gm twice daily.
my right side under my rib cage near my back. hurts when you push on it. i do have fatty liver from being obese but i am dieting and losing weight. ?
have your gallbladder checked out. it could be due to something else but start with gallbladder. phoschol and taurine support bile production. if gallbladder dysfunction rule out hypothyroidism and insufficient stomach acid.
my identical twin sister found out she has gallstones and a little fat infiltration around the liver. i am very worried about her.?
if the gallstones are causing her any discomfort or abdominal pains then laparoscopic surgery can be performed fairly easily as an outpatient surgery to remove the gallbladder. fatty liver best treated by weight loss if clinically appropriate or dietary changes.
my hair has been falling out for 3 months. i found out i have fatty liver from obesity so i have lost 50 lbs. my thyroid is fine. when will this stop?
telogen effluvium is a form of nonscarring alopecia characterized by diffuse hair shedding often with an acute onset. a chronic form with a more insidious onset and a longer duration also exists. telogen effluvium is a reactive process caused by a metabolic or hormonal stress or by medications. generally recovery is spontaneous and occurs within 6 months.
my identical twin sister found out through a sonogram that she has gallstones a fat infiltration around the liver. i am very "worried about her.?
gallstones common especially in women especially if overweight been pregnant. fatty liver common especially if overweight or drinker some meds. check with md.
my doctor put me on 500mg of metformin at bedtime for midline weight control. life insurance companies now rate me as a diabetic. what should i do?
i have done this for pre diabetics with central obesity patients with fatty liver also and of course for new onset diabetes. there are other conditions for which we use metformin. please talk to your doctor about this.
if my ast level is 45 and my alt level is 94 should i be concerned? i am obese and 22 year old male
but aware enough to have this followed up! a "fatty liver" is possible but you have to be morbidly obese for this to cause elevated liver enzymes. a complete "work up" is indicated. benign glycogen storage disease is one of the most common causes! hope this helps dr z
if my ast level is 45 and my alt level is 94 should i be concerned? i am obese and 22 year old male
that description makes me think that you may have a fatty liver. fatty liver in the long term can lead to liver damage and you are very young to start having this now. you need to lose weight and hopefully the fatty liver will regress.
my liver is borderline enlarged because of fatty liver from obesity how long will it be enlarged and is this dangerous?
you have written in before. is this before you lost 52 pounds (and counting) or after? how much more do you have to lose? how big was liver before? what were chemistries like before and what are they like now? other health issues like diabetes? alcohol intake? all factors. improvement is improvement. borderline enlarged is better than frankly enlarged. keep it up get to your goal weight.
my liver enzymes are elevated but i tested negative for hepatitis could i have liver disease or cancer?
meds supplements and alcohol can elevate your liver enzymes. chronic hepatitis c is common so make sure they tested for it. the first step is to make sure whatever you put in your mouth isn't hurting your liver and follow your test results over time. about 9% of adults have abnormal lfts. obesity causing fatty liver is another common cause. i'm not sayin' you're fat but had to mention it!
my cholesterol ttl 76;hdl 49;ldl 22; trig 22. i'm obese; was in the process of being approved for gb surg. liver function low; scheduled for ultrasound. need ideas please?
cholesterol parameters appear favorable. unclear what you mean by liver function low. sometimes the liver function tests are elevated and since you noted you are obese liver ultrasound occasionally done to evaluate for fatty liver or other liver cause for aberrant liver values.
my mother aged 59 found to have mild fatty lever and she has little big tummmy. wat to do? any special diet? fish?
fatty liver disease is an issue with insulin resistance; the best treatment is weight loss and if her doctor recommends an insulin sensitizer like metformin. diet would be close to a diabetic diet with reasonably low carbohydrate intake. fish is a good choice.
i have been turned down for bariatric surgery due to a 38 bmi i have been diagnosed with a fatty liver would this help in an appeal?
hi maryn4. with a bmi of 38 and fatty liver i would have no problem getting you approved by insurance for bariatric surgery.
i have been turned down for bariatric surgery due to a 38 bmi i have been diagnosed with a fatty liver would this help in an appeal?
your body mass index (bmi) is 40 or higher (extreme obesity) your bmi is 35 to 39. 9 (obesity) and you have a serious weight-related health problem such as type 2 diabetes high blood pressure or severe sleep apnea in some cases you may qualify for certain types of weight-loss surgery if your bmi is 30 to 34 and you have serious weight-related health problem
i have been turned down for bariatric surgery due to a 38 bmi i have been diagnosed with a fatty liver would this help in an appeal?
to meet indications for bariatric surgery you must have a bmi > 30 and at least 1 medical condition attributable to obesity such as hypertension metabolic syndrome or diabetes. fatty liver especially if inflammation is present would likely meet accepted indications for the procedure as long as you don't have other issues making you high risk for the operation.
i have been turned down for bariatric surgery due to a 38 bmi i have been diagnosed with a fatty liver would this help in an appeal?
before making too many moves i recommend you see a different specialist associated with fatty liver issues. please let me know what develops.
is fructose considered as sugar substitute?
b"sd no it is a sugar just like sucrose or table sugar. in fact some evidence suggest that it might lead to fatty liver and metabolic abnormalities - especially in the usual dietary form as high fructose corn syrup - which is used in many products as a cheap substitute for regular sugar - which in excess is not good for you either
i'm a type 2 diabetic with a fatty liver hypothyroid hypertension is plexus slim and supplements ok for me?
the disorders you have will require different kinds of supplementation. you need to see a dietitian who is trained in picking the correct supplements for each of your disorders and seeing which ones are safe to combine. too much or too little of a supplement can harm you. a dietitian is a better source for advising you what is safe rather than an m. d. activity level important in choice.
what effects does obesity have on the liver?
obesity can be associated with a fatty liver which could be just an incidental finding but could also lead to cirrhosis and actual liver damage in the future. losing weight tends to reduce the chance of this bad outcome.
my bmi=23. 3 i feel tired and puffy eyes all the time. sgot-sgpt=42-60. ultrasoud=mild fatty liver. suffering from typhoid. do i really have fatty liver?
if your us suggested fatty liver then this is probably present but not invariably. this can be best assessed by the doctor who ordered the study. the other data you included is confusing and irrelevant.
morbidly obese. getting work up for vsg surgery and liver is enlarged but blood work ok. can obesity cause enlarged liver?
yes. actually nearly all obese patients have fatty liver or an enlarged liver. so that finding is expected. it will shrink down in size once you have surgery and lose weight though.
morbidly obese. getting work up for vsg surgery and liver is enlarged but blood work ok. can obesity cause enlarged liver?
called a fatty liver which in worst cases can cause cirrhosis! obesity should be dealt with a healthy lifestyle not bariatric surgery which has a host of problems which i have dealt with! obesity should not go that far!
morbidly obese. getting work up for vsg surgery and liver is enlarged but blood work ok. can obesity cause enlarged liver?
enlarged liver (hepatomegaly) happens for many reasons. fatty liver is one of the most common. it's frequently found in people who have diabetes or who are obese. the fatty liver can lead to health problems in some cases and can also make performing surgery more difficult. you may be asked to change your diet prior to the obesity surgery in order to reduce liver size.
md says i have a fatty liver. what to do? my bmi is 21. i eat very little sugar. does hrt cause this he didn't seem very concerned. said lose right fat
hormone therapy may contribute to fatty liver. do you have any other medical conditions or any meds you take which may contribute to the complaint i would continue to monitor fats in diet and limit your worry for now.
my mother has high sgpt recent test was at 90. she has diabetes 2 but her weight is just normal. immune for hepa b. blood sugar was maintained low?
she should talk to her doctor about a plan for what to do next. she might have fatty liver. even though her sugars are well controlled she still has metabolic problems due to the diabetes. i don't have enough information to advise specifically for your mother. i do recommend she talk to her doctor about making some dramatic lifestyle changes to improve her health.
pain upper right under ribs and a knott fatty liver disease can gallbladder rupture all test clear
untreated acute cholecystis with impacted stone at cystic duct can rupture occasionally will have severe pain temp signs of peritonitis tests will not be normal wbc liver function tests will be abnormal. . hope this what you are asking.
pain upper right under ribs and a knott fatty liver disease can gallbladder rupture all test clear
they can but rare. if you have a gallbladder w stones see a surgeon.
so what exactly is the difference between fructose and high fructose corn syrup(hfcs)?
fructose is a natural sugar found in fruits. it is what god made. it is a monosaccaride and is absorbed directly during digestion. hfcs comprises any of a group of corn syrups that has undergone enzymatic processing to convert some of its glucose into fructose to produce a desired sweetness. this is not natural and has been shown to cause problems like fatty liver and obesity. it is not healthy.
what can cause liver to be enlarged. bp is 110/74 other then being overweight my health is good blood work is normal rarely drink alcohol?
there are a number of causes of enlargement of the liver. in your case it may be due to being overweight-a condition called fatty liver. the best way to determine that is a non-invasive test: an abdominal ultrasound.
i had colitis elev bili & mild fatty liver since april mid. i took low fat ok on curb & med protein diet. no meat or greasy/junk food outside no alch/soda. i'v lost 13lbs(218->205) till aug 21st. since mon i got bad stool & lost 3 lbs. major illness?
colitis and elevated bilirubin can be a sign of primary sclerosing cholangitis especially if your colitis is chronic. large majority of patients with psc have ulcerative colitis. though not all patients with ulcerative colitis have psc. since all the facts of your case are not available it's best to see a specialist to determine the answer to your question. i am concerned by the weight loss
i had colitis elev bili & mild fatty liver since april mid. i took low fat ok on curb & med protein diet. no meat or greasy/junk food outside no alch/soda. i'v lost 13lbs(218->205) till aug 21st. since mon i got bad stool & lost 3 lbs. major illness?
may be just mild indigestion or mild gastroenteritis if it continues see your doctor for evaluation meanwhile increase oral fluids and bland diet. congrats on losing weight continue dieting as you are move exercise is important not to lose weight but to keep your shape and avoid complications of being sedentary good luck
i often get yellow mucus in stool. bm reg. after 1-2 bm rarely seen l'il deep blood mxd wth mucus. no abd pain/vomit. hb 14+. cbc/lipid/panc/hep/usg- ok. mild fatty liv & elev bili. on a diet frm april(low oil/fat/pro nojunk) & lost 16(219-203)lbs. is it ca?
fatty liver and & increased bilirubin did need you to change your diet. blood in stool needs some diagnosis. overall you are doing the right thing from lifestyle standpoint. blood and mucus needs evaluation so make sure your doctor knows about this.
my ct abdomen with contrast result says mild fatty liver. my liver function tests were normal. i am overweight though anything to be concern of?
why did you have the ct scan? having a fatty liver and being over weight is of concern and you should have a complete evaluation with your care giver about diagnosis and treatment.
please can you describe the primary dangers of childhood obesity?
obese child is very likely to become an obese adult. morbidities associated with obesity in children include: metabolic syndrome (hyperglycemic hyperlipidemic higher blood pressure); fatty liver; hip joint problem (slipped femoral capital epiphysis); bowing of lower legs; and more.
significant weight loss. hair loss. night sweats. good apettite. fatty liver. all blood work good. thyroid good. pain berween shoulder blades.?
these are symptoms that require a thorough evaluation by your doctor. only after obtaining this informstion can he/she adequately diagnose and treat you.
since my liver biopsy showed fatty liver why is my actin antibody 62 then 54? i am 64yr old f with type 2 diabetes & overweight. why actin anti so hi
anti-actin/anti-smooth muscle antibody is an indication of autoimmunity and may be related to the fatty change. please see this site for information and discuss the matter with your doctor who likely has more information. <link>
i don't drink and am not obese. what might be the causing my fatty liver? could it lead to hypothyroidism?
the easiest way to revert fatty liver is by completely stopping high carb foods (grains lentils potatoes based items). also avoid milk protein since it causes insulin resistance. low carb food items such as flesh foods eggs non starchy vegetables avocados saturated fat (butter ghee coconut oil) olive oil are very effective. for more go to: <link>
i don't drink and am not obese. what might be the causing my fatty liver? could it lead to hypothyroidism?
there are many possible cause of fatty liver. if you do not have diabetes you could still have hyperlipidemia of various types. you need a blood lipid check which i am sure your doctor has done. a blood test for hypothyroidism is quick and treatment is simple if yo have it
my alt (sgpt) is 119 liver is slightly fatty & enlarged. age 36 weight 80 kg. have diabetes type 2. what to do now?
i trust that other additional causes of elevated transaminases -- hepatitis b and c wilson's hemochromatosis -- have been ruled out. avoid alcohol and hit the fitness trail really hard. much of the tendency to type ii diabetes / non-alcoholic fatty liver is genetic. work with what you have and stay physically active -- the payoffs will be great for the future.
my alt (sgpt) is 119 liver is slightly fatty & enlarged. age 36 weight 80 kg height 5'6''. have diabetes type 2. how can i lower my alt level?
eating a low fat low cholesterol diet losing weight exercise not drinking alcohol and keeping diabetes can all help to improve fatty liver and in turn lower elevations in the liver blood tests
my alt/ast were 110 and 63. had it again it was 87 and 70 i don't drink or do drugs but am overweight. should i even ask my doctor about it or worry?
its always good to see a doctor to get your liver tests documented to compare in the future. elevated enzymes may be due to a viral infection hepatitis could be gallbladder disease or may also be a reflection of fatty liver due to being overweight in which weight loss may help.
primary biliary cirrhosis - early stages. can i have a gastric band for weight reduction?
a lap-band is helpful for weight reduction and can be done in the early stages of cirrhosis. it is better to lose weight because the fatty liver changes from excess weight can make the cirrhosis worse.
sister is obese but if she makes lifestyle changes can non alcoholic fatty liver disease be reversible?
yes indeed. weight loss and metabolic control can considerably help nash and it is important to do this before the inflammation of nash becomes cirrhosis.
sir i am suffering from the disease called high obesity please tell me how much time will be enough to do exercises but i need very quick result?
try to be realistic. rapid weight loss is very difficult to achieve and sustain. and while it's not the worst thing to aim for it can actually be harmful - as in worsen fatty liver if you have it. aim for in the range of 1-2lbs/week at most. exercise wise you you need to ease yourself into a regimen. start with low to moderate intensity exercise for 20 mins three to five times per week.
the more i'm on my feet my right side under my right rib on my back hurts. when i rest it's fine could it b my fatty liver from obesity?
you may have gall stones see your doctor and get sonogram of abdomen.
non alcoholic fatty liver disease. told to eat high fat low carb? and what are the #s of (low carb)
no sugar keep carbs to about 20 per meal. this is the equvialent of a slice of bread or an apple 1/2 cup of rice 1/2 cup spaghetti per meal fatty liver is caused to a large degree by the production in the liver of triglycerides in the process of storing sugars. fructose is the worst of the sugars because it cannot be directly burned in the krebs cycle must first be stored as trig by liver.
once you get fatty liver will it always be there? i've lost 35 lbs and liver is borderline enlarged. how long will it take to b normal
somewhat depends on how long you were overweight the fatty deposits set up an inflammatory response in the liver. keeping the weight off should help alot!
obese 38f diagnosed with fatty liver. i weigh 285 i have lost 38lbs. how likely is this to turn to cirrhosis?
nonalcoholic fatty liver normal enzymes - not at risk for progression to cirrhosis. nash- nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. good for you to lose the weight have your pcp monitor the liver enzymes.
obese 38f diagnosed with fatty liver. i weigh 285 i have lost 38lbs. how likely is this to turn to cirrhosis?
cirrhosis usually follows inflammation of the liver and seldom occurs with fatty liver alone. if you are losing weight you should be complemented and please keep it up. you set a great example of what should and can be done with resolution .
obese 38 f. diagnosed with fatty liver w/borderline heptamegly. enzymes are all good. does this mean it is inflamed and i have nash?
obesity has a strong relationship to fatty liver lower your carb intake and increase you water. also exercise 30 min a day. ask your md for further work up. hopethis helps.
someone told me of this thing called fatty liver. i think i am overweightto know if everybody who is overweight or obese including children have fatty liver?
about 2/3's of our society is overweight or obese. in recent years we have begun to understand the changes in our organs that result from obesity. the changes that occur in the liver are called "fatty liver. " these changes are progressive and can lead to permanent scarring and eventual liver failure. it is often first identified by abnormal liver function tests (alt/ast) in obese patients.
just got diagnosed with mild fatty liver disease what can i do to reverse it?
800 iu of vitamin e per day has been shown to promote the removal of fat from the liver. the standard treatment in my practice would be weight loss through diet exercise and vitamin e.
just got diagnosed with mild fatty liver disease what can i do to reverse it?
a person with mild fatty liver likely has gotten extra fat in most other places in the body and probably is eating more sugar and plain carbs than he should be. to start exercise weight loss and a low sugar and low carbs diet will help. he should work with his primary care doctor to see if he needs medication or further testing as there can be other problems such as high cholesterol.
just got diagnosed with mild fatty liver disease what can i do to reverse it?
i would also recommend that if you have diabetes high blood pressure or cholesterol make sure it is optimally controlled. healthy diet exercise control of above medical problems are the cornerstone of treatments of fatty liver disease.
just got diagnosed with mild fatty liver disease what can i do to reverse it?
obesity diabetes alcohol abuse are some of causes of fatty liver. diet and exercise controlling diabetes and decreasing alcohol consumption may help if all fail the medication ursidiol is used sometimes for fatty liver.
liver test shows alt of 84. ultrasound shows excess fat on liver. moderate alcohol intake. my bmi is 32. is this reversible with diet and exercise. ?
yes studies have seen improvement in the liver tissue in patients who have fatty liver and who have lost weight.
liver pain after eating. gall bladder removed last year. fatigue depression loss of appetite. 165lb. loosing weight. no fever. fatty liver? no etoh.
some people believe it is a form of viral hepatitis (e)
my mother has hypothyroidism high blood pressure diabeties fatty liver and her weight is 105 kg and she has 4 daugters but no so so she wants to?
your mother needs a lot of help from more than one doctor. she should start with her primary doctor but it is likely she will be referred to a specialist. management of hypothyroidism diabetes and overweight are most critical. hope things go ok - please keep me posted.
need expert help here. what are the problems of children obesity?
an obese child can develop insulin resistance and become diabetic at an early age. obese children are also at increased risk for fatty livers- especially if they are insulin resistant. they also might get sleep apnea with daytime fatigue and hip and joint problems from the excess weight. high blood pressure is also a problem to be concerned about
slightly overweight insulin resistance enlarged liver 17cm is this fatty liver disease? or hep c
fatty liver is predominantly due to: high alcohol intake diabetes high cholesterol obesity. the more of these risks you have the greater the chance of fatty liver. addressing these risks is an important step to correcting fatty liver. distinguish hepatosteatosis (fatty liver) from steatohepatitis (fatty liver with abnormal liver tests that risks cirrhosis & liver cancer. hep c is an infection.
y wud i hav nash or nafld if i am a 24 y male non alcoholic bmi 19. 5. exellent lipid profile. good mediterranean diet. negative u/s & workup 4 high alt?
i trust this is not hepatitis c; this can mimic nash including the fat. we're puzzling out the fatty liver stuff and some of it seems hereditary; you've probably caught on that there's no consensus on treatment of folks like you but you may want to think about seriously increasing your aerobic fitness stuff for your own sake and your liver's. good luck.
how do u know if your fatty liver from obesity is getting better or worse?
an ultrasound would be a safe and reliable way to check your liver fats.
how do u know if your fatty liver from obesity is getting better or worse?
we usually follow the trends of different blood tests: lfts complete blood count platelet count and coagulation tests. worsening lab values could signify worsening disease. improving or stable values could signify stable disease. getting repeated ultrasounds may not be that helpful with monitoring progression of the disease.
how do u know if your fatty liver from obesity is getting better or worse?
an ultrasound is the main test to determine this. it is zero risk/discomfort and runs 200-400 tops. but labwork is just about useless on this. on obesity this might be of interest <link>
how big and worrisom of a problem is childhood obesity?
children are eating too many processed foods and simple carbs. fast food provides too much salt fat and calories. portion sizes are usually too large as well. we need to look very carefully at what our children are eating. in addition cutting back screen time and increasing exercise is just as important. this will cause type 2 diabetes fatty liver hypertension and a shortened life.
how does someone get non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?
fatty liver is found in patients who suffer from obesity diabetes and other disease processes associated with metabolic syndrome. some drugs can cause fatty liver.
how does someone get non-alcoholic fatty liver disease?
there are many factors obesity can play big role family history some inherited problem genetic problem history of hepatitis should consult gastroenterology.
how will childhood obesity affect my child later in life?
medical consequences of childhood obesity are many. obese kids can get cholesterol plaques in the arteries high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes. liver damage from fatty liver (fat building up inside the liver) starts in teenagers but heart damage should not appear until adulthood. other problems include being teased by others and being too out-of-shape to fully participate in games & sports.
how can i find out if i have a normal leptin level?
there is no known standardized test at this time. leptin levels are. the following findings correlate with leptin resistance: morning blood sugar > 95; hbac1n >5. 6; positive microalbumin test; elevated ldl and triglycerides with a low hdl; low testosterone levels in men; non alcohollic fatty liver disease (ultrasound test); polycystic ovarian syndrome in women; central obesity pattern.
how does obesity affect your digestive system?
obesity affects digestive system by: 1) gastric reflux or heartburn from belly pressure. the acid reflux can cause asthma and even cancer in the esophagus (rarely) 2) fatty liver from obesity can cause cirrhosis in a few 3) when diabetes arises from obesity you can see delayed stomach emptying with vomiting.
having a history of fatty liver disease should i still consume a glass or half of red wine a day for cardio-protective effects?
fatty liver is usually caused by high storage of triglycerides -- and this is caused by too much calorie intakes from perhaps diet or alcohol and usually the liver enzymes is mildly elevated. so i don't think i would advise you to drink wine for cardioprotective at this time instead i would advise you to take up exercise and healthy diet and weight management --.
having a history of fatty liver disease should i still consume a glass or half of red wine a day for cardio-protective effects?
no the benefits are not enough to justify the risks to your liver.
how to reverse fatty liver disease?
n- acetyl cysteine b complex vitamins esp b6 milk thistle co-q 10 (ubiquinol) glutamine gives more energy to liver to replenish itself. if you can use pemf protocol daily (pulsed magnet rx) you can regenerate liver.
how to reverse fatty liver disease?
fatty liver is incredibly common predominantly due to: high alcohol intake diabetes high cholesterol obesity. the more of these risks you have the greater the chance of fatty liver. addressing these risks is an important step to correcting fatty liver. distinguish hepatosteatosis (fatty liver) from steatohepatitis (fatty liver with abnormal liver tests that risks cirrhosis & liver cancer).
how to reverse fatty liver disease?
exercise and low fat diet - cut alcohol consumption too if applicable.
how to reverse fatty liver disease?
as you lose weight and fat from other parts of your body you will also lose fat from your liver. consider vitamin e also.
can i have any type of bariatic surgery having hypotirhoid fatty liver and diabetes?
fatty liver should improve with any procedure resulting in significant weight loss. weight loss with the bypass and the sleeve is fairly comparable based on most series. these 2 procedures have statistically more weight loss compared to the band long term especially in individuals with bmi's greater than 50. diabetes resolution better with bypass ~75-85% than sleeve ~75-80% than band ~60-75%.
can i have any type of bariatic surgery having hypotirhoid fatty liver and diabetes?
in fact many of these morbid conditions will improve or disappear altogether after weight loss.
can i have any type of bariatic surgery having hypotirhoid fatty liver and diabetes?
yes if you meet criteria for a body mass index greater than 35. diabetes and diabetic fatty liver disease (called non alcoholic steatoheaptits or nash) responds well to weight loss surgery. your doctor must determine if the risk of your illness is greater than the risk of surgery.
how do i slow down weight loss? i am 38 f obese. i have fatty liver. losing 3-4lb a wk
background you need to see a doctor. you may be diabetic and that needs treated asap.
how do i slow down weight loss? i am 38 f obese. i have fatty liver. losing 3-4lb a wk
i see you want to lose weight safely. you want to make sure calories in and out monitored. if you are working out a lot make sure you are eating healthy but enough. i find women often will restrict calories too much. we do not want the body to think it is starving just weight loss. but keep up the good work otherwise!
how likely is fatty liver turn to cirrhosis from being obese?
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is associated with a condition called insulin resistance which in turn associated with metabolic syndrome and diabetes. obesity is the most common cause of insulin resistance is responsible for 25 % of all liver disease in turn can cause cirrhosis of liver.
how likely is fatty liver turn to cirrhosis from being obese?
fatty liver disease is the most common liver problem in america now. unlike other liver diseases which often require treatments provided by physicians fatty liver disease is primarily treated by you. severe untreated fatty liver will lead to problems down the road but it is reversible with wt loss. if i am not mistaken u already lost 41lbs--great job. keep up the good work. good luck.
how likely is fatty liver from obesity to turn into cirrhosis. i am dieting and losing weight 47lbs since march?
the progression from fatty liver to steatohepatitis to cirrhosis can be be reversed with weight loss. depending on how overweight you are bariatric surgery may be able to offer a higher success rate than diet and exercise.
how likely is fatty liver from obesity to turn into cirrhosis. i am dieting and losing weight 47lbs since march?
consider attending a meeting of overeaters anonymous to maintain your progress.
how do i get rid of a fatty liver?
i am not sure you are obese person or not. if so you need to loose weight gradually with diet and exercise. if you have diabetes high blood pressure or high lipid (especially high triglyceride) make sure these are in good control. for diet you need to cut down on carbs and fat. regular aerobic exercise even without weight loss can lower your fat content in the liver.
how do i get rid of a fatty liver?
there are no specific foods to get rid of fatty liver. however the fat responds to a healthy well balanced diet with exercise. if you are overweight weight loss is key to help the liver decrease fat accumulation. if you have diabetes or elevated cholesterol it is important to control them as well.
how do u know when fatty liver from obesity is getting better i have already lost 46lbs and still have the ache blood work is all good?
i recently answered your question when you lost 42 lbs now at 46--great job. blood work result=normal=very good sign that your liver is healing. the fatty deposition in your liver will take time to resolve and an ultrasound can certainly show the changes. achiness you have is not likely from fatty liver--eventhough it is on that area. check with doc to see what else is causing it. good luck.
how can fatty liver infiltration be reversed.?
early signal ( one of ) for liver failure is fatty infiltration. first step is to find the cause to reverse like alcohol drugs medication hepatitis nutrition lack of vitamins minerals etc sedentary life other bad habits stop them. omega 3 fatty acids are shown to improve fatty liver some times it may not be possible.
how do i slow weight loss down? i am losing 12-15 lbs a mth cuz of fatty liver from obesity. i am worried i am losing too much wt. i am eating good
losing weight too quickly can be a sign of a serious problem. perhaps it is the fatty liver but there may be other serious things going on. please don't wait to talk to your primary care provider and get advice. if that person isn't able to determine the reason for the unintentional weight loss please see a liver specialist to confirm that this is due to fatty liver. this should not wait.
how do i slow weight loss down? i am losing 12-15 lbs a mth cuz of fatty liver from obesity. i am worried i am losing too much wt. i am eating good
while that is fast weight loss if you are eating healthy you and are still obese/overweight it may not be a problem. as you approach a healthy weight for your body it will need significantly less calories to continue to lose and the process will slow down naturally. work on building muscle to balance out the loss and build your health. congrats on how well you are doing so far.
how would a person know if they have cancer? im not sick. blood work is good. i do have fattt liver which i have changed my diet and exercise some. i lose about ten lbs a month is this normal
effort is difficult; without explanation is worrisome. a 'fatty liver" on ct may be non-specific but it sounds like you need an internist to evaluate all the possibilities.
how do i slow weight loss down? i have fatty liver and i have lost 60lbs since march. i don't want to make liver worse. i am eating good
unless one has had weight loss surgery that amount of unexplained wgt loss in 7 mos is excessive and warrants an investigation by one's doc to make sure that one does not have a serious medical issue causing the wgt loss. if one worked at wgt loss but it continues despite not attempting to do so that also warrants investigation by med. doc.
hi dr my ggt 220. also alt high =140&alk phosphatase 140 i checked hep markers a b&c it was negative also i don't drink alcohol can this be frm fatty liver aline im slight obese my bmi 30. 5 what is possible cauuse(s)?
if you have a fatty liver then liver enzymes may be slightly elevated. if there is no acute hepatic infection it may be chronic or related to a virus you didn't test for such as ebv. a common cause of elevation of lft is drug reaction. if you take any medications or fat soluble vitamins they could be the cause. please see you doctor for proper assessment evaluation & treatment.
hi dr my ggt 220. also alt high =140&alk phosphatase 140 i checked hep markers a b&c it was negative also i don't drink alcohol can this be frm fatty liver aline im slight obese my bmi 30. 5 what is possible cauuse(s)?
don't decide you have fatty liver until hemochromatosis and wilson's have been ruled out. both are treatable but will kill you if missed. i trust you're not taking any meds that might be doing this. non-alcoholic fatty liver is largely genetic but you'd be doing yourself a huge favor by getting back into heavy-duty physical exercise like when you were a teen. this may be what your liver's asking.
having a history of alcohol abuse and fatty liver disease can moxifloxacin be still used for chronic bronchitis?
it does not require dose adjustment and should be safe.
having a history of alcohol abuse and fatty liver disease can moxifloxacin be still used for chronic bronchitis?
there are no dosing adjustment needed for liver disease just need to monitor for side effects closer.
could fatty liver from being obese cause side and back to cramp and hurt?
fatty liver is a known and potentially reversible complication of obesity. there is no common direct relationship of fatty liver with side and back pain other than the added risk of lumbago and back pain due spinal pressure from supporting an obese body. all of these symptoms greatly improve with weight loss 10 pounds plus your liver will function better! get healthy!
can vitamin e help cure a non alcoholic fatty liver from obesity?
but studies suggest that vitamin e 800iu/day can improve biopsy evidence of steatohepatitis in nondiabetic patients. even the american college of gastroenterology recommends it as a first line treatment in nondiabetics with biopsy proven fatty liver disease. good luck.
can vitamin e help cure a non alcoholic fatty liver from obesity?
the 'cure' is weight loss as you know although that is not an easy thing to accomplish. good luck in your journey as it is a lifetime challenge but one you can overcome.
could fatty liver be getting worse if it still aches after losing 46lbs. i am obese f. wt 274?
you're down 14. 4% of your starting weight--wonderful. you may already have seen a downward trend in your blood tests for liver. in prior healthtap answers you learned the importance with fatty liver of managing diabetes cholesterol & alcohol intake. keep up the good work. shoot for a bmi (body mass index) of 25. this may shrink your liver. discomfort however deserves further medical evaluation.
could a missed period be due to signifigant weight loss? i have fatty liver and have lost 50 lbs since march
if you are very underweight or very overweight you could become irregular. if you are very overweight losing weight may cause you to begin to cycle more regularly.
could a fatty liver from being obese that is borderline enlarged cause muscles and ribs to be sore in the kidney area i have lost 52 lbs?
causes include musculoskeletal pain and kidney pain. musculoskeletal is by far the most common. if not better with ibuprofen may need an ultrasound. remember no ibuprofen on empty stomach after meals only.
could a fatty liver from being obese that is borderline enlarged cause muscles and ribs to be sore in the kidney area i have lost 52 lbs?
if your pain is on the right side it is possible with your weight loss and fatty liver disease that you have some increased inflammation of the liver; it is a well described problem. but that pain is more classically in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen and less likely in the "flanks" or sides of the body where kidney pain is more typically found. best of luck.
could fatty liver from obesity cause hair loss? or is it from losing 52 lbs since march or could my fatty liver be getting worse
the hair loss is more likely due to the rapid weight loss. also make sure you are getting enough protein as this could also lead to hair loss. as your weight loss slows down yoir hair will come back. you can also try biotin. it works for some.
can all autoimmune diseases be detected in blood work? i have had extensive tests ran. i have fatty liver disease with borderline enlargement.
in autoimmune disease the body not recognize it own tissue and attacks an organ or organs (systemic disease ) as a result antibodies are released and they will be detected in the blood like crp (c reactive protein ) ana (antinuclear a) af ( rhematoid factor ) ena elivated sed rate (esr) maybe more ask your doctor. make sure to take care of fatty liver
could you have cirrhosis of the liver and fatty liver disease at the same time?
sometimes severe fatty liver can result in liver damage of nash (non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis) or nodular cirrhosis changes of the liver.
could borderline heptmegly with fatty steososis be from obesity? i have been tested for all heps and hiv. all liver test good. i lost 62 lbs dieting
studies suggest that up to 80-90% of obese individuals have some degree of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease! weight loss is the treatment of choice(albeit controlled) but congratulations in your success thus far.
could fatty liver from obesity cause hs-crp of 4. 8?
obesity is a pro-inflammatory state and may result in elevation of hscrp.
could fatty liver from obesity cause hs-crp of 4. 8?
but may easily be taken out of context. the crp is a very non-specific measure of inflammation and should not be used diagnostically for any given disease.
can liver disease cause cholestasis?
liver disease comes in many varieties and manifestations: cholestasis (either intrahepatic or extrahepatic) with jaundice; infiltrative (like fatty liver amyloidosis); fibrotic (trending toward cirrhosis); congestive (blood backs up into the liver); ischemic; shock injury; toxic (either metabolic or drug-related); hepatitis (infectious or otherwise the liver cells are sick); familial; cancer. .
creatinine 1. 46mg/dl sgpt 113 u/l sgot 50 u/l. no hepa b or c. im overweight. are these values alarming? what should i do? what suplements needed?
your values are high normal to slightly elevated depending on what lab does your readings. the liver enzymes may mean some fatty liver from being overweight and/or some alcohol consumption. your creatinine is likely from your muscle mass and being heavy. it would be wise not to have any more unprotected intercourse as this can lead to health issues and to do exercise like walking for wt. loss.
creatinine 1. 46mg/dl sgpt 113 u/l sgot 50 u/l. no hepa b or c. im overweight. are these values alarming? what should i do? what suplements needed?
ask the doctor that ordered the tests why he did them and whether it represents fatty liver or something else.
can doctors tell me what does obesity cause to the human bodies?
heart disease high cholesterol and triglycerides diabetes insulin resistance gallbladder disease stress and strain on joints and their mobility back pain increased risk of certain cancers liver disease- fatty liver sleep apnea increased risk of stroke high blood pressure kidney disease asthma.
hypothyroid with fatty liver will orlistat help? what about silymarin?
fatty liver is common with obesity/metabolic syndrome. best treatment: weight loss any way you can get it. i am not a fan of orlistat. have you read about the side effects? most people don't take more than a few doses. i doubt milk thistle (silymarin) will help but it is harmless. if you are hypothyroid you need to be on levothyroxine replacement.
does childhood obesity usually distort the liver tests?
children with childhood obesity may have abnormal liver function tests due to insulin resistance. the body cant handle the sugar and some of it gets deposited in the liver. eventually you get a fatty liver which causes inflammation and affects the liver function tests. it is reversible with weight loss and improved eating habits.
does childhood obesity usually distort the liver tests?
we see fatty liver disease in many of our patients with obesity. not all people with obesity have this however.
could beer make your belly fat?
1) heard of a "beer belly? " 2) heard of "fatty liver? " 3) have you looked at the number of calories you consume when drinking a beer--pretty high right?
could fructose cause weight gain?
the role of dietary fructose in the development of obesity and fatty liver diseases remains controversial with previous studies indicating that the problems resulted from fructose and a diet too high in calories. however a new study conducted in an animal model at wake forest baptist medical center showed that fructose rapidly caused liver damage even without weight gain. see your md if youhave?
how many gram of carb to eat if i suffer from hepatitce?
"hepatitis" is liver inflammation due to viral infection (cmv epstein-barr virus a b c d e etc) familial diseases (hemochromatosis wilson's alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency. . ) infiltrative disease (steatohepatitis from fatty liver granulomatous hepatitis foreign body reaction) toxic (alcoholic tylenol) ischemic congestive pregnancy-related. severity ; cause change treatment ; diet.
does fatty liver from being obese generally turn into cirrhosis?
but not a general rule. patients who have underlying steatohepatitis or inflammation are at the highest risk of progressing to liver cirrhosis over many years. there are patients with simple steatosis or just fat without inflammation that we do not believe will progress but some can. prospective studies are ongoing. diabetes is a big risk factor
does fatty liver from being obese generally turn into cirrhosis?
with the exception of the histologic features found on liver biopsy no clinical or laboratory features can predict progression of nash (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) in any given patient. your degree of obesity does not significantly alter the clinical course. progression of nash to cirrhosis over a 7-yr period is lower than for alcohol-related fatty liver ranging from 3 to 26 percent.
does fatty liver from being obese generally turn into cirrhosis?
no but it definitely can and should be monitored by your doctor.
does fatty liver disease cause pain on right side under ribs?
but a bad gall bladder can cause that type of pain. you should get this evaluated.
does fatty liver disease cause pain on right side under ribs?
fatty liver is a condition that is not painful. however pain under your right ribs could indicate another problem. gallbladder disease comes to mind first. certain lung conditions may also cause pain in that area. inflammation of the stomach may also cause discomfort under the right ribs. if the pain continues or is severe i urge you to seek medical attention right away. good luck!
could all people who are obese overweight and children have fatty liver?
it is generally true that obese individuals have fatty liver. of the over 5000 operations that my partners and i have done i would say that pretty much everyone who is obese has fatty liver to some degree. some have it really bad and some have a very mild amount. the good news is that when you lose weight most of that goes away.
how to reverse fatty liver condition? my sgpt is 139 sgot is 41 and ggt is 142
fatty liver is typically due to obesity diabetes high cholesterol too much alcohol or a combination of these. do any of these risk factors listed need to be addressed and/or treated? are you sure it's just "fatty liver? "
are pregnant women more likely to get liver disease?
causes of jaundice peculiar to pregnancy: acute fatty liver recurrent cholestasis toxemias hyperemesis. also viral hepatitis causes about 50% of jaundice in pregnancy with consequence to the baby. gallstones in pregnancy are of concern re: timing of diagnostic (x-ray exposure) & therapeutic options (ercp surgery). finally preexisting chronic liver disease may deteriorate during pregnancy.
are pregnant women more likely to get liver disease?
no increased incidence of liver disease with pregnancy most common causes of liver disease are: hepatitis fatty liver from obesity alcohol prescription and non prescription drugs cancer mononucleosis and about 50 more non of which are related to pregnancy.
how to get a fatty liver when your not obese or have elevated liver enzymes?
the new england journal just published a big article on the genetic basis of non-alcoholic fatty liver. i'm going to assume you're not a drinker. while we're learning about this you might be doing yourself a huge favor by getting back into a fitness-focused lifestyle.
alcohol and mild hepatomelagy related to obesity hello i would like to inquire about mild hepatomelagy. i was recently given an ultrasound and it showed that my liver was mildly enlarged due to being overweight. i am not a drinker but i would l like to k
fatty infiltration of the liver which can occur in obesity is associated with a condition called nash (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis). nash can be a real problem for some people ultimately resulting in liver failure or liver cancer. the fact that you have some fat in the liver does not mean that you have nash but it is a warning sign that you should discuss with your doctor. he or she will probably recommend that you lose some weight and try to reduce your cholesterol and triglyceride levels by modifying your diet. alcohol use can make any liver disease worse. if you are not a drinker then having a fatty liver might be one more reason not to start drinking.
ct says possible hepatic steatosis. drink very little alcohol bmi is 20. 62 cholesterol and liver enzymes are excellent. can this be reversed? follow up?
fatty liver may also result from diet. there are medications that will do it. i have seen these changes reverse on ct
can you avoid alcoholic fatty liver through diet and exercise?
it was long thought that alcoholic liver disease was caused by problems with diet and in fact it was called (when i was a med student) "nutritional cirrhosis. " using baboons charles lieber a liver specialist who focused on alcohol found that diet had nothing to do with it and it was purely a toxic effect of alcohol which also has some hereditary determinants. diet/exercise can help nash.
can being obese cause an enlarged spleen? i was severely overweight have fatty liver but lft's are normal. so the liver seems to be functioning fine wondering what could cause the spleen issue?
one most possible cause is portal hypertension others could hypersplenism due to overdestructions of rbc
can being obese cause an enlarged spleen? i was severely overweight have fatty liver but lft's are normal. so the liver seems to be functioning fine wondering what could cause the spleen issue?
non alcoholic fatty liver can cause portal hypertension which is a cause of spleen enlargement. portal hypertension means that there is increased pressure and abnormal blood flow in portal vein system. portal vein brings blood to the liver.
have fatty liver. doc said need 2 b careful bout what i eat&need 2 lose weight n 6-10 weeks. i'm obese. it can turn n 2 cirrhosis. what is fatty liver?
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) is the build up of extra fat in liver cells that is not caused by alcohol. more commonly nafld is diagnosed following abnormal liver function tests during testing. the fat accumulation in the liver cells causes inflammation which in turn is called non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash). if persistent nash can lead to cirrhosis and liver failure
ana positive c3&c4 low triglycerides now high and dr said i had fatty liver due to weight gain no symptoms of lupus could it be causing fatty liver?
plenty of perfectly healthy not just lupus-free people have positive ana especially at low titer and lowish c3 and c4 (which are poor lupus screens anyway). nothing says "lupus" to me but i am very concerned about your fatty liver and weight gain. by far the best treatment for "nonalcoholic steatohepatitis" is to find some fitness activity you like and do a lot of it. good luck.
ana positive c3&c4 low triglycerides now high and dr said i had fatty liver due to weight gain no symptoms of lupus could it be causing fatty liver?
in play: non-alcoholic steatohepatitis is a growing problem along with increasing weight of people. it is important to keep the weight under check for both lowering your triglycerides and addressing the fatty liver. other issues with your health affecting your immune system are likely not helping your cause.
can just gaining some weight cause an elevated sgpt of 75u/l? can it be serious?
hi. yes weight gain can cause elevated sgpt (aka alt) in the neighborhood of 75. it is not uncommon for type 2 diabetics to have elevated sgpt due to fatty liver. however many things can cause an elevated sgpt. you might want to talk with your doctor about your elevated sgpt and run tests as appropriate. high sgpt due to weight gain seldom causes severe liver problems but other causes may.
am diabetic i have high chol 286 triglyceride 709 cutting sugars completely will help is sugar free and sugar substitutes are ok to take?
is this a new situation or just started? if you're known to have this problem then this profile is unsafe. cutting out sugars without addressing the total diet won't help that much. hopefully you're seeing a lipid specialist who also has a nutritionist to address the dietary management. taking lipid lowering drugs? diabetes? fatty liver?
alt 135 ast 65 ldh 638. i have a bmi of 34 58 yr. old male. day before blood test i excersised until my legs were sore could exercise be connected?
the abnormal labs suggest liver inflammation. this is not likely related to exercise. you need to talk to your doctor who ordered the tests. there is a long list of possibilities. one possibility is fatty liver with inflammation (nash non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) which is common in people who are obese and diabetic/pre-diabetic.
diagonised with nafld with bmi less than 25 no hbsag and hc can i take alcohol once in a month?
with your fatty liver i would recommend that you abstain from alcohol.
how does obesity specifically affect children?
metabolic syndrome consisting of hyperlipidemia hyperglycemia and hypertension is often noted. some other effects are: fatty liver pcos slipped capital femoral epiphysis bowing of legs increased incidence of headache flat feet and low self esteem.
can on follow atkins diet with a fatty liver and high alts? atkins diet involves eating high amount of fats and very low carb
low carb diet irrespective of fat content will help you lose weight keep insulin levels low and help liver clear fat. ensure you eat adequate protein - 1. 5 grams/kg body weight. thanks for trusting healthtap!
how are fatty liver and sleep apnea related?
sleep apnea can exacerbate fatty liver. it is believed that the loss of oxygen in apnea exacerbates inflammation of liver especially severe apnea cases.
how are fatty liver and sleep apnea related?
obesity inc risk of both. osa:excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ vertigo/amheadaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
am 33. a bit overweight. do no tdrink. have fatty liver. liver enzymes and ultrasound normal but fatty liver. no symptoms. what re the risk? what do?
especially since this is happening at such a young age you are at risk for chronic liver disease if you stay overweight.
am 33. a bit overweight. do no tdrink. have fatty liver. liver enzymes and ultrasound normal but fatty liver. no symptoms. what re the risk? what do?
how was fatty liver detected if us and enzymes normal? ct? although there is a risk of fatty liver progressing to cirrhosis that risk is low esp if no evidence of inflammation. fatty liver is a manifestation of metabolic syndrome. other features are insulin resistance high triglycerides low hdl hypertension. best option: lose weight improve diet exercise see doctor for regular checkups.
am 33. a bit overweight. do no tdrink. have fatty liver. liver enzymes and ultrasound normal but fatty liver. no symptoms. what re the risk? what do?
risk of fatty liver (or steatosis) progressing to cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) is less than 5%; however with continued fatty liver there is a risk of progression to an entity called "nonalcoholic steatohepatitis" which carries a more significant risk of cirrhosis. in terms of what to do weight loss through diet and exercise can reverse some of the fatty change in the liver.
do all overweight/obese people get fatty livers?
no. of course not.
does fatty liver slow weight loss?
the liver is a vital organ ("you can't live without a liver! "); it helps burn fat efficiently. when fat deposits in the liver fat is burned less efficiently & it is harder to lose fat/weight. very often people with fatty liver have slower metabolic rates & insulin resistance which also make it harder to lose. base your diet on vegetables healthy protein and good fats: olive oil nuts oily fish
does salmon good for fatty lever grade 1? i am slightly over weight and have 201 cholesterol level. started walking 4km a day.
salmon is an excellent source of protein. you need to avoid excessive carbohydrates such as sweets bread rice pasta and alcohol and try to lose weight to help improving fatty liver.
diagnosed with non alcoholic fatty liver cirrhosis& its enlarged. a dr. told me bein vegan would help is this true? or can l eat healthier meats?
cirrhosis is an extremely serious situation. non-alcoholic fatty liver -- if this is truly the cause of your cirrhosis (assuming you have cirrhosis) -- is also very serious. if the best recommendation your physician could give is "go be a vegan" truth be told is you need another physician. get with a competent gastroenterologist perhaps at a university. peace and health.
diagnosed with non alcoholic fatty liver cirrhosis& its enlarged. a dr. told me bein vegan would help is this true? or can l eat healthier meats?
which i could find in a literature search that a vegan diet per se is healthier for people with cirrhosis but it is undeniable that a plant based diet is better for all of us and limiting animal proteins is good for both us and our environment and its sustainability. however with cirrhosis protein needs to be markedly limited (to 40 gms or less) animal or plant. get to a healthy weight.
alt slightly deranged over 3 months (74). ultrasound shows excess fat on liver. i do drink at weekends and i am over weight. reverse possible?
stop the alcohol and i m sure you can do this as a weekend only drinker. healthy diet and daily exercise should be a lifestyle. you ll be on your way to losing that weight a getting a cure for your fatty liver
alt 57 for 2 yr. other lft normal. bmi 28 no fatty liver ana &amp; hbsag -ve. no meds. f/h dm &amp; psoriasis. dark faeces joint pain. what's causing this?
if you have joint swelling you might have arthritis. are both the hepatitis b and c panel completely negative? the dark feces needs to be evaluated for bleeding - blood in the stomach can turn black and look like tar. psoriasis can cause arthritis but i can not be certain that this is psoriatic arthritis. you need to see your physician and even consider a liver biopsy since alt ^ 2 yrs.
best way to detoxify liver with fatty liver disease and do i need to?
as we age fat deposits build up in our liver; best way to combat this is by being as 'low-fat' as possible; and your body will do the rest. (presuming all of your lab data is normal of course) some say the herb 'milk thistle' can help with detoxification of the liver; but there have been no studies i am aware of to prove this. strictly an alternative solution. cheers!
best way to detoxify liver with fatty liver disease and do i need to?
i am afraid you misunderstand what fatty liver means. the liver's job is to detoxify the body. it doesn't need detoxification itself. in some people extra fat cells are deposited in the liver and crowd out the normal cells causing some destruction given that the liver is surrounded by a confining envelope. losing weight will shrink the size of the fat cells in the liver. that's your goal.
best way to detoxify liver with fatty liver disease and do i need to?
we use biotic nac livotrit beta tcp combination with oregano adp pills. beta tcp breaks down stones so the bile can flow and livotrit generates bile- i have done liver functions tests before and after and we have normalied liver enzymes in 30 day period - very easy to do total protocol is 6 weeks if interested call our office.
both my n my boyfriends liver enzymes are elevated. i have barretts disease and fatty liver disease is it just coincidental both of ours are elevated or is something else going on with us?
have you both been tested for hepatitis? if not do so immediately. also mononucleosis can cause elevated liver function tests (enzymes). otherwise it could be coincidental especially if you both have high triglycerides or fatty livers. it is difficult to say. take care.
fatty liver from obesity. wt274. lost 46lbs since march. how likely will this develop into cirrhosis. or should i see about weight loss surgery?
your fatty liver will actually be cured by weight loss and you should have little risk of cirrhosis. weight loss surgery is proven as the only long-term effective method of significant weight loss for those that have 100 or more pounds to lose. there are several minimally invasive bariatric procedures available that will work well to help you lose and keep off your unhealthy excess weight.
fatty liver from obesity. wt274. lost 46lbs since march. how likely will this develop into cirrhosis. or should i see about weight loss surgery?
probably will need weight loss surgery. fatty liver disease is the fastest rising cause of cirrhosis. but you must eat well - highly processed carbs and sugars will lead to more fatty liver disease. weight loss is the only known way to reverse it.
fatty liver from obesity. wt274. lost 46lbs since march. how likely will this develop into cirrhosis. or should i see about weight loss surgery?
to answer your question would need to know your height and weight to calculate your bmi. also would need a weight history and liver function tests. but the longer answer to your question is that we are recognizing increasingly that a common form of non alcoholic cirrhosis is damage from fatty liver related to obesity. it takes years for this damage to occur and early on is often reversible.
fatty liver from obesity. wt274. lost 46lbs since march. how likely will this develop into cirrhosis. or should i see about weight loss surgery?
at 274 you are likely to be at least 100 pounds overweight. most studies show a 1% long term success with non-surgical methods once you reach that weight. of course you would need to consider al of your potential medical problems including sleep apnea joint problems etc. but surgery is a consideration.
fatty liver i have a fat liver and chronic pancreatitis im so tired of being seen as alcoholic i don't drink what can be done about this stigma?
keep your medical file handy and updated and make sure you stick with one pancreas expert.
fatty liver i have a fat liver and chronic pancreatitis im so tired of being seen as alcoholic i don't drink what can be done about this stigma?
unfortgunately especially in the medical profession liver disease and pancreatitis are "married" to alcohol use.
fatty liver borderline enlarged. weight loss. night sweats. what could this be? had thyroid and all blood checked. hiv and heps. liver func good
welcome back. checked for tb (cause for unwanted weight loss)? ; new heart murmur? did you see a dietician? menstrual cycle unchanged?
fatty liver borderline enlarged. weight loss. night sweats. what could this be? had thyroid and all blood checked. hiv and heps. liver func good
these are symptoms that require a thorough evaluation by your doctor. only after obtaining this informstion can he/she adequately diagnose and treat you.
alt is 63 ast normal range. i am obese high triglycerides bad eating and pretty sedentary. diet and exercise to get levels down? any supplements you would recommend in addition? i hear the liver is resilient responds well to lifestyle changes.
are definitely helpful in reversing "fatty liver" due to obesity. the liver is very resilient but recover requires major changes which are often difficult to make and even more difficult to maintain. it requires a great deal of determination and consistency. medications can be helpful but only along with the necessary lifestyle changes. see: <link>
alt is 63 ast normal range. i am obese high triglycerides bad eating and pretty sedentary. diet and exercise to get levels down? any supplements you would recommend in addition? i hear the liver is resilient responds well to lifestyle changes.
milk thistle is one of the very few supplements i will recommend- people have success with fatty liver.
can severe fatty liver disease not quite cirrhosis be stopped from getting worse with diet and exercise?
you can't get guaranteed improvement with diet and exercise for fatty liver. but you can be pretty sure it will get worse if you don't diet and exercise.
can a high carbohydrate diet cause both metabolic syndrome and fatty liver in a thin person?
please let me know what your concerns might be. a thin person should not have a fatty liver or metabolic syndrome but it can happen. please set up an appointment with your primary doctor and let me know how things are going.
hi i am a 26 f with two kids 4&1. i have itp but also a fatty liver. i'm obese and have just lost 8 kg in 4 wk having spleen removed whats survival rate?
like you know the fatty liver will improve with weight loss. good diet and healthy lifestyle is important including avoiding alchol. if the itp is responding to treatment that is good. though periodic cbc monitoring for treatment adverse effects hematologist and hepatologist visits are indicated
bmi 32 glucose intolerant had baby 18 mo ago all labs and enzymes nml-- am i to young for fatty liver? u/s says mild enlarged liver 17cm.
1: you need to go on diet and also increase your exercise. 2: no adult is too young for fatty liver. you must discuss this carefully with a liver specialist. your primary doctor can refer you.
been thinking about bariatric surgery what are the chances of it helping to improve fatty liver disease?
what is your weight? what is your height? do you have proper documentation that discusses fatty liver disease? if you think it is not going well you can either go to your gynecologist or to the emergency facility. please let me know how things go.
can someone explain. liver normal contour. diffusely increased in echogenicity compatible with hepatic steatosis. 17cm in longitudinal dimension. ?
the findings are consistent with a fatty liver and a hepatologist or gastroenterologist would be best qualified to evaluate advise and treat you as well as order any other appropriate testing. fatty livers are taken quite seriously and efforts to prevent liver damage are important.
diffuse mild low attenuation hepatic steatosis several sub centimeter lesions is the something to worry about?
fatty liver and liver lesions concerning. i would suggest further testing with ct or mri and if need see liver specialist.
diffuse mild low attenuation hepatic steatosis several sub centimeter lesions is the something to worry about?
the hepatic steatosis or fatty liver is usually due to either diabetes obesity or alcohol use. as for the sub centimeter lesions it really depends on what they look like on either the ultrasound or cat scan.
eat healthy young not overweight why do i have fatty liver? alt 76 and mild echogenicity on ultrasound. doesn't make sense.
there are several causes for a fatty liver other than obesity. see a gastroenterologist for a workup.
found out that i have started to get a fatty liver from obesity (non alcoholic)'does vitamin c and b12 help? any other suggestions i'm worried. help!
vitamins do not help fatty liver at all. eating a low carbohydrate diet has been shown to help people lose weight and improve fatty liver. see my check list on eating a low carb diet.
feces of an infected person metabolic syndrome some days have oily yellow and sometimes be dry dark? what the reason taking fenofibrates 200 mg?
hi. infections come in countless varieties. what are you infected with? there are bacteria viruses fungi parasites and different infections produce different sequelae. taking fenofibrate suggests you have high triglycerides. do you have pancreatitis? and fatty liver or liver disease? are you diabetic? see your doctor. it sounds like more data are needed. good luck!
fatty liver (ultrasound) 20-25 lbs over weight. binge drinker. with abstinence of alcohol and careful dieting when does noticeable reversal begin. blood work was fine bad cholesterol 133. doctor jus7 gave me the standard lose weight exercise.
if you can stay away from alcohol and change your diet especially steer clear of fructose the liver can recover. may take months possibly years. i have found the following helpful: low glycemic diet glyconutrients food allegy testing (leads to best diet). www. thedocstu. com <link>
fatty liver (ultrasound) 20-25 lbs over weight. binge drinker. with abstinence of alcohol and careful dieting when does noticeable reversal begin. blood work was fine bad cholesterol 133. doctor jus7 gave me the standard lose weight exercise.
it takes 6-8 weeks for the liver to heal from the binge drinking before it will start addressing the fatty liver accumulation. sometimes medication is also needed but it depends on liver function
a female has pcos taking clomophen and tamoxifen and metformin has elevated liver enzymes what is the cause?
it is possible that the metformin affected that. but. many women with pcos have high insulins and sugars and this leads to chronic fatty liver which is the more common reason for those findings. an ultrasound of the liver would help.
lft and sgot was 42 - normal high being 38. other liver enzymes are normal. had dcis 7 years ago. worried it spead to my liver? retest 1 month. scared
dcis is not invasive cancer. would not expect it to go to liver (or anywhere else). minimal to mild lft abnormalities - multiple causes including meds overweight alcohol fatty liver other. if drinking repeat test in 10-14 days of sobriety; if taking meds or supplements check with doc and stop any that are not necessary. if necessary minimal increase in got would not have to stop the drug.
i did liver test and i don't have hepatitis a b or c and my sgpt is 66(>45)plus i'm taking olmesartan 10mg+lercanidipine 20mg is it due to medications?
could be meds but just as likely this mild elevation in transaminase liver levels could be due to other things (like mild-moderate alcohol use or fatty infiltration of liver). fatty liver is more likely if there are elevated triglycerides or signs of insulin resistance (low hdl elevated triglycerides obesity or hga1c > 5. 6). can also be seen if associated sleep apnea.
i have a hard time breathing pft ct scan bronchoscopy ekg are good. i have gerd fatty liver & mthfr 677 tt docs don't think it's anxiety. ideas?
problem with breathing may be caused by factors such as not being in shape to pulmonary hypertension. you need to see a pulmonologist given that the basic tests are normal. an exercise tolerance test may be worthwhile as well.
i have pf secondary to amiodarone. hypodense liver shows on ct what does this mean?
fatty changes of the liver is one of the side effects seen in association amiodarone administration. fatty liver is also associated with increase alcohol intake. severe weight loss gastric bypass diabetes hypertension obesity and dyslipidemia. if your liver enzymes are abnormal you may be referred for further evaluation.
i am tired all the time major heart burn flutter feeling in chest pain in upper right abdomen pain in chest elevated liver enzymes. negative hepa?
"hepatitis" means inflammation of liver--due to viral infection (cytomegalovirus epstein-barr virus a b c d etc) familial diseases (hemochromatosis wilson's alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency etc) infiltrative disease (steatohepatitis from fatty liver granulomatous hepatitis foreign body reaction) toxic (alcoholic tylenol) ischemic congestive pregnancy-related etc. cause determines
i was diagnosed with non alcoholic fatty liver a year ago i have tried to lise weight because was told to and now i am getting pressure in the top mi?
you must get an appointment for your doctor to see you as soon as possible. if the doctor has a busy program and cannot see you in a day or two please have someone take you to the nearest emergency facility. let me know how things go.
since nov. llq pain on palp. near hip bone intermit trace blood and protein in urine intermittent upper abdomen pain fatty liver low back pain. ct scheduled worried about pancreatic. cancer or other. ideas?
the top 2 items would be a kidney stone or a mass in the kidney that could account for your pain and trace blood.
since nov. llq pain on palp. near hip bone intermit trace blood and protein in urine intermittent upper abdomen pain fatty liver low back pain. ct scheduled worried about pancreatic. cancer or other. ideas?
urine findings and abdominal pains points more to renal problem. pls. relax and pray.
will paxil (paroxetine) or lotrel htz hurt my liveliver found out my enzymes is up i dont drink?
medications can affect liver enzymes. if other causes ( alcohol infection fatty liver etc). talk with doctor about changing the medication and monitoring your liver function.
will paxil (paroxetine) or lotrel htz hurt my liveliver found out my enzymes is up i dont drink?
it is possible the the lotrel is causing liver enzyme elevation. however there are other things such as fatty liver tylenol (acetaminophen) and viruses which can cause liver enzymes to be elevated. you should discuss this with your doctor.
was diagnosed fatty liver with sgpt 71 and ldl 139(total chol. 200) & tsh 11. 5 are these all bcz of fatty liver how severe is my fatty liver? plz help
your ldl is only slightly elevated. a prudent diet will correct it. your tsh indicates deficiency in thyroid hormone and has nothing to do with fatty liver but requires attention. your sgpt is elevated - the degree is non-diagnostic and not helpful. if fatty liver is suspected it can only be graded with liver biopsy. repeating the sgpt in 6 weeks would be more prudent.
what are reasons for high blood glucose with high cholesterol triglceride and alp?
this sounds like metabolic syndrome which is often associated with overweight and insulin resistance. this has genetic components which can make even small weight gain cause hypertension low hdl high triglycerides and/or high glucose. conversely even small weight loss can cause substantial improvements in all the above. not sure what you mean by alp but fatty liver can happen. good luck!
will taking milk thistle & fish oil at the same time affect me? have fatty liver 26 male
any thing you take will affect you. question is whether effect is good or bad. dietary supplements such as milk thistle & fish oil are not regulated by government. as such there may be some contaminants in there that can be bad for you. that's because there's no regulation that manufacturers prove effectiveness or safety prior to marketing. however milk thistle is said to be good for liver.
what is fatty kidney ( after having svere back pain i had been diagnosed having fatty kidney). cause treatment prevention prognoses?
fatty kidney or fatty liver? fatty liver is very common and is due to being overweight or drinking too much alcohol can end up in liver failure. there is no medical term such as "fatty kidney". maybe your doctor tried to put some other issues in lay term. please talk to your doctor.
why doesn't everyone with familial hypercholesterolemia have fatty liver?
familial hypercholesterolemia is the most common genetic disorder involving choleterol levels. if a patient has an ldl cholesterol level above 200 he/she has familial hypercholesterolemia. it is transmitted in a way that each child has a 50/50 chance of inheriting this. on a microscopic level there is increased liver fat in all of these patients it just may not show up on blood tests.
why doesn't everyone with familial hypercholesterolemia have fatty liver?
cholesterol and fat are two different things. fat is transported in the human body as triglycerides and it's triglycerides that accumulate in the liver in fatty liver. patients with familial hypercholesterolemia don't typically have problems with triglycerides but just like everyone else they can have such problems (especially if they gain allot of weight).
why doesn't everyone with familial hypercholesterolemia have fatty liver?
fatty liver due to disorders of lipid metabolism occur because fat (primarily triglyceride) synthesized in the liver is unable to be exported in vldl particles. this is often present in familial combined hyperlipidemia (fch) insulin resistance and type ii diabetes mellitus. familial hypercholesterolemia (fh) poor clearance of ldl but normal vldl metabolism often does not produce a fatty liver.
will high triglysaride cause high alt?
usually know. however very high triglycerides can lead to pancreatitis which can have abnormal liver function tests. additionally patients with fatty liver can have abnormal lft and some with high tgs.
will high triglysaride cause high alt?
if you mean abnormal liver test i do not think high triglyceride itself causes it. however obesity which may be associated with high triglyceride can also cause fatty liver disease with abnormal liver function test.
what would cause low triglycerides yet high alt liver level?
a rare genetic condition causing low ldl and triglyceride levels due to a deficiency in an enzyme called "mtp". usually presents early in life with bad fatty diarrhea (steatorrhea) and fat accumulation in the liver. fat in the liver ( fatty liver) can raise the liver function tests. danger here is malabsorption of fat soluble vitamins a d e and k. vit e def. can cause neurologic symptoms.
what would cause low triglycerides yet high alt liver level?
both hepatitis b and hepatitis c can be causes. excessive alcohol consumption can also do this. "fatty liver" is often associated with metabolic syndrome and elevated lipids but some people can have lower triglycerides. there are a number of other causes of hepatitis as well. you need to see your doctor for a full evaluation.
what effect does sugar have on cholesterol levels in blood?
sugar gets converted to bad cholesterol (triglycerides) in the body. this can cause heart disease fatty liver and generalized inflammation in the body. you can find some useful links on: <link>
what can i do about a 5. 7 cholesterol blood test i've just started herbalife diet to loose weight and my fatty liver and slowly increasing excerise?
you are correct. lifestyle changes is foremost the first step. doing aerobics exercise losing weight and eating more low fat low cholesterol meals with fruits and vegetables are important. depending on your ldl level your doctor may recommend medication.
what to do if i have high blood pressure high cholesteral diabeties sleep apneo fatty liver ?
reduce your total cholesterol level. reach a healthy weight. if you need to lose weight be sure to do so slowly (no more than 1 to 2 pounds a week) quick weight loss from crash diets surgery or medicine increases inflammation and scarring in your liver. control diabetes. and blood pressure stop or cut back on drinking alcohol. exercise regularly. doctor will provide a plan for these.
what do you recommend if i have elevated alt and cholesterol levels?
review your results w/your family doc or whoever ordered your tests. if you're overweight/obese or are apple-shaped w/waist greater than 35" in women & 40" in men fatty liver could explain high alt. excess alcohol could too. and acetaminophen (tylenol). if it's really high greater than 3x upper limit of normal then perhaps viral infection. figure out & treat high alt then focus on cholesterol.
