zoloft (sertraline) seroquel lamictal and klonopin. anxiety is gone but i have been using the restroom more for bowels and diarrhea lately. is this normal?
this is not normal please contact your dr. it is unlikely related to you medications. please drink a lot of fluids in the meantime
zoloft (sertraline) vs luvox which is better for ocd? zoloft (sertraline) worked for 7 years. switched because of depression. can i go back on zoloft (sertraline) or luvox?
luvox (fluvoxamine) was evaluated for treating ocd but any of the ssri medications as well as some tricyclic medications help with ocd. best to combine medication with treatment to get best results. some mindfulness approaches have been helpful. see your physician for assistance.
zispin and lexapro (escitalopram) work great together for anxiety. i am on both 2 weeks now i feel great. is it o k to continue on them?
cat zispin and lexapro (escitalopram) both work partially by stopping seratonin uptake. the two can interact causing seratonin syndrome with flushing increased heart rate and blood pressure and vomiting. in the proper doses they can be taken together but only in close consultation with your doctor. hope this helps!
zit has a honey coloured crust and it sometimes waters how can i cure it?
impetigo (pyoderma) is the most common bacterial infection of the skin. it is contagious and can happen at any age but is most common in young children. impetigo appears in the form of reddish sores that blister to produce a yellow-brown fluid. this fluid dries to form a thick honey-colored crust. you need to see your doctor for antibiotics.
when will the pain of a small 2nd degree burn caused by boiling water on skin causing redness blister and pain size of a dime subside?
2nd degree burns are the heating of the epidermal layers of the skin causing protein denaturation and the transudate of tissue fluids with a bubbling of that epidermal layer. with this separation of skin layers the cutaneous nerve ending ate exposed and this the pain you are feeling. upon blister opening releasing the fluid transudate the pain should subside. or place a medicate covering to cover
mother has elephantiasis. there was larvae in her open wound. larvae extracted but transparent liquid dripping 24/7 from that wound. infection as well.
the fluid emanating has the potential to be or to become infected but is probably lymphatic drainage secondary to lymphatic obstruction due to the parasitic infection. infection would be more likely if there were signs of inflammation (tenderness warmth redness and increasing swelling) and if the discharge looked like pus. she should definitely be seen by an infectious diseases expert asap.
what can i do if a burn blister exploded?
if it is opened and fluid has come out put pressure to express the remaining fluid and to create flat contact with the top layer of skin; it will act as a covering. put some antibiotic creme (bacitracin neosporin etc) on it and cover with a band aid and keep it clean. look for signs of infection and if needed see md.
what are the tests for dog bites?
for the animal itself samples of brain tissue are taken. this requires the animal to be killed. in humans samples of saliva serum spinal fluid and hair follicles are taken looking for the virus itself antibodies or antigens. fyi-most rabies cases are from wild animals not domestic animals like dogs or cats.
what is the treatment for cat bites?
any bite should be washed well with soap and water as quickly as possible after the bite. this flushes the wound and reduces the chances of infection. then putting on neosporin polymixin bacitracin etc (topical antibacterials) and a bandaid can be helpful. if the wound is deep becomes more painful or there is concern the animal is rabid be seen immediately. antibiotics if infected.
is it normal for drainage to be sitting still in the tubing of a wound vac? or does that mean it is not working properly?
as long as the vac is on ; functional just seeing fluid in the hose is not a problem.
i have dark discoloured skin on ankle caused by dvt and venous ulcers. what treatments are available to get rid of the discolouration?
i agree with dr wright the treatment for the discoloration/ hyperpigmentation is focused on prevention of additional discoloration. the mainstay to of prevention is properly fitted compression stockings. however sometimes there can smaller superficial refluxing veins that can be adding to the dark discoloration so it is best to get checked for this to be sure there is nothing more to be done.
i have a infected venous ulcer on the bottom inside leg just above my ankle. what treatments are there?
if there truly is an infection it should be addressed with antibiotics. following this compression of the venous ulcer will allow it to heal. stubborn or slow to heal wounds may require ablative therapies to refluxing veins or in some cases an evaluation for arterial insufficiency (pad). i would suggest being evaluated by a vascular surgeon prior to visiting a wound center.
i have a infected venous ulcer on the bottom inside leg just above my ankle. what treatments are there?
you need an evaluation venous doppler sonogram to determine if there is venous reflux and if so early thermal ablation will help heal the ulcer the faster you do this the quicker it will heal
is it normal for the exposed layer of skin to peel or slough in a second degree burn?
a second degree burn involves a partial thickness injury to the skin. the epidermis usually separates from the dermis and often forms fluid filled blisters. usually the damaged superficial layer of skin peels or sloughs off as the skin underneath heals. this peeling can also happen in some 1st degree burns (e. g sunburn).
is it normal to have extra water retention following a knee laceration that required stitches (7)? i also did thyrogen therapy (2 shots) this week.
you should expect some localized swelling around the laceration from the injury. this should not however cause you to retain fluid elsewhere.
is there a way to relieve pain from venous ulcers?
pain from a venous ulcer is generally due to the open wound itself or from the underlying venous insufficiency which caused it. adequate wound care via debridement topical wound dressings and compression will help with the healing of the ulcer thereby improving the symptoms. more importantly would be treatment of the underlying cause. an ultrasound is mandatory to identify if reflux is present.
is there a way to relieve pain from venous ulcers?
venous ulcers are often caused by venous reflux and once diagnosed should be treated pain is due to sensory nerve exposure and also skin contracture use of a compression bandage will prevent swelling and pooling
i was treated for cellulitis with antibiotic but after weeks it's still swollen. is it normal?
even after being treated with antibiotics the extremities may swell weeks after the antibiotic treatment has finished. this is due to residual edema or fluid in the skin. the lymphatic system has to flush the area so that the swelling will come down. if the cellulitis is chronic the edema may never go away due to the lymphatic drainage that was compromised.
i am a 23 yr old female and about 2 days ago started getting a sore tounge with a white color which spread to my inner cheeks? i am currently on 2 antibiotics for an infected insect bite. doxcyline and bactrim ds. for the past 4 days and today just disco
a normal inhabitant of your mouth along with bacteria is yeast. an antibiotic can upset the normal balance by killing the friendly bacteria. yeast over grows causes white coating. an anti fungal medication like diflucan (fluconazole) pill or nystatin rinse or mycelex troches (lozenge) is usually very effective.
i have cellulitis on leg that i have had an ulcer now for 6 months slow to heal but now oozing yellow clear fluid--cs staph and candida ?
cellulitis is basically a visible inflammation (itis) of the skin and soft tissues (red hot swollen and tender). it can be caused by many things including sunburn (radiation) trauma (sprained ankle) or poor vein circulation (stasis dermatitis). it need not be caused by bacteria. if you have repeated episodes of this get to a wound care or vascular specialist the diagnoses you have is wrong.
i have cellulitis on leg that i have had an ulcer now for 6 months slow to heal but now oozing yellow clear fluid--cs staph and candida ?
what you are describing sounds more like stasis dermatitis with secondary bacterial and yeast infection rather than a primary cellulitis. if you've had it for 6 months you need an evaluation by a dermatologist.
i have cellulitis on leg that i have had an ulcer now for 6 months slow to heal but now oozing yellow clear fluid--cs staph and candida ?
candida infection celllitis in people with normal immune system is not that common. in your case i think staph is the main organism and candida is secondary organism. you need to consult an id specialist and may need iv antibiotic like vancomycine or oral xyvox and anti fungal antoibiotics.
i nicked my thumb while putting a metal cover on a apple cider bottle. i got a tetanus shot in an hour but want 2 know if aids/hiv could be contracte?
pobabaly not. hiv/aids needs some sort of blood/body fluid exposure.
is there first aid treatment and care of toe laceration?
wash all cuts as soon as possible with soap and water or at least flush with water if unable to wash and remove any visible foreign bodies. then cover with polysporin (bacitracin and polymyxin) (not neosporin! ) & a bandage bringing the wound as closely together as possible and apply pressure if bleeding continues. if large/deep over a joint still bleeding or difficulties beyond the wound seek medical care.
i have my chest tube wound its been three weeks it's still painfull around the area it's oozy but not smelly should it be started to heal abit better?
how quickly a wound like that heals depends on how well nourished you are why you had the chest tube in the first place and what sort of wound care you're getting. that said by 3 weeks it should not still be "leaking" fluid. see your surgeon or pulmonologist and have them take a look.
i was diagnosed with cefulitis. i thought i had a cyst. i was given an anti bi but on the next day what ever i had burst and made mess everywhere. what did i have or do i still have.?
it could've been an abscess or an infected cyst. cellulitis means there's infection in the skin and an abscess/infected cyst means there's a collection of pus or fluid along with infection. if you're still having pain and the area around where it popped is still red or firm to touch you should see your doc again. good luck!
i had a microdiscecetomy l5-s1 2 weeks ago. i developed a seroma. it was drained yesterday and has returned. is this common? what can i expect?
collections following surgery can be 3 things. 1. infection 2. seroma (benign fluid collection from fatty necrosis 3. csf leak. either 1 2 or 3 can be managed treated and cured so no need to be overly concerned. seek counsel from your surgeon about all these possibilities and treatment steps.
i hit my penis very hard while surfing and there was no laceration or anything but now blood is coming out slowly of the tip what should i do?
pass water regularly by maintaining flui intake so clots and scarring have less chance of forming. if any blockages or stream change noticed go to see a urologist.
if i have open sores on my hands! can glove removal transmitt infection if patient has hep c or hiv or any disease?
if someone has open sores and gets a patient's blood or certain other body fluids in those sores there is a possibility that hiv hepatitis b or hepatitis c could be transmitted. just touching someone who has any of these infections will not transmit them. it is important for both you and patients that you work with that you keep any open sores covered.
i had a lateral release on my knee 5 months ago got cellulitis immediately after surgery and now my knee is warm to the touch. could it be infected?
difficult to say without an exam. usually celulitis will resolve with oral antibiotics. the question is whether your knee warmth is due to inflamation or a low simmering infection. certain blood tests as well as possibly drawing fluid from the knee for culture might be necessary. i would check back with your surgeon for re-evaluation.
is it possible to get hcv if i have open small open wound in my thumb and i shake other person with other 4 fingers?
infections that are transmitted by contact hand to hand or skin to skin include common cold virus and germs. hand washing is the remedy. for hepatitis c transmission requires more than contact. hep c is usually transmitted with body fluids from needle injections or more invasive exposures. however if you are concerned please get a blood test to determine your virus status.
i have cellulitis does drinking coffee twice a day bad for my legs?
drinking coffee is not going to worsen leg cellulitis directly although the extra volume of liquid ingested could worsen leg edema (fluid) which could complicate cellulitis therapy.
i had my 3rd c-section on 11/23/2009. my bikini cut incision has started itching alot. it is still close there is no fluid leaking. why is it itching?
incision go through a number of phases including inflammatory. continue to monitor incision for signs of increasing redness swelling or drainage. holistic treatment of an itching incision may be vitamin e or aloe based topical treatments. mild treatments may include anti-histamine diphenhydramine/benadryl. if not scheduled then a follow up showed be made.
i had my 3rd c-section on 11/23/2009. my bikini cut incision has started itching alot. it is still close there is no fluid leaking. why is it itching?
any questions related to that should be addressed to the person who did your surgery could be a fungus or yeast infection could be from a hypertrophic scar or delayed reaction to the stitches please see your obgyn it can be treated.
i have a burn on my nose as soon as it happened it took my skin off right around the nostrils and a little on the nose its scabbed up now what do i do?
it is important to drink plenty of fluid and keep wounds moist with antibiotic ointment (to which you are not allergic) after a burn. see a plastic surgeon for evaluation and management.
i have a gash about 2" long and at least 2"deep. no insurance. stopped bleeding but is seeping yellowish fluid and warm to touch. what should i do?
you should seek medical treatment. drainage redness and warmth may be signs of a developing infection. if you do not have a primary care physician then an urgent care is likely the best place to go for evaluation and treatment. best wishes.
i have a gash about 2" long and at least 2"deep. no insurance. stopped bleeding but is seeping yellowish fluid and warm to touch. what should i do?
you need to have attention to that either find a subsidized clinic or explain your problem yellow drainage ok is just normal drainage warmth most likely is just inflammation from the injury itself but a pair of eyes could tell better if its infected don't take chances get it looked at.
i have a gash about 2" long and at least 2"deep. no insurance. stopped bleeding but is seeping yellowish fluid and warm to touch. what should i do?
call for a free clinic. you may have an infection that may require oral antibiotics or wound drainage.
i got a scratch on my leg and it is seeping water. whatshould i do?
when there is injury to our skin inflammation occurs which means the area becomes red warm tender and with swelling. the swelling occurs under the skin layers and then can leak out of an open wound. the fluid contains water protein electrolytes and cells that give it color. this is a natural process and aids in healing. as it heals the drainage will decrease. keep it covered.
i have had an open hernia surgical site for 51/2 months that will heal and i have been going to a wound clinic for a month. is a wound vac an opition?
ibuprofen stops would healing. therefore stop the ibuprofen. injection of the would edges with lidocaine will stimulate the would to heal. unless there is a large collection of fluid the would vac is not necessary
i have a wound vac from an infection and now when my wife change's it she says it smells like almonds. should i worry afbout smell?
wound odor is meaningless. if you remember that part of healing is inflammations which includes (swelling). this is caused by fluid from the blood vessels bringing healing blood to the wound. the blood fluid leaks out and as it does it loses blood supply which means it will putrefy (rot). that causes odor. since it is away from the wound other than the smell it means nothing. no tx needed.
i have 2nd degree burns on dorsum of hand with boiling oil spilt. skin scalded how to keep wound open or covered. 48 hrs now. serous fluid still coming?
it sounds like this is a serious burn. risk of infection as well as future scarring can be significant if not managed appropriately in the early stages. please seek care from a plastic surgeon or a general surgeon specializing in burn care if available.
i have 2nd degree burns on dorsum of hand with boiling oil spilt. skin scalded how to keep wound open or covered. 48 hrs now. serous fluid still coming?
oozing 2nd degree burns can be a serious problem. if you have seen a doctor and prescribed silvadine use it as directed to help prevent infection and keep your apts. for superficial second degree burns it should heal within two weeks. burns that are expected to take longer than this or that are large may require surgical debridement and skin grafting. if you haven't seen a doc it's time.
i have 2nd degree burns on dorsum of hand with boiling oil spilt. skin scalded how to keep wound open or covered. 48 hrs now. serous fluid still coming?
moist healing with antibiotic ointment until you can be seen by a burn center due to the location on the hand. you do not want to worry about contractures and these need to be prevented.
i use of fluocinonide 0. 05% topical solution for seborrheic scalp dermatitis ok over 2 wks? my derm. said its short term. no open sores helps w itch.
topical steroids can cause thinning of the skin if used long term. the usual use is twice a day for two weeks rest one week then repeat if necessary.
i have these two very red spots on my calves i think its because of shaving and it also releasing sticky yellow fluid. what should i do?
you may have a skin infection from shaving too deeply. clean and then apply antibiotic like neosporum. protect with band-aid until healed. if spots get worse or spread call your doctor.
i've got a painful blister on my fingertip which has been there months. there is no fluid in it like a burn blister. i don't what caused what is it?
based on the medications that you are taking i suspect you have diabetic features thus any non healing blister in a diabetic is concerning for circulatory problems. seeing your doctor so that he/she can examine your circulation may provide some answers and treatment.
i think i got a really bad skin when its wounded it takes too long the scars disappear or maybe never disappear what can i do?
bleaching you skin makes condition worse. use moisturizing lotion and drink lots of fluid.
i had a mass removed from my back and in follow up visit they have to removed blood and liquid acummulated around my internal stitches why is that?
you may have developed a seroma or hematoma that the surgeon thought would impede healing; by lessening the pressure of the fluid (blood) there will be less tension on the suture sites and healing can better take place. they should just ensure that there is no underlying infection.
i was operated for superficial parotidectomy. now a clear fluid is flowing from the stitches(already removed) whenever i eat. what should i do?
get a surgical opinion preferably from the physician who did the surgery.
i got scratch for a 5months old neighborhood cat on my leg tiny pin cutt should i be corcern or will i be ok helppppp?
at first the wound should be washed with soap and water. thereafter it can be watched for a day. signs that it is infected include red skin around the wound swelling pain and a discharge of fluid that has a bad odor. if any of these develop go to a doctor.
what would a second degree burn look like?
a blister intact or partially broken with clear fluid.
what would a second degree burn look like?
a 1st degree burn looks like a sunburn--red painful skin. a 2nd degree burn often has a brighter reddish hue to the skin & often has fluid filled blisters. these burns are usually quite painful & weep fluid. a 3rd degree burn will not be painful & will be dry & leathery. it is best to have your doctor evaluate the burn & make sure appropriate care is administered including antibacterial ointment.
what are differences between arterial and venous ulcers?
venous ulcers are due to high blood pressure of the veins resulting in the leakage of fluid into the tissues of the legs. compression of the lower extremities and surgery on the veins can correct this. ischemic ulcers are due to problems with arteries. there are larger arteries and small microscopic ones and either or both can have blockages. they usually can be discerned from each other.
which vitamins or supplements can a person take to prevent venous ulcers?
venous ulcers are due to underlying venous hypertension usually from venous reflux or insufficiency. this is addressed by laser closure or ablation if the superficial veins are involved or long term compression therapy if the deep veins are involved. no vitamin or supplement will prevent this process if the underlying pathology is not taken care of appropriately.
what can i do for the painful red blisters filled with water all over my lower back from cellulitis?
if the blisters don't cross the midline consider shingles(tx: acyclovir). with cellulitis present if the area of blistering is also very edematous (swollen) then mobilization of fluid from this area (e. g. diuresis) can also help along with abx. if the pt looks ill has a fever and the blisters are looking more violaceous then go to the ed- the infection may be getting worse.
what is best to put on a bad scrape/laceration to stop it from seeping fluid (not blood)?
scrapes generally heal better if they are kept moist and clean. they will always exude a little serum (the liquid part of blood)-this is normal. i recommend washing them with soap and water 2-3 times/day and then applying a thin layer of bacitracin ointment covered by a bandaid or gauze pad taped into place. the frequent washing is probably the most important manuever.
what is best to put on a bad scrape/laceration to stop it from seeping fluid (not blood)?
assuming it is a scrape and not infected a topical antibiotic with a bandage is appropriate. if it is swollen or painful you may need prescription antibiotics.
how long after receiving a tetanus shot is it safe to receive a flu shot?
unless there is a live attenuated vaccine involved they can be given very close together. custom has generally seperated them by 1 month ( for no reason).
how long after receiving a tetanus shot is it safe to receive a flu shot?
they can be given together at the same time. traditions are changing on this so there may be different opinions but they can safely be given together in most patients.
have cellulities on face for the last 11 months gone threw 6 doctors now have bacterial steph infection in nose new doctor gave me duac gel for the bacterial cellutities on face been threw 5 doctors in 11 months this new doctor is helping she did
you may want to visit a gi (gastointestinal) doctor. if you vomit after you eat that could be a sign of severe reflux disease or an issue in your upper gi tract (throat esophagus). you may need an endoscopy (test where they put a special camera down your throat and look inside your upper gi tract). this can reveal any abnormalities that could be contributing to your symptoms. the hepatitis b can affect your liver so the gi doctor will be able to do a work up to determine if this is a factor. best of luck.
is oral ofloxacin effective in case of mild cellulitis?
ofloxacin and yet it's one of the strongest and most toxic fluorinated antibiotics around and used often for hospital treated cellulitis and serious urinary tract infections. do speak with your doctor first to find out what's best for you what strains you're resistant to so you are targeting your therapy accurately & not shotgunning your care by guessing. (i know you can buy this otc in egypt. )
i lost my contact case and it's midnight and raining like baby hurricane out side what do do with the lens'?
is most important as it's not the cleanest water around. normal saline is the best. 2nd best is distilled water. spring and filtered are not as good but better than tap water. tap is the dirtiest & has residue from pills pesticides cars chlorine fluoride & some bacteria/spores. so if yours is the type that you can sleep with safely that is an option. if they are disposable may need to toss them.
i was badly scratched by a cat well over 24 hours ago. no tetanus shot fir over 30 years. should i get tetanus shot now?
although the cat scratch is irrelevant to the answer to your question. if you have not had a tetanus shot for over 30 years you are well overdue. please get your flu vaccine at the same time.
i have cellulitis in the calves of my legs. my cat sunk her claws into my leg and it has been leaking a clear liquid since - 3 days. what is this?
it is prob fluid that has collected from the leg being swollen from the cellulitis. i am assuming that you are on antibiotics already and under care for this cellulitis. if this is not true get to a doctor and start care.
i believe i have a 2nd degree burn in my mouth but my jaw and teeth hurt in the same area. it's been over a week. what should i do?
i'm not clear if u accidentally drank hot liquids or why u think u have a 2nd degree burn. in any case u shd get checked out by a doctor who can do an exam. make sure u keep up ur fluid intake no matter how painful as ur health will get worse if u don't. only drink cold liquids it may help w/ pain & swelling. see an ent doctor or a dentist for diagnosis & exam. u cd also try healthtap prime. gl
i spilled hot tea on hands 1 wk ago. applied neosporin right away. it has just become dry n darker will it shed and new skin replace? still use neo?
it will likely be fine. it would be best evaluated by physical exam. have a doctor or mid level provider examine you. that being said use polysporin (bacitracin and polymyxin) or bacitracin if there is any open lesions fluid coming from the burn area. neosporin has neomycin which can cause a chemical irritation of sensitive areas (face hands) in some poeple.
we come from a religious background where treatment is based on faith and home cures. what can we use to treat puncture wound of the arm?
most important thing is to make sure there is no infection. manifested as reddness swelling fluid drainage. if yoy have these signs then antibiotics will be necessary. otherwise washing out the wound with water may be enough.
how would angiogenesis influence tumor growth and metastasis?
all living things need a blood supply to deliver food water and get rid of waste. a circulating cancer cell needs to evade detection get out of the blood vessel and establish that blood supply: angiogenesis! . all these actors under molecular control and likely normal during in utero development. cut off the blood supply choke the tumor.
how soon after a tetanus shot can you get a flu shot?
the tetanus and flu shots can be given any time in relation to each other.
how soon after a tetanus shot is it safe to get a flu vaccine?
the tetanus vaccine and influenza vaccine are not live vaccines and should therefore not interfere with your immune systems' response to each individual vaccine.
had surgery on foot about 8 days ago for a avm foot is hurting throbbing burning pain on cut and bottom of foot also clear fluid is coming out of cut?
it is possible that you have not been elevating the foot as i suspect you were instructed--this can cause throbbing pain. but because this could also be associated with a post-operative infection you should see your surgeon immediately so he/she can accurately evaluate the situation.
had surgery on foot about 8 days ago for a avm foot is hurting throbbing burning pain on cut and bottom of foot also clear fluid is coming out of cut?
a phone call to your surgeon should either reassure you that things are ok or result in your surgeon requesting to see you. it's difficult to answer this question having not performed your surgery.
had surgery on foot about 8 days ago for a avm foot is hurting throbbing burning pain on cut and bottom of foot also clear fluid is coming out of cut?
i would see the surgeon who performed the surgery asap for an evaluation.
i had a fever after being bitten by a rat what should i do? i already had a tetanus shot. is this a rat bite fever?
i hope not. when were you bitten? if over a week and you feel ok except for a slight fever don't worry. but if you feel like you're coming down with the worst flu you've ever had (which you probably are but still have to play it safe) and maybe get a rash then head for a doctor and tell him your story. maybe you'd have it and if so there are antibiotics for it. luckily it's pretty rare.
i was having fungal infections for 5 years under scrotum. was taking fluconazole 150mg. but now its spreading more. appears as cellulitis. please help?
four things need to be made sure of: 1. correct diagnosis? 2. combined topical antifungal + steroid use and systemic antifungal drug & 3. rid the environments (moist+ warm + deep skin folds -usually from obesity) & 4. healthy lifestyle. the effort to carry out these 4 things gives best possible opportunity to control tinea corporis. if cellulitis is evident topical betadine + oral antibiotic
i have a ton of scabs from something we don't know but there all over my legs how can i get them off over night? because i am a cheerleader. help!
there is anything that can get them off overnight. scabs are dead skin inflammatory cells and body fluid that dried up. until the underlying skin can heal you should not peel them off because it can result in worse sometimes permanent scarring. consult with your doctor for more specific advice.
i burnt myself yesterday in oil (minor) and now its a bubble? should i be worried?
this is a blister or vesicle and is the hallmark of a second degree burn. these usually heal with very little scar unless they become infected. the thin "roof" over the blister will keep germs out but it will rupture soon and the fluid will escape (palm and sole blisters last longer). then germs can get in where the fluid got out. begin using an antiseptic ointment (bacitracin or polysporin).
i have a pocket of pus under the flap skin on my finger i cut 2 weeks ago. what should i do?
in the hand if not decompressed can lead to a more severe inection that can spread quickly even in the presence of antibiotics. this needs to be decompressed. hand anatomy doesnt leave much room for fluid so deeper structures are at risk. seek medical attention
is orbital celulitis contagious?
cellulitis by itself is an infection/inflammation of the soft tissue under the skin. it is usually contained and not contagious. if it turns into an abscess with drainage that fluid could transmit infection by direct contact. regardless try not to touch any areas of infection with bare hands and adopt an aggressive hand washing routine to prevent spread of bacteria/viruses.
is it possible to catch hiv hepc hepb from getting a paper-cut like injury that bleeds from the same surface within hours of another person?
not clear- was there a contact with body fluid- please clarify the question again
whats a friction blister?
a friction blister forms as your skin rubs against some material. the skin may become red and irritated and the layers of the skin begin to separate. your body in an effort to reduce the offending friction produces fluid that fills the area resulting in a blister.
ways to get down eyelid swelling of periorbital cellulitis?
a 'warm' compress has been recommended for cellulitis treatment but i do not know of any studies that show that is actually helps. usually the body will just remove the 'edema fluid' (swelling) as fast as the infection is cleared.
what's the light green watery fluid that comes out of your legs when you have cellulitis?
cellulitis is basically a visible inflammation (itis) of the skin and soft tissues (red hot swollen and tender). it can be caused by many things including sunburn (radiation) trauma (sprained ankle) or poor vein circulation (stasis dermatitis). it need not be caused by bacteria. if you have repeated episodes of this get to a wound care or vascular specialist the diagnoses you have is wrong.
what's the light green watery fluid that comes out of your legs when you have cellulitis?
light green fluid is called serous fluid. anything usually that is not either clear or blood is termed purulent in the literature. on occasion yellow fluid may indicate collagen degradation. green fluid indicates infection associated with cellulitis. sometimes the fluid may change color to dishwater brown.
what makes cholera such a difficult disease to manage in disaster areas?
the lack of a public health infrastructure is behind such outbreaks. . the absence of safe clean drinking water spreads the infection. and the absence of available health care to keep patients hydrated (death is from fluid loss). and no sewage system to keep the pathogen out of the water.
what makes cholera such a difficult disease to manage in disaster areas?
cholera produces a secretory diarrhea. in this form of diarrhea you not only have the squirts the disease makes the bowel wall secrete or push out additional cell water from the body. treatment tries to keep up with this extra fluid loss but when iv therapy is not available the patient can dry out faster than they can take in fluids and electrolytes they are loosing.
how effective is a wound vac for a wound infection?
a wound vac in itself is not used for a wound infection. however combined with the appropriate antibiotics and debridement of dead/macerated tissue the wound vac helps in preventing the pooling of body fluids within the wound site minimizing the progression of an infection.
i just received a booster tetanus shot yesterday morning. tonight i am running a 101 degree fever. is that a normal reaction?
probably from shot. but look for other causes like for sore throat cough flu like symptoms urinary symptoms that may signify another infection. if fever last more than 24 hours check with your pcp
i have a bite on my foot that has swollen my foot has ballooned and it's black around puncture wound on antibiotics for last 24hrs but no different?
swelling following bite could be infection or allergic reaction. most antibiotics take 24- 48 hours to work. certain antibiotics like flucloxacillin should be taken either an hour before or 2 hours after food for them to work well. antihistamines can be tried along with antibiotics. if swelling doesn't settle or starts to spread become unwell or there is numbness in foot then see doctor asap.
what is normal for a puncture wound? cover over from inside?
it depends on the size and depth of the puncture wound; a small puncture may have some light thin drainage and a faint red ring around the wound and a small scab over the top. a large puncture needs to heal from the base up. if it covers with a scab too soon it may become fluctuant (mushy) and develop into an abscess. deep puncture wounds (greater than 0. 5cm) need to be seen by a physician.
what is the best way to clean animal bites dirty wounds and puncture wounds?
flushing a newly formed wound with copious amounts of clean water is the most sensible answer. if you had some medical 'grade' normal saline that was sterile to flush the wound that would be theoretically a better situation. do not use toxic substances such as hydrogen peroxide -- these kill good healthy cells in the wound base.
what is the best way to clean an open wound?
this all depends on your setting. at home copious amounts of clean water flushed through or past or over the wound is best. do not use toxic agents such as hydrogen peroxide rubbing alcohol bleach or acetic acid.
how to tell the difference between a burn blister and a fever blister?
your dermatologist would be able to look at it and tell. if there is uncertainty the blister fluid could be examined/cultured for evidence of herpes virus.
had a 3 cm deep wound about 3 months ago and scar seems a little bit redish but there is no pain at all is that normal?
wound healing takes several months to complete. the red coloration is due to the extra blood flow needed to promote the healing process and gradually fades over time. it may still feel a bit firm and ridge-like to the touch. the site holds more fluid in the newly forming scar which will gradually be removed and it should soften. you may help reduce some of the redness with use of silicone gel.
hus. got cut on finger then had radiator fluid go on it & just 45 minutes ago he felt something crawl-scurry from his finger. now is ulcerated. what is it?
radiator fluid can be quite caustic to open tissues. open wound covered with radiator fluid is at risk for ulceration and infection. follow up with pcp for possible debridement/ antibiotics/and wound care.
hi i have a really big boil that started draining i've been on antibotics but drainage seemed to look like only blood no puss is this normal?
some skin infections will develop a painful skin swelling but without abscess fluid to drain out. some skin infections form a pocket of abscess fluid that will drain out pus. depends on which type of infection you have. go back to see your doctor to be sure the antibiotics are working for you.
hi. m new here. if seminal fluid or precum on outside vagina(vulva) comes in contact with open wound or any break in skin can transmit hiv?
not likely. but that is not 100%. if you worry then please get a test.
is there anti-venom available for all kinds of snake bites?
where snake bites are endemic anti venom is available at a specific locations. fluid analysis at the site of bite possible to identify the type of snake by tests like elisa. some centers keep polyvalent serum. call to the poison control will get best information if you are not sure what to do.
in a real life epidemic does it really matter if my facemask is an n95 or any mask is better than none?
yes it does matter most respiratory epidemics are due to viruses and only an n95 mask is sufficient to filter out viruses. a non n95 mask may prevent some body fluids from splashing onto your face (i. e. saliva or blood) so it does offer a little protection but it won't prevent you from inhaling an airborne virus if someone happened to sneeze or cough into the air.
why does face and eye swell & eye go blue after injury to forehead and laceration stitched up by plastic surgeon. wa told this normal & clear in 2week?
blood runs downhill so the is bruising and the swelling is fluid usually blood falling with gravity to the eye and face and absorbed slowly.
what does a small burn blister look like when it starts to heal?
if the blister is intact the fluid within the blister will slowly absorb and go away.
what does a small burn blister look like when it starts to heal?
if there were fluid in the blister the area would dry over time. as long as there is no redness or swelling the healing will continue-- if there is redness or pus you must see your physician.
what are things you can do and any info on cellulitus?
if you have cellulitis you must see your doctor and get the 1. appropriate antibiotics either via iv or oral routes and 2. appropriate wound care. a culture and sensitivity of the draining fluid should also be obtained to check for mrsa.
what can you do to remove calamine lotion off an open wound (i need help fast)?
where is the wound and what caused it. in most cases calamine should come off with gentle flushing lots of cool water. if uncertain check with a doctor especially if this is a large wound. if caked especially thickly start by soaking with a soaked wash rag or towel then flush gently.
wound vac placed on ankle. does it work?
wound vacs are a type of closed dressing with the advantage of suctioning away excess fluid from the wound&allowing it to heal quicker as well making the wound smaller due to the negative pressure that is applied. they can also be a temporising measure to allow later skin graft placement or flap reconstruction. the latter is needed for durable coverage or exposed bone tendons etc after injuries.
how can angiogenesis and invasion influence tumor growth and metastasis in a patient with breast cancer?
the general concept behind angiogenesis promoting cancer metastasis growth is that cancer cells / tumors use more nutrients and therefore need more blood flow than usual to grow to a large size and that if we can inhibit this new vessel growth stimulated by tumors we can limit the growth of the tumor.
had my cyst lanced 3 days ago on antibiotics for 5 day now when will it stop weeping and being painfull. on painkillers but doesn't help?
23 y. o. with "cyst" which is a collection of fluid location unknown. cysts can build up fluid causing pain & can become infected; requiring drainage which was done. if fluid/pus build-up recurs pain/seepage will recur or the cyst may have had pockets of fluid that were not opened when lanced initially. although you are on antibiotic cysts also need drainage to heal. follow-up with your doctor.
how does a wound heal by itself?
in response to an injury the body mounts an inflammatory response followed by the influx of fibroblasts which use the inflammation as a scaffold for repair of the wound. it is a complicated humoral and cellular process which takes place but ultimately results in healing and scar formation. thank goodness your body does this automatically. thanks for trusting healthtap!
i inject meth got celulitis on arm went to dr. gave augminten for 14days still have bump on arm &feeling flu/cold like symptoms & bp 100/64 pulse 103?
commend yourself for going to doctor and taking antibiotics for cellulitis. for your symptoms follow with your doctor. let the wise man within you ask: •reasons for taking meth i/v •continued use? •use with other drugs and alcohol •reasons to use when it is addicting. see psychiatrist for stress meth effects on health; discuss drug rehab and daily na or aa meetings your health is precious!
i was diagnosed on monday with cellulitis at er i'm allergic to keflex but they gave me bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) is that a problem. i haven't been feeling good since?
these drugs are unrelated but the sulfur part of bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) not uncommonly causes adverse( and allergic )reaction making one feels that he has the flu (drug fever). recommend that you contact your doctor immediately to get a substitute. even if you are allergic to keflex you can usually tolerate the 3rd generation cephalosporins (vs keflex being the 1st generation).
i have an open wound on top of my foot. i have been on antibiotics oral and ointment for 10 days. part has scabbed over but most has yellowish fluid i?
i do not know if you go near foot or not but one cause for your symptom would be retained foreign body
my mother in law had debulikng surgery 4 weeks ago for ovarian cancer. she was diagnosed 3c. her inscion is not healing. what about chemo?
most likely subcutaneous tissue had some collection of fluid and opened more often it happens in slightly obese person ask your doctor to refer to wound care specialist with vac drainage will hasten healing with open wounds oncologist will not give chemotherapy.
was admitted to hospital w cellulitis. home now w nausea fever chills and sweats. is that because of infection or did i pick up the flu?
it could be that the cellulitis is not getting better. i would follow-up with your treating provider for a check up so that they can look at the area of cellulitis to see if it is better or worse. in the mean time continue to take the medications you were prescribed when you were discharged from the hospital unless your doctor tells you to stop.
was admitted to hospital w cellulitis. home now w nausea fever chills and sweats. is that because of infection or did i pick up the flu?
this is obviously due to infection of some type but diagnosing whether due to the bacterial cellulitis becoming systemic or to secondary viral illness is impossible over the net. because the risk is great if this is bacterial infection would urge you to go and see your doctor immediately. since cellulitis is most often due to strep pyogenes or staph aureus these infections have fatal potentials.
what will happen to my wound if my wound vac hasn't pulled any drainage out of my wound in over 24 hours?
your wound vac serves multiple purposes only one of which is to drain fluid if it is present. just because there is no fluid does not mean it is not working properly.
hot water burn blister popped. what should i do so it doesn't get infected and gets healed quick? how long will it take to heal?
there is very little risk of infection from blistered skin as the underlying dermis is still intact and acts as a barrier to infection. cover your burn with a clean absorbent pad. it will drain a yellow fluid for a few days then dry as the new skin grows from the edges. avoid friction/rubbing. use moisturizer 2x/day when edges crust. use spf 30+ sunscreen hourly to newly healed skin
how can i prevent being affected by a disease outbreak?
i assume you mean infection disease outbreak. it is not entirely preventable but good hygiene hand washing flu and other vaccines insect repellant are part of the strategy. if you have individual health probelms you need to discuss these wiht your physician
how can i prevent getting ebola when i travel to africa?
your best method is to avoid areas where the disease is known to be present. avoiding contact with body fluids and avoiding close contact with possible infected individuals very important
how can i prevent dehydration as i am having diarrhea and vomiting.
get iv fluids
how can i prevent dehydration as i am having diarrhea and vomiting.
drink your maintenance fluids. based on body weight which you did not supply in your question.
how can i make the water last during this drought?
flush the toilet only for feces. collect what rainwater you can. take a shower with a bucket next to you to use the collected water to flush toilets and water plants. use disposable plates and cups so you don't have to wash anything.
how can i make the water last during this drought?
use your reserve water wisely. try to use disposable plates and utensils. try to collect rain water to flush toilet etc. keep the drinking water only for consumption and food preparation. hope this helps.
i have been diagnosed with cellulitis in my leg. doctor has given me prescription for cloxacillin. i already have flu cloxacillin are they the same?
to find either of these penicillin derivatives in the u. s. pharmacopeia so i can't make a direct comparison. please fill your prescription and take it as directed. if you don't notice improvement in the next 48 hours or if you get worse or notice new symptoms you should tell your doctor. untreated or underrated cellulitis can lead to serious complications. dr. anne.
i had an operation on my stomach on 9 sept & had clips removed on 19 sept today i noticed 1 or 2 of my wounds are weeping clear fluid is this normal?
what you describe sounds like normal tissue drainage after surgery. i am assuming you have no fever or increased oxygen requirements and that besides normal postoperative pain you feel fine. also of course that your inr in the last week has been at therapeutic levels and that your blood glucose levels have been under control and that you're not currently taking any sort of oral steroid (see md)
if i’m working in the heat is it better to drink water or gatorade?
you need to fluid but also you need to replenish your electrolytes and other nutritionial material that gatorade can give you
i have to stay in a shelter with lots of people. if someone has zika are we all going to catch it?
zika is not contagious as long as you don't exchange body fluids with a person acutely ill with zika. otherwise you have to be bitten by a mosquito infected with zika.
i have to stay in a shelter with lots of people. if someone has zika are we all going to catch it?
the virus can be transmitted by body fluids and live mosquitoes. close proximity to infected individuals even without symptoms can result in transmission. if any concerns at all consult your healthcare provider.
i have a white puss spot on my leg it's all red around it and i'm not sure what it is. it started out as a red bump that was ichy it got way bigger
it sounds like you injured your leg or got bitten by something or you have an underlying problem (like diabetes or smoking) which impairs the normal skin on your leg. you are young so age is on your side - this will probably go away. don't "pop" the white spot but do see a doctor about what to do. apply warm compresses if tolerable. collect any fluid that comes out to check for mrsa or infx.
i have a tender bump at the back of my head at the base of my skull. a lymph node? i got the flu shot yesterday. related? or from scalp scabs?
it possible that it is a lymph nodes. but need to know what is the reason for this nodes. with scabies your head will be very itch scaly scalp can cause it too and fungal infection as well. but absolutely not related to flu shot.
mum 64 has vascular ulcer for 5 yrs on left inner ankle. venous doppler says incompetent perforations above ulcer. adviced injection. will it work?
proper assessment should have included arterial assessment. assuming that she adequate flow to heal the ulcer appropriate debridements and dressings that maintain a moist environment for healing as well as growth factor such as apligraf should be used. then compression hose with 30-40mmhg. now if all is done and if she has saphenous venous reflux this should be ablated before perf orators.
mum 64 has vascular ulcer for 5 yrs on left inner ankle. venous doppler says incompetent perforations above ulcer. adviced injection. will it work?
venous ulcers are the result of venous hypertension due to reflux (leaking) of the valves in the saphenous system and subsequent leaking of the perforator valves(feeding veins to the ulcer). the first step in the treatment is to close any leaking valves in the saphenous system followed by closing the perforator valves. this can be done by injection but laser closure would be better.
my son had an open wound from a staph infection and it has a green tint to it. is that a sign the infection is coming back?
green fluid may be bacterial or it could be from white blood cells fighting infection. see your doctor.
my entire skin is itchy red and inflamed. almost wrinkly. i have this weird red flush on my neck that itches. skin burns and prickles sometimes help?
sounds like dermatitis but you need to be evaluated.
my gash on my finger is hurting more than when i cut it. why?
it is likely inflamed which could be part of normal healing. watch for pus persistent drainage fluctuant skin as signs of infection. recommend application of iodine around the wound. keep wound covered to prevent contamination
my boyfriend is undetectable with hiv. i am worried i can get it if his blood or semen gets on my open wound. since he's undetectable what's the risk?
"universal precautions" means you should always use precautions with anybody regarding body fluids and pen wound etc. assuming your bf was hiv+ and now it is not detectable i would still use universal precautions wash hands often avoid body fluid contacts. since assuming he was hiv + the information is not 100% as to whether he is able to transmit any hiv to others so always use precaution.
should i wear compression stockings after having cellulitis on my leg?
wear support stockings to prevent fluid buildup in your legs if you suffer from edema. this fluid buildup can lead to the breakdown of skin in the legs that may result in infection by cellulitis bacteria. edema and other skin conditions are some of the most common causes of cellulitis. cellulitis can lead to lymph edema so support hose are sometimes needed.
why would i have a hard bumb on my arm that keeps getting bigger months after a dog bite?
you might have an abcess or a keloid formation or a simple seroma (fluid collection). you need to have your family dr. examine your arm.
when can you take band aid off of puncture wound after spinal tap?
i would give it about 12 hours and then remove it - there should not be any fluid or blood leaking once you remove the bandaid. if so - you need to call whoever did the tap. puncture wounds made with needles heal rapidly
what is difference between sores n open sores?
they are essentially the same thing though the word "open" suggests that the sore may be newer or fresh and wet with lymph fluid. both of them are a breakdown of the outer layer of skin which increases chance of infection. keep the area clean and dry until it heals.
what are the different types of flu. does the vaccine i received protect me?
60% effective predicted this year but variable with ingredients and what flu gets spread!
what are the different types of flu. does the vaccine i received protect me?
the influenza virus has three categories a b and c. influenza virus a and b cause seasonal epidemics during winter in the usa not c. the cdc estimates that the flu vaccine confers around 50-60% protection when the flu viruses in the vaccine that are chosen match the major circulating epidemic strains age and health factors also affect efficacy. <link>
what are the different types of flu. does the vaccine i received protect me?
vaccine covers the prevalent stains over the past 2 years. usually offer 70-80% coverage better than nothing
what are the different types of flu. does the vaccine i received protect me?
there are three major types of infuenza. type a&b cause annual inflenza and c causes mild disease. typea can also infect animals and the virus is constantly changing in character and causes epidemics type b only infects humans and do not cause pandemics like typra. type c infects only humans and causes milder illness
what are the different types of flu. does the vaccine i received protect me?
the vaccine is developed every year based on world trends and in general is very effective
what are the health consequences of a drought.
dehydration can deplete the body with fluids and minerals causing electrolyte imbalance.
got cellulitis on lower leg taking meds n its going away but now feels like there is fluid on top of foot next to toes it don't hurt feels like jello ?
is it raised and moveable? that ma be separate problem like a ganglion cyst but its possible to be more cellulitis in the foot. i would seek treatment.
got cellulitis on lower leg taking meds n its going away but now feels like there is fluid on top of foot next to toes it don't hurt feels like jello ?
likely just a normal response to your infection with some swelling or edema. can try elevation and some light compression to help. should improve with time.
got a blister like bump on my hand. i popped it and clear liquid came out but now it looks like blood n there. it hurts and itches wut could it b?
this is probably a ganglion a fluid-filled cyst. popping it can cause it to bleed inside and is rarely helpful. sometimes popping it can introduce infection. if it starts getting red you need to have professional look at it.
got a blister like bump on my hand. i popped it and clear liquid came out but now it looks like blood n there. it hurts and itches wut could it b?
for blisters burn cold infection but the typical casue is mechanical irritation. many blsiters start with clear fluid then change to a hemmoragic or turbid appeareance. blisters may also be "superinfected" ie once the skin break is there local bacteria colonize the tissue. blood blisters more often come from mechanical trauma though some bacteria and viral blisters get blood in them.
got a tetanus shot yesterday and i feel very achy like im coming down with a flue?
people often complain of stiffness in the arm they received a tetanus shot in--whatever you do keep moving the arm around; if the body aches worsen call you doctor.
have cellulitis third day on antibiotics. now my lymph nodes have gotten swollen. does this mean infection is worsening or getting better?
may need to be adjusted or changed. do you have an increased temperature or chills? is the cellulitis still present? do you feel nausea or fatigued? i recommend getting seen by the provider who prescribed the antibiotics and making sure they are correct. drink lots of fluids and feel better soon!
hi i been treated for ecoli uti also found puss in my urine. and now i sufferd a migraine and now ear pain gp said i got fluid on membranes?
see md get ear exam and repeat urine dip if you have symptoms. full medical history and exam. you definitely need an ear exam. good luck.
had a sore on my ankles won't heal doctor said i just had dry skin leaks fluid?
potential diagnoses for an unhealing ankle sore that it can not be narrowed down on the internet. you need a thorough examination history and blood work. go and see a different health care provider or a vascular or infectious disease specialist.
hello i have gynecomastia but recently i've developed scabs on both my areolas and it kind of has me freaked out. should i be worried?
scabs usually do not come from nowhere. are you a jogger and your nipples are rubbed against your shirt? any fluids draining from them? how massive are the gynecomastia? is there a reason you prefer not to get rid of them. are you obese? have you consider liposuction as an option vs surgical removal? talk to a plastic surgeon or at least a general surgeon familar with gynecomastia.
hello experts i want to know can hiv survive on band aids or wet tissues. i know it's not blood on them but can other general secretions be present on them. i do not like to use wet items. can hiv live on them even if wet? or does air kill hiv
at room temperature outside the body for hours if dry (if initial concentrations are high) and for weeks if wet (in used syringes/needles). however the lower concentration of hiv in bodily fluids would only survive outside the body a few minutes if dry; the items you suggest would dry quickly. transmission of disease does not occur if no contact with open skin/cuts/mucous membranes. hope this helps
i cut my thumb on sunday and it seems to be healing up well but some clearish fluid came out of the wound when i bumped it this morning. is that normal
if it is swollen and painful or your thumb is turning red you should see somebody. if your thumb otherwise is ok you are probably fine. it should dry up and form a scab
i cut my thumb on sunday and it seems to be healing up well but some clearish fluid came out of the wound when i bumped it this morning. is that normal
as part of wound healing the area becomes inflamed and swollen with accumulation of fluid bringing the needed cells and nutrient to fix the injury the fluid you describe might be that (exudate) but if it continue oozing and becomes like pus with pain and increasing redness that might indicate an infection and would need treatment
i received sutures for a laceration behind my ear 9 days ago. i went for removal and sutures were removed and had to be resown because it didnt heal p?
most common reason wounds do not heal is infection. another could be excessive tension. barring those two things other things that influence healing (smoking diabetes disease etc ) could play a roll.
itchy scalp in a small section near top of head scratched before felt a scab-like thing forming and it let out little bit of clear fluid-not oozing?
scratching or rubbing will strip off the surface of the skin. think about the time you fell on your hand or knee. if it fails to heal or if it continues to itch a dermatologist will help you.
i have my elbow leaking synovial fluid from an open wound. my doc checked for infection and it's clear but continues to swell and leak.
open wounds especially if draining liquid are a good nidus for infection! best go to wound care center and get it closed soon!
is it a cold sore if there is no weeping fluid and it starts to scab and heal over right away?
getting hsv antibodies is something that should be done.
my boyfriend was bite by a spider and was giving steriods. now it is leaking a brownish (bloody) discharge. is this normal?
in the natural course of a severe bite a stage might occur where he discharges bloody fluid. if he has no fever and is doing well otherwise a period of observation with dressings is indicated. if he has fever he should see a doctor.
noticed possible cellulitis yesterday sure of it tonight. feel feverish bad headache flushed skin. should i go to hospital tonight or wait?
do not wait to get healthcare for an infection.
noticed possible cellulitis yesterday sure of it tonight. feel feverish bad headache flushed skin. should i go to hospital tonight or wait?
to your closest emergency dept for medical evaluation and proper treatment with these symptoms.
on 10-4-12 i was given a flu shot & pnemonia inj in arm. developed cellulitis within a day. finished antibodic but arm still looks terrible?
the overwhelming probability is that you reacted adversely to something in the injected material whether the antibiotic or the carrier. if it is not getting worse time is the great healer. warm compresses at this point might be helpful. on rare occasions this may represent infection from a contaminated injection. if so and you are getting worse see doctor asap.
ok so my cellulitis is healing pretty good but a lot of pus is oozing from the spot it started and there are scabs around it is that normal? or not?
sounds like you have an abscess which is draining some. see your family doc. the site probably needs opened and flushed. of course why do you have a cellulitis in the first place? diabetes morbid obesity. address the root cause(s).
please tell me precautions after treatment for cellulitis at lower leg. i often have swelling at the lower leg?
increased risk for recurrent cellulitis due to edema and poor return of fluids. because of this you need to seek help from a wound care clinic and obtain compression garments or compression socks. check your foot and leg daily.
peritonsillar abcess or peritonsillar cellulitis. i have all the symptoms but don't see a pus growth just large tonsils and pain. how to know?
if your airway might be compromised go to the emergency room. if you simply have a bad sore throat and big tonsils it's unlikely you have cellulitis or an abscess. both are spectacular illnesses; cellulitis spreads through your tissues dramatically while an abscess is palpable as a fluctuant mass that you may feel tempted to drain like you pop a pimple -- don't try it on your own.
please share some do's and don'ts for coping with a drought.
try to conserve drinking water. use disposable dishes and utensils. use rain water to clean toilets and other non food preparing uses (if available). only flush toilet for solid waste not liquid.
post foot surgery 2 wks and part of my incision has shriveled up skin and is not united and some fluid comes out of that area. is this bad?
is on the bottom of your foot the apparent lack of union on each side of the incision is normal. the skin of the foot is very thick and the top layer is dead. it will not heal but rather slough of gradually. regardless i recommend a post surgical follow up visit. dr. anne
puss bump on baby's lip. can teething be the cause? because he is teething atm and it just appeared out of no where
pus means infection and that requires immediate treatment. more likely it's a mucocele a tissue fluid filled obstructed minor salivary gland. see either your pediatric medical specialist a pediatrician or a pediatric dental specialist a pedodontist.
rep! does swlw significant amt of precum can transmit hiv witht any open cut/inflm? any dcumntd case of gttng hiv solely by sgnfcnt precum? no ejcultn
yes semen to your internal body fluids and blood stream can infect you with hiv. semen to your hand cannot infect you with hiv. what are you not understanding here? one virus is one virus. hiv in semen is hiv in semen. hiv can be transmitted with sexual contact. ejaculation is not the risk. hiv infected semen is the risk.
small(not deep) puncture wound on side of big toe from clean piece of metal. flushed it & antibio ointment. last tetanus in '09. do i need another?
your prior booster in 09 will have you covered. if you had dragged your open wound through a lot of soil and debris and left it untended over a long period it might be a benefit to some. some advise landscapers and other outside workers to boost at 5 years if their work constantly exposes them to the tetanus spores. your case does not rise to that level of concern.
should i be concerned that there is a swelling of fluid on my thumb knuckle where i had three stitches from a laceration? the stitches have been removed and there is no sign of infection.
you need a follow up with the provider that saw you previously to make that the laceration is healing properly and rule out infection.
should i be concerned that there is a swelling of fluid on my thumb knuckle where i had three stitches from a laceration? the stitches have been removed and there is no sign of infection.
you may have what is called an inclusion cyst. let the physician who did the repair have a look at it
surgery wound split 1 week ago. swelling/pain was gone and it closed but now it has begun to hurt and swell. not red but bruised & peeling. is it ok?
you should see your surgeon again as soon as possible. you may have a collection of fluid or blood in the wound site
should i worry about h1n1 now or are we safe?
now cover the h1n1 strains of the flu so if you are up to date with flu vaccine this fall you should be okay unless you have chronic lung disease etc. there have not been recent epidemics of that strain like there were several years ago.
should i worry about h1n1 now or are we safe?
the antigenic markers which the flu viruses reveal to the outside world are in a constant state of flux. that is why you should get a flu vaccine every year. last years may not be protective any more.
should i remove a bullet if it's still inside?
we need to know your age. please put it in your public profile. also include your gender and location. your age gender and location can all influence the answer to your questions. with this question age and location of the bullet are important too. how long have you had it where is it? it does not matter if it is a female or male bullet.
two months after having stitches out and it's starting to hurt about 1/2 inches away from it is that normal? i had 12 stitches.
this is not unusual but certainly does not fall into the 'normal' category. you should have the area seen by a clinician to make sure that there is no retained fluid pockets or an infection.
the blisters on my second degree burns have a yellow color to them and still painfull burns happend 5 days ago is this normal.
yellow fluid inside blisters is called "serous fluid. " it's your body's way of initially cooling the area. i recommend a health care professional drain the blisters so the new skin can begin growing. pain usually peaks around day 4-5 with first and second degree burns.
touching blood and breast milk fluids by hand or by finger bottom nail skin removed to 3mm. no blood only open wound?
handling blood or breast milk is an infection risk and gives should be wworn whether or not there is a breach in skin integrity.
unprotected oral sex fresh anal fluid on fresh open blister half centimeter cycle on my finger washed with so hot water after am i at hiv risk?
anytime that you have unprotected sexual contact you are at risk for hiv. if bodily fluids from your partner came intact with an open blister it is possible that you could have had transmission of any number of stds. if you are at all concerned that your partner may have an infection i would recommend that both of you be tested. if you have regular unprotected sex you may want reassurance.
vein dr. says veins ok. skin burns & flushes light pink (at times). says i should see a neurologist? this is on the legs & feet & spreading.
what other tests have you had done? he is suggesting that because he suspects this could be related to neuropathy( or nerve irritation). some conditions like vitamin b12 deficiency thyroid diabetes among others can cause these problems. also nerve pinged in your spine can cause similar symptoms although we would need more information. follow up with your pcp on this.
very small dog bite by vaccinated pet friday pm. tiny bite is fine. saturday low grade fever chills muscle aches tight chest feeling. related? flu?
if a bite/scratch is infected it almost always gets red swollen painful. your symptoms are likely from an infection from a different source.
very small dog bite by vaccinated pet friday pm. tiny bite is fine. saturday low grade fever chills muscle aches tight chest feeling. related? flu?
whether it's related or not you have considerable symptoms which warrant you to be seen.
very small dog bite by vaccinated pet friday pm. tiny bite is fine. saturday low grade fever chills muscle aches tight chest feeling. related? flu?
unless you received tetanus shot or rabies prophylaxis which may be a reaction to these. your symptoms are not related to dog bite. check with the pcp that treated you.
can you get a staph infection from a venous ulcer?
venous ulcers are due to a breakdown of the skin usually overlying the medial or lateral ankle due to venous hypertension due to usually venous valvular reflux in the saphenous system of veins. these are very prone to bacterial infection and staph can be a component of the infecting organisms. often times multiple bacterial will be cultured from these ulcers.
can cellulitis cause flu like symptoms?
cellulitis is defined as a localized skin infection which should be diagnosed by warmth redness tenderness and possible swelling. flu like symptoms would include generalized body aches fever fatigue and possible cough or congestion. flu (influenza) is a virus while cellulitis is typically bacterial. however if cellulitis spreads to the blood then some flu like symptoms could be possible.
can cellulitis cause flu like symptoms?
systemic symptoms of cellulitis maybe from septicemia (blood infection) or the immune system response. nausea vomiting and chills are typical with elevated temperature and blood pressure changes.
can 2nd degree burns on the knee cause swelling in the ankles?
any traumatic injury to the lower limb whether blunt trauma or burn can elicit an increase in fluid retention at the levels of the ankle. could it be coincidental that your having fluid buildup in your ankles at the same time most definitely. your lymphatic system which aids in keeping fluid levels balanced in your legs and ankles can always be affected by a sudden injury.
can cellulitis affect the healing of an ankle i fractured 14 days ago. it was only put in a full caste yesterday after 7 days flucloxacillin?
the cellulitis itself will not delay the healing of your ankle fracture. however there are many other conditions that will delay healing including diabetes protein-calorie malnutrition vitamin d deficiency etc. the cellulitis will unlikely extend deeper to the fracture site that would lead to an infected nonunion. that would be extremely uncommon.
can cellulitis affect the healing of an ankle i fractured 14 days ago. it was only put in a full caste yesterday after 7 days flucloxacillin?
cellulitis can certainly slow done the healing process.
can i put hydrogen peroxide on an open wound?
peroxide disrupts healing tissue the only reason to use it would be to clean dirt and debris once from a very dirty wound but flushing with saline would be greatly preferable.
can transvaginal sonography detect laceration during intercourse?
clinical exam is the best to identify a vaginal laceration ie speculum and a good light. sonography can detect a large laceration fluid cavity damage to the wall. you need a good gynecologist.
cut side of finger on top knckle 1wk ago. itchy & raised like liquid is under it. can't bend finger fully. tiny amnt clear dischrge no pain. normal?
over a joint can be serious. liquid can be from bacteria or a raction ot a foreign body or can be joint fluid or may just be normal "ooze" from a wound that is open. so its not normal as it is cut and oozing. sounds like it would help to get it looked at to make sure its not something that needs further attention. clean bandaids clean skin and a splint can help but get seen too.
cut side of finger on top knckle 1wk ago. itchy & raised like liquid is under it. can't bend finger fully. tiny amnt clear dischrge no pain. normal?
limitation of motion suggests swelling and inflammation. this could be caused by infection. two good choices for care would be your primary care physician or a physician at a wound center. i think the finger should be radiographed and a specimen of the fluid cultured also i would suggest a basic blood test including blood count and blood chemistry.
cut side of finger on top knckle 1wk ago. itchy & raised like liquid is under it. can't bend finger fully. tiny amnt clear dischrge no pain. normal?
probably entered joint space and leaking synovial fluid.
after seeing my dr. i was given co-fluampicil capsules for 1 week and given a dressing for my foot ulcer how long will it take?
is not very clear. it would be important to know if you are diabetic. if you are and have an ulcer on the bottom of the foot then it is very important the ulcer is off loaded as well. maintaining strict glycemic control is also key. antibiotics are given when infection is present.
can you get second degree burn from just being in the sun?
it is a radiation burn from the uv (ultra-violet) rays of the sun. limited exposure is fine but prolonged unprotected exposure allows too much to reach the skin and it begins to burn. second degree burn - the skin has been burned to the point the body is trying to protect itself. in doing so the body sends fluid to the skin in order to try to stop the burning process. this causes the blisters.
cut thumb & got stitches while back. stitches out. site is pink/bed. now & then clear liquid leaks out if i break it open accidentally. no puss?
can lacerate tendons nerves and blood vessels just below the skin. partial lacerations are possible too and the flexor tendons lie in a sheath a tube of tissue that has fluid in it and cuts to the sheath may occur even without tendon damage. stiches can also have retained pieces and the body forms a small pocket of reactive tissue or there can be a low grade infection. seek medical attention.
cut thumb & got stitches while back. stitches out. site is pink/bed. now & then clear liquid leaks out if i break it open accidentally. no puss?
when there is injury to our skin inflammation occurs which means the area becomes red warm tender and with swelling. the swelling occurs under the skin layers and then can leak out of an open wound. the fluid contains water protein electrolytes and cells that give it color. this is a natural process and aids in healing. as it heals the drainage will decrease. keep it covered.
could a laceration to the liver cause dehydration?
someone with a lacerated liver is seriously sick and will be in a place where fluid management needs to be carried out meticulously.
could a venous ulcer lead to a staph infection?
a venous stasis ulcer has the potential to become a very serious problem and can certainly become infected. these ulcers require aggressive treatment consisting of wound care cleaning and sometimes antibiotics. in addition a full venous evaluation to evaluate the status of the venous valves for reflux is necessary. fortunately these ulcers can be treated with a high success rate. see a vein md.
cut thumb in kitchen using apple dicer. it looks semi deep but together. i put hydrogen per. neosp. gauze. do i need stitches? bleeding under control
if the bleeding stopped and the band aid worked let it heal. if you are on morphine and/ or ativan (lorazepam) and cutting your self by accident; it may be important not to drive or use a knife while under the influence.
cellulitis in my ankle treated with fluocloxacillin 500 mg 4 a day from 10 days ago. it responded but slight pain if touch uncomfy if walk on heels?
if the area is still painful to walk on your heel - i am assuming this is a splinting mechanism? - then you should see your treating physician.
concerned that i may have guillain barre after tetanus shot five weeks ago. my head aches my legs are weak and achey my chest aches face tight?
historically there has been a slight increased risk of gbs following the influenza vaccination (1976). since then there is limited good evidence suggesting a relationship. there is even further research showing perhaps a decreased risk of gbs among those vaccinated vs not. followup with pcp could help identify other possible causes such as a viral illness. good luck!
can hiv transmit from open cut (1 days old shave cut) on lips to fork or piece of food (both of them shared by one chew only) and infect somebody?
hiv can be spread by contact with any infected body fluid especially blood. the odds are against infection with a small exposure through mouth but still possible. get tested and monitored
can you get hiv from fingering a vagina and you have a open cut but not bleeding on your finger?
depends on whether the vaginal fluid has hiv and how well the cut has healed. usually the wound is considered well healed after 6 weeks absent any complication such as wound infection.
diabetic diagnosed with celluitis and was put on bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) for 10 days. its been 5 days and i havr a funky looking blister is it ok to pop the blister?
don't pop the blister especially if you have a chronic medical condition like diabetes. it could get infected. if it's closed and not draining any fluid leave it alone. it's part of the healing process. if it's spreading or looking worse see your doctor.
does small break on outside of vaginal opening or on the vulva can transmit hiv? and does open wound outside vagina can transmit hiv? plz please rep
to transmit hiv you must first be infected. hiv is caught from body fluids such as blood and semen not from skin scabs cuts or any other surface of the visible skin.
does small break or sores on the outside of vaginal opening or vulva can transmit hiv? and does open wound outside vagina can transmit hiv?
no. not in general. it is the body fluids such as semen or blood that transmit hiv not skin in general.
are there any herbal help for pain with venous ulcer?
venous ulcers are a significant problem and can be treated. there are many herbs for venous disease such as diosmin rutins and horse chestnut but none of these are effective to heal a venous ulcer. you should see a vein specialist for a full venous evaluation including a venous reflux exam. if reflux is the cause of the ulcer treating this will heal the ulcer and eradicate the pain.
a feeling of liquid beneath a large bruise is an indication of what?
contused the area. this results in fluid build up. need to protect the area so it won't break down. with time this shld absorb. any questions see a wound doctor.
a feeling of liquid beneath a large bruise is an indication of what?
a bad bruise could lead to a collection of blood beneath the skin which would feel like a fluid collection.
are venous ulcers always preceded by a blood clot?
venous ulcers are not always preceded by a blood clot. dvt can destroy the venous valves resulting in the increase of venous pressure which is greatest at the ankle. this increased pressure weakens and discolors the ankle skin which can then lead to ulceration. there are many other causes of increased venous pressure such as superficial venous reflux. see a vein specialist for an evaluation.
are venous ulcers always preceded by a blood clot?
the issue is one of vein hypertension due to the impeded flow of blood returning to the heart especially in the legs. this is due to incompetent valves in the veins. with increased blood pooling in the legs comes 'heavier' legs swelling pain from swelling pitting in the skin leakage of fluid and blood into the tissues leakage of the fluid onto the skin causing maceration and destruction.
a single blister with clear fluid followed by blood in pubic hair area after shaving. what could it be?
any blistering skin irritation in the pubic area should be checked by your gyn and if you have had unprotected sexual relations you should be checked for sexually transmitted illness.
asbestos in open wound cause infection?
any toxin such as asbestos should not be in an open wound; if it winds up there please flush out the material with copious amounts of saline to clean out the wound. afterwards disinfect the wound with a topical antiseptic spray then apply a clean sterile bandage. go to your podiatrist or primary to get an oral antibiotic.
am using bactroban (mupirocin) for skin rashes from which some fluid comes after a cut on toe. was wondering if i put neosporin powder over bactroban (mupirocin) will it harm?
point in doing that. 2) i would recommend you see a doctor. it sounds like you are self doctoring. the reason is it sounds like you have an infection and then you say a rash. so there may be two problems. if your not getting better with the bactroban (mupirocin) you may need an oral antibiotic.
am using bactroban (mupirocin) for skin rashes from which some fluid comes after a cut on toe. was wondering if i put neosporin powder over bactroban (mupirocin) will it harm?
there is a possibility that the skin is inflamed and not infected. if you have been treating the toe this way and have seen little to no improvement then maybe it is time for a change. non-infected rashes might respond better to cortisone based cream. it is possible to alternate applications and see if it starts to clear up. watch for increasing severity in which case have it looked at.
all possible sti/std that cause new painless fluid filled genital bumps every week.? if i leave them alone they don't quit growing in size. if popped turns into a scab or open wound that still doesn't cause discomfort. any/all possibilities?
see urologist for diagnosis
all possible sti/std that cause new painless fluid filled genital bumps every week.? if i leave them alone they don't quit growing in size. if popped turns into a scab or open wound that still doesn't cause discomfort. any/all possibilities?
no std is a likely explanation. you probably know that some features suggest herpes but herpes never recurs more often than once a month; lack of pain redness etc also are against it. beyond that i have difficulty judging the cause. presumably you have seen a doctor right? if you haven't been to a dermatologist that should be your next step. ask your doctor for a referral. good luck!
after a bomb goes off nearby how do you know if you need to go see an ear doctor for evaluation?
bleeding / fluid from ear loss of hearing tinnitus or severe ear pain.
a hernia repaired in my left groin area 6 days ago lanthroscopiclly. incision sight on the right side is heavily bruised and skin burns around it?
bruising is common but if it is bruising on top of a painful collection of fluid drainage etc this could be a hematoma or infection and should be checked and if causing pain neurovascular compromise it should be drained. skin burns are common but should be looked at by your doctor to determine how deep the burn is. talk to your doctor about arnica topically or orally.
am very curious to know that what are the signs for a diabetic wound to turn into gangerene. will there be pus or any fluid coming out of the wound.
diabetic grangrene usually are dry gangrene. in this case poor blood circulation to hands or feet causes the tissue decay and produces the bluish or black skin color. there is no oozing or pus. the body part usually the toes or foot turned into dead tissue and must be removed surgically ( amputation) diabetic patients should always take good care of their feet. reference :cdc diabetic care team.
as a teacher i deal with band aids blood and boogers. kids aren't afraid of touching gross things-then me. is there a chance of disease/concerns?
and have the children wash theirs. wear gloves when appropriate i. e. when dealing with body fluids. keep hand sanitizer available and instruct children in its use to avoid spread of viruses. as a teacher you will probably get a lot of colds the first year then be immune thereafter. be sure to get your flu shot.
burnt myself with a curling iron on my knee got a bumpy scar that might have fluid in it?
timing is important. if the burn happened within the past 24 hours you may have a second degree partial thickness thermal injury as evidenced by the blister. generally leave this alone but once it ruptures you will want to keep it clean. if this is an old burn injury then you may be developing hypertrophic (thick scar).
blister because of hot water burn got popped accidentally. now it's oozing yellow liquid. i am using over counter antibiotics cream. what should i do? do i need to see a doctor?
blisters from a 2nd degree burn eventually rupture and drain serous fluid (yellow watery). the overlying dead skin will then slough leaving a red dermal base. new skin then starts growing from the edges (epithelialization) and is initially white then pink. antibiotic ointment is acceptable although the risk for infection is very low. gauze pads/wraps are helpful to absorb the serous drainage.
cut on back of calf 4 weeks not healing i've had a week of fluoxacillian no better. any suggestions to help it heal?
wounds that fail to heal are usually due to other problems. i see you take metformin. is your diabetes controlled? uncontrolled diabetes can be a reason for delayed wound healing. you may need to be treated at a wound care center.
can you sponge a child with alcohol to keep him cool during a heat wave or is that dangerous?
alcohol is not a good idea. alcohol can lower the body temperature too quickly and cause more fluid to evaporate from the body which can be dangerous. try to have the child stay in a cool place with air conditioning or a fan if possible and have him/her drink plenty of fluids.
can you sponge a child with alcohol to keep him cool during a heat wave or is that dangerous?
alcohol. dress child down use cool water and more important provide cool liquids to keep well hydrated also limit activities outdoors when there is heat wave advisory. to improve compliance vary types of fluids offered flavored water meets with greater compliance. enjoy summer and be safe. www. healthtap. com/dr-nnebe
can you sponge a child with alcohol to keep him cool during a heat wave or is that dangerous?
air conditioning or fan cool fluids. alcohol bath is an outdated mode of breaking fever. i do not advise alcohol sponging in a heat wave.
can i fly with cellulitis on my foot+shin? it improved but then worsened with a flight back to the us. i need to fly tonight for a funeral bad idea?
with cellulitis of the leg prolonged sitting can increase pain and redness due to reduced circulation and fluid accumulation. but it's usually an issue of comfort not harm. check with the doc treating you but probably ok to fly. a well fitted medical support stocking will help; keep exercising your feet; and get up and walk the aisle as frequently as you can. details from your own doc please.
can hiv transmit via open wound exposed to urine containing seman pre seminal fluid?
there is a risk albeit small. please consult these two sites for information on this issue. <link> <link>
dog bite on thumb didn't break skin but already have a little dry and broken skin on otherside of thumb. risk of infection? if so what infections?
if dog bites are more than superficial they are usually treated with antibiotics due to the bacteria from the dog's mouth. this is almost always true when the bite is on the face. a superficial bite that can be well cleaned with saline water (flush wound very well with pressure) should be fine. some antibacterial ointment will help.
do you know of a way to relieve pain from venous ulcers?
venous ulcerations are usually due to chronic venous insufficiency secondary to refluxing venous valves in the saphenous or perforating systems of veins. once ulcers form they are difficult to heal and are painful. medication may help to control the pain but the best way to eradicate the pain is to heal the ulcer. you should see a vein specialist for a full venous evaluation including a sonogram.
deep cut on hand been cleaning but drying with bright yellow crystal scab? help!
this needs to be seen. the yellowish fluid could be from the cut extending into a joint which is leaking out and causing the yellowish coloration. this should be evaluated by a hand surgeon if possible or at least seen in the er. get it checked out.
does sucking menustrual blood during cunnilingus can transmit hiv? no open wound/sore in mouth
you should not have this direct exposure to blood or body fluids to any of your blood nor body fluids including saliva and semen and pre ejaculate
diagnosed with cellulitis in my ankle due to fleas bites. gp prescribed 500 mg flucloxacillin 4 times a day for 7 days. i am breastfeeding. too much?
cellulitis has to be treated aggressively so no your medication is not too much
dad diabetic & after a cut on toe had rashes from which fluid comes. is on cefuroxime & has taken them for 3 days still water coming. puts fucadine. help?
a culture needs top be done to guide antibiotic use. surgical debridement may be needed
dad who has diabetes after cut on toe developed skin rash from which lil fluid comes & on cefuroxime & fucadine has lil itching on rash. is it healing!
is a complex issue in diabetics a small neglected wound may lead to a catastrophe even though looks superficial bugs sweep into tissue planes. you must take your father to the family doctor first depending on findings may refer to wound care specialist.
does eating and drinking cold stuff actually help ward off heat exhaustion or it merely feels better?
fluid--hot or cold or room temperature but good volume of fluids rest shade and get to a cool place
does eating and drinking cold stuff actually help ward off heat exhaustion or it merely feels better?
drink plenty of fluids get in to cool water like shower or bath and use cool compresses on body. you need to drink fluids to prevent dehydration and can be at room temp but cold drinks will feel better than warm
for how long will a venous ulcer using compression bandages take to heal?
venous stasis ulcers are due to venous hypertension which is usually due to refluxing (malfunctioning) valves of usually the saphenous or perforator systems. if you are simply wearing compression bandages then you are not addressing the cause of the problem and the ulcer may heal over a long time only to recur. you should see a vein specialist for a venous reflux exam to find the ulcer cause
fingered a girl wit cut on finger n had torn nail. use force did fingering vigorously. cut ws 2day old. 1dot blood came wn injury hppnd. hiv chances?
as long as there no intermingling of fluids you should be safe from hiv.
for a week i have had burps and flatulates. it feels like i have something lodged in my esophagus but sometimes have a burn feeling. is it indigestion?
probably a combination of gastric reflux (causing the burping) and indigestion (contributing to the flatulence). sometimes this can be exacerbated by sipping coffee or tea (swallowing air) or a newly developed intolerance to dairy for instance. you may benefit from a probiotic yogurt also. if this doesn't help see your doctor!
for a week i have had burps and flatulates. it feels like i have something lodged in my esophagus but sometimes have a burn feeling. is it indigestion?
it sounds like acid reflux (gerd). try prilosec. if it persists see a doctor.
for how many days bandage is used on wounds n scrape like cut i have shoe bit on my back side of foot will i cover it for how many days i cover it?
the purpose of wound dressings is to absorb xs exudate (fluid) until wound heals. by itself the dressing will not heal a wound but an improper dressing can impede it. the length of time to heal a wound depends on many factors including cause ur underlying health extent of injury & whether or not improper care is being taken. if wound is caused by a shoe that doesn't fit don't wear it. ttyd.
liposuction and exercise? i just got liposuction done on my abdomen. i would like to keep the weight off through exercise how long do i have to wait after the initial procedure to begin a work out? also should i be doing crunches and muscle toning basic
my general patient guideline is to have patients avoid strenuous activity for 3 weeks after liposuction and to wear a compression binder or garment. this helps avoid the complication of seroma an accumulation of clear yellowish fluid in the space where the fat was removed. regarding exercise crunches will increase muscle tone in the abdominal wall but aerobic exercise will burn more calories. a healthy diet (low in fat) and a well-rounded exercise routine on a regular basis should help you control your weight and look your best.
liposuction and exercise? i just got liposuction done on my abdomen. i would like to keep the weight off through exercise how long do i have to wait after the initial procedure to begin a work out? also should i be doing crunches and muscle toning basic
the sooner you feel like exercising the better. the only restriction after liposuction is your own comfort. as well it is best to minimize agressive high impact activities for a few weeks as it may cause some shearing of the interface between skin/fat and muscle and possibly lead to fluid accumulation. otherwise best results after liposuction are achieved with a healthy diet and exercise to keep your weight stable or even to lose a few pounds after for a better result.
liposuction question is the removal of belly fat by liposuction ever done under local anesthetics?
old fashioned liposuction without local anesthesia is a dinosaur. almost all doctors place anesthesia fluid into the fat for three reasons. first to cause blood loss to be close to zero. it is not uncommon for us to remove 2 liters of fat with less than a tablespoon of blood loss. second the special local fluid prevents the shifting of fluids and salt balance in your body. third special anesthesia fluid can make your post-op recovery easy some patients without pain or bruising whatsoever. the main question to ask your doctor is: do you place a small amount of local (called superwet anesthesia) or a large amount (called tumescent technique). the second consideration regards your awareness and anxiety. doctors will often give choices. examples (from less strong to more strong) are oral valium (so-called â€œawakeâ€ procedure) im valium shot intravenous iv sedation (sleepy but arousable) and general anesthesia. all options are safe for most patients but different patients might strongly prefer one or the other option. best rule of thumb: always use local anesthesia with liposuction and let goldilocks determine the individual approach to anesthesia not too much not too little just the right amount!
should i eat more lighter meals rather less heavy meals to lessen my hiatal hernia symptoms?
eating smaller more frequent meals can improve your hiatal hernia symptoms. keep a food diary to make sure you don't overeat. also try to eat only at meals and avoid empty calories in snacks. lastly try to avoid caffeine and alcohol which can significantly worsen reflux symptoms.
i'm 27 overweight non-smoker. why does the right side of my chest ache after or while drinking alchol and my whole stomach burn drinking wine? ulcers were ruled out.
gastro-esophageal reflux disease (or gerd) occurs when acidic stomach contents are not held in the stomach because of a weak valve between the esophagus and stomach. alcohol commonly brings it on and/or makes it worse. it is more common in people who are overweight and in smokers. avoiding triggers and smoking cessation help as do medications like tagamet (cimetidine) or omeprazole. weight loss also may help
what do you advise if i had liposuction fat transfer 8 month ago and my butty was getting beg but now i start looking my butty pleas?
please see the original surgeon and discuss your options and get evaluated for fluctuations in your weight and the survival of the fat transfer. best wishes.
why hiatal hernia sometimes goes undetected in endoscopy? what all would be the best(no escape) tests to detect a hiatal hernia?
many hhs are the sliding type in which the gastroesophageal junction migrates. during endoscopy the gas from the scope pushes the hernia back into the abdomen making the hernia undetectable. most common symptoms of hhs are reflux. tests for reflux include barium studies ph probe testing and endoscopy. no single test can detect hiatal hernias in all cases.
when is nissen fundoplication recommended for asthma?
a nissan procedure is recommended for severe reflux disease or a hiatal hernia that is causing symptoms not adequately managed by nonpharmacologic means or with medications. because asthma can be caused by reflux it is possible a nissan may be recommended; but this would be very rare. reflux causing asthma is more common in children. long before surgery many treatments for such a problem exist.
want a detox cleanse but don't want to lose lbs? want to wash out toxins and improve immunity. i eat healthy and take occasional detox baths. advice?
there is no easy way to quickly flush out toxins. the best approach is to avoid toxins & support the organs of detoxification but this is best done long-term. the best way to minimize toxins in diet is to eat organic foods avoid gmo's & emphasize veggies & fruits-see <link> support detox with a quality multivit. & herbs like milk thistle. see comment:
why might a small hiatal hernia cause pain and pressure a few hours after sleeping/laying down? pls don't say it won't because it does.
if gastric contents begin pushing up then there can be more reflux which will cause burning and pain. if you sit up and take something like tums (calcium carbonate) and note an improvement in you symptoms this further supports your belief.
will decreasing mirtazipine result in side effects recurring? i. e. at 15mg sleep and eating too much was an issue. im currently on 45mg
mtz (adrenergic receptor antagonist w/ indirect serotonin activation) is generally well-tolerated. it has a quick onset of action. se’s = drowsiness constipation wt. gain dry mouth ; rarely suicidal ideation. sudden stopping can cause anxiety dizziness irritability diarrhea decreased appetite ; flu-like symptoms. slow dose reduction reduces se's. speak w/ provider before changing dose.
why do i get acnes only after eating junk food?
certain foods cause blood glucose(sugar) to rise rapidly triggering rise in insulin and resulting inflammation. excess levels of insulin in the bloodstream trigger endocrine response that can lead to the growth of pore-clogging cells as well as overactive oil gland activity. upping your water intake is great way to flush out internal toxins and hydrate your skin from the inside out.
what amount of calories should i eat to lose weight while breastfeeding?
not knowing your height weight and nutritional needs it's only a guess. and at 48 that's amazing! assume that you would normally lose weight on a 1500 kcal diet. breastfeeding moms burn up an extra 200-300 kcal a day producing breastmilk. thus if you did some light exercise a day and ate 1500kcal you would likely lose weight. make sure to continue to drink lots fluids and calcium daily.
i've pruritus ani for about 6 years. i'm active & not overweight. daytime i get itchy for 5 mins or so on/off. nightime it wakes me. never drank coffee?
often scrupulous anal hygiene can relieve this condition. after you have bowel movement wipe anal area with wet toilet paper or moist wipe that is flushable followed by dry toilet paper. sometimes a little bit of low % cortisone cream (over the counter) can help as well just don't use every day.
i get a single loud hiccup out of nowhere. could that be caused by a hiatal hernia?
hiatal hernias are usually asymptomatic and if symptomatic usually just cause acid reflux. your symptoms of eructation ardmore likely due to acid reflux dysmotility of the esophagus (which can be caused by flexural or tramadol or some sort of diaphragmatic spasm.
why is it that in my left ear i hear like a heartbeat thump like sound in my ear?
sometimes this is normal if it's very quiet and you hear it. it can be caused by negative pressure or fluid in the middle ear. tumors or growths of the middle ear or vascular anomalies can cause this. this has an extensive list of possibilities. you need a good ent history exam and hearing test. this is important to follow-up.
when i'm trying to fall asleep or when i hear low frequencies my eardrum feels like it's vibrating. i can hear and feel it in my ear. what is this?
sounds like fluid behind the ear drum. it could be clear serous fluid or pus. see your md.
which treatments are needed for a hiatal hernia?
it depends. if you have a hiatal hernia and no symptoms (and no significant silent reflux) you don't need to do anything. on the other hand if it is bothering you first try all the different proton pump inhibitors and modify your diet. if the heartburn is still bad then you may need a laparoscopic nissen fundiplication.
weight loss and sweat at night. are these the main and common symptoms of hiv?
while night sweats and weight loss are common symptoms of chronic hiv infection these symptoms are very nonspecific. this means that other infections like a severe flu or tuberculosis or even cancer may cause these symptoms. anyone who has hiv may have different symptoms/manifestations of their hiv. while most may have nights sweats and/or weight loss some may have fevers or oral thrush.
will eating too much sugar cause diarrhea?
yes eating too much sugar can cause diarrhea. if a large amount of sugar makes its way into your intestinal tract it tends to pull fluid from the intestinal wall to the inside. more fluid in the intestines means looser stools and possibly diarrhea.
why do i feel nausea? it starts 1 hour after eating and it's gone in 2 hours. no weight loss or vomiting but occasional hungry pain in stomach.
post prandial nausea is what you have and there are many causes. reflux stomach ulcers. if your symptoms do not get better with decreaseing the portion size and avoiding spicey foods you should see your primary care physician who can get a better hx than that provided here and perform a physical exam. you may need xrays called an upper gi series. stool test to look for nonvisible blood. etc.
went from 216. 2lbs to 212. 8 lbs in one day when sick. how do i lose weight so fast?
in general your weight can fluctuate as much as five pounds throughout the course of the day. if you weight yourself at various points during the day the number of the scale can differ anywhere from a few ounces to a few pounds. when you are sick it may be more especially of you having diarrhea and sweating.
what causes weight fluncuates? when i try to lose weight?
generally when losing weight one wants to lose fat. part of weight is fluid retention which can come from stress too much salt and lack of b-6 or other nutrients to combat stress. a poor diet can cause stress. constipation can also increase weight from retained stool. stress and alcohol can increase free cadmium which increases fat production. reassess your life style to promote health.
what is the treatment for trimethoprim overdose?
the treatment for a bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) overdose will vary. if the overdose was recent a healthcare provider may certain medicines or place a tube into the stomach to "pump the stomach. " treatment also involves supportive care which consists of treating the symptoms that occur as a result of the overdose. for example supportive treatment options may include:plenty of fluids by mouth if possible.
what is the definition or description of: fundoplication?
a fundoplication is wrapping the top of the stomach (fundus) around and attaching it to itself. it can be a partial wrap (toupet fundoplication) or a complete wrap (nissen fundoplication). it is usually used to treat esophageal reflux (gerd).
what is the definition or description of: fundoplication?
a surgical procedure involving making tucks (witch hazel) in the fundus of the stomach around the inferior end of the esophagus. the operation is used in the treatment of gastric acid reflux into the esophagus. google the following. gastroesophageal reflux disease nissen procedure. hope this helps!
i was diagnosed with hiatus hernia. symptoms- some reflux and bad breath. any solutions to bad breath? any home remedies?
baking soda is a good home ready to neutralize acid from reflux often responsible for symptoms. if the hernia is small it probably isn't responsible for the symptoms. i it's large may require surgical repair by an experienced laparoscopic surgeon.
i was diagnosed with hiatus hernia. symptoms- some reflux and bad breath. any solutions to bad breath? any home remedies?
first it is important to brush your teeth twice a day and floss regularly. (make sure to brush the tongue as well) drink lots of water. chewing sugarless gum or sugarless candy will stimulate saliva which will wash away additional debris. you can also use over the counter mouth rinses or antiseptic mouth-rinse products. hope this helped :].
what are the symptoms of a hiatus hernia and what can be done for it?
a hiatal hernia may have no symptoms. sometimes there can be heartburn or acid reflux worse with lying down too soon after eating. rarely can have swallowing difficuties with food sticking in the esophagus. rarely associated with anemia from severe gastritis in the herniated stomach.
what is the healthiest food or drink?
unless you are in an environment or daily perform activities that predispose to dehydration when a doctor asks you to liberalize fluids he/she means for you to drink lots of water and non-sugary or non-salty drinks. that excludes: sodas caffeinated products alcohol highly sweetened products and even "sports" drinks. healthy foods: fruits vegetables whole grains lean meats & moderation.
what does it mean when your weight changes rapidly all the time?
weight fluctuates throughout the day typically due to hydration and water. you can also have fluctuations associated with hormone shifts especially in females. exercise can also lead to rapid weight loss due to water loss.
what are types of birth control that increase estrogen levels and may cause weight loss?
there are birth control pills which contain drospirenone as the progesterone (brand names are yaz (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) & yazmin). drospirenone acts a bit like a diuretic and might cause temporary loss of water weight due to fluid retention. these pills have a greater risk of blood clotting than some others so weigh the risk/benefit ratio carefully when choosing a birth control pill.
is liposuction even safe? are there sides effects?
liposuction is real surgery and carries a small risk of complications. risks of surgery include bleeding and bruising infection multiple small scars fluid collections asymmetry contour irregularities and blood clots. risks are often dependent on your current medical condition. please discuss with your board certified plastic surgeon. <link>
what advice do you have for anyone who has already gotten the gastric bypass?
with gastric bypass avoid excess sliders (soups that go down easily). avoid sipping (makes food flush down). avoid sweets (trigger more hunger). avoi snacks like chips cheese peanuts crackers and others high in fat. get connected with online or doctor support for behavior modification.
what are the chances of a lap band slipping?
lap band slippage occurs when the lower part of the stomach “slips” through the band creating a bigger pouch above the band. either removing fluid (from the lap band) or surgical repositioning is required to repair band slippage. symptoms include vomiting and reflux and it is diagnosed by drinking a dye and using x-ray to observe it. see <link>
what's good relief for persistent heartburn during pregnancy?
gastric reflux may worsen when pregnant. avoid eating late big meals saucy and condimented. specially after 5 pm. digestion is very slow during pregnancy. if you smoke quit and ask your doctor about acid pump inhibitors like pepsid and prilosec. treating gastric reflux aggressively will decrease your morning sickness as well. eat small meals every 3 hours or so. good luck!
whats the best over-the-counter drug thats the same as the phen fen diet drug since they took that one off the market?
i wish there was an alternative to phen/fen. on a brighter side the phentermine-still able to be rx by a knowledgeable weight loss physician was responsible for 11% of the 14% total avg. wt loss of the combo. fenfluramine (pondimin) was responsible for about 3% of the total avg. weight loss. the attractive aspect of fenfluramine was that it mitigated the negative side effects of phentermine.
what the best weight loss drug to buy at the gnc store thats close to the phen - fhen?
however phentermine is available by prescrition and medications similar to fenfluramine are in the pipeline. in gnc there is nada. in th vitamin shoppe you might want to try n-acetyl-cysteine. this takes advantage of a little known trick in stabilizing glutamate in the brain and reducing food cravings.
why do low carb diets cause bad breath? is there a way to fix this without loading on carbs?
a person eating a low-carb diet should be able to avoid food-related bad breath if he chooses foods that are not likely to cause odor. avoid fishy foods onions garlic scallions fermented foods coffee etc. fatty foods may worsen stomach reflux and send odors up to the mouth. excess fiber or other "undigestibles" can lead to gas and odors coming out the other end.
where do doctors get the fat needed for a brazilian butt lift? although i have heard great things about the brazilian butt lift i am concerned that i do not have enough body fat to do it. what areas of the body do doctors usually use to withdraw fat for
during a brazilian butt lift fat is harvested from any area that you want fat reduction. the most common areas include the abdomen flanks (love handles) back and thighs. the whole concept is that we reshape the buttocks and waist to create an hourglass figure. i almost always have to suction out nearly all of the fat at the level of the waist and above the buttocks. in patients with low levels of fat deposits i sometimes propose weight gain prior to surgery to increase donor sites. the problem with this is that the augmentation effect can be highly dependent on fluctuations of weight. so if weight is lost after surgery the effect might me somewhat diminished. these patients might be better candidates for silicone gluteal implants if they are willing to have implants and the potential side effects of implants. <link> <link>
will having a nissen fundoplication affect my ability to breathe normally?
a small subset of people with gerd have reflux of acid up their esophagus and down their trachea (especially at night) with symptoms that are similar to asthma. before proceeding with anti reflux surgery i have all of my patients undergo a 24-hr ph study. this can better assess whether any breathing problems are secondary to reflux.
will having a nissen fundoplication affect my ability to breathe normally?
if reflux was resulting in aspiration pneumonitis then nissen can reduce the reflux which will allow the lungs to potentially recover and your breathing should improve.
will getting a nissen surgery for gerd help me to sleep better at night?
many people with reflux have their worst problems at night when laying flat; sleeping more upright with pillows or even putting the head of the bed elevated on blocks can help. if the reflux is unresponsive to maximal medical management surgery is an option. i strongly advise you to have a 24 hr ph study to objectively measure what is happening when you sleep before considering surgery.
will getting a nissen surgery for gerd help me to sleep better at night?
reflux occurs commonly at night. if you wake up with severe heartburn or coughing then antireflux surgery will likely alleviate these symptoms and help you sleep better at night.
will having a gastric bypass also help my gerd?
but reflux alone is not an indication for gastric bypass.
will having a gastric bypass also help my gerd?
having a gastric bypass will likely improve reflux.
what is the likelihood of a child getting diabetes type 2 if his mom has is but not his dad?
type 2 diabetes has a stronger link to family history and lineage although it too depends on environmental factors. studies of twins have shown that genetics play a very strong role in the development of type 2 diabetes. lifestyle also influences the development of type 2 diabetes. obesity tends to run in families and families tend to have similar eating and exercise habits. if yo.
what is the likelihood of a child getting diabetes type 2 if his mom has is but not his dad?
type ii diabetes is a problem essentially every adult or adolescent may get if their body mass index / weight is excessive. some may develop this at lower weights than others but this disorder is unheard of before puberty & not common until middle age. more important than genetic material is the influence of family feeding patterns. the majority of parents do nor recognize their kid is overweight.
what can cause a person not to lose weight after bariatric surgery?
the type of surgery can influence weight loss. bypass > sleeve > band. diet is also critical. for all procedures eat solid dense foods not sliders that go right through. don't drink with food since it flushes food down. avoid sweets. avoid high calorie snacks like chips cheese nuts peanut butter crackers. go to followup appointments.
what could be the possible benefits of bariatric surgery?
bariatric surgery can help with any of the associated medical problems commonly seen with obesity. following weight loss patients can see improvements in their blood pressure blood sugar reflux disease joint pain sleep apnea and many other things. you should look for a bariatric center of excellence to discuss these matters in more detail.
what could be the possible benefits of bariatric surgery?
surgical weight loss is the single most effective tool at losing and maintaining weight loss especially if you have developed underlying medical conditions such as diabetes and htn. weight loss can improve or resolve diabetes sleep apnea heart disease htn reflux asthma high cholesterol and lipids improve fertility increase life span and decrease risk of some cancer(breast uterine colon) etc.
what are the indications for gastric bypass surgery?
gastric bypass is indicated when the bmi is at least 35 ( about 70 pounds overweight) plus some combination of diabetes heartburn/ reflux sleep apnea hypertension joint disease urinary stress incontinence high cholesterol infertility or heart disease. compared to the sleeve and band you might consider the bypass when you have bad reflux bad diabetes or heavier weight.
i have pain in my ear behind the eardrum is this an ear infection? i would appreciate homeopathic advice!
have you has a cold recently? any congestion? the pain you are feeling could be an infection or it could be a blocked eustachian tube (allows for pressure equalization on both sides of the eardrum). drinking a lot of fluids can help loosen the mucus to help open things up. the water you drink is a homeopathic remedy since that is all homeopathy is. i hope you feel better soon if not see doc.
why is it when i go from eating candy n icecream every night junk food daily to eating healthy and exercising daily. there is very minimal weight loss? i'm 46 i work out and do 20 min a day uphill on treadmill. i cut out my junk food. and in 2 weeks 0
you are oscillating between extremes. cut the binging out and you will lose weight. remeber exercise will cause a natural compensatory fluid retention to increase your plasma volume. this is normal physiology. second you may be increasing muscle mass. but even if you do not lose weight you will still obtain health benefits from physical activity!
when does most weight gain occur in pregnancy?
the vast majority of weight gain should occur at the end of the third trimester when patients are retaining fluid. unfortunately many gain lots of the weight in the beginning. you only need 300 calories more per day at the end of pregnancy. eating for two is not a true statement.
what can i do for cravings during pregnancy?
obviously good diet is important. however good hydration is very important in pregnancy. try fluids like tea in lieu of junk foods. finally some people are amenable to hypnotic techniques to curb dietary indiscretions. good luck.
i have sliding hiatal hernia and sometimes have pain there should i have to get surgery for it?
hiatal hernia is a bulging of part of the stomach through the esophageal hiatus into the chest. the incidence increases with age; up to 60% of individuals older than 50 have radiologic findings but only a minority have symptoms. surgical repair may be recommended when the patient has severe heartburn inflammation of the esophagus from reflux aspiration pneumonia. in most patients antacids work.
is there a best time of day to excercise to lose weight? and how much is safe to lose per week? if you're heavier will the weight loss be faster?
the best time is before meals. initially weight loss can be rapid due to water/fluid loss and then will gradually reduce thereafter if the exercise continues and the appropriate diet is used.
i have schatzki ring and have had dialation 3 xs in 6 month periond and the dialtion don't help have gerd hiatal hernia will fundoplication help all?
unusual for dilitations not to help. what would i do? have a board certified gastroenterologist try again using a different method and possibly inject the area with a steroid solution. a nissen may help if recurrence due to cuncontrolled reflux.
i have gerd hiatal hernia schatzki ring have had diation x3 in 6 mnth period what kinda surgery would help tired of all the pain?
a hiatal hernia repair and fundoplication could help with your reflux symptoms. and by taking care of the reflux may make it possible to not require future dilations.
i feel legs tingly and heart beart stronger after long periods of standing up. eat healthy exercise daily. had blood work done good. possible cause?
the human body is not well designed for prolonged standing. it takes a lot of muscle activity to keep us both upright and still even if we are going anywhere. the symtpoms you describe should like the effects of continued exertion sustaining your posture. this is normal. to avoid it do more conditioning and aerobic exercises and leg lifts and squats. drink plenty of fluids and eat well.
i have sleep apnea large tonsils acid reflux. everytime i fall asleep aftr a few sec i suddenly wake up like gasping for air.?
you should see a sleep physician for an evaluation and diagnosis before discussing treatment options.
i have sleep apnea large tonsils acid reflux. everytime i fall asleep aftr a few sec i suddenly wake up like gasping for air.?
the first question is are you over weight or obese? if your sleep apnea is due to obesity first concentrate on weight loss. if you are morbidly obese then consider an appointment with a bariatric surgeon. simple solution is to put the head of the bed on some 2x4 to elevate your head. discuss this with your primary or lung specialist that diagnosed your sleep apnea.
i was asleep and now feels like something is in my ear moving around and i can't hear anything?
may be water/fluid in the ear canal or possibly cerumen (ear wax) that is occluding the canal. there are otc ear wax removal kits (follow instructions) or u can see pcp to have ear checked & irrigated if indicated.
is there a certain amount of fat that liposuction can get rid of?
for out-patient procedures 5000 cc's is the recognised safe limit. larger volume would require in-patient settings because the patient's fluid intake and output status would have to be carefully monitored.
i've got a hiatal hernia 8cm+ and i get indigestion and heartburn every day now i've started bringing up food soon as i eat. what can i do?
your sizable hiatal hernia may be contributory to your symptoms. is it fixed sliding para-esophageal? before you consider surgery for the hiatal hernia and its manifestations of gerd have you tried and failed appropriately-dosed acid blocker agents and anti-reflux diet modification? has a ph study and manometry been considered? does your stomach empty normally?
i have pcos a large hiatus hernia keep getting utis & kidney stones. i feel like the doctors think i'm annoying them. i go at least once a fortnight?
large hiatal hernias cause problems swallowing chest pain and sometimes reflux symptoms. not related to kidneys and bladder. see a general surgeon with experience in hiatal hernia repair for more info about your situation. best of luck!
i am suffering from acid reflux(gerd) and hiatus hernia from last 5 years. my h pylori tests always come +ve. is there any way to treat it permanently?
how was the positive h. pylori test obtained? blood test can be falsely positive only reflecting antibodies from past infection. biopsy by endoscopy is most sensitive choice for testing. also a breath test for h. pylori is more accurate than blood testing to see if the infection is still active. needs a full course of multiple specific antibiotics to treat an active infection.
i am suffering from acid reflux(gerd) and hiatus hernia from last 5 years. my h pylori tests always come +ve. is there any way to treat it permanently?
if you are still having symptoms and are h pylori positive you should see your gastroenterologist and will need a course of multiple antibiotics to get rid if this organism. this should relieve your problem.
is there a shot that reduces yeast in the body i've tried everything from condom changes diet changes even a 6 month treatment of fluconzole sp?
or an infectious dis doc or a gi doc as u may have it in your gi tract and would need long term oral medication.
is there a shot that reduces yeast in the body i've tried everything from condom changes diet changes even a 6 month treatment of fluconzole sp?
yeast in or on one's body is normal and does not generally have adverse effects.
i asked already in another question what to do; i have white flakes in my ear and also in the folds of my ear. (so its not so easy to put lotion on it). i shower daily with shampoo could it be an influence?
seems to be a fungal infection. fungus are difficult to eliminate. treatment is usually long and sometimes requires systemic medicine not just topical. consult a dermatologist.
i asked already in another question what to do; i have white flakes in my ear and also in the folds of my ear. (so its not so easy to put lotion on it). i shower daily with shampoo could it be an influence?
it sounds like you have a mild dermatitis and it should respond to hydrocortisone over-the-counter. the cream warms up quickly and should be easy enough to get behind your ears and in the ear canal but don't put it too far in. it only needs a little bit on your finger and you can rub it on the inside of your ear canal as well as behind your ear. that should take care of things. if not see your dr.
is taking spirulina as well as a daily multivitamin too much?
spirulina is to alkalanize the urine help with reflux and has zero contraindications to a daily multivitamin.
if i am having surgery next week for my reflux (fundoplication) should i expect to lose weight?
reflux surgery is to decrease acid reflux not for weight reduction.
is it possible to still get pregnant after you have gastric bypass surgury for acid reflux disease?
yes it is still possible to have pregnancy aftergastric surgery for acid reflux.
is age 72 too old to have hiatial hernia repair or i will be ok?
surgeons often perform hiatal hernia repairs on patients your age. whether you are a candidate depends on your overall health. if you have significant reflux or pain you should consult with a surgeon who performs these repairs to determine whether you are a good candidate.
i'm experiencing severe painful constipation. what diet changes are needed?
if you simply cannot pass stool and feel very uncomfortable a rectal suppository may induce a bowel movement. if that does not work opt for a fleet enema. that's a first aid treatment. a high fiber and high fluis diet should be instituted immediately. further evacuation problems need you to take laxatives; miralax (polyethylene glycol) is one. persistent problems needs evaluation by your doctor.
is shortness of breath and hard lump in the abdomen the result of end stage liver disease?
ascites is a condition commonly associated with end stage liver disease where the abdominal cavity is filled with fluid that seeps out of the liver. medication can help sometimes supplemented by draining the fluid with a needle-catheter. with severe ascites the abdomen gets large making it difficult to take deep breaths. also it is common for umbilical hernias to develop causing a hard lump.
is weight gain normal on low dose birth control pills?
typically long term weight gain is not associated with low dose birth control pills. upon starting a new pill there may be temporary fluid retention resulting in a 2-3 lb weight gain throught the first 2 to 3 packs of pills. this usually abates with long term use.
is hiatal hernia surgery done as an out-patient surgery?
it depends on the extent of your surgery. many of my patients who had simple small hiatal hernias repaired with concurrent antireflux procedure do go home the same day.
i'm not from usa do you think a surgeon should perform fundoplication op on someone with a 24hr ph de meester score of 1. i have many questions?
there is a good correlation between documentation of acid reflux & demeester score. if the score of 1 is the sole reason provided as justification for the fundoplication standard of care would indicate it is not warranted. of course there are variables not listed. was testing done while on therapy etc?
i'm not from usa do you think a surgeon should perform fundoplication op on someone with a 24hr ph de meester score of 1. i have many questions?
a demeester score of 1 is normal. if this study was done off meds then i'm not sure you have significant reflux. get a second opinion.
is it true you only make new fat cells as a child and as an adult you don't lose them but they just shrink or grow?
new fat cells are generally made in infancy adolescence and pregnancy. they can fill or shrink at any age but the hormonal influences of rapid growth (infant teen) or pregnancy influences the creation on new ones. this is one reason to assure those at risk maintain a healthy life style. once created the fat cell persists unless removed with surgery or liposuction.
if i go on a low low calorie diet while i breast feed is my baby not going to get enough vitamins?
your body needs to take in enough calories to produce adequate breast milk. if you reduce your calories too much over exercise or not take in enough fluids your milk production will drop off. what breast milk you make will be nutritious it is the quantity that can suffer. most women will lose weight naturally with breast feeding. eat healthy with good sources of protein fruit and veges.
i have an ear ache that is on the inside of my ear and my ear feels like there is pressure in my ear. could this be and ear infection?
pressure feeling in the inside of ear could represent just fluid in the middle ear or viral infection secondary to upper respiratory tract infection. usually self limited disease unless start having marked pain fever hearing problem then seek medical attention. sometimes bacterial infection can complicate the problem on top of viral infection. usually more common at younger age boys
is weight gained while pregnant more and more with next pregnancies?
weight gain is composed of three compartments in pregnancy: the baby and fluid; water retention; and fat. generally babies are bigger with subsequent pregnancies so a little goes to the baby. if there are some biochemical or hormone issues more water retention is possible. but fat is fat and its 1 pound for every 3500 calories beyond what you need. so keep calories controlled.
i have been tired irritable and can't seem to lose weight. i have been working out 5 days week eating about 1600 calorie diet. i have celiac disease and i am eating a gluten free diet just had a colonoscopy that was normal.
i am glad you have had a medical evaluation. please be sure you are drinking plenty of fluids to flush out your system. also please be sure you have had your thyroid hormones tested. if you continue your symptoms please be seen by your physician to have a complete evaluation.
i've gained 25 pounds in 3 weeks. i eat a healthier diet now then i ever have. im now 292lbs. why can't i lose weight and why am i gaining so quickly?
gaining 25 lb in 3 weeks is equivalent to consuming about 28 000 extra calories a week. that's pretty difficult even with a bad diet. are you retaining fluid have htn chf or kidney problems? have you stopped taking any medication or started any new ones? if not accurately track your calories for a couple of days and see your family doc for further evaluation. check your weight in the morning.
i have poor eating habits its hard for me to lose weight how do i go about it?
plan your meals and your snacks. avoid highly processed carbs and/or fatty foods which are "addictive" drinks lots of fluids. remember a successful diet starts by adding healthy food (like salads and fruits) not by subtracting food. subtracting leads to deprivation and that leads to failure. if cravings persist certain medications curb food cravings.
indigestion? i''m 58 yrs old never had it before & in the last couple days i've had it. i don't eat or drink alcohol after 7pm not overweight non-smoker. just not sure why this is happening. not sure what to eat or drink. i also don't eat fried or
heartburn is a symptom of acid refluxing into the lower esophagus which can occur in conditions where the valve (sphincter) becomes weaker; it also happens when there is excess acid. if it is a new symptom and is persistent you should see your doctor and may need evaluation of your stomach and esophagus by endoscopy or xray. if you are a smoker that can cause it and you should quit.
i had to walk for 2 minutes to get to the store two days after i had fat transfered from my belly to my cheeks and under eyes. i walked slowly but i was out of breath a bit. i feel so scared that by walking the fat will come off. is it okay towalk two d
as my colleague said shortness of breath is potentially life threatening and demands prompt attention. if you mean dizziness though you're probably dehydrated. first the pre-op starvation then possibly a large amount of fat removal with possibly insufficient rehydration can and frequently does lead to some dizziness due to a lowered blood pressure. rehydrate with electrolyte-containing fluids.
is it possible to lose weight in your feet? if you lose weight is it possible for you to lose it in your feet or is it water weight lost?
a person can lose weight in their feet due to loss of muscle mass as well as fluid retention.
is it possible to lose weight in your feet? if you lose weight is it possible for you to lose it in your feet or is it water weight lost?
yes the fat cells in your feet could have shrunk with weight loss. if you lost a significant amount of weight and implemented diet changes (lower in salt and fat) it is also possible that the your feet appear thinner due to decreased water retention and better cardiac function since these items can cause edema (fluid retention) in the feet.
is there a difference between gerd and a hiatus hernia?
gerd is gastroesophageal reflux disease or reflux. you can have reflux and not a hiatal hernia. you can also have a hiatal hernia which could make your reflux worse. a hernia is an enlarged opening in the diaphragm where the esophagus comes through into the abdominal cavity. with a hh the stomach can slide up into the chest. you can have a hh without reflux. most often they go together.
is it normal for low calorie diet resulting rapid weight loss?
rapid weight loss has the following risks - gallstones which occur in 12% to 25% of people losing large amounts of weight over several months. dehydration which can be avoided by drinking plenty of fluids. malnutrition usually from not eating enough protein for weeks at a time. electrolyte imbalances which rarely can be life threatening.
is it possible to lose 12 pounds in 3 days?
what kind of weight? fluid of body fat. a pound of fat is approximately 3500 calories. no way to lose 12 pounds of body fat in 3 days. i'm assuming you want to lose your excess fat(? ) not just weight. also not safe way to proceed.
is it possible to lose 12 pounds in 3 days?
if something is wrong as in the stomach flu with much vomiting and diarrhea a person could lose 12 pounds of poop and water in 3 days but he will be weak dehydrated and way off balance in his body's salts and chemicals. a normal weight loss diet cannot burn off 12 pounds of fat in 3 days.
i have gained 55lbs in the last year despite exercise low fat diet and constant breast feeding. what is wrong with me? ! i have gained 55lbs in the last year despite exercise low fat diet and constant breast feeding. what is wrong with me? !
our bodies evolved over the centuries to try to keep fat on. this helped our ancestors survive through hard winters and time periods when they didn't have enough food. some people have metabolisms that are better at keeping fat on than other people. obviously nowadays that is not something that we want. there are some metabolic conditions that can cause weight gain such as hypothyroidism so you may need to have a blood test to check for that. it is very common during the child-bearing years to gain weight due to hormone fluctuation and the body trying to conserve fat. many women also feel very hungry when they are breastfeeding too. it sounds like you are doing everything right with diet and exercise and eventually it will pay off but don't be too hard on yourself.
is obesity a common cause of gerd?
gerd gastroesophageal reflux disease (commonly knows as heartburn) is seen more frequently in people with obesity. in a study published in the annals of internal medicine in 2005 which looked at a group of gerd studies an association was seen between obesity and not only gerd but also erosive esophagitis and esophageal adenocarcinoma. ann intern med. 2005 aug 2;143(3):199-211.
is obesity a common cause of gerd?
obesity increases the pressure on the lower esophageal sphincter causing food in the stomach to reflux into the esophagus. losing weight is a great way to decrease the incidence of gerd in an obese person. a! 0% weight loss from the starting weight is enough to make a difference in the severity and frequency of the episodes.
is anemia common with hiatal hernia?
the most common symptom associated with a hiatal hernia is heartburn secondary to gerd (gastroesophageal reflux disease). this may lead to inflammation of the esophagus but should not cause anemia. a paraesophageal hernia is a rare variant of a hiatal hernia that can cause chronic anemia due to trauma to the stomach. these problems are best evaluated by upper endoscopy.
i have a hiatal hernia am i more likely to get gastroesophageal cancer?
people with hiatal hernias usually have some gastroesophageal reflux (gerd). gerd is a risk factor for esophageal cancer. that said nearly half of the us population has gerd and esophageal cancer although slowly increasing remains a very rare cancer. if you have reflux you should be followed by a primary care or gastroenterologist but it is still very unlikely that you will develop cancer.
i have a hiatal hernia am i more likely to get gastroesophageal cancer?
barrett's esophagus are cellular changes along the lower lining of the esophagus in response to prolonged acid exposure secondary to reflux. this may be associated with pre-cancerous changes or even esophageal cancer and is believed to explain the rising incidence of these cancers in the us.
i have a hiatal hernia am i more likely to get gastroesophageal cancer?
chronic reflux is the main cause of esophageal adenocarcinoma. it is the fastest growing cancer in the u. s. hiatal hernias tend to make reflux worse. the important thing is to have an endoscopy to get checked.
i have a hiatal hernia am i more likely to get gastroesophageal cancer?
by definition barrett's esophagus is a form of metaplasia which is a change in the normal cell type in that portion of the esophagus. it is caused by continual exposure to gastric acid (reflux) into the esophagus and it is the esophagus's way of trying to protect itself for the damaging acid in our stomach. it can lead to cancer and needs to be watched closely. hiatal hernia can cause reflux.
is tumescent liposuction less invasive than typical liposuction? i'm looking for a way to reduce my love-handles. is tumescent liposuction less risky than regular liposuction because local anesthetic is an option?
liposuction is real surgery and the risks of liposuction are the same whether it is done under local or under general anesthesia. tumescent fluid is always used during liposuction (local or general anesthesia) to reduce blood loss. the major risks of liposuction include: bleeding infection pain multiple small scars contour irregularity asymmetry seromas blood clots and fat embolism. tumescent anesthesia for liposuction is a technique that adds local anesthetic to the tumescent fluid to allow liposuction to be performed without a general anesthetic. this can be done safely for small areas however becomes risky for large treatment areas as the local anesthetic doses can reach toxic levels. general anesthesia is very safe and you would be additionally monitored by an anesthetist. for more info: <link> <link>
is acid reflux related to snoring and hiccups?
snoring is more associated with the airway and may be reflective of sleep apnea. hiccups are non-specific and reflect irritation to the diaphragm. hiccups may be associated with acid reflux. belching is also commonly associated with gerd.
is acid reflux related to snoring and hiccups?
yes. snoring is a sign of sleep apnea- stopping breathing for at least 10 seconds at a time. the build up of pressure causes pressure on the stomach causing acid to be forced back up the throat.
is acid reflux related to snoring and hiccups?
i can't speak to the hiccup question but gerd is definately linked to sleep apnea of which robust snoring may be a sign. in other words if you snore a lot you may also have obstructive sleep apnea (osa). it is a serious disease that can greatly affect your health and longevity. people with osa are much more likely to have reflux dissease. speak to your md about having a sleep test.
i am struggling with my weight at the moment but every time i go on a diet i suffer from constipation. what can i do?
fiber can help your intestines hold on to enough fluid to keep your stool soft. fiber also helps people feel full and since it isn't absorbed adds no calories. many fresh fruits & veggies and whole grains are high in fiber. drinking plenty of water will also help - aim for 2 liters per day while you're dieting. finally exercise helps stimulate the bowels to keep things moving on the inside.
is it normal to feel bloated after a tummy tuck and a liposuction?
swelling & fluid retention is very common after surgery. in fact you may actually weigh more after surgery than prior to surgery due to the fluid. do not worry unless it is localized and creates a "fluid wave" in which case it may be a sign of seroma. diuretics have been suggested but not typically prescribed. swelling may persist in lower abdomen for months and lymphatic massage exercise may help.
i need some answers about current symptoms i am having. i am a recovering alcoholic. i have only been sober for 11 days. i also had a gastric bypass in 2004. i was drinking a 5 liter box of wine a day and prior i was drinking vodka. within the last 4
the sudden weight gain swelling and low back pain seem to point to a kidney issue. it is possible that your kidney function has decreased which is causing your body to not filter fluid effectively and instead retain large amounts fluids (leading to swelling in the body). however the swelling can also be attributed to congestive heart failure where your heart is not functioning properly so blood and fluid gets backed up into the body system. seeing a doctor is crucial. if the pain becomes too severe to tolerate it is prudent to go to the emergency department.
is it true that high cholesterol contributes to impotency?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
if your waist to hip ratio is high why is it a risk factor for heart disease?
fat has recently been found to be a major source of hormones and inflammatory cytokines. these hormones may have an increased influence on the heart and other organs when the fat that produces them is distributed within the abdomen as what is called visceral adiposity. the waist/hip ratio measures the visceral adiposity associated with heart disease diabetes and high blood pressure/cholesterol.
is it true that garlic can help with weight loss?
anything as beneficial as garlic will help with weight loss in one way or another. garlic improves metabolism and lowers inflammation which in itself is helpful with weight loss. there is some evidence that it directly influences the number of fat cell formation and size. it also provides nutrients for healthier hormonal balance so it really is good. only remember high heat destroys it!
is mediaxal used for obesity treatments for weight reduction?
mediaxal is a derivative of fenfluramine that was used in france etc to augment diabetes treatment. however the modest benefit did not outweigh the cardiac problems so it was withdrawn. for more info please refer to: <link>
if i have calcium-oxalate kidney stones what diet should i follow to prevent the formation of more stones?
avoid dehydration; follow diet: avoid spinach rhubarb strawberries nuts chocolate tea wheat bran and all dry beans; increase citrate: orange juice 8 oz twice daily; realemon extract: 5 tblspns per day; increase fluid 4 liters/day; only 4 oz meat/day; 4-5 fruits/day; maintain low salt; egg white 2 per day as additional protein; 25 mg hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) daily to reduce ca in urine - this will work;
is there a link between insulin resistance and vision loss?
the strongest link is between elevated or fluctuating blood sugars and blurred vision. unstable blood sugars cause fluid shifts in the eye's lens which in turn causes vision instability. prolonged high blood sugar can cause damage to the small blood vessels in the film layer (retina) which can lead to permanent vision loss.
is a body lift procedure done on an inpatient or outpatient basis? i had a lap band procedure done a few years ago and after trying different exercises and creams i cannot firm up the excess skin under my arms. i would like to have a body lift done but
a body lift procedure is a major surgery that entails removing excess skin all the way around the lower abdomen. since this procedure is extensive and lengthy general anesthesia and an overnight hospital stay is requiried. this procedure produces massive results and improvement in body image. it does not come without risk. risks such as infection bleeding allergic reaction the anesthesia fluid collection hematoma and fatality are possible. you may return to normal activities typically in about 2-4 weeks but no strenous activity for 8 weeks. you will have a lot to think about in terms of self care and recovery if you have small children. congratulations on your weight loss!
i have had fluid in my ear for about 3 months now i saw my doctor about 2 months ago about this and he confirmed that i indeed had water in my ear. he gave me some anti biotics to treat any possibility of an infection in that ear and i took them all as di
this seems reasonable. return to your physician to assess the status of the serous otitis media.
i have had fluid in my ear for about 3 months now i saw my doctor about 2 months ago about this and he confirmed that i indeed had water in my ear. he gave me some anti biotics to treat any possibility of an infection in that ear and i took them all as di
chronic ear fluid is a common problem for a lot of kids and some adults. it is due to eustachian tube dysfunction (when the tube that connects the ear to the throat is not draining properly). if this is a new problem for you it is important that you have a thorough exam by an otolaryngologist to make sure the reason why your ear won't drain is because your eustachian tube is being blocked by a mass or tumor in your nasopharynx. since there are no medications shown to alleviate the pressure or drain the fluid from behind the ear drum it has to be done by a surgeon with a suction and/or ear tubes. you can try taking motrin or tylenol (acetaminophen) for the ear discomfort but the fluid will either have to drain out on its own or drain out from an ear surgeon poking a hole in the drum to let it out. legal disclaimer: i am providing this general and basic information as a public service and my response to this question does not constitute a doctor-patient relationship. for any additional information advice or specific concerns please speak with your own physician. the information provided is current as of the date of the answer entry.
is it normal to have cataplexy when in withdrawal from ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate)?
stimulants do not really have a withdrawal syndrome in the way alcohol or opiates do. there may be a "crash" when people are no longer under it's influence with a great deal of fatigue and lethargy sometimes. but i have never heard or read of cataplexy -- without knowing exactly your symptoms i don't know if its really cataplexy. you should see a neurologist or your primary care dr.
if i ever wake up at night choking does this mean i have sleep apnea?
waking up choking is far more likely due to reflux than apnea.
if i ever wake up at night choking does this mean i have sleep apnea?
this may be a symptom of sleep apnea. this could also be esophageal acid reflux. if you snore and you wake up choking. it may be apnea.
is liposuction a good way to lose weight?
self- discipline diet exercise is best. liposuction best for localized fat deposits ( lipodystrophy) especially slim lipo. massive lipo has been done but requires massive iv fluids replacement in the hospital after surgery.
if i wake up choking from throwing up does this mean i have sleep apnea?
there are many conditions including post nasal drip and reflux that can cause throwing up. sleep apnea is another one- you can get tested for reflux and sleep apnea. discuss it with your doctor.
is it possible to have gastric bypass after having a nissen surgery for gerd?
gastric bypass remains the best operation for patients with a prior nissen (a wrapping of stomach to treat acid reflux). the bypass instantly prevents further acid and bile from going up the esophagus. you would want to go to an experienced surgeon who has done plenty.
is there a relationship with type 1 diabetes and obesity?
if the question is do chubby kids get type 1 dm more often than others the answer is no. given that about 1/3 of usa kids are heavier than they should be the fluffy ones still get type 1 @ the same rate as others. kids with poorly controlled dm can and do become overweight later do to a combination of issues. this is different from type 2 wher obesity is almost always a triggering factor.
i often experience chest pain right in the middle of my chest. what could this be? the chest pain does lasts a few seconds and is quite sharp. it happens every few days sometimes more than once a day. i am a 26 year old female and i am not overweight and
possibly reflux esophagitis -- talk with your doctor -- consider upper gi evaluation.
i hate having to clear my throat. will dieting help?
being overweight can cause esophageal reflux which could then cause chronic throat clearing but that is quite a stretch. if throat clearing is from chronic sinus drainage dieting will not help.
i hate having to clear my throat. will dieting help?
throat clearing can be from acid reflux. if this acid reflux is caused by being overweight losing some weight may definitely help relieve some of your throat clearing. feel better.
is it possible for your weight to fluctuate a couple pounds day to day?
a person's weight can fluctuate a couple of pounds each day depending on how much food water poop and pee are (or are not) in his body at the time he is weighed. if he is weighed with his clothes on then one must also consider the weight of the clothes and items in the pockets.
is obesity genetic?
obesity clearly "runs in families". this is apparent by simply observing body appearances among parent and child. now we have found over 80 different genes that are preferentially found in obese individuals. the genes influence the metabolic rate (how many calories you burn) hunger hormone levels fatty deposit tendencies and many others. identical twin studies also support a gene answer.
i am 5 weeks pregnant. i am unable to eat healthy due to vomiting sensation. will this affect baby?
nausea+vomiting in pregnancy can start at 5-6 weeks peak at 8-10 weeks and for most women it resolves at 12 weeks. approximately 20% continue to have issues later on. attempting to get fluids in and some calories daily will prevent dehydration and vitamin+nutrient deficiencies. to control nausea+vomiting it is good to eat dry crunchy food+sip on fluids or ice chips or popsicles throughout the day.
i'm a month pregnant and i couldn't eat healthy due to nausea. i suffer stomach burn & ache. wt to do?
your doc may be able to give you some basic medications (eg vitamin b6) to control your nausea. eating smaller portioned meals may help your nausea and avoid spicy foods/caffeine if possible until the nausea reduces. if your nausea persists despite treatment you may need some stronger medications and iv fluids.
i have a hiatus hernia and i have been vomiting brown liquid today is that normal? from scotland and visiting the us. need to know if i should go to a walk in clinic?
a hiatal hernia is the protrusion of the stomach above the diaphragm occasionally leading to heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease. sometimes untreated acid reflux can cause severe esophageal irritation (esophagitis) and stomach irritation (gastritis) which can lead to bleeding. the safest thing for you to do is to see a doctor to be examined and have your vomit checked for blood (which can look red brown or black in vomit). good luck!
i am currently taking prozac 20 mg and have been experiencing these side effects: i am currently taking prozac 20 mg and have been experiencing these side effects: dizziness weakness weight gain confusion memory loss and lately i'm always fatigued. i
general rule: any medication can cause any side effect. all of the problems you mention might be caused by prozac (fluoxetine). but keep in mind that any or all of them might be due to other causes. the best way to address this is in a discussion with your physician who will help you look at the onset and course of the problems and examine them in the context of your overall healthcare needs.
i have adult acne. i use good hygiene eat healthy and exercise. is there anything else (or more specific) i can do with my lifestyle to reduce it?
adult acne rosacea which is composed of red bumps and pustules blood vessels and in some men a thickening of the nasal skin and oil glands called rhinophyma. some dietary restrictions may minimize flushing but not necessarily the number of new acne lesions. another form of adult acne may be hseems to be a whitehead-like acne around the neck and jaw of women in their 30s & may be hormonal.
is it safe to pour hydrogen peroxide in my ear to remove earwax?
i would recommend it; just a few drops is all you need. . then let sit for a few minutes. never stick q-tips in your ears! if the problem doesn't 'sound' any better then have your doctor examine you; you may need a cerumen flush.
i've been on antibiotics for 8 days for an ear infection. i still have fluid in my ear and the pain is returning. should i return to pcp?
occasionally fluid behind the eardrum will actually need to be drained. also if the fluid is coming from the sinuses and not the ear itself treatment may need to be adjusted. either way if your symptoms are returning or worsening definitely get back in and let them have another look.
i've been on antibiotics for 8 days for an ear infection. i still have fluid in my ear and the pain is returning. should i return to pcp?
after you have had an ear infection the fluid can stay around for 3 months or longer. in about 50% of people it is gone in 1 month in 90% it is gone in 3 months. if the pain is intense it may be that the infection is not fully cleared. if it is pain associated with popping and crackling in the ears but is otherwise not there then it may just be left over fluid that is not infected.
i've been on antibiotics for 8 days for an ear infection. i still have fluid in my ear and the pain is returning. should i return to pcp?
when an ear infection clears steirile fluid may remain. speak to your doctor to determine if you are experiencing serious otitis media which might be helped with decongetants. part of the differential diagnosis is tmj paiin which can present like otits media pain. your doctor shoud be able to differentiate.
i'm a diabetic type 2 and i have arthritis in my lower back what meds should i be taking for my lower back i also have cad?
what type of arthritis do you have in your lower back? there can be many reasons for people to have back pain. your evaluation will define the type you have to try to develop your best therapy. t2dm and cad will also influence what you can take. medication can be helpful but exercise and weight loss are important posture evaluation also helps.
is it dangerious to try to loose waight by useing laxitives?
true weight loss is losing excess stores of fat. using laxatives only eliminates fluid and excess stool. although this will reduce your weight on the scale temporarily it's not a long term solution. using laxatives can potentially dehydrate you and cause electrolyte imbalance such as low potassium. it can have other adverse affects by altering the intestinal flora excess gas and colon dilation.
is it dangerious to try to loose waight by useing laxitives?
laxatives should not use to loose weight the loss will be temporary and at the cost of causing other problems. you will lose needed fluid and electrolytes and may become dependent on using laxatives to have normal bowel movements if you use these on long term basis.
i keep gaining weight but i don't eat much is there a medical reason for this?
hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone) cushing's syndrome (too much cortisol) med side effects inactivity fluid retention; there are many reasons why weight could increase despite not eating much. regardless apart from retaining too much fluid (eg. congestive heart failure) if weight is increasing it is because the number of calories exceeds the body's need.
is ephedrine safe as a wt loss aid to help suppress appetite? only 20 lbs to lose as my bmi is just over avg. i take prozac (fluoxetine). need appetite self contro
ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) is somewhat effective as an appetite suppressant but is generally not considered safe for frequent use because it is a stimulant that shares similar properties with cocaine. as a result it can cause elevations of blood pressure and rarely dangerous heart rhythm problems.
is ephedrine safe as a wt loss aid to help suppress appetite? only 20 lbs to lose as my bmi is just over avg. i take prozac (fluoxetine). need appetite self contro
there is no one-size-fits-all recommendation. medication is a long term no win situation. research is proving people regain their weight. there are metabolic forces that should be addressed ; thyroid ect. it does tend to be a problem of excess calorie intake due to a push by stress or other emotional push. all that said one does have to have access to good food and nutrition.
i have fluid in my ear whay should i do?
fluid in the ear can be secondary to a current ear infection and antibiotics may be indicated. it may also be secondary to allergies causing eustachian tube dysfunction and nasal treatment may be indicated. an otolaryngologist should evaluate the ear and the nasal cavity to ensure that it is not more concerning.
i have fluid in my ear whay should i do?
see your doctor to have it evaluated and possibly treated by him. if it recurs you might need to see an ear nose and throat doctor to determine why this continues to happen.
i have fludied in my ear my doctor gave me meds and then i went to a ear nose and thoat doctor and he told me to stop taking it. what should i do?
i would suggest follow the advise of your ent. do you have a followup appt with you ent?
i have fludied in my ear my doctor gave me meds and then i went to a ear nose and thoat doctor and he told me to stop taking it. what should i do?
i would tend to trust the ent about his recommendations. unfortunately it does not sound as if he explained why he thought you should stop the medicine. very often patients see their primary care doctors complaining that their ear bothers them and are told their ear is red or there is some fluid. i look and the ear is completely normal. ears are tricky sometimes. it may be your jaw not your ear.
i have fludied in my ear my doctor gave me meds and then i went to a ear nose and thoat doctor and he told me to stop taking it. what should i do?
usually fluid in your ears is not treated unless it is there for an extended amount of time. you did not state what medications you were given but usually they are not too helpful. i would listen to the ent who you consuslted.
i'm new in hemodialysis. howmis the best diet and nutrition for people with hemodialysis? thank you
as every patient is different it would be best to see a dietician. but in general you need to limit fluids sodium phosphorus and possibly potassium and calcium. before dialysis you needed to limit protein but most people on dialysis are encouraged to eat high-quality protein such as fish poultry and egg whites. protein helps you keep muscle better fight infection and heal from injury.
it feels like i have liquid in my ear when i yawn or hold my nose and blow. what is that. ?
the middle ear is a closed space except for a "pop-off valve" called the eustachian tube. the maneuvers you describe can force the eustachian tube open leading to some small pressure changes in the middle ear. this may be the sound you are hearing. you might also have some actual fluid in the middle ear. a quick ear exam can help differentiate.
i have had heartburn for 3 days what can cause this? can the lapband cause it? and how can i get rid of it?
it is not uncommon for the band to cause reflux if it is to tight. the simplist thing to do is remove some of the fluid and the symptoms should resolve immediately. it is less likely that this is a heart attack or an aneurysm unless you have a history of these problems. if removing fluid doesn't solve the problem than more extensive and expensive testing can be performed. call your band surgeon.
i am taking a weight loss flush pill that is called acai berry cleanse and i am supposed to take it 4 times a day. is it healthy to take these?
acai palm fruit was the subject of a multi-level marketing scheme in the usa a few years ago. the marketers used a variety of fraudulent practices and ended up facing grave legal difficulties. a pilot study on the berries' effect on weight and health was a miserable failure nutrition journal. 10:45 2011 if you are smart enough to be here you are smart enough to see through false claims.
i am taking a weight loss flush pill that is called acai berry cleanse and i am supposed to take it 4 times a day. is it healthy to take these?
as yet another supplement that is not regulated by the fda there is no good data supporting the effectiveness of acai berry. again may i recommend good old fashion healthy diet and increasing your activity level to a least a moderate activity level of 5-6 times per week of 30-45 minutes ore more of exercise to help you lose that weight and more importantly keep it off!
i am taking a weight loss flush pill that is called acai berry cleanse and i am supposed to take it 4 times a day. is it healthy to take these?
acai alone does not cleanse. what are the other ingredients? if it has cascara and/or senna you need to take them with a lot of water. watch out for dehydration. taking large doses for long periods of time may affect your bowel habits. a week or less cleanse should not be a problem. if you are interested in more colon wellness information. look at my educational site: indwellwellness. com.
i am taking a weight loss flush pill that is called acai berry cleanse and i am supposed to take it 4 times a day. is it healthy to take these?
be aware of dehidration. it doesn't work anyway.
is it possible to do liposuction under sedation without general anesthesia? how uncomfortable will it be?
i do a lot of my liposuction on patients in this manner. conscious sedation is a way to go if you dont have too much fat to remove and as long as its a couple hour procedure. for more elaborate liposuction it will be safer to do it under general anesthesia. i do increase the numbing medication in the liposuction fluid for better pain relief during the procedure. you will have post op discomfort.
i haven't taken my synthroid (thyroxine) in about a month. since that month i have gained 25lbs. is it because i'm off my synthroid (thyroxine)?
if you have been prescribed synthroid or levothyroxine replacement therapy then your body likely needs thyroid hormone therapy to maintain normal thyroid levels. when you stop synthroid and the thyroid levels become very low you can then gain weight from two major factors: fluid retention and slowed metabolism. please check with your doctor to discuss what dose of synthroid you should restart.
i have a hiatus hernia it has been very painful. could this problem be due to stress?
hiatus hernia is a bit of stomach bulging into the chest through space (hiatus) in the diaphragm; can be small or large; may have no symptoms (pain reflux) or plenty. worsened by overweight. symptoms worsened by large meals acidy foods alcohol chocolate tobacco lying down after eating bending over tight clothes coffee. stress won't cause may worsen symptoms (if it affects lifestyle.
i have a hiatus hernia it has been very painful. could this problem be due to stress?
hiatal hernias are not caused by stress but can cause acid reflux as can stress. acid reflux causes stomach pains. pepcid (famotidine) or meds such as prilosec can help. if no help after few weeks would recommend upper endoscopy.
is it normal to gain 4 7 lbs in the first few days after liposuction?
i'm assuming you mean 4-7 lbs. this can be from the tumescent fluid and/or the fluids that are administered intravenously during surgery. usually this weight gain is very temporary.
is it normal to gain 4 7 lbs in the first few days after liposuction?
fluid accumulation all over your body after major surgery is very common. this is a process called third spacing and occurs quite often after trauma. this is why you may find it hard to put your ring back on in the first few days. your body will generally eliminate the fluid on its own and diuretics (water pills) are not commonly recommended.
is it normal to gain 4 7 lbs in the first few days after liposuction?
i hope you don't mean 47 lbs! depending on how much fat was removed and how much fluid was instilled as well as how much you weigh 7 lb. is certainly possible. retaining fluid for several days after any kind of surgery is a normal response to the surgical injury and this is compounded with liposuction where additional fluid is infiltrated at the beginning of the procedure.
is it normal to gain 4 7 lbs in the first few days after liposuction?
it is usual to gain some fluid weight immediately after any type of liposuction. but 7 pounds is quit a lot see your surgeon to be sure you are not fluid retaining. over fluid retention could lead to postoperative complications of pulmonary edema renal issues delayed healing.
is it normal to gain 4 7 lbs in the first few days after liposuction?
if so then yes. our body holds on to fluids after trauma (such as surgery) and it may take as long as 2 wks. to get rid of this excess fluid. it is abnormal to have a 47 lb weight gain!
is it normal to gain 4 7 lbs in the first few days after liposuction?
hello it is very common to put on a little weight after liposuction because of a phenomenon known as third-spacing. initially your tissues are leaky so you swell up and gain water weight. but typically after day 5 you pee out the excess fluid and start losing weight. it is important to wear a liposuction garment to enhance your results. dr. shah.
i am 5'3 have a very large chest for my age naturally curvy and weigh just under 10stone how over weight am i?
height of 63" and weight of 10 stone (=140 lbs) produces a body mass index of 24. 8 which is within the normal weight range. continue to exercise eat healthily (fruits veggies good fats moderate protein whole grains plenty of fluids).
i have been noticing lately that become short of breath after a large meal. it feels like my stomach is pushing on my lungs. hiatal hernia?
having these symptoms after eating a large meal may be caused by the type of food eaten and the time it took to consume the food. bloating occurs with excessive carb intake and rapid eating and the stomach may produce excess gass and mechanically slow down. a hiatal hernia can give similar symptoms but it may give symptoms with every meal as well such as reflux. take time and chew the food well.
im a 26year old male. i weigh 600lbs. i have veins in my lower legs that randomly have a pin hole size spray of blood that is hard to stop & lasts?
hi thanks for your question. do you have a family physician or a weight loss physician? what you are probably experiencing is leg edema spurred on by leg vein insufficiency--the pressure needed to return blood flow back to your lungs to get oxygen. there is so much pressure in your legs that can leak clear or bloody colored fluid. please keep your legs elevated decr. salt see your physician asap.
i'm on zoloft and gained 40 pounds so i'm on wellbutrin (bupropion) and zoloft now. will the wellbutrin (bupropion) help me lose weight?
weight gain is usually the end result of multiple contributory processes which can include untreated &/or treatment resistant mental health conditions (which themselves can influence unhealthy lifestyle behaviors). from a reductionistic perspective wellbutrin (bupropion) as compared to zoloft may have a relatively lower likelihood of promoting weight gain (& may actually result in weight loss).
is there a cure for hiatal hernia?
the only potential "cure" for a hiatal hernia is an operation. the hernia itself however does not usually cause any problem at all. many people with reflux have no hernia and many with hernias have no reflux. large hernias known as paraesophageal hernias are a different story. ask your primary care for an opinion. hope this helps!
is there a cure for hiatal hernia?
an operation will cure this hernia. if reflux is your symptom the reflux will go away afterwards. if your hernia is small an operation called "tif" can be done which fixes your hernia and reflux without incisions! if you go to endogastricsolutions. com you will be directed to a surgeon in your area.
i have had lap band and have been thinking of having a revision?
about 30% of band patients will develop reflux intolerance or esophageal problems that might lea to removal and revision. not a failure but an actual problem due to the chronic blockage of a band. choose a surgeon with great care to consider a revision. must be able to do all procedures and have a strong reputation. however there are also patients we see who need band adjustment not revision!
i have had lap band and have been thinking of having a revision?
recent long-term studies have shown that about 30% of bands seem to come out or get removed due to either gastric reflux chronic vomiting or intolerance. it is hard to know preoperatively who that 30% will be. so if you are having those kinds of trouble don't feel bad. pretty common and not your fault. revision to a sleeve or bypass can be quite effective.
i am not an overweight person yet my stomache is almost always swollen lately. why would that be? i have just been told that after my mri it looks like a spot in my liver has grown by 11/2 cm in 6month and there is a possibillity that it could be canc
this is very likely the cause of your abdominal distention. besides the enlarged liver you likely have ascites which is a fluid build up due to increased pressure in the liver this fluid accumulates within the abdominal cavity causing pressure discomfort in addition to the distention. while diuretic medications which increase urine excretion such as lasix (furosemide) can be used to reduce the fluid build up occasionally the fluid will need to be tapped off called a paracentesis. the culprit here though is the liver mass. unfortunately it is likely malignant given the rate of increased size. if you have any prior history of liver disease such as hepatitis b hepatitis c chronic alcohol use you are at increased risk for liver cancer called hepatocellular carcinoma. you should see a liver surgeon called a hepatobiliary surgeon who can assess the prognosis and options for treatment. if the imaging clearly suggests that this is a liver cancer then a biopsy is not always indicated. if possible liver resection should be considered this may be facilitated by the use of trans-arterial chemotherapy (tace) therasphere or stereotactic radiotherapy (sbtr). i suggest that you see a specialist perhaps at the university of hawaii (surgeon there is linda wong) who can get you evaluated. please tell her that dr. john fung recommended you to be seen there it may help you cut through some red-tape. good luck.
is tumescent liposuction less invasive than traditional liposuction? is tumescent liposuction less invasive and easier on the body than traditional liposuction? if so how do they differ? .
tumescence means injecting a particular fluid to a certain quantity prior to removing the fat. traditionally less fluid was injected and there was more blood loss within the removed fat. nowadays most liposuction techniques ( regular ultrasonic power assisted etc) almost always use tumescence to minimize blood loss.
is tumescent liposuction less invasive than traditional liposuction? is tumescent liposuction less invasive and easier on the body than traditional liposuction? if so how do they differ? .
you still need to have the same incisions and the same cannulas placed to suction out the fat - so the invasiveness is really the same either way. the difference is that in the tumescent or "super wet" methods that iv fluid with a little extra lidocaine and epinephrine in it is first injected into the fat to balloon it up before the fat is suctioned.
is tumescent liposuction less invasive than traditional liposuction? is tumescent liposuction less invasive and easier on the body than traditional liposuction? if so how do they differ? .
in almost all forms of traditional liposuction tumescent technique is utilized. it literally means to swell up the tissues with fluid containing dilute amounts of lidocaine (anesthetic) and epinephrine) andrenaline. it helps to minimize postoperative pain and limits bleeding.
is general anesthesia used with tumescent liposuction? is tumescent liposuction done with general anesthesia or with a local? .
tumescent fluid is the solution of lidocaine (for numbing) epinepherine (to reduce bleeding and keep lidocaine from metabolizing too quickly) and bicarbonate (to reduce sting) in saline used to anesthetize an area to be treated; it is used to a degree with several cosmetic procedures. patients who don't want general anesthesia or iv sedation can safely undergo tumescent liposuction of any body area with minimal oral sedation (xanax (alprazolam) and hydrocodone or oxycodone) but must still be monitored in the same way a patient would be with deeper sedation. i have treated over 3 000 body areas in the last three years this way. it requires patience on the surgeon's part so that the tumescent can be placed slowly and evenly and a patient who has at least a normal pain tolerance and understands that there will be a few a pinches during the procedure - patients who use narcotics for chronic pain or have unusually high anxiety about being awake should consider iv sedation. in my opinion general anesthesia is unnecessary in most patients and a source of elevated risk. this was confirmed in a study published recently in dermatologic surgery; this is a link to an easy to interpret summary of the findings: <link> don j peterson md cosmeticsurgicalarts. com.
i'm a little over weight. i keep having chest pains. feels like someone is taking a razor to my heart. ?
go to your doctor even if it isn't your heart it needs to be checked it can be severe reflux that untreated can lead to esophagus cancer. your body is telling you something is not normal. obviously weight loss and better eating habits are important but go get checked out now. your doctor can help you find out what is wrong treat you and help get you on the right track!
is the mini gastric bypass (no surgery) from roca labs usa any good? i have dieted exercised and starved myself i need to lose weight and this seems like it would help.
the "mini gastric bypass (no surgery)" is a misnomer and not an accurate representation of this product. mini gastric bypass or (mgbp) is a relatively untested procedure where instead of creating a small stomach pouch which is then connected to an separated piece of intestine that is done in the roux-en-y gastric bypass (which is the gold standard for weight loss) the mgbp reduces stomach size and cuts out a step of creating a separated piece of intestine instead keeping the intestine intact. the risk of this procedure is the development of complications including bile reflux and the risk of an intractable marginal ulcer. most insurance companies donâ€™t cover mgbp surgery costs as they still consider it an experimental procedure more long-term research is needed to solidify mini gastric bypass surgeryâ€™s position as a viable bariatric surgery option. as stated on rocalabs' website: "a dose in the morning limits available stomach space practically forcing you to eat half as much as before" but the disclaimer at the end says: "roca labs is a special formula designed to create a "gastric bypass effect" or "gastric bypass results" without the need for a gastric bypass surgery. statements on this site have not been evaluated by the fda. . the use of the term "gastric bypass" and any other similar terminology is meant only to illustrate the desired effect of the formula which consists of herbs/food supplements". i cannot comment as to the effectiveness of this product but it is not a gastric bypass in any form.
i had a lap nissen done 10 yrs ago. i now have heartburn. does that automatically point to my gall bladder being removed? just want a second opinio
heartburn following laparoscopic fundoplication is secondary to recurrent reflux (gerd) rather than gallbladder disease. long-term studies following people who had fundoplications 10+ yrs. previously have shown that as many as 25% use anti-acid medication (although 90% remain overall satisfied with the operation). i suggest you buy an otc acid-reducing med; if this is ineffective see your doc.
i try to avoid toxic drugs and treatments. what can i try before i go for traditional medical care for hiatal hernia?
if you are like most people you are using "hiatal hernia" to mean gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd). this can be well-managed by avoiding the foods that cause heartburn avoiding smoking alcohol and caffeine and losing weight (if overweight). if your symptoms are bad at night putting the head of the bed up on blocks helps as does eating dinner well before bedtime. hope this helps!
is colon flush safe for weight loss for a person with hep. c?
it's not that it's safe or not but there is no reason to do a colon cleanse or flush.
is colon flush safe for weight loss for a person with hep. c?
healthtap physicians have repeatedly addressed this subject with a clear "no" answer to your question. there is virtually no value to colon flushes cleansers enemas irrigation machines when the technique is accomplished to "detox" or eliminate "accumulated waste. " the "no" response also applies to liver detoxes! there are few real health benefits but sigificant unjustified risk. don't "cleanse".
i've been taking meds for 10 yrs. for acid reflux. will using a colon cleanse help with weight loss in the belly area?
acid reflux medications do not cause weight loss nor weight gain. i assume you are alluding to possibly to ph balance. a colon cleanse (not with enema) may help you reset your balance towards a low basic ph. this will help place you in a fat burning mode. "belly fat" especially visceral fat is difficult to burn.
i've been taking meds for 10 yrs. for acid reflux. will using a colon cleanse help with weight loss in the belly area?
nope .
is the lap band just something that wraps around your stomach to constrict it?
the band is a restrictive device that slows the passage of food. important to eat solid foods that would be held up and give you a full feeling. the band does not reduce the hunger hormone like the other operations (sleeve or bypass). you must get fills to tighten the band and slow the food. band patients can lose 40-50% of excess weight. about 25% of bands will eventually come out due to reflux.
i think i have am having a heart attack but my symptoms started 2 hours ago and its going away. my left arm doesn't hurt my chest doesn't hurt but my neck feels a little stiff and i feel sleepyall happened after i eat some taco bell but the samething hap
avoid taco bell and other high fat foods because you probably have severe reflux disease.
is weight gain common while on prozac (fluoxetine)?
not so much initially but over time it can cause weight gain like so many other antidepressants. some have even lost wight on it at first - but later it can promote tiredness decreased libido insomnia and weight gain. this can be confusing as it contrasts with its initial effects.
i'm on a low salt diet what happens if i occasionally slip up?
occasional "slip ups" in general are of no concern however you may notice some additional fluid retention in your lower extremities.
i have diverticulitis and am currently on a low residue diet. is coconut milk ok?
if you have diverticulitis with pain and fever stay on a low fiber diet for 4-6 weeks to allow healing. if you merely have diverticulosis then a high fiber diet is recommended and include 80-100 ounces of non cafeinated non alcoholic fluid per day and this can include coconut milk.
i ate really badly yesterday. cantaking diurecic today help flush the water weight gain out?
flushing out the water weight ie urinating with a diuretic is not a good idea. the water will be quickly replaced in short time if your body is functioning properly. in addition essential electrolytes will be compromised which can protentially create problems. "water" in the body is both intracellular and extracellular and equilibrium will be maintained. it's a trick used by charlatans.
i actually don't know much about diet. does it or exercise help with weight management?
there are three components to weight management. 1. proper nutrition - ideally based on predominantly whole fresh food and less process food animal protein or dairy. 2. daily exercise comprised of cardiovascular activity and strength training. 3. detoxification and alkalinization of the body - rid body of harmful toxin and acidic ph. also important drink close to 100 oz water daily to flush.
im 21 weeks pregnant and hear a constant pulse or heartbeat in my ear is this common i've been to an ent he thinks its because of excess blood flow in my main vein its driving me crazy with this go away
yes the excess fluid in your body can cause you to hear otherwise unnoticeable happenings in your body (ever wonder what the sound of food moving through your gut sounds like? you will). however you may also be hearing the clenching of your jaw muscles. i often explain these sounds as like a distant freeway. ask your dentist if a hard night guard would help. many other jaw problems come from this.
i have really thick ankles not from being over weight. i have an athletic body and i am trying to find a way to make them smaller. anything for me?
not sure there are any easy ways around this. you just want to ensure from your primary care physician that you are not experiencing any fluid overload in your system that can manifest as "pitting edema" in your ankle region. consult your athletic trainer for specific exercises to develop proprioceptive skills and balance.
i had gastric bypass 5 years ago. i lost 100lbs but have gained 50 lbs back. might i be a candidate for revision surgery?
tips for eating success: don't drink fluids with meals (washes food down); avoid high fat snacks (chips crackers peanut butter); avoid sugar eat more solid food that "packs your pouch" avoid too many slider foods that go right through. can also see your surgeon for endoscopy or solid meal ugi to check size of pouch and pouch outflow size.
i have really bad reflux with hiatal hernia significant in size. my esophagus is not working properly for surgery. what can i do my last thing to be done was the pressure test for my esophagus and it isnt working properly. i am tired of the pain and tired
with a large hiatal hernia and years of suffering you woul likely benefit from a discussion with a surgeon who does a good number of anti reflux surgeries. while i can't say you absolutely need surgery i can say you absolutely should a least have a discussion with a surgeon since it sounds like your problem is at partially due to the anatomy- hiatal hernia. good luck.
i have really bad reflux with hiatal hernia significant in size. my esophagus is not working properly for surgery. what can i do my last thing to be done was the pressure test for my esophagus and it isnt working properly. i am tired of the pain and tired
it is hard to tell from the given information but i do not understand what tests have shown that your esophagus does not work properly. have you used antacids and h2 acid blocking medications? have you had esophageal motility testing? have you had testing for gastropareis? you should have a primary care physician and gastroenterologist help you determine the best tests and evaluations for your conditions.
is it possible to be weaned off the effexor and get my body back to normal? i have been taking effexor for years. a doctor recently increased my dosage to 300mg from 75mg. i have major digestive issues (constipation) i can't loose weight no matter what i
serotonin discontinuation symptoms associated with abrupt discontinuation of effexor (venlafaxine) could be related to it's short half life. in most cases this may be minimized by slowly tapering the dosage. another strategy would be using a low dosage of a long acting ssri like fluoxetine. the physical symptoms include problems with balance gastrointestinal and flu-like symptoms and sensory and sleep disturbances. psychological symptoms include anxiety and/or agitation crying spells irritability and aggressiveness.
if you eat lots of monosodium glutamate is it responsible of being overweight?
i don't think there are even any calories in msg. however it can cause flushing headache sweating numbness around the mouth palpitations and in severe overdoses: chest pain difficulty breathing and swelling of the throat. be careful!
is chin liposuction safe? i've read that abdominal liposuction can be dangerous. do i need to reconsider chin liposuction? or is it such a small area that it's safer? .
the amount of local anesthesia and fluids shifts that can occur during abdominal liposuction are much more than that occuring during neck liposuction. much less fat is removed during neck liposuction and the amount of local anesthesia is also less.
if denied insurance coverage for gastric sleeve procedure because no co morbidities what are the options? qnexa?
many times it is important to look carefully for co-morbidities: sleep study for sleep apnea glucose tolerance test or hba1c for diabetes lipid profile joint assessment esophageal reflux issues urinary stress incontinence.
is there any connection between prozac and diabetes? after being put on prozac diabetes type ii went out of control to the high side and it is still out of control even after switching to insulin (both long and short acting). is there any connection betw
i am unaware of any clear association between prozac (fluoxetine) and diabetes. depression is more common in those with diabetes so anti-depressants are frequently prescribed for people with diabetes. prozac (fluoxetine) tends to not cause weight gain. if you are convinced the prozac (fluoxetine) increased your sugar (not at all likely) you can discuss stopping it and using a different anti-depressant. some people get more motivated to test their sugar when their depression is better. i wonder if you are just testing your sugar more. if your a1c (the 3 month test of sugar control) went up a lot after the prozac (fluoxetine) as compared to before the prozac (fluoxetine) and you had no weight gain that would suggest the prozac (fluoxetine) did it. discuss that with your doctor. see my blog post on exercise and depression and how to use insulin below. your doctor may benefit from reading the insulin post.
is there any connection between prozac and diabetes? after being put on prozac diabetes type ii went out of control to the high side and it is still out of control even after switching to insulin (both long and short acting). is there any connection betw
the connection between prozac (fluoxetine) and glucose level is not well defined however several animal studies showed increase glucose in the brain after administring fluoxetine. in humans however the impact on glucose in individuals who have t2dm is actually lowered averge glucose and a1c opposite to what you are stating. if your weight increased recently this may explain (at least in part) your bs changes. see if you can discuss this further with your nutritionist/physician. of note high bs sometimes can be reactive and secondary to low bs so if you have any symptoms of hypoglycemia (such as sweating dizziness stomach pain) please do not hesistate to check your bs. lastly i suggest that you also check your bs at 2:00am for the next few nights to rule out nocturnal hypoglycemia. good luck. cayce t. jehaimi m. d. faap pediatric endocrinology & diabetes the children's hospital of southwest florida fort myers fl usa.
i have psoriasis in my ear and it is inflamed i am using synalar (fluocinolone) otic. i am in pain what can i do to bring the swelling down and relieve the pain?
the pain and swelling could be caused by a bacterial or other infection. those symptoms are not usually caused by the psoriasis. an anti-inflammatory might help the pain and swelling but i think it'd be best to get medical attention. you might need an oral antibiotic or other precription medication(s).
i have psoriasis in my ear and it is inflamed i am using synalar (fluocinolone) otic. i am in pain what can i do to bring the swelling down and relieve the pain?
steroids such as synalar (fluocinolone) are commonly used for psoriasis however if it is inflammed and painful it could be infected in which case steroid will make it worse - please have it looked at by a doctor for possibly antibiotics.
i am having constipation issues and need help i have also had a gastric bypass in 2006 and have never been regular i drink coffee every day tea oj and crystal light. i take 325 mg of iron daily tylenol 3 3 calcium citrate daily and 2 vitamins daily.
one of the easiest things to do is make sure you are getting adequate fluids during the day. you may benefit from drinking some mineral oil to help get you regular. miralax (polyethylene glycol) is also a reasonable option. remember that this is a website to get general questions answered you really should meet with your bariatric surgeon or a gastroenterologist to help you get regular.
i have irritable bowel syndrome and i eat healthy. any cure?
eating healthy is only part of the solution be sure you are drinking 80-100 oz of nonalcoholic non caffeinated fluids daily 20 oz extra for every 30 minutes of strenous activity and 20 ounces more per hour of airplane travel. and if your diet is high in fiber do not take fiber supplements. good luck.
is chin liposuction permanent? if i get a chin liposuction procedure done is this a permanent reshaping? .
chin liposuction should permanently reduce the amount of fat under the chin. however with weight fluctuations you can still get changes to the overall contour in the area.
i got diabetes so pat 3 months i've been trying to loose weight an i did. i went from 213. 9 to 202. 2 now i'm back to 207. 5 i haven't changed anything.?
it is common to have ups and downs with weight loss programs. your weight may change from day to day. i would recommend you don't weigh yourself more often than once weekly to minimize normal fluctuations. continue a healthy diet and regular exercise program and you will lose weight. one hint keep a written log of all you eat. this will make you think about everything you eat. will help you lose.
i have an infection in a piercing in my ear why does my dr have me on both keflex and doxycycline? can these two make me feel like i have a cold?
by foreign objects like piercing jewelry are often due to a mixture of bacteria which sometimes requires treatment with a mixture of antibiotics. many drugs can cause flu-like symptoms but so can the interferon that your own body secretes to help fight the infection. or you might also have a cold!
if i am on a fluid restriction and was brought a milkshake from mcdonalds. is that fluid or solid?
it would be included in your fluid allowance.
is there anyone who had gastric banding that was not happy with the outcome?
some recent studies with long-term data show that about 1/4 of patients might develop uncomfortable reflux or heartburn problems or intolerance of the band and get the band out. that means that 75% seem to do well. the expected weight loss is about 50% of your excess weight. so if you were 100 pounds overweight would expect to lose about 50. for some that is not sufficient. talk to your doctor.
i am curious to know all symptoms of liver disease?
in esld (end-stage liver disease) much of liver has been replaced by scarring & may not repair itself. has higher risk of liver cancer. if compensated asymptomatic; get symptoms if progressive disease +/- alcohol. in acute liver disease however common complaints include: jaundice (yellow eyes skin; dark urine light stool) itching liver enlargement & ruq pain ascites fluid build-up more.
i have underwent gallbladder infection after nissen fundoplication and my bile refluxseems to be by far more pronounced after surgery. is there a link?
there should be no link. may need test to make sure nissen still in place.
i have underwent gallbladder infection after nissen fundoplication and my bile refluxseems to be by far more pronounced after surgery. is there a link?
if i understand your question correctly you are asking if your bile reflux was worsened by your fundoplication (or was your gallbladder infection rx'd by gallbladder removal which may have worsened your bile reflux? )? the fundoplication is designed to prevent/limit any reflux be it acid or bile so it should have improved after surgery. i suggest you return to your surgeon for evaluation.
is cellulite hereditary?
there is a familial component. . also hormones weight fluctuations diet exercise habits and pregnancies.
is it safe to take diflunisal(dolobid) and lipo 6 black ultra concentrate?
dolobid is safe for mild arthritis pain. the other stuff who knows? is it even inspected by the pa department of agriculture if not beware other imported agents have been sold and had stuff like cortisone butazolidine whenb analyzed ina lab.
i've had parasites before and i'm scared they might be back. constant diarrhea nausea. no vomiting. loss in appetite. weight loss. what's going on?
you need to see a physician for a thorough evaluation with comprehensive history taking and physical exam - likely you need some labs to assess your electrolytes and fluid status as well as to evaluate stool for ova parasites bacteria etc. . if inconclusive a referral to gastroenterology may be appropriate.
i got water in my ear and i can not get it out and now i have hearing difficulties?
water is inner ear can be from infection(otitis media) or just serous otitis (sterile fluid need to see ent doc to see what is cause om needs antibiotics sometime flonase decongestants help serous om.
if binging on salty snax someone could develop pulmonary edema pretty fast right?
pulmonary edema is excess fluid in the lungs. it can cause difficultly with breathing low oxygen and may even require a ventilator. it has a whole host of causes and they definitely can be life threatening. if you have a bad heart or kidneys and you binge on salt then yes you can get pulmonary edema. have to be careful.
i am overweight. what is the best way to lose weight during pregnancy?
the baby placenta amniotic fluid breast enlargement and increased blood volume can amount to 20-25 lbs. if you only gain 10 lbs with your pregnancy your fat stores will decrease by 15 lbs. a small amount of weight gain during pregnancy is important to ensure you are eating enough protein and other building blocks for normal fetal development. even if obese a 10 lb wt gain is recommended.
i have had gastric bypass surgery and am having issues with painful gas?
after having gastric bypass surgery it is important to stay on the recommended diet and not vary from it. this can cause gas and other problems. also drink plenty of water or healthy fluids to stay adequately hydrated. if you do both of these and still have problems then follow with your surgeon.
is eating eggs daily bad for health?
what else you're eating & what type of work/exercise you're doing. egg yolks contain a fair amount of cholesterol partly offset by lecithin in whites. a healthy diet of colorful fruits veggies whole grains lean meat dairy coupled with vigorous exercise &/or heavy physical labor may counter artery-clogging effects. be sure to drink plenty of fluids to flush kidneys due to high protein.
is it okay to be already on a gluten free diet when you go for blood work to test for celiac disease?
a skin biopsy and direct immunofluorescence test of the skin are performed in most cases. your doctor may also recommend a biopsy of the intestines.
is it normal to be losing hair after weight loss surgery?
yes it's probably related to telogen effluvium which is temporary hair loss of varying degree that tends to occur after a stressful event. common triggers include weight loss and surgery among others.
is it fat or cholesterol that clogs arteries?
neither: cholesterol: fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
is there a type of diet should an adult with a significant upper respiratory infection be on?
there is no specific diet for a urti (upper respiratory tract infection) but eating a healthy diet rich in vitamins and minerals will help your immune system combat the virus or bacteria causing the infection. vitamin supplements such as vitamin c and zinc have been shown to help boost the immune system. be sure to drink plenty of fluids!
if i have cihrosis of the liverand my liver has attached itself to the top of my stomach is it possible to do the gastric sleeve?
scarring of liver (cirrhosis) increases risks of surgery. any surgery esp w/general anesthesia can cause liver to "decompensate"-a messy slippery slope of clinical badness: infection bleeding worsening mental status fluid retention kidney failure maybe death. that is a factor above and beyond the technical diff re: anatomy w/stomach. discuss all options w/your doc and surgeon.
i have a vp shunt for pseudotumor cerebri is there a special diet?
there is no specific diet but i would watch the salt and fluid intake.
i know i have swimmers ear. now it feels like i have fluid in my ear and its blocking it up. is this drainage? if so will it go away by itself?
if ear is plugged after swimming it could just be ear wax or could be swimmers ear. see a doc to find out and to get the correct treatment.
i know i have swimmers ear. now it feels like i have fluid in my ear and its blocking it up. is this drainage? if so will it go away by itself?
this may be serious. please see a dr. uncomplicated swimmers ear may be treated with isopropyl alcohol or hydrogen peroxide but i suspect your problem includes a cerumen (ear wax) blockage.
i put on 1 dress size just before n during my menses. is there anyway i can reduce d water retention? i take low sodium n less oil diet
pms symptoms that include fluid retention breast tenderness mood swings cravings headache r a sign of estrogen dominance. get some progesterone cream at health food store. would be best to see a doctor who uses bio-identical hormones for this but you can get it over the counter. vitamin b6 also helps fluid retention as does celery. "fluid pills' known as diuretics r a prescription option.
is the mini gastric bypass safe or better than the?
the mini gastric bypass is not endorsed by any asmbs or any of the top academic bariatric surgery programs in the country. it is safe but it is basically a billroth 2 operation which can cause bile reflux. the fix for that problem is a roux-en-y gastric bypass meaning that for 50 years we have known that a roux-en-y is better than a billroth 2. the b2 is just easier for the surgeon to do.
i have a swollen abdomen and rapid weight gain. what could it be?
you should seek care with your physician. your symptoms could be ascites an accumulation of fluid in the abdominal cavity. another concern is growth of a cyst on a solid organ. hope you feel better soon.
i've been feeling off balance dizzy and sometimes also have fluid in my ear. is this an inner ear infection?
though a simple allergy can also cause you to accumulate fluid in your ears as well. be seen by your physician for a diagnosis.
i've been feeling off balance dizzy and sometimes also have fluid in my ear. is this an inner ear infection?
inner ear infections are very rare and cause the same symptoms but usually also result in fevers and generalized symptoms of serious infection. you are more likely to have chronic middle ear fliud if fluid can be seen behind the eardrum or increased inner ear fluid pressures on the affected side (called meniere's disease).
i recently quit drinking diet coke and only drinking water. i feel bloated and gaining weight. is this due to quiting diet coke?
you note that you are only drinking water that is great. but i wonder if you are making up for desire for sweetness with food that may have more carbs sugars or starches that reduced to sugar. caffeine itself is a natural diuretic in your body. if you no longer consume caffeine you could have some weight gain due to some fluid retention. a somewhat healthier option with some caffeine-green tea.
i have severe gerd uncontrolled by prescription + diet causing crippling laryngitis for over a year. should i consider fundoplication? this surgery scares me.
there are several surgeries for reflux that are safe and effective. a nissen fundoplication tif (transoral incisionless fundoplication) or a linx procedure can all help alleviate your reflux. find a surgeon that offers several options and discuss your fears with them.
i how are the gastric bypass surgery and everytime i eat i feel like my chest is hurting?
many gastric bypass patients experience alteration in gi emptying due to their new surgical connections. when ingested food then regurgitates or refluxes burning or chest discomfort may result. talk to your physicians about whether an acid blocker medicine should be tried or further investigation is warranted (especially in the event of swallowing difficulties).
i'm constantly getting really bad headaches teenager eat healthy drink plenty of water exercised paracetamol don't work what's causing them?
your headaches could be from migraine but you should see your doc if you have this bada headache as he/she can refer you for testing &/or neuro consult. avoid avacados nuits coffee chocolates as sthey are some of the triggers for migraines. you are doing good by drinking plentyof fluids. try a good noght's sleep as well if you have not been doing that.
i have a hiatus hernia and was wondering how long recovery would be?
usually a laparoscopic hiatal hernia repair is combined with an anti-reflux procedure known as a nissen fundoplication. patients are typically back to most normal activities in about two weeks. there is also usually some difficulty swallowing for 3-6 weeks. in the end the goal is to be better than you are now so ask your surgeon what the odds are or improvement.
i've gone week without getting the munchies and dropped 8 lb. will i maintain my weight loss?
the recidivism rate of weight loss in 1 year is 90%. some weight loss in the first week is fluid loss only.
is there a diet to follow for polycystic kidney disease? i have normal function. my father & brother both went into kidney failure @ 50. i'm 45.
yes! diet should be low salt low animal protein (30-40 grams per day maximum) very low saturated fat higher polyunsaturated fats are ok and high intake of fruit and vegetables. avoid simple carbs and sugars as much as possible. drink 4 to 5 liters of fluid per day. avoid caffeine. do not smoke. achieve ideal body weight. 80-90 percent of food should be fruit and veg
is it safe to take phentermine or triamterene together for weight loss?
phentermine is a weight management med. triamterene is a diuretic used for hypertension or too much fluid in the body. it is not a weight loss med. a patient may lose wt--just water + some electrolytes--it is supposed to be potassium-sparing. this med could be used for another med condition but not routinely used as a weight-loss combination there could be alterations in your blood chemistries.
if your hair is falling out because of a quick weight loss how long will that last? its been a month already
that is called a telogen effluvium and it will take a minimum of 6 weeks for the hair bulbs to recycle and start growing again. then it will take another few months for the hair to regrow completely. i feel your pain; it happened to me once and while i knew what it was and i knew that it would grow back it still freaked me out. try not to worry; losing that weight is worth it.
is the hcg diet safe enough to use as a detox before a low carb lifestyle change?
the hcg diet has been studied and it is not effective for weight loss. hcg is a hormone produced by your body when you are pregnant. severe side effects includea ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (massive enlargement of ovaries breast tenderness fluid in your lungs etc. ) the only thing that will get thinner on an hcg diet is your wallet! eat fewer calories and exercise and you will lose weight!
is it safe to take celebrex (celecoxib) if you have gerd and hiatal hernia?
as long as you are not having any gi bleeding from your hiatal hernia causing ulcers then you should be safe taking celebrex (celecoxib). if you have chronic gerd and a hiatal hernia then you should consider seeing a surgeon that specializes in anti-reflux surgery because it can be repaired laparoscopically usually just with an overnight stay in the hospital and be off acid medicine for good.
is weight fluctuation normal when starting the pill?
depending on how your body tolerates the hormones you may experience some mild fluctuation because of water retention
is it safe to lose weight by drimking water i have lost 15 pounds in 5 months?
besides true diet drinks all other drinks contain calories (and preservatives). main source of your fluid should be "water--the best drink on earth" (this my trade-mark phrase <positive_smiley>). eating a balanced diet along with exercises to help shed the unwanted pounds is the way to go--at 3lbs/month is a good rate which is reasonable to maintain. so drink more h2o and keep up the good work. good luck.
is there a connection between untreated type 2 diabetes and depression?
any chronic disease which makes you feel bad physically can influence your mood and once you are depressed it is very difficult to get motivated to make the lifestyle changes necessary to effectively treat a disease like type 2 diabetes. so being depressed can make diabetes worse and having diabetes can trigger depression. i would recommend aggressively treating both if both are present.
is it unsafe to get liposuction or are there no risks?
the main serious risk of liposuction results from removing large amounts of fat and subsequent fluid shifts. for small volume liposuction like we perform in the face and neck this is not typically an issue. for body liposuction you want to find a board certified plastic surgeon who does alot of liposuction to ensure your safety. this is a commonly performed procedure and safe in the right hands.
i have been taking sensipar for secondary hyperparathyroid caused by kidney disease should i follow a certain diet?
there is a whole page of dietary recommendations at: <link> nlm. nih. gov/medlineplus/ency/article/002442. htm it explains about carbs fats proteins calcium phosphorus and fluids in the diets of chronic kidney disease patients. the primary care doctor or nephrologist can refer to a specialized dietician to help create the proper diet.
is a hiatus hernia associated with severe pain?
a hiatal hernia is often associated with gastro-esophageal reflux disease (gerd). this can be associated with severe "heartburn" especially after bending over lying down or after eating some foods.
i have been prescribed phentermine 37. 5 mg for two weeks now with no real side effects besides extreme dry mouth. is this drug ok to use for wt loss?
this drug is a weight loss drug and is safe and effective when taken alone and not in conjunction with other weight loss drugs. if you are suffering from extreme dry mouth make sure that you brush and floss regularly and chew sugarless gum with xylitol a few times a day to keep the salivary glands stimulated and prevent dental problems which chronic dry mouth will cause. fluoride rinse helps to.
is a hiatal hernia repair effective?
it depends on what symptoms led you to have surgery and the specific hernia characteristics. if reflux is the main driver most ppl have resolution after the surgery. there is a small portion of ppl that will go on to have a recurrence of their hernia but this does not necessarily need further treatment or cause more problems. see a surgeon to get an idea of whether surgery could benefit you.
i went to the emergency room they said i have a cyst on my ovaries the doctors said get on birth control why i do i need to get on the pills i'm fat?
they referred you to the gyn on call for the er they should ahve expalined why to you but if you ahve a simple fluid filled cyst the bcpills can often shrink the cyst so u need to see a gyn asap so he can treat you and you have to make sure the cyst goes away and doesn't get larger or rupture and many of the newer pills you shoudln't gain weight i use low dose ones in my pts lessor nowtgain.
i have a prolapsed internal hemorrhoid it is not painful anymore i have no blood in my stools. with the right diet and water intake how long do they normally take to shrink. in my third week now. the pain stopped after a week or so so i do not think
most of the time hemorrhoids do not need surgery can be controlled with diet fluids avoiding constipation and local treatments. you need to see your doctor any rectal bleeding is not a hemorrhoid till confirmed by a physcian as tumors could be missed( rare in your age).
i've been having chest pains since early july. two ekgs a d-dimer an asa a chest x-ray and an esr have been "normal". my cholesterol panel from may showed trig/hdl ratio of 4. 8 (high) overall - 197 hdl - 52 ldl - 95 tri - 250. fatty diet bc pills
my guess would be asthma acid reflux or musculoskeletal pain. check for those.
is liverflush drink is good for removing toxins and weight loss? if yes then shuld it drink daily on empty stomach?
a liver flush is a home remedy and there are many variations. theoretically the liver flush may be unsafe for people who have gallstones. known side effects include nausea and vomiting explosive diarrhea and abdominal cramps.
i was diagnosed with gastritis and hiatal hernia on february 2012. during that time i had black tarry stools and was placed on omezaprole than changed to nexium. my upper abdomen area pains or becoming more severe and comes and goes. it wakes me up at
your pains may be an indication of persistent refractory ulcer disease or of severe reflux. were you previously diagnosed with helicobacter pylori? i would suggest a follow-up visit with your gastroenterologist.
i was diagnosed with gastritis and hiatal hernia on february 2012. during that time i had black tarry stools and was placed on omezaprole than changed to nexium. my upper abdomen area pains or becoming more severe and comes and goes. it wakes me up at
from the information your ge reflux causing erosions in in the esophagus from the acid in your stomach caused bleeding ( tarry stool ) besides medications all the precautions your doctor told you to do then endoscopy to see any ulcers in lower esophageal area if biopsy shows atypia ( barrett's ulcer ) then you need anti reflux surgery.
i have accumulated belly weight after this procedure. my diet and exercise have not changed at all and more exercise do not reduce it. perhaps it is fluid i don't know but i do know others that have experienced the same thing as well. i wonder if someon
need more information to help - what procedure did you have?
i have acid reflux so bad my throat and chest hurts severly i have had many meds that don't work 0r cause side effects mine comes for weeks and will leave for weeks without change of diet i do know if i have to take any meds for any reason with in a co
as your symptoms seem refractory you should see a specialist to consider diagnostic scope.
i have acid reflux so bad my throat and chest hurts severly i have had many meds that don't work 0r cause side effects mine comes for weeks and will leave for weeks without change of diet i do know if i have to take any meds for any reason with in a co
see a gastroenterologist & get an egd as you may have untreated h. pylori.
i have anxiety and get panic attacks have been on paroxetine and clonazepam and have had severe weight gain? any medicines that don't cause that?
none of the antidepressants are free of possible weight gain but you might try bupropion (wellbutrin) or fluoxetine (prozac).
i had a total colectomy 16 years ago and have had significant weight gain and high blood pressure since. any ideas on how to lose or stop gaining?
and excercise. the colon does very little to contribute to weight gain or loss other than fluids. lack of a colon will not cause weight gain or high blood pressure in of itself.
if someone had cancer would they lose weight or gain weight?
most cancers will tend to make you lose weight as they are catabolic--- however there are some tumors that can lead to weight gain by the shear size of the mass or sometimes the fact that they cause accumulation of fluid or aspires for example.
is it normal to urinate a lot when you have type 2 diabetes?
frequency is a symptom that can be due to increased fluid intake excess sugar in the urine causing polyuria uti medication (lasix) etc. . if you are diabetic even type 2 i would make sure there is no infection and sugar is under good control.
if i am h pylori negative & i don't drink alcohol i don't smoke i don't take nsaids & i eat a balanced diet what causes are left for gastritis?
production stress poor sleep caffeine bile reflux eating too fast emotions being a worrier. . there are plenty other risk factorsd and triggers as you can see.
is it possible for a child to have a hiatus hernia?
yes but very rare in children rarely will see gerd reflux problems but infants & newborn will have dangerous congenital diaphragmatic hernias.
i experience chronic overeating. i live a very health lifestyle but i always feel hungry. i have got all the standard blood tests done. what should i do?
much in life that distresses us leaves us hungering. non-restorative sleep can prompt daytime inner compulsion for relief - misrepresented as hunger. depression includes overeating as one of vegetative symptoms included in diagnosis. medications and even supplements/vitamins can increase appetite. the modeling of those around you has been found to influence intake. eat to satisfaction not fullness.
i got flu shot thursday afternoon. friday evening i noticed rash around the shot site and on my legs where the fat is. sat morning it is getting worse. is there a problem? i took flu shots every year for the past 10 years. this is the first time i
placing in in the wrong spot ( too deep or too shallow in the muscle bulk can cause irritation! ) sometimes a little tug or pull during im injection can irritate some delicate tissue! a little benadryl (diphenhydramine) warm compress and avoiding scratching might go a long way! if it worsens a quick visit to your md will take care of it! good luck!
i am sure i have ascites. my girth goes from 39 to 48 inches in an hour or so then i can't breathe. they are telling me i'm just fat. my liver # are up. what should i do?
ascites is fluid in the abdomen. it does not come and go it does not resolve on its own. increased abdominal girth could come after eating or with bowel irregularity. obesity can negatively affect the liver and cause blood test changes. an ultrasound can see the liver and evaluate for ascites if indicated.
i am sure i have ascites. my girth goes from 39 to 48 inches in an hour or so then i can't breathe. they are telling me i'm just fat. my liver # are up. what should i do?
if your girth went up that way only can be for gas accumulation because any fluid produci that increase would produce cardiovascular symptoms.
i suffered from telogen effluvium last yr due to crash diet. bt nw aftr almst an yr im xperincing hairfal please help. even my diet is normal nw. ?
see dermatologist to have your hair evaluated.
i recently starting taking depakote 250 mg twice a day & prozac (fluoxetine) 20 mg once daily i hear depakote causes severe weight gain & weight gain is also a side effect of prozac (fluoxetine). is this true?
yes depakote can cause weight gain and some people also gain weight w/prozac. not all do though. it will be important to make sure you're exercising regularly and be wise with your meals -- healthy whole nutritious foods and much less in desserts etc unless you really did exercise that day. the good news is that exercise in itself is a useful treatment for depression! good luck to you.
i am facing weight gain and bloting problem this happen during my cycle?
water retention is the usual culprit. it fluctuates with the hormone levels as you progress through the menstrual cycle. avoid extra sodium (salt) and continue to exercise. there are medications that can help but this will require consultation with your physician.
i've lost 60lbs since march due to diet change. my hair started falling out in june. when will this slow down?
telogen effluvium may be caused by eating disorders fever childbirth chronic illness major surgery anemia severe emotional disorders crash diets hypothyroidism and drugs. telogen effluvium is a scalp disorder characterized by the thinning or shedding of hair resulting from the early entry of hair in the telogen phase (the resting phase of the hair follicle). usually lasts from 6-12 months.
i am currently taking levothyroxine. 125 mg for hypothyroidism and trying to get back into bodybuilding. is it safe to take a bcaa supplement?
yyes. just keep your tsh and ft4 checked regularly. we have bcaa in our body. only concern would be iodinated products or chlorinated brominated fluorinated.
i've been diagnosed with hiatal hernia and gerd and lately my breathing problems got a lot worse. what are my options and best course of action?
if your symptoms are not controlled by medication and you are getting episodes of aspiration which may be the cause of your breathing issues you may be a good candidate for anti-reflux surgery which is done laparoscopicly and involves wrapping the stomach around the lower part of the esophagus creating a valve. the hiatal hernia also gets fixed during this surgery.
im having bad pain from my hiatal hernia. what should i do?
are you having bad heartburn or reflux? you can take a proton pump inhibitor like over the counter prilosec (omelrazole) or the newest prescription drug dexilant (dexlansoprazole). if taking that for several weeks doesn't help you may need to have a nissen fundiplication.
i'd really like to know how much water should i drink to lose weight?
water won't make you lose weight by itself but it's needed for fat to break down. in addition toxins are stored in fat and are released when fat is broken down. water helps the kidneys to flush all that away. i recommend 1/2 your desired body weight in ounces/d. for example if your ideal weight is 120# drink 60 ounces of water a day.
i'm a 6'6 300 pound male i'm 23 yrs old and within the past month or so i've been urinating more often today about 10 times. what is wrong with me?
urinating more fequently could be due to a lot of causes including but not limited to urinary tract infection bladder spasm diabetes or even drinking more fluid. time to have it evaluated. see your doctor. at a minimum you should have the urine examined to look for infection or the presence of sugar.
i have weight gain and high blood pressure if eat anything salt. will sensitivity get worse?
more doctors are emphasizing the avoidance of salt. the pritikin program (very famous) is emphasizing the problems with blood pressure and heart disease with excess salt. weight gain (both obesity and fluid retention) sometimes comes with eating salty food. avoid adding salt. look at salt content in the foods you eat.
is it okay to go through a nissen fundoplication for gerd after having a gall bladder removal done on me?
yes. once you have recovered from your gallbladder removal there is no reason why you can't have a fundoplication for reflux if your doctor feels a fundoplication is a good treatment for your reflux.
is transoral incisionless fundoplication safe?
it's considered more safe than actual surgery but there are still risks of things like bleeding and perforation. the major concern about transoral anti-reflux procedures is how effective they'll be for controlling reflux. this is still a bit unclear but most feel that it's not going to work as well as the actual operations would. the decision is best made on a case by case basis.
i can make sound in my ear since little boy. it sounds like 'click' with fluid/watery effect(hard to explain). it also comes when swallowing. normal?
the click sound is what you hear when are opening the eustachian tube which connects the back of the nose to the middle ear. you are equalizing the pressure between the two chambers. sometimes this is an indicator of persistent negative pressure in the middle ear which can be due to multiple reasons very commonly allergies. see an ent.
i can make sound in my ear since little boy. it sounds like 'click' with fluid/watery effect(hard to explain). it also comes when swallowing. normal?
sounds more like an ear issue. please get with your pcp or an otolaryngologist for an exam.
i can make sound in my ear since little boy. it sounds like 'click' with fluid/watery effect(hard to explain). it also comes when swallowing. normal?
this comes from a structure called the eustachian tube. it connects the middle ear to the back of the throat and help to equalize the pressure behind the eardrum. when you swallow the tube opens slightly and the clicking you hear is the movement of the eardrum as pressure equalizes. not to worry not only is this normal but it is necessary for proper ear function.
i can make sound in my ear since little boy. it sounds like 'click' with fluid/watery effect(hard to explain). it also comes when swallowing. normal?
check with your dentist. it may be a sign of a tmj problem. a proper exam will allow for you to get proper diagnosis and treatment options.
i can make sound in my ear since little boy. it sounds like 'click' with fluid/watery effect(hard to explain). it also comes when swallowing. normal?
as you open or close the tube between your throat & ear (the eustachian tube) you can add or release pressure on the ear drum which may cause a click. this hallends with yawning chewing & other movements that tense the levator palitini muscle to open the tube.
is it normal to lose weight after taking symbyax (fluoxetine and olanzapine) for eight years?
combination of prozac/zyprexa in short run can cause weight gain depending on the dose. however i have several patients on the medication for several months that told me they have maintained their wt. or lost some when their moods have been stable for some time while they maintain healthy life-style changes.
is it normal to lose weight after taking symbyax (fluoxetine and olanzapine) for eight years?
this drug combination has been implicated in weight gain in about 14% of those using it but a smaller percentage have experienced weight loss. if this has been a slowly progressive loss over time it may be ok but if more recent and rapid you probably should be thoroughly reevaluated by your primary care doctor. good luck and wish you well.
i had a gastric band fitted over 2 years ago i am now getting what i think is acid reflux when i am sleeping and also regular abdominal pain?
you might need a barium swallow or endoscopy to check out what is going on.
i have all the symptoms of adrenal fatigue. outside of avoiding stress watching diet and exercise what can be done to rectify this?
lots of things can present with similar symptoms including thyroid iron problems fluid and blood chemistry issues infections other hormonal problems etcetc. need to confirm or exclude diagnosis. see doc get blood testing. see what you really have.
is laparoscopic nissen fundoplication similar to lap band?
a lap band is a device that wraps around the top of your stomach used to treat obesity. a fundoplication wraps the top of your stomach around itself to treat reflux.
is there a connection beteeen sugar intake and gerd? does acidity cures by avoiding sugar?
excessive of sugar especially processed sugar and corn-syrup etc. . can make your gerd/reflux worse. the stomach is designed to and capable of handling the acid (stomach acid can melt metal nails) when healthy. the esophagus is not thus refluxing acid into esophagus causes the burn/pain. so avid/minimize these sugars and see how you feel. zantac/pecid etc. may help. consult doc. good luck.
i read that menier caused by an excess of fluid in the inner ear. i can make sound in my ear feels like fluid/water with 'click' or 'crack' sound. ?
have an evaluation for temporal mandibular joint dysfunction by your dentist. tmd has symptoms similar to the ones you presented. ménière's disease often has a hearing and balance component which you did not mention.
i read that menier caused by an excess of fluid in the inner ear. i can make sound in my ear feels like fluid/water with 'click' or 'crack' sound. ?
if you think you have meniere's disease see your doctor as there is an inexpensive treatment. see this site for more information. <link>
is laparoscopic fundoplication effective for acid reflux disease?
it can be very effective if done after complete evaluation for appropriate indications by well trained surgeon.
is laparoscopic fundoplication effective for acid reflux disease?
it is very effective if done after a complete work up and hit the right reasons.
i have stomach cramps and i burp all the time and bring up acid i thought it was my hiatus hernia but now i'm not sure.?
reflux disease used to go for surgery few decades ago. reflux can be treated with ppis and h2 blockers. ppis such as prilosec are better. about burping i should say that patient who try to control it will improve faster.
i have stomach cramps and i burp all the time and bring up acid i thought it was my hiatus hernia but now i'm not sure.?
reflux disease may occur with or without a hiatal hernia. large hiatal hernias are potentially dangerous however. you may want to see a general or thoracic surgeon with experience in treating reflux and hiatal hernia laparoscopically for a consultation if its bad enough.
i am currently on the hcg diet and having stool in 10 days what to do. i am also feeling upset for 3 days is the normal?
i recommend more fluid and fiber and 4-6 small healthy meals daily with exercise and life style change.
i have a crackle in my ear it sounds like pop rocks candy. i've taken allergy and sinus meds and they did not work! what should i do and what is it?
could be several things including ear wax fluid infection or unequal pressure between the interior of your skull and the environment. have your doc just look in ear canal for answer.
i been havin a lot of problems with my hiatal hernia?
if you are having a lot of problems with your hiatal hernia a visit to your doctor is in order. he or she may want you to have testing like a barium swallow / upper g series cat scan or upper endoscopy to assess the status of the hernia and associated problems such as reflux esophagitis and others.
is 16 oz. of electrolyte fluid and 112 oz. of water in a day unhealthy? diet instructions given by medi weight loss doctor
the content of the "electrolyte fluid" is the key to answering the question. your daily requirements for fluid losses are exceeded by this volume but quite acceptable if you have normal kidney function. the fluid should contain at least the daily requirements for sodium and potassium and ideally would include additional additives (such as magnesium) in appropriate amounts.
i have chronic pancreatitis and fatty liver disease and now i have a swollen hard stomach - could they be connected?
u will need to talk w ur gi doc. if u have portal vein hypertension it can cause fluid build up. also pancreatitis can cause ileus ( slowing of bowel) and this can also b related to pain meds. call ur doc as u will need further tests.
i eat healthy but i love nuts and seeds is it making me fatter? because before i started eating them i was not gaining weight
high in fats but they are beneficial fats. the quantity of them you consume may be a factor since all fats = 9 calories/gram. if you're eating them in a party mix or honey-glazed or chocolate-covered mix they add carb/sugar calories. if they're highly salted u may consume more fluids; water is fine but sugared beverages are still more calories. so enjoy the nuts/seeds in moderation; avoid suga.
i am going to have the tif procedure any advise before or after surgery? i have been having a lot of burning and chest pain with the gerd.
tif is an excellent anti reflux surgery. make sure to follow the diet and don't overeat. it's very important to not vomit for the first six weeks after surgery. you should be pleased with your results and most of my patients end up losing 10 -15 pounds which is an added bonus.
i am going to have the tif procedure any advise before or after surgery? i have been having a lot of burning and chest pain with the gerd.
gerd/reflux/indigestion are all caused by a complex array of issues. imo can't really be fixed by surgery. see my other answers. check your other meds they may be aggravating the problem. lack of serotonin in the brain can disrupt smooth muscle functioning and cause gut problems. so an ssri anti-anxiety or antidepressant will allow the muscles to coordinate in swallowing. try l-glutamine.
i have had ear right ear pressure and pain /stiffness in the neck right side and constant little pops in my ear antibiotics did not help?
you might have fluid in your ear that is bothersome even though it isn't infected. you could try an over the counter antihistamine such as zyrtec (cetirizine) for about a week then you might want to see an ent doctor.
i am looking to watch my glucose levels to loose weight & tweak diet. is there a way to obtain cgm devices through prescription? i am not diabetic.
you don't really need a cgms device if you are not a diabetic. your blood sugar wouldn't fluctuate wide enough to require its use. a normal finger stick glucometer might be ok to use for now. if you are really interested in a cgms you can have one but the insurance will not pay for it so you will need to pay cash. the cost is more than $1000 for the machine and apprx $200/month for supplies.
i have had a sore throat now for a month mainly in morning which will last a couple of hours and at night time too. i also have pain in my ear.?
this is indicative of either acid reflux or pot nasal drip from nasal allergies. depending on associated symptoms the treatment differs. i you have nasal congestion use a saline nasal spray or a prescription spray. if acid reflux start with otc antacids.
i am having epigastric pain with excessive belching that leads into rlq abd pain. i have had a gastric bypass done 8 yrs ago and a ulcer. what's wrong?
anastomotic ulcer obstruction of pouch or small bowel reflux peptic ulcer adhesions cholecystitis seek specialist care.
i just put hydrogen peroxide in my ear because its clogged its popping doesn't hurt but how can i get it to drain all the way? it feels full
as long as there is no problem with the eardrum you can try using a hair dryer held at arm's length pointed at the ear to evaporate the fluid. or you can try a couple drops of isopropanol (rubbing alcohol) after the peroxide then air drying. otherwise a visit to the ent doctor may be in order- he/she has the equipment needed for further suctioning without causing harm to the eardrum.
i have a 4cmstomach ulcer and i have the lapban in do i need to remove the lapban for the ulcer to heal?
generally no unless the ulcer is do to an eroding band. if the ulcer is distal to the band no. if the ulcer is above the band and due to freq reflux then remove the fluid from the band and allow to heal with medical therapy. if actively treating an ulcer it may be advisable to remove the fluid to allow adequate therapy and not create problems.
in someone who is morbidly obese would it be possible for a hiatal hernia to go away by losing the excess weight?
hernia might not improve with weight loss but acid reflux might improve.
i am on prozac (fluoxetine). now but can i still take my adipex?
speak with your doctor & make sure that it makes sense for you. technically speaking both can be taken together. more importantly discuss your goals & needs with your doctor & see if this is the regiment that makes most sense. don't forget that nutrition exercise & meditation can be a very important part of achieving your health goals.
its hard for me to breath due to large tonsils and acid reflux is it possible to affect my heart aside from my sleep apnea that posible 2 afect my <3?
your apnea could be directly a result of your tonsil assuming rest everything( bmi etc) is within normal limits get help it will also help withyour acid reflux.
its hard for me to breath due to large tonsils and acid reflux is it possible to affect my heart aside from my sleep apnea that posible 2 afect my <3?
you should see a sleep physician for an evaluation and diagnosis before things get worse.
if you have had vertigo in the past 6 months for a few weeks can you get it again after having a cold? i have fluid in my ear and have had vertigo.
vertigo can be caused by a number of reasons related to a portion of your brain and ear called the vestibular system. cold viruses can sometimes cause a condition called labyrinthitis which can in turn result in vertigo ringing in your ears and even hearing loss. persistent or recurrent vertigo should be evaluated by your primary physician.
if you have had vertigo in the past 6 months for a few weeks can you get it again after having a cold? i have fluid in my ear and have had vertigo.
hell. yyes vertigo can recurr especially with the type of symptoms you described.
i am naesous & have lots of acid reflux. i had a gastric sleeve last week. what can i do for acid reflux?
get prilosec otc and take 40-80 mg per day mylanta for immediate relief.
i broke my finger two months ago and the nail just came back to full length. i do still have a "chubby" finger is that swelling or fluid of some sort?
swelling is very common in finger injuries and can last much longer than the symptoms of the injury itself. the swelling can take months to go away. nails normally take quite some time to normalize after an injury. nail growth slows after injury and can look unusual when it immediately grows back. your nail could take a full year to look like the other nails.
i broke my finger two months ago and the nail just came back to full length. i do still have a "chubby" finger is that swelling or fluid of some sort?
it could be residual swelling or deformity from the fracture. an x-ray can differentiate between the two.
i broke my finger two months ago and the nail just came back to full length. i do still have a "chubby" finger is that swelling or fluid of some sort?
can be delayed by trauma and ift he nail bed or the distal phalanx was involved it can take a few more months before the final appearance is reached. in the beginning there still is swelling and it doesn't take much to make the end of the finger feel and look different at times it's temporary and others its a cosmetic change it depends upon the injury. again it can be 3-4 months for a change.
i am due to have an ablation on tuesday. i have 2 previous c sections and i am overweight. what are my risks and how high are they?
depends on type of ablation- since this pops up under cardiovascular the major types of ablation include for svt atrial flutter or atrial fibrillaton. your electrophysiologist should have given you a risk analysis of your particular prodedure. most ablations are done under conscious sedation and thus your conditions mentioned may not markedly alter the risk of procedure. i wish you well.
is there any way other than surgery to stop the heart attack mimicing pain of a hiatal hernia heart has been cleared by cardiologist echo/ stress?
often chest pain associated with hernias can be controlled by reducing gastric acid reflux - this is often done with medications (many are available over the counter) and/or changing habits ie dont eat before bed avoid spicey foods alcohol chocolate etc.
i feel like a bug crawled in my ear? theres tingling popping feel and sound in my hear.
we dig bugs out of the ear frequently in the er. it could also be fluid and bubbles in the middle ear. get checked out.
i have a hiatal hernia and gerd my hernia has been recently bothering me a lot wondering if there's anything non surgical i can try?
common lifestyle changes include losing weight stoping smoking avoiding foods and activities that seem to cause your symptoms. medications can be quite helpful. after lifestyle changes and medications you should consider correction of the problem. options may include laparoscopic fundoplication (nissen for example) and transoral fundoplicaton (corrects reflux without any incisons).
i have a hiatal hernia and gerd my hernia has been recently bothering me a lot wondering if there's anything non surgical i can try?
various measures undertaken to decrease reflux into esophagus. lose weight if overweight. avoid fatty fried greasy foods chocolate tobacco peppermint (also spearmint chamomile) large meals carbonated beverages spicy foods citrus eating 2-3 h before bed lying down for 2-3 h after eating. check meds with md. consider antireflux meds and/or meds to decrease acid.
is bariatric surgery a good idea?
bariatric surgery has been determined by the national institutes of health to be the only way to lose 100 pounds and keep it off. the weight loss affects every organ system in a positive way generally adding 20 good years to your life expectancy. it also resolves conditions like diabetes reflux hypertension sleep apnea arthritis or prevents them. the smartest decision you could make!
i never used to go to the bathroom regularly maybe once every 3 days but now i am going 5 or more times a day and i only eat once to twice a day. what could be wrong? i do have a hiatal hernia.
this change in your bowel habits going from too few bm to too frequent movements can have several possible causes; enteritis colitis flu illness bacterial infections. if you have fever or symptoms persist okay to get evaluated with your doc. your hiatal hernia is not likely to be causative.
i am taking prozac (fluoxetine) 20mg and was wondering if i can take oxy pro elite(diet pill) while taking the prozac (fluoxetine)?
u provider.
i am taking prozac (fluoxetine) 20mg and was wondering if i can take oxy pro elite(diet pill) while taking the prozac (fluoxetine)?
i agree with dr. amawi about asking your own prescribing doctor about this. but depending on why you're on prozac (fluoxetine) oxypro elite could make you more anxious. it contains caffeine along with multiple herbs that can enhance jitteriness.
is lap band weight loss surgery safe?
all surgery has risks. "lap band" placement procedures are very safe but adjustable gastric bands have specific long term risks including malposition erosion infection reflux slippage orprolapse obstruction migration into hiatal hernia etc. while these risks are low be informed about all the risks and the potential consequences on your health and wallet. don't forget maintenance costs.
im breastfeeding and im afraid to eat too little because i don't want it to affect my supply but im trying to lose weight. i had my baby 4 1/2 months?
if you eat a well balanced diet based on your pre-pregnant weight ( calorie wise) & simply breast feed you can lose a pound every week or two. make sure you are taking prenatal vitamins & plenty of fluids. the loss will be slow but natural. the books that say to up your calorie intake to bf are assuring that you won't lose weight.
i felt off balance yesterday so my dad said to use debrox the minute the liquid got into my ear it hurt. is that normal? do i have a ear infection
flushing your ears with debrox is about flushing your ears with dilute peroxide solution -- this may burn if there is any break in the skin of your ear canal or if there is a hole in your eardrum. if the burning stopped and your hearing is ok nothing else to do. if symptoms persist go see your primary care provider for an exam.
i've read that obesity is a risk factor for gerd so if your and underweight teen would you be at a lesser risk or more at risk or no change?
less risk than a severely overweight person. however an underweight person can experience gerd by having alcohol caffeinated drinks and fried and fatty food. all these increase acid in the stomach and make the pressure of the lower esophageal valve more relaxed so that it allows acid and food to reflux into the esophagus.
i've read that obesity is a risk factor for gerd so if your and underweight teen would you be at a lesser risk or more at risk or no change?
the less weight you carry around your midsection lowers your risk of gerd. a hiatal hernia or gastritis can cause reflux irregardless of weight.
is there any side effect by using the laser liposuction to ger rid of genetic double chin because the treatements with laser are considered dangerous?
all liposuction whether conventional ultrasound or laser assisted have potential for complications. here are a few: reaction to anesthesia fluid accumulation fat or blood clots which can migrate to the heart or lungs leading to death skin injury infection excessive fluid loss asymmetry (uneven contour or shape) friction burns damage to vital organs. laser assisted is considered as safe as others.
is it ok to get a flu shot while on sulfameth/trimethoprim 800/160 antibiotic?
there is no reason to avoid a flu shot while on antibiotics for regular outpatient problems.
is it ok to get a flu shot while on sulfameth/trimethoprim 800/160 antibiotic?
be an issue from an interaction standpoint. the infection being treated should be under control before immunization.
i am on sulfameth/trimethoprim 800/160. i got a flu shot two days ago. red skin red eyes chills fever. will that go away in few days?
you could be having an allergic rx to the sulfa. see doctor asap.
i am on sulfameth/trimethoprim 800/160. i got a flu shot two days ago. red skin red eyes chills fever. will that go away in few days?
you may well have a sulfonamide allergy (sulfa). these reactions typically last several days. benadryl (diphenhydramine) otc. say 25mg by mouth 2-3 times a day will help. the situation is a little clouded by the flu shot. the symptoms may be overlapping a bit. the fever and chills may be your bodies response to the injection.
i have gained about 10 pounds over the holidays from binging on sweets. i have stopped sweets past month. hands swell at night? why? what to do?
it is relatively unusual for hands to swell normally people get swelling in their feet. the extra 10 pounds may contribute to some fluid retention if the heart is not working well. at age 55 it is reasonable to see your doctor regarding this to make sure no other body system is responsible for the fluid retention.
i have been experencing passing out spells when they happen my cheeks get flushed and my heart rate goes up and i can hear it beating in my ear?
if you have not sought medical attention for this then you need to do so as soon as possible. even at your young age your symptoms could represent a life-threatening cardiac or neurologic condition.
i have been experencing passing out spells when they happen my cheeks get flushed and my heart rate goes up and i can hear it beating in my ear?
you may be describing psvt (paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia). some people are also born with accessory bypass tracts. the heart rate in the former could be 220 in the latter >300. you need evaluation to rule out such a serious cause.
why do i seem to gain weight in the evening?
could be fluid retention from a relative dehydration which catches up w you by the end of the day. cut back on caffeine and alcohol. consider sodium restriction and drink 2-3 liters of water a day.
what diet medications can lead to pulmonary hypertension?
appetite suppressants like fenfluramine dexfenfluramine and diethylpropion increase the risk of pulmonary artery hypertension (pah). those with pah are more likely to have used appetite suppressants. cocaine and amphetamines have also been attributed to developing pah.
what diet medications can lead to pulmonary hypertension?
dietary suppressants or anorexigens have been linked to an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension. the classic agent is fenfluramine and its derivative dexfenfluramine. others include amphetamine derivatives. for additional information and drug names please refer to dr. abenhaim's article in the new england journal of medicine august 29 1996.
what is a hiatal hernia?
a hiatal hernia is a hernia through the diaphragm. the natural opening where the esophagus comes through the diaphragm enlarges. sometimes it gets big enough that a significant amount of stomach can get through the hole into the chest. this may or may not be related to reflux disease which is the most common symptom associated with hiatal hernias.
what do extremely high levels of hdl in the blood of obese individuals mean?
cholesterol acts with the body's proteins to create strructures known as lipoproteins. these have various sizes and functions. hdl is generally recognized to form beneficial lipoproteins hence it is referred to as "good" cholesterol. that is a number that we want to be as high as possible; it is often genetically and hormonally influenced.
what are common symptoms of liver disease?
acute liver disease: no symptoms or: flu-like sx fatigue nausea distaste for cigarettes and meat dark urine light stool jaundice joint aches loss of appetite mental change weight loss and others. chronic: no symptoms the above also abdominal swelling lose libido lose pubic hair red palms tremor jaundice weight loss blood vessel changes on skin mental changes men get breasts.
what exactly is a kock pouch?
a koch pouch is a permanent ileal stoma or ileostomy. it is designed to be a continent reservoir. what that means is fluid does not come out of the stoma spontaneously. the user has to put a tube into the stoma several times a day to empty the contents of the pouch. the surgeon configures the bowel in such a way to create both a larger space to store fluid and a valve that holds fluid inside.
im breastfeeding but only at night because of my work can i take a diet pills even if i breastfeed at night?
i wouldn't. diet pills can dehydrate you and in order to breast feed you should be drinking more fluids breast feeding alone may help you lose weight.
i have a chronic cough over weight acid reflux sleep apnea i just started nexium (esomeprazole) will that help cough? i am on a healthy eating program
a 'cough' is the body's way of clearing something out of the tracheobronchial tree (the windpipe). it may be just mucous. if you have hyperacidity and irritation of the esophagus from it you may be inhaling a small amount of mucous during episodes of sleep apnea. causing you to cough. see about treatment for sleep apnea as well. see your md about a sleep study.
i have a chronic cough over weight acid reflux sleep apnea i just started nexium (esomeprazole) will that help cough? i am on a healthy eating program
it will help your reflux issues.
i saw that fasting can help loose weight and i researched on it. can i go 2 days not eating/drinking and loose wight with no risks?
you can safely not eat for two days each week. in fact prof roy walford formerly of ucla who was one of the leading proponents of caloric restriction for anti-aging purposes recommended that exact regimen. however make sure that you drink plenty of fluids and stay hydrated.
why is it important to lose weight?
excess body weight often leads to other medical problems including an increased risk for: hypertension (high blood pressure) heart disease diabetes strokes certain cancers back problems high cholesterol high triglycerides fatty liver disease kidney problems intestinal disorders gastro-esophageal reflux disease musculo-skeletal injuries depression anxiety low self esteem etc. etc.
what is lost from the body when a person takes a diuretic for weight reduction?
what is lost in these cases is fluid. the body is mostly water so if you lose significant amounts of water your weight will go down but not necessarily the fat mass.
what exactly is a renal diet?
the kidney is responsible for excreting waste and maintaining an electrolyte balance. patients with kidney disease can have a decreased capacity to do the aforementioned so "renal diets" are focused on limiting proteins (which are metabolized into kidney-excreted wastes like urea) fluids and electrolyte fluctuations. this is analogous to "diabetic diets" controlling blood glucose fluctuations.
what can you do to manage a high cholesterol?
cholesterol (? $ but misleading): a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) fundamental to survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). study: nusi. org lustig.
will adipex affect my antidepressants or birth control?
there is no interaction between adipex and birth control. there is an interaction between adipex and certain antidepressants. as an example here is the interaction listed for adipex with prozac: <link> if prozac (fluoxetine) isn't the anti-depressant you're on run the interaction search using the medication you're on.
what exactly is a liquid diet?
liquid diet refers to requesting that all food be in a liquid form rather than a solid form. clear fluids are foods like fruit juice water broth. other liquids are e. g. milk rice milk almond milk vegetable juice.
i had fundoplication surgery dec 2011 for my chronic cough. it turns out i had at best(before the surgery) mild acid reflux. my cough was caused by a?
a nissan fundoplication is a surgery that's been done for years to treat acid reflux; now however it's often done laparoscopically. reflux can cause cough hoarseness wheezing heartburn etc. if your symptoms are better know that even mild reflux can cause symptoms. if the cough persists it's back to the drawing board. asthma sinus infections and/or allergies are frequent reasons. lgromko.
i went to quick care and they said i have fluid in my ear they have me 30mg sudafed but i have hypertension i don't think i can drink this right?
sudafed can worsen high blood pressure. consider benadryl (diphenhydramine) instead.
i went to quick care and they said i have fluid in my ear they have me 30mg sudafed but i have hypertension i don't think i can drink this right?
if you want to use pseudoephedrine you should check your bp while taking it--it does not raise everyone's bp uniformly. also they recommended 1/2 dose which may have your htn in mind. if opt for alternative can try afrin nasal spray to see if can open up & allow drainage but must stop using by 5 days.
i think i have a hiatus hernia. i hs e bad headache and need painkillers is it ok to take an nsaid?
a hiatal hernia is when the top of the stomach protrudes slightly above the diaphragm into the chest cavity. it is a common cause of acid reflux. a hiatal hernia is not a contraindication to taking an nsaid (anti-inflammatory medication e. g. motrin) if you need it for a headache though realize it could cause or worsen upper gi symptoms such as heartburn indigestion or abdominal pain.
i had a fundoplication about 15+ years ago and recently started having really bad heartburn/reflux. is this a sign of the fundo failing?
recurrence of reflux symptoms after fundoplication is usually a sign of it failing. you should consult with an experienced anti-reflux surgeon who can thoroughly evaluate you and re-do the fundoplication if necessary or convert to a different type of anti-reflux surgery. this is safe when done by surgeons experienced in revision anti-reflux surgery.
i had a fundoplication about 15+ years ago and recently started having really bad heartburn/reflux. is this a sign of the fundo failing?
15 years without reflux after a fundiplication is an excellent outcome. it's possible the wrap has slipped or you've developed a hiatal hernia. make sure you are avoiding dietary reflux triggers and try taking an acid blocker (e. g. zantac (ranitidine) or prilosec daily) and make an appointment with a gastroenterologist who will likely want to offer you an endoscopy to see whats wrong. good luck.
i have hiatal hernia and gerd but only symptom is throat itch. no other pain in chest or stomach. is that really gerd? my hernia found tru gatroscopy.
you have an atypical symptom for gerd which means it has a 60-70% chance at best of being related to gerd. a 48 hour ph study can help correlate acid reflux events to your symptom. this should be done off antacid mess for a week. a 24hour ph impedance study could be done on meds as well. your gi doctor can help with these if its bad enough. best of luck.
i'm 33yr female 6ft & 72kg not overweight but unfit. i have more cellulite than averag on my calves thighs & butt. why? will exercise & weights help?
cellulite is due to a complex interaction of several anatomic components characterized by fibrous attachements which tether the skin to the deep musculofascial structures and localized adiposity with propensity for lymphatic fluid accumulation which is aggravated by skin laxity. your condition may be worsened by impaired lymphatic circulation loose skin & excess fat.
i have acid reflux and a newly found small hiatal hernia if i am careful can i still shovel snow?
you can do all of your normal activities with a small hiatal hernia without fear of making it worse. it can enlarge over time but this usually takes years and is probably independent of your activity. there are obviously exceptions to every rule but you should be ok to shovel snow.
i have acid reflux and a newly found small hiatal hernia if i am careful can i still shovel snow?
acid reflux (gerd) is a common condition and often associated with a hiatal hernia. lifestyle modifications are recommended including reduction of caffeine alcohol chocolate spicy foods and elevation of the head of your bed. sometimes tight waistbands can increase abdominal pressure and worsen the symptom. shoveling snow shouldn't bother you if done calmly and occasionally. good luck!
what are disadvantages of obesity?
obese people have a much higher incidence of diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol asthma sleep apnea heartburn and reflux blood clots heart disease stroke to name a few. obesity is the 2nd leading preventable cause of death (smoking is #1). on average obese people live 7 years less than non-obese people. the average life expectancy in the us is expected to decline because of it.
why do people with copd tend to have fluctuating weight gain and fluid retention?
patients with copd do not normally do that unless they are on and off steroids pills or injections.
why do people with copd tend to have fluctuating weight gain and fluid retention?
in patients with copd the right heart is strained because it has to pump blood into the damaged lungs. when the right heart cannot pump the blood properly that causes fluid back-up/retention which in turn causes weight gain.
why do people with copd tend to have fluctuating weight gain and fluid retention?
copd can put a lot of strain on your heart causing heart failure. when you have heart failure you retain fluid.
what are the symptoms and treatment for neuroendocrine tumors in the lung? after testing for four months i was diagnosed with graves disease last week. tachycardia that averages 144 tremors confusion/forgetfullness weight loss blurry vision goiter
symptoms are of two manners. first is the tumor mass itself tends to cause pulmonary symptoms whereas the hormones released by the tumor can cause symptoms including diarrhea flushing and wheezing may occur when the tumors produce excess amounts of serotonin.
what kind of anesthesia is used during body jet liposuction? what kind of anesthesia is used during body jet liposuction? after three pregnancies i have some fat in my stomach that i have not been able to get rid of through diet and exercise. i want to g
it depends on whether the surgeon usually a board certified plastic surgeon--is planning to do a very small area i. e. on the chin. or is planning to do something as radical as complete body re-sculpturing. in the first instance it is likely that local anesthesia might be the anesthetic of choice. in the second instance because of the large amount of fluid and local anesthetic that is frequently injected during these lengthy procedures it is usually highly recommended that the patient undergo a general anesthetic. it is absolutely essential to investigate where your procedure will be done and to make sure that the facility has a board certified anesthesiologist performing your anesthetic (unless the surgeon is injecting local anesthetics without sedation). likewise it is also important the all of the proper equipment for resuscitation be available in the facility.
will something other than sleep apnea cause me to wake up at night gasping for air?
sometimes acid reflux (gerd) may present with symptoms similar to choking or sleep apnea.
will i need a cpap machine during surgery if i have sleep apnea?
during surgery the anesthesiologist supports your airway either with mask ventilation or intubation. essentially the doctor is your cpap and breathes for you. be sure to tell the md about your apnea as it has many health effects and may influence how you are sedated or managed.
what are the most common complications of a nissen fundoplication for gerd?
early complications include injury to the stomach esophagus or adjacent organs (spleen). late complications may be due to the wrap being too tight (difficulty swallowing gas-bloat syndrome) or too loose (persistent reflux). rarely nerve injury can lead to diarrhea and/or poor emptying of the stomach.
what are the most common complications of a nissen fundoplication for gerd?
generic risks such as infection rare as it is a clean operation. if it is a laparoscopic procedure there is the risk of conversion to open with a larger incision. the fundoplication might be made too tight making it difficult to swallow. it might also come unwrapped resulting in recurrent reflux symptoms. it might be harder to burp or vomit afterwards. have a good discussion with your surgeon.
i've had reoccuring heartburn and it seems that no pill is helping. i am not stressed and try to eat healthy. what reasons are there?
gastro esophageal reflux disease = gerd. some gastroesophageal reflux (ger) is normal. it becomes a disease(gerd) when it causes organ damage (inflammation of the esophagus stricture dysfunction aspiration barrett's esophagus etc…) has adverse impact on you or requires chronic medication to control. <link>
i have a pain in my ear it itches and feels swollen what do i do. besides go to the doctor?
sounds like you have an outer ear infection and needs to go to the doctor. you can try warm compress to the area and an over the counter analgesic ear drops. but that will not get rid of the infection. it will calm the pain and may help flush wax out. those infections tend to be progressive- the swelling and pain can get worse overtime if not treated in a timely manner.
i often feel tired and lethargic since 15 yrs ago after a strong flu. i am now 150 kg. i constantly suffer from joint and muscle pain. pls advice.
fatigue is a very non-specific symptom. see you pcp for a general check up and screening labs. you could have anything from hypothyroidism to fibromyalgia/depression. start losing weight by a lower calorie diet and try to walk for thirty minutes daily.
i accidentally put bleach in my ear instead of peroxide time lapse was approximately 5 min. do i need to go to the er after flushing well with water?
assuming this was regular household bleach and you don't have a tube in your ear then you will be just fine.
i accidentally put bleach in my ear instead of peroxide time lapse was approximately 5 min. do i need to go to the er after flushing well with water?
irrigation is the answer--flush it for at least 10 minutes. then if it does not hurt and you are hearing fine you are most likely able to stay home w/o worries.
why are incisions left open after liposuction my doctor told me that he was going to leave the liposuction incision sites open after my procedure. why not close them with stitches? won't leaving them open cause more scarring than stitching the incisions u
personally i close my liposuction incisions with a single stitch. this allows excess fluid to drain the first 24 hours and helps allign the margins of the incision. many plastic surgeons do not stitch the wound as they are small and usually heal well either way. it's a personal preference.
why are incisions left open after liposuction my doctor told me that he was going to leave the liposuction incision sites open after my procedure. why not close them with stitches? won't leaving them open cause more scarring than stitching the incisions u
the incisions are very small and heal very well without suturing. the reason to leave them open is so that the tumescent fluid (that is used to reduce bruising more effectively remove fat and give post of pain relief) can leak out. you don't want that fluid trapped because it can cause a seroma which is painful and needs to be drained.
why are incisions left open after liposuction my doctor told me that he was going to leave the liposuction incision sites open after my procedure. why not close them with stitches? won't leaving them open cause more scarring than stitching the incisions u
since these are stab incisions some physicians leave it open to let the fluid freely drain. it should not have a difference in scarring.
what should be the diet after gallbladder surgery?
gives the ok and normal healthy diet high in fiber hi in fluids avoiding greasy fried foods and processed foods and low in fats is generally a good healthy plan. having gall bladder out requires no special diet.
why do i burp all the time after having bariatric gastric sleeve surgery?
most belching is due to swallowed air. people with acid reflux and heartburn swallow much more often to clear the acid in esophagus. with a sleeve you might still have reflux. should be on acid suppressing med (prilosec) and give it time. usually gets better after few months.
what is the recommended diet if you have ibs?
regular consistent meal times and quantities of food plenty of fluids and a good high fiber diet. you are retraining your bowel. avoid caffeine and alcohol.
when are you a good candidate for gastric bypass surgery when obese?
for either band bypass or sleeve: 80-100 pounds overweight. gastric bypass is preferable when there is significant heartburn (reflux) diabetics on insulin or severe obesity (bmi > 50). the sleeve and band are generally avoided with significant heartburn problems. all procedures can really help with joint problems hypertension high cholesterol.
i'm a diabetic type 2 highest blood sugar is 125 but i puke everyday. and don't understand why? labs are normal but i just explain this nausea
you could have: acid reflux hiatal hernia gastroparesis medication side effects. . see your doctor for an evaluation. you might need a test called gastric emptying study to make sure you don't have gastroparesis.
what is the best diet for triglicerides and cholesterol in the blood?
cholesterol (? $ but misleading): a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) fundamental to survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). study: nusi. org lustig.
when after major weight loss should you give your skin to firm up before resorting to plastic surgery?
after massive weight loss some skin looseness is to be expected depending on many factors such as age weight fluctation body area and hereditary factors. it is best to wait to see how much improvement there may be spontaneously if skin elasticity is reasonable. also it is critical that the new lower weight remain stable for 6+ months to assure the best outcome from surgery.
what are the health risks of liposuction to the thigh area? what are the health risks of liposuction to the body in general?
liposuction of the thighs is a generally safe procedure when performed by a board certified plastic surgeon with experience in liposuction. a specific concern about liposuction to the upper inner thigh area is that liposuction in this area may have a slightly increased risk of contour irregularities as compared to liposuction in other areas of the body. this is the result of the pattern and type of fat deposition in that area. other possible complications are the typical complications of liposuction including seroma (tissue fluid collection) blood clots rare risk of fat emboli (fat particles circulating to the heart or brain) changes in skin pigmentation poor scarring and asymmetry. to reduce your risk of complications always follow the specific instructions of your surgeon regarding the wearing of your compression garment (usually for 3-8 weeks to reduce swelling and contour irregularities) activity level after surgery and any medications to take or avoid. all the best dr. skourtis.
what are the health risks of liposuction to the thigh area? what are the health risks of liposuction to the body in general?
in theory it is possible that a seroma could develop due to liposuction at any part of the body. a seroma is a collection of fluid that normally is present in the body just not in a specific fluid pocket. this is rare with liposuction. changes in sensation to the skin may occur with liposuction but this is rare as well. otherwise dr. kyllo covered most of the real risks.
what do i do with repeated constipation? i have been to a gastrointestinal specialist and he prescribed polyethylene glycol 3350 nf powder to be taken twice daily. i see some difference but every time i eat some fast food i get back to the constipation.
fluids. eat a high fiber diet between 20-25 grams per day regular meal times and drink 80-100 oz of caffeine free alcohol free fluids daily. if you exercise and should add 20 oz per 30 minutes of strenuous exercise. some meds contribute to constipation so take the meds with full glass of fluid instead of a sip in addition to the above recommended fluids.
what multivitamins are best for an 18 year old just starting to work out and eat healthy? i'm 5'7" and 140 lbs.
a regular daily multivitamin is all you need. . if even that. if you're healthy and having a good balanced with fruits vegetables and protein do not spend any extra money on vitamins or supplements. you'll be flushing money down the toilet. keep up the good work on exercise and healthy eating!
what wre the effects of adipex on the heart?
adipex can cause several side effects on heart since it is very similar to amphetamines. it can cause palpitation fluttering in the chest chest pain shortness of breath increased blood pressure and can also cause heart attack. if used in combination with phen-fen it can also cause pulmonary hypertension.
is it possible to have acid reflux 6 yrs after gastric bypass?
yes absolutely.
is it possible to have acid reflux 6 yrs after gastric bypass?
the restriction imposed by the gastric bypass operation is a set-up for reflux especially if you eat too fast or too much. slow down your eating consume smaller portions and use an acid blocker if necessary to treat symptoms of reflux. good luck!
i've had fluid in my ear for almost a week now with progressing pain. what's the best way to get rid of this and when is it time to go in?
if you are having ear pain and feel like there is fluid or drainage from there you should make an appointment with your primary care doctor. it is important to determine if the pain is from an infection as well as the location of the infection. treatment for a middle ear infection is different from an infection in your canal.
i've had fluid in my ear for almost a week now with progressing pain. what's the best way to get rid of this and when is it time to go in?
since you are having pain i recommend going in to see your physician.
i've had fluid in my ear for almost a week now with progressing pain. what's the best way to get rid of this and when is it time to go in?
you may have an ear infection or another reason to have your ear completely clogged you should see your doctor about it.
i have general fatigue and weakness and cold hands and feet. i also lost a lot of weight. i'm starting to worry about chfcould it be this or the wl?
without fluid retention. . thyroid? talk to your physician.
i have gerd and hiatal hernia. that causes me a bad breath. how can i treat my dental hygiene appropriately?
while gerd can damage enamel and even bad breath it may also be completely unrelated to your dental hygiene. a trial of anti-acid medications will control the acid but may not control the reflux of non-acid stomach contents. if the problem is bad enough consider testing to quantify the the reflux and look for damage to the esophagus - endoscopy ph test manometry & upper gi contrast study.
i have gerd and hiatal hernia. that causes me a bad breath. how can i treat my dental hygiene appropriately?
you are young and healthy i assume. a surgery to repair your hernia and prevent reflux could fix your problems including bad breath if it is being caused by the reflux.
i know topamax (topiramate) for migraine also works as appetite suppressant but what is the chemical reason? does metabolism change or just taste for foods/amts?
topamax (topiramate) changes the taste senses and also causes slight diuresis which is loss of fluid in the body.
what is a good diet after gallbladder removal?
low fat high fiber avoid greasy fried foods and excessive butter and drink plenty of caffeine free alcohol free fluids.
what are some exercises i can do to lose 'flubber' on my thighs?
unfortunately it is impossible to decrease "flab" in just one area of the body. a good cardiovascular conditioning program in addition to eating fewer calories can help you lose fat throughout your body. in addition you can do exercises to tone or build up the muscles in a particular region. your primary doc can clear you to start exercise program personal trainer help you set/reach goals
will low carb/30 min intervals help lose 9 lbs. permently by may 2012?
the word you need to lose is "permanently". i do believe you can lose 9 lbs by may 2012. sounds like there is a special occaision planned. having a goal is extremely important. my experience women are usually very successful when they are externally motivated. now "permanently" is the big issue. it is natural for weight to fluctuate a bit so don't get too focused on the number on a scale.
if i already have problems with gas will a nissen fundoplication necessarily cause worse problems? this is biggest concern.
bloating is a common side effect of a nissen fundoplication. with your concerns you may want to consider a tif or linx. both are very successful in treating reflux with a much lower incidence of side effects.
if i already have problems with gas will a nissen fundoplication necessarily cause worse problems? this is biggest concern.
the nissen fundoplication procedure is often performed about a certain size bougie inserted through the junction of the food pipe and stomach. at times this is small making burping impossible. too large a bougie can result in continued reflux. that is the art of doing the procedure. ask your surgeon his success rate.
i had a painful pimple in my ear. i tried popping it but i ended up breaking it and the fluid went all over and im worried. should i be scared?
if it was a pimple you may have just cured it. should resolve nicely from here.
i had a painful pimple in my ear. i tried popping it but i ended up breaking it and the fluid went all over and im worried. should i be scared?
you likely ruptured a small cyst. it may come back or it may not. i would not be too worried.
is it possible to have a hiatal hernia aswel as an umbilical hernia. i've been diagnosed with an umbilical but also have symptoms of a hiatal hernia?
you can have both a hiatal hernia and umbilical hernia. an umbilical hernia is a bulge through a defect in the abdominal wall at the belly button. a hiatal hernia occurs when part of the stomach goes up into the lower chest. your symptoms could be due to reflux (gerd). you should see a surgeon and he or she may perform an upper endoscopy (egd) depending on your symptoms.
is it possible to have a hiatal hernia aswel as an umbilical hernia. i've been diagnosed with an umbilical but also have symptoms of a hiatal hernia?
yes it is possible to have both. typically however only large hiatal hernias cause symptoms such as chest pain difficulty eating shortness if breath reflux and anemia. an upper gi contrast study can help with that diagnosis.
is the cambridge diet safe when you are ill with flu and laryngitis and have very weak immune system? is it ok to not eat proper food?
ask your own doctor first. but i'd recommend caution with any diet plan that relies on "replacement" food from one company. it's never "ok to not eat proper food " as it isn't sustainable without continuing to buy company food. the foods may have various nutrients but with the flu you may not be able to stomach such processed products. why not learn how to cook & eat healthily instead?
i have hiatus hernia & was diagnosed with gerd. i am using ppi for 2 years to control hyperacidity. since prolonged ppi is not good. suggest alternat?
surgery for reflux disease is a safe and durable solution for many people. there are many alternatives that depend on your age medical status and anatomy (size and type of hiatal hernia). see a general surgeon with interest and experience in gerd for further workup.
is it possible that a fat burner medicament causes an acid reflux? i've experienced acid reflux only when i'm exercising at the gym
so called "fat burners" are a hoax and of no medical benefit whatsoever. the only real fat burner is physical exercise.
is it safe to take fluoxetine 30mg and phentermine 30mg together? some websites state that taking both can increase the risk of serotonin syndrome.
yes risk is higher. i would not advise the combination.
what is the best medication for a hiatal hernia. i take pepsid 20 bid but my stomach seems to burn 24/7 with occ. reflux at night. nexium (esomeprazole) didn't help.?
there are other medications that can be utilized. dexilant (dexlansoprazole) is one that has become popular for better control of reflux. you might want to talk to a surgeon about getting this fixed if it is causing that much of an issue.
what is the best medication for a hiatal hernia. i take pepsid 20 bid but my stomach seems to burn 24/7 with occ. reflux at night. nexium (esomeprazole) didn't help.?
the pain from a hiatal hernia is caused by pressure from the stomach often after a large meal pushing on the diaphragm. acid may be a partial source of the pain but will not be the sole treatment. eating small meals eating more often and not lying down after you eat are the initial ways to help the pain. late night snacks taste good but will cause intense pain for the hiatal hernia.
what diet pill is safe to use with antidepressants? like prozac (fluoxetine)
i always recommend that you speak with the medical provider who is prescribing your antidepressant directly before taking an additional medication an herbal or a supplement. when medications are mixed there is a possiblity that they can interact. another option to help with your weight would be the addition of medical acupuncture to a balance of healthy diet; plenty of water and aerobic activity. auricular (ear) acupuncture is safe and effective. there are several different protocols for weight loss. good luck.
what can be done about a hiatal hernia?
hiatal hernias are are very common and often without any symptoms at all. it is not like a groin hernia that one worries about stragulation or need for surgery. often associated sympoms are reflux which is really caused by a weakened lower esophageal sphincter and not the hernia---ie hearburn indigestion etc.
what are the most common symptoms of chronic liver disease?
the liver can handle a lot of abuse before you start seeing symptoms. this can take years of abuse sometimes. when the liver becomes so scarred that you develop something called "cirrhosis" or end stage liver disease then many things will start happening including jaundice (yellow skin/eyes) bleeding from your gi tract confusion fluid buildup in the abdomen and other things.
what are the side effects on getting i lipo?
possibilities include swelling pain numbness bleeding bruising asymmetry wrinkling of skin and rarely injury to deeper structures fat emboli and dangerous fluid shifts.
what are the side effects on getting i lipo?
undesired results include irregular contour removal of too much or too little fat fluid collection under the skin color change in the skin (rare) and (if ultrasound or laser is used) burn of the skin.
what are the side effects on getting i lipo?
the complications of liposuction include bleeding infection nerve injury numbness or hypersensitivity contour irregularities injury to deeper structures (such as muscle or solid or hollow organs) fat or embolism deep vein thrombosis or significant fluid shifts. however choosing a board certified surgeon who is aware of these complications will lessen the chance of complications.
what could cause rapid weight gain if i recently increased my physical activity? i am also having issues with heartburn and mild fatigue. related?
there may be a relationship. the increased activity may be straining your heart---heart burn can be mistaken for heart pain called angina. the weight gain may be fluid retention because of strain on your heart which also causes fatigue. or it could be several unrelated conditions. you need to call your doctor for a check up ---and do it soon.
what kind of complications might happen from a liposuction?
liposuction is real surgery and carries a small risk of complications. risks of surgery include bleeding and bruising infection multiple small scars fluid collections asymmetry contour irregularities and blood clots. risks are often dependent on your current medical condition. please discuss with your board certified plastic surgeon. <link>
what kind of complications might happen from a liposuction?
first find and interview a surgeon who has expert training and qualifications in liposuction. seek out those patients who have experienced liposuction by the specialists. complications can include: those from anesthetic problems--local or general bleeding not replacing adequate fluids during and after tthe procedure improper technique infection rarely even death. but please consult first.
i had a hiatial hernia repair 2 weeks ago i'm eating some solid foods (as directed by dr) but everything gets stuck when i swallow. is this normal?
be patient. most hiatal hernia repairs also include an anti-reflux valve or fundoplication. this will make it difficult to swallow for anywhere from three weeks to six weeks on average. make sure you stay hydrated and slowly advance her diet off of soft food as tolerated.
i had a vertical sleeve gastrectomy 16 months ago with hiatal hernia repair. 2 weeks ago i started having esophageal spasms. should i be concerned?
the most common problem associated with sleeve gastrectomy is reflux and associated esophageal problems. see your surgeon and discuss getting an upper gi to study your esophagus.
i had a nissen for gerd 2 yrs ago. it has failed and esophagus shortened and ulceration. dr advises gastric bypass. i'm very concerned. bmi is 23.
good idea if your bmi was 35 or above. gastric bypass is gold standard for reflux disease. with a bmi of 23 worth seeing a specialist for possible revision of the nissen.
i need to lose weight for wrestling but still be in good shape. what do you recommend?
your best bet is to wrestle at a weight which is healthy for you to obtain through a healthy diet and exercise. many wrestlers and boxer will utilize laxatives diuretics or just the old school measures like vinyl exercise suits to optimize fluid losses/etc but this is a poor weigh to weight control. it will leave you at risk for weakness of other complications of abnormal fluid/electrolyte loss
i can't really hear from my right ear i feel something is in my ear and its causing me not to hear that very well?
you literally need a practitioner to look into your ears with an otoscope to see if there is impaction of the ear canal with wax or foreign body. ear wax can totally block the canal and diminish your hearing. very common. wax is usually flushed out. do not try to use a q-tip! you will only cause more problems!
why would i have a knot-like feeling in my throat? ok so i first started off on didrex and took them for about two months lost some weight but felt like it was not working so i switched to adipex. ever since i have switched i have been getting this knot
this problem calls for a medical evaluation. you could be dealing with acid reflux allergies or a thyroid abnormality enlarge tonsils etc. you need a detailed history and physical in order to figure out what the problem is. lastly i recommend you discontinue adipex and monitor for improvement. all the best.
what is a hiatal hernia and where is the hiatus in your body?
a hiatal hernia occurs at the spot where the esophagus goes through the diaphragm a thin muscle that separates the abdomen and chest cavities. when this aperture loosens it allows the top part of the stomach to slide up a little into the chest. it can then result in reflux and heartburn.
what is a hiatal hernia and where is the hiatus in your body?
hiatal hernia is a bulge of the upper stomach into the chest region. it occurs through the hiatus in the diaphragm muscle through the passage space for the esophagus and aorta from the chest into the abdomen. its symptoms are likely to be heartburn and acid reflux into the esophagus.
what is the safest birth control to take for water weight gain swellind of the arms legs breast during menstrual cycle dr recently put me on beyaz to treat the symptoms but do not like what i hear about the pill
water retention and weight gain can happen to some patients taking birth control pills. taking the a pill with a lower estrogen amount in it can decrease the complaint of weight gain and swelling. you can ask your doctor about a pill with a lower estrogen component. there are other non-estrogen alternatives such as mirena (levonorgestrel) and implanon (these are implantable devices mirena (levonorgestrel) is inserted through the uterus and implanon into the arm) which have a lower rate of weight gain and swelling for most women. increasing fluids that you drink and decreasing salt can be helpful for some women as well.
who can have sleep apnea?
anyway can have sleep apnea. young/old male/female obese/underweight healthy/multiple medical problems. there are a lot of risk factors you wouldn't think about including smoking reflux and congenital deformities even when repaired (cleft palate).
would going on a liquid diet help with reflux if regular dietary restrictions aren't sufficient?
you're right--the stomach empties liquids faster than solids so there is less to "reflux" on a liquid diet. seriously how long do you think you can stay on a liquid diet nor is it wise from a nutritional perspective in an otherwise normally-functioning gut. if gerd has been confirmed (dysmotility heart chest lung other diseases considered & ruled out) why not try an acid-blocker in low dose?
would going on a liquid diet help with reflux if regular dietary restrictions aren't sufficient?
although a liquid diet would increase the rate of gastric emptying which would in turn may decrease the amount of food in the stomach causing reflux the underlying cause of your reflux would not be fixed. furthermore a liquid diet as not a healthy long term solution and i would not recommend this.
what causes snoring during the time when a person is sleeping?
snoring is the sound that is created when there is a near obstruction in the airway and tissue flutters. commonly this occurs as a result of the relaxation of the tongue soft palate and other tissues as we approach deep sleep. sometimes the airway is actually blocked. this is callled sleep apnea and can be very serious. if you are a robust snorer talk to your md about having a sleep study.
what can we do to help prevent the sinus fluid draining into the hole from tubes in my ear as a kid? when my boyfriend was younger he had tubes in his ears for cronic ear infections. he was told the left ear never closed but they never did surgery to clo
you didn't say what the symptoms are but you may not even have the tubes any more - they frequently are lost over time. also they are placed to prevent problems which result from excess pressure due to fluid buildup so it shouldn't be a concern about fluid draining (it's better for it to drain than build up) unless it's from a true infection in which case you need to seek medical attention.
what can we do to help prevent the sinus fluid draining into the hole from tubes in my ear as a kid? when my boyfriend was younger he had tubes in his ears for cronic ear infections. he was told the left ear never closed but they never did surgery to clo
persistent hole in the ear drum after tubes is a common problem (up to 7%). they can be closed with surgery. repiratory infections can lead to ear infections but that's less common in adults. if there is a hole in the ear drum the ear infections may be mild but show up as mucus or pus comming from the ear. he should try to keep the ear dry. if he has a hearing loss in that side or there are other problems with the ear (drainage) he should get an evaluation by an otolaryngologist and a hearing test.
why can't i loose weight after i had my first son it is imposible to loose weight i had try everything diets pill exercise i eat healthy and i gain weight instead of loosing i talk to my dr. and they always saythesameeat healthy could their be something
losing weight can be a frustrating process and you're certainly not alone in this respect. a number of factors influence a person's tendency to lose weight (or not) including thyroid function insulin resistance gender genetics activity level and -- of course -- caloric intake. in many cases weight loss stalls when people develop a set routine that allows their bodies to settle into a particular metabolic plane. i've had many patients over the years who'd camped out on a weight plateau despite maintaining their rigid 1000-calorie menu and their daily trip to the gym. when we varied the the types of foods in their diet and altered their exercise routine a little (usually by adding resistance exercise [weight training] to their aerobic program) their weight loss often recommenced. as you know weight loss requires discipline and commitment. it's worth sitting down with a nutritionist and/or fitness trainer to devise a program that involves food diaries carb counting cross-training and whatever other techniques can be brought to bear to make your successful. i've attached a link to the national weight control registry which offers invaluable advice for people who are dedicated to losing weight. and maintaining that loss. my best to you. <link> <link>
i'm just wondering if you lose weight do you also lose weight in your legs and belly?
you loose wt in all places where fat is. . influenced by hormone and your targated physical activity.
i have avascular necrosis in both my talus' can't exercise much. how can i lose weight fast to help get pressure off my feet?
this is the fastest way of losing weight if adhered to. combining this with weight training will really help. do avoid uncessary fats when possible and get plenty of fiber and fluids!
i have a heart murmer edema which is getting worse high blood pressure had rapid weight gain poor circulation eyesight deteriorating rapidly. help!
you need to see a cardiologist as quickly as possible to see if your heart is the problem causing you to gain edema fluid causing your weight gain and to control your high bp. also see an ophthalmologist to see if you have a diseased retina or glaucoma. from your description you appear to quite ill and are getting worse quickly. get some help quickly at their offices or go to an er asap.
i have a lap band. noticed an increase in vomiting and acid reflux. is this concerning?
vomiting after surgery is concerning. with a lap band you should be getting regular checks with your bariatric team. okay to get in for an evaluation to check for several possible problems with the band.
i have a lap band. noticed an increase in vomiting and acid reflux. is this concerning?
check with your doctor you may be eating too much at one time or the band could be too tight do not recline within 3-4 hours of eating elevate the head of your bed try lower fat diet and you may want to trial a otc anti acid medication for the short term.
i was diagonised with hiatal hernia 2yrs back. i have gone an endoscopy and my result is as such "patulous ge junction" please tell me the what it means?
the muscle between your esophagus and stomach is not as strong as it should be. you are at risk for reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus.
why has my body weight increased in spite of following daily weight loss workouts?
this can be frustrating. the most important thing to do is expand how you measure success of your workouts. the other measures of success include how you feel how your clothes fit a sense of accomplishment what friends say etc. your weight may be increasing because of increased fluid retention by sore muscles. keep up the good work don't get frustrated and you will see results.
what are the usual symptoms of a hiatal hernia?
not all hiatal hernias are symptomatic but can explain symptoms if present. commonly have heartburn sore throat in morning maybe even chest pain (from esophagus). gerd (reflux disease) may even make asthma worse. see your doctor. treatment usually starts with acid-reducing meds with further studies like endoscopy or radiograph ordered at your doctor's discretion.
what are the usual symptoms of a hiatal hernia?
most people with a hiatal hernia also have reflux which causes heartburn. hh can also give you pain right behind your breastbone.
what is in contact with chair if you have little fat or muscle on your tush?
the "sit bones" are part of the pelvis called the ischial tuberosities. the hamstring muscles also attach to these bones and there is a "bursa" which is a sac of fluid which protects the tendon of the muscles from rubbing against the bone. sometimes these bursa get irritated and can cause pain where you sit. also this is a common place for hamstring tears. many treatments available to help.
what is hiatal hernia?
a hiatal hernia is when a part of the stomach comes up through a hole in the diaphragm into the chest. the diaphragm is a thin muscle that helps us breath and separates the chest cavity from the abdominal cavity. the most common type of hiatal hernia can cause reflux or heartburn. this is treated with medication and sometimes laparoscopic or endoscopic surgery.
what are the side affects of phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
what are the diet pills that caused that heart problem?
fenfluramine & phentaramine were two medications that when taken together as a weight loss aid were found to cause heart problems in some patients. the material was pulled from the marked in 1997 after the problems became evident.
why do i have a constant itching in my ear? my one ear is always itching. i also get a lot of ear infections and i often don't know until they are full blown ear infections. could this all be related or could you give me possibilities for why this stuff k
are you a swimmer or participate in any activities where water is involved? if so this may contribute to the problem. consider using ear plugs if applicable. on the other hand have you seen an ent (ear nose and throat) specialist. you may need a special tube to drain the fluid from your inner ear. also ask if a culture was done. often times people with recurrent ear infections are treated with antibiotics and the problems ends up being a fungal infection which requires a different treatment. all the best.
i had an endoscopy done i was told i had a hiatus hernia so why do i need to go back to hospital to see a doctor. when i have to see my gp as well.
hiatus hernia is often asscoaited with acid reflux. if you have this problem you will experience indigestion or hyperacidity. this can be manged by the endoscopy doctor as well as by your gp. but you will need good antacids which your gp may be bale to handle. otherwise you can go see your gastro-enterologist who did the endoscopy because he is the specialist! .
i had nissen. it has unwrapped and esophagus shrunk. my bmi is 29. my md recommends gastric bypass. i'm not convinced. take plavix (clopidogrel) so no meds.
your esophagus may be the more important concern. with chronic acid reflux the esophagus can scar form strictures and decrease its length. okay to ask your surgeon about the current recommendations. take a friend with you for the discussion and to help ask questions. a second opinion may be helpful for clarity.
im taking a diet pill asset extreme with bee pollen and im experiencing hair loss is this a vitamin deficiency im barely eating?
telogen effluvium is a form of nonscarring alopecia characterized by diffuse hair shedding often with an acute onset. a chronic form with a more insidious onset and a longer duration also exists. telogen effluvium is a reactive process caused by a metabolic or hormonal stress or by medications. generally recovery is spontaneous and occurs within 6 months. b12 shots are very helpful at control.
i was slapped hard in the ear and it has been about a week and i feel like there is fluid stuck in my ear?
it is quite possible that the trauma of your slap resulted in some fluid behind the ear drum since that is a general response to injury. it is also possible that you may have suffered damage to your ear drum from the slap and that it just feels like a fluid sensation. have your primary medical doctor take a look and get to the bottom of this. a week is too long for this.
i was slapped hard in the ear and it has been about a week and i feel like there is fluid stuck in my ear?
when slapped with a cupped hand tympanic membrane perforation is common. see an ent doctor.
what causes lumpiness after chin liposuction? i've read some forum comments about people having lumps in their neck after chin liposuction. is that normal? does it go away? .
once the fat is removed there is an emptiness that is filled by fluid by the body until the area heals completely. your body will make collagen fibers necessary for healing. these fibers are stiff and are made a lot during the healing process. you feel them as lumps because they are firm to touch. with massaging the area about a month later you will help breaking up these newly made fibers.
will bariatric surgey (gastric bypass) help with diabetes? thanks!
bariatric surgery will often resolve many medical issues along with successful weight loss. some of the most significant health conditions that can be improved or resolved with bariatric surgery include type 2 diabetes ( previously described as adult onset or non insulin dependent ) sleep apnea high blood presssure gastroesophageal reflux disease and osteoarthritis.
what are the most common complications of obesity?
degenerative joint disease (arthritis) back pain inability to perform physicially depression decreased libido diabetes obstructive sleep apnea acid reflux and an increased risk of certain cancers just to name a few. obesity is an extremely serious medical problem that should not be ignored!
i start college in two weeks and i really need to lose weight in my thighs and my stomach. how can i do it in two weeks without starving myself?
assume you burn 2500cal a day. that's around 18 000cal a week. quit eating entirely for two weeks and you'll burn 36000--or around 10 pounds of fat. cut your intake in half and you'll drop around 5 pounds--it will look like more at first since you'll loose fluid as well. a lot depends on how much you weigh now and how active you are. 4-6 weeks to see a difference is a more realistic goal.
i haven't had a period for about 6 months due to weight loss will my body shut down?
missed periods from anorexia is fairly common; it is unrealistic to say your body will "shut down" but there are many organ systems that may start to show dysfunction and failure over time without proper food and fluid intake.
i may be addicted to chocolate i think about it daily how can i stop myself eating it & spoiling an otherwise great daily diet with fruit & veg etc?
probably the best thing to do is eat chocolate in moderation. have it after your meals like dinner so you have a chance of eating a limited amount. try doing some exercise or daily tasks before a meal so you're hungry for your nutritious foods. also know that too much chocolate can cause reflux esophagitis and produce a great deal of discomfort. at least you'll think before eating any extra.
i've got crohn's disease and am trying to lose weight. i've cut out all the junk eating nothing but nutritious food but i'm painfully constipated.
usually folks with crohn's disease tend to lose too much weight. the steroids that are sometimes prescribed can cause weight gain. first make sure you are getting adequate fluids. consider miralax (polyethylene glycol) or magnesium citrate but you must talk to your gi doctor to get their opinion as they know your bowels better than a generic doctor on this site.
i am overweight and after eating i get a lot of phlem?
you probably have gastro esophageal reflux disease.
i did barium swallow test it suggested sliding hiatus hernia. abt 2 yrs later i did endoscopy at another lab which showed reflux esophagitis.
the two things you are talking about are consistant. the hernia is a weakness in the distal esophagus and this then allows acid to burn your esophagus(reflux esophagitis). for help no caffine at night no eating after dinner(3 hr. before bedtime) and medication to stop acid production.
i did barium swallow test it suggested sliding hiatus hernia. abt 2 yrs later i did endoscopy at another lab which showed reflux esophagitis.
hiatal herhia (part of stomach comes into chest through weakness in diaphram) is common. sliding means hernia reduces. commonly assoc w/backflow of stomach contents (esoph reflux) which can be irritating to lining (esophagitis). ugi is not as sensitive as endoscopy to ser changes of esophagitis. rx gendrally lifestyle diet meds (at least until hhealed) rarely surgery.
i did barium swallow test it suggested sliding hiatus hernia. abt 2 yrs later i did endoscopy at another lab which showed reflux esophagitis.
sliding hiatal hernia increases your risk of reflux. you are young enough to discuss correction of this problem with specialist. although you may not get complete relief you will save yourself from grief down the road. nissan fundo-plication is the surgery. for now take otc protonix (pantoprazole) for some relief but ultimately you will benefit from the surgery.
will drinking water help you lose weight? if so why?
no i think it can help. most people don't drink enough water but water (a full glass) before each meal has been shown to help create a sense of fullness. therefore people eat less. it has also been shown that drinking ice water before a meal helps delay gastric emptying leaving you "full" longer. there is a cult diet that says your body burns more calories if you drink cold fluids. not!
what are the reasons for an adenoidectomy and tonsillectomy in 5 year old with allergies fluid in ears snoring and 3 episodes of facial swelling?
tonsils are lymph nodes (ln) at back of throat and adenoids are ln above the tonsils at the back of nose near the eustachian tube (et) opening. the et runs from middle ear to back of nose and if blocked by large adenoids the et can't equalize air pressure in middle ear leading to fluid and infection in middle ear. large adenoids can block nose causing snoring. facial swelling probably unrelated.
what are the reasons for an adenoidectomy and tonsillectomy in 5 year old with allergies fluid in ears snoring and 3 episodes of facial swelling?
sounds like you listed many qualifiers recurrent strep tonsillitis is another common reason. if you have seen one surgeon and are uncomfortable with the recommendation get a second opinion.
whats nissen fundoplication?
a nissen fundoplication is a surgery for gerd or acid reflux. it is usually performed laparoscopically. the main components of the surgery are repair of a hiatal hernia if present followed by wrapping of the upper part of the stomach (the fundus) around the esophagus. this repairs the valve between the esophagus and stomach and prevents reflux.
whats nissen fundoplication?
nissen fundoplication is a commonly performed operation to prevent/decrease significant gastroesophageal reflux. the top (fundus) of the stomach is fully wrapped around the bottom of the swallowing tube (esophagus) in the abdomen to make a better valve there. it can be performed as an open operation via upper midline or left subcostal incision or laparoscopically with 4 to 5 small trocar wounds.
why does a compression garment have to be worn after liposuction? my surgeon told me i will have to wear a compression garment for a few weeks after liposuction. what is the purpose of this? .
compressive garment will keep minimize the swelling after surgery hopefully prevent seroma which is fluid build up and will help you heal ina better shape. it is also more comfortable to move around with some support. patients love the garment.
why does a compression garment have to be worn after liposuction? my surgeon told me i will have to wear a compression garment for a few weeks after liposuction. what is the purpose of this? .
the use of compression bandages or garments is to control bleeding in the event it should occur prevent fluid accumulation between the skin and underlying muscle and to redrape the skin in a desirable fashion to improve the result. this is especially important in areas affected by gravity like under the lower jaw.
will chin liposuction affect my ability to eat food? will the healing process after chin liposuction cause it to be painful or difficult to eat? .
this is a good question. liposuction below the chin is a safe and effective procedure. in experienced hands there should be no impairment of an individualâ€™s ability to swallow (which is influenced by four separate sets of muscles that cause elevation of the larynx). the anatomy that is important to swallowing is deeper than the plan of liposuction. however in the immediate post-procedural period you will have a chin strap as well as minor discomfort and swelling. these can be of minor inconvenience in swallowing but only temporary. be healthy and be well james m. ridgway md.
what is the difference between liposuction and smart lipo?
modern liposuction incorporates tumescent liposuction. fluid is used to tumesce the fat. a small cannula vacuums out the fat. smart-lipo is a brand name laser liposuction machine that uses a laser to "melt" fat and heat the skin. this adds more risk and does not seem to provide any additional benefit. article here: <link>. it is better to choose a good doctor than a procedure.
i know that doctors are not totally in agreement as to whether obesity is a disease. what about whether obesity is psychological or physical?
obesity is a condition that may result from another illness but it almost always will lead to "secondary" illnesses such as hypertension type ii diabetes degenerative joint disease reflux sleep apnea heart disease etc. the primary cause of obesity in america today is a combination of poor diet management and too little physical exercise. psychology plays a huge role which is great for tx!
if a nissen wrap is disrupted but reflux is slightly better ie still the pain but no regurgitation is redo surgery required? or will it get worse?
need to see your doctor and probably get an egd done to see what your wrap and esophagus look like.
is it true that if we drink at least 3 liter of water it will make us to lose weight?
drinking lots of water will not alone result in weight loss because the body simply flushes it out. water in soup may contribute to your feeling fuller but you need to eat right and exercise at least 45 minutes a day for optimal health and weight. you also get a lot of water from fruits but you have to avoid fattening foods to lose weight.
i have ringing in ears. it fluctuates in strength. i had surgeries in my ear ten years ago but sometimes it plugs up and i need drops. i am under 18.
you my have tinnitus if you have ringing in your ears. consult your ent specialist for help.
i have ringing in ears. it fluctuates in strength. i had surgeries in my ear ten years ago but sometimes it plugs up and i need drops. i am under 18.
if your symptoms have been this intense for this long you need to have your doctor examine you in person.
what are the tests for hiatal hernia?
the best "tests" are an evaluation and answering questions of possible symptoms by your doctor such as food reflux into the throat heartburn feeling of food sticking when swallowed. simple chest x-ray can be done sometimes a ct scan and likely best is a referral to a gastroenterologist for possible endoscopy procedure.
what are the tests for hiatal hernia?
the best way would be to perform an upper endoscopy or an upper gi series. a ct scan may pick it up if it's large enough but wouldn't be the first test of choice. 75% of hiatal hernias are asymptomatic the other 25% may have symptoms such as reflux. these generally don't cause pain nor is there any type of bulge or mass appreciated by the patient as commonly believed.
what are the tests for hiatal hernia?
your doctor can see you and review your symptoms such as heartburn esophagitis food reflux into the throat feeling of food sticking when swallowing. your doctor can determine if you need testing such as a simple chest x-ray. sometimes a ct scan is used. sometimes a referral to a gastroenterology specialist is considered for an endoscopy procedure.
what symptoms will an overweight child display?
the obsity is bad enough and reflects poor diet particularly sugary stuff. the trouble with that is that it might make the child more emotional and cause add or adhd or even more colds "flu" etc.
why would you choose a stomach stapling over a lap-band surgery?
you should consider all options (band bypass and sleeve). factors include: amount of weight loss diabetes gastric reflux and emotional issues. you can see a video on this comparison. <link>#/watch? v=8et4wd43mgo. in general more weight loss better resolution of diabetes and reflux with the sleeve and bypass over the band.
what are the symptoms of binge eating one should watch out for?
eating a lot and frequent. bloatedness gas acid reflux and lightheadedness. sugar.
what are some symptoms of liver disease?
in esld (end-stage liver disease) much of liver has been replaced by scarring & may not repair itself. has higher risk of liver cancer. if compensated asymptomatic; get symptoms if progressive disease +/- alcohol. in acute liver disease however common complaints include: jaundice (yellow eyes skin; dark urine light stool) itching liver enlargement & ruq pain ascites fluid build-up more.
what are the consequences of nissen fundo reversal considering gerd was managed very well with ppi and hernia was fixed. will i be put to where i was?
reversal of a fundoplication is most commonly done to treat the gas-bloat that some people develop postoperatively. while it is effective it may not be necessary--before considering reoperation see a gastroenterologist. endoscopic dilitation may improve your symptoms without causing complete return of your reflux. good luck!
what is the symptoms of infectious liver disease?
in esld (end-stage liver disease) much of liver has been replaced by scarring & may not repair itself. has higher risk of liver cancer. if compensated asymptomatic; get symptoms if progressive disease +/- alcohol. in acute liver disease however common complaints include: jaundice (yellow eyes skin; dark urine light stool) itching liver enlargement & ruq pain ascites fluid build-up more.
what are the dangers/side effects of lyposuction tummy tuck?
as with any surgical procedure there is a long list of potential complications that can arise. make sure you discuss the common ones and the more severe ones with your surgeon. more common ones include seroma (fluid under the skin) wound healing issues and contour irregularities. more serious ones include blood clots and infections.
will you always gain weight if you take prednisone?
not necessarily but often see weight gain and/or fluid retention.
is it safe to take sertra 100mg and phentermine 375 together. have had conflicting answers and not sure if it is safe or not?
the reason you have heard differing opinions is mixing sertra and phentermine creates a theoretical risk of a severe & possibly life threatening reaction called seretonin syndrome. i don't believe phentermine plus an ssri would cause a problem since phentermine is a noradrenergic agonist. the reason for concern is that fen-phen (no longer on market) rarely caused this due to the fenfluramine part.
is it possible to have your hiatal hernia repaired using mesh without having the wrap (nissen fundoplication) done at the same time?
sliding hiatal hernias where the esophagus & stomach "yo-yo" into the chest are responsible for reflux (gerd). surgical rx of the gerd includes the wrap. paraesophageal hiatal hernias are much more rare & more serious--here the stomach twists up into the chest causing obstruction (or worse). these always require hernia repair; a wrap is not necessary tho advisable since gerd often follows.
is it possible to have your hiatal hernia repaired using mesh without having the wrap (nissen fundoplication) done at the same time?
the repair if a hiatal hernia with wrap (fundoplication) should meet the goals of prevention or symptom relief. only large hernias (paraesophageal) are appropriate to repair for prevention. the wrap is to prevent reflux after repair which divides all the surrounding ligaments from the valve between the esophagus and stomach. the use of mesh is controversial. a laparoscopic approach is best in most cases.
is it ok to us an inversion table if i have had a nissen fundoplication?
with your newly created lower esophageal sphincter you should not have reflux when using an inversion table. have fun! enjoy life without reflux!
i have been diagnosed with gerd hiatal hernia( maybe also asthma) 3 months ago i am also v stressed. could it be all from stress or worse from it?
although stress plays an important role in our health gastroesophageal reflux (gerd) disease is caused from numerous factors. some to consider: alcohol and tobacco use diet anatomy (hiatal hernia) obesity and medications. work up with endocsopy ph (acid test) probe xrays (upper gi) and possible manometry (pressure tests) are necessary. treatment begins with medication and lifestyle change.
what best meds for severe grade4 reflux disease. dr has tried pantorazole nexium (esomeprazole) ranitindine. will be having nissen eventually. ?
what is nissen? if you have not responded to all those meds something more complex is going on than just reflux. there are new strength drugs such as dexilant (dexlansoprazole) but most important is finding what else going on. barretts's esophagus? zollinger-ellison syndrome super high acidity state huge hiatal hernia. maybe it's not even the gi tract is the problem. maybe heart gall bladder pancreas.
what best meds for severe grade4 reflux disease. dr has tried pantorazole nexium (esomeprazole) ranitindine. will be having nissen eventually. ?
surgery to minimize reflux.
what is the obesity surgery with fewest side effects?
the band has the fewest short term complications but long term can develop problems down the road like slips or erosions. the sleeve has a slightly higher complication rate initially but few long term complications most commonly gastric reflux.
what is tumescent liposuction for?
tumescent literally means swollen or engorged. it describes a method of preparing for liposuction and by itself does not remove any fat. it's intended purpose is to add large volumes of fluid ( physicians use different formulas) to achieve some degree of anesthesia as well as to facilitate the extraction of fat by limiting blood loss or improving the conduction of energy such as ultrasound.
what is tumescent liposuction for?
tumescent liposuction refers to the infiltration of fluid into the area prior to performing liposuction. all liposuction is performed with the tumescent technique. <link>
what is tumescent liposuction for?
tumescent means 'to fill'. placement of fluid into the fat tissues creates a suspension fluid to "float" the fat out with less trauma. even low vacuum pressures can remove the fat-fluid mix. this permits use of closed syringes to extact the fat with less bleeding less bruising less discomfort and short compression needs. it is a fundamental princiiple in lps surgery.
what is tumescent liposuction for?
tumescent liposuction is the gold standard for liposuction and is used with any other type of liposuction. tumescent means that the doctor infiltrates the tissues with a local anesthetic and fluid prior to performing the liposuction.
what should i expect after hiatal hernia surgery?
usually this surgery is done with an anti reflux wrap. so your reflux should go away or improve. 60% of people have bloating in the beginning and some difficulty swallowing larger pieces of food. all this should go away with time. you will also experience difficulty vomiting and belching.
what can cause extreme weight gain and swelling of the extremities?
some medicines can stimulate appetite and / or cause fluid retention which would show up as swelling of the legs. many overweight people think they have swelling of the extremities. you would be well advised to see your family doctor for an objective examination determination of you optimal weight for height and an action plan for achieving your goals regardless of the cause of weight gain.
what is the best natural appetite suppressant?
drinking water before you eat has been shown to suppress appetite. also whenever you feel like snacking try hydrating with a low calorie beverage because 'mild hunger pains' may actually be a signal that you need to drink fluids.
i have a hiatal hernia i have been having bad heart burn all day i feel like the acid from my stomach is at the beginning of my throat not going down?
gastroesophageal reflux (gerd) disease is caused from numerous factors. some to consider: alcohol and tobacco use diet anatomy (hiatal hernia) obesity and medications. work up with endocsopy ph (acid test) probe xrays (upper gi) and possible manometry (pressure tests) are necessary. treatment begins with medication and lifestyle changes.
is obesity a disease similar to a cold or a flu?
it is similar in that it is a condition that effects health but is dissimilar in that it is not communicable or contagious.
i'm wondering why are overweight people more likely to get high blood pressure?
they have more fluid in their bodies and require greater volume flows to supply the increased tissues.
i have a problum of water retention so how can i reduce my fat?
reducing fat and water retention are 2 separate issues. to lower fat: low calorie diet with lots of fruit/vegetable/fiber exercise and water intake. to lower fluid retention: salt restriction exercise compression stockings maybe medications. disorders such as hypothyroidism diabetes or sleep apnea may contribute to both problems. they should be treated as appropriate.
i'm 45y old male heavy smoker. can i go for liposuction?
smoking increases your risk of surgical complications. you may have difficulty healing increased risk of infections increased risk of seroma (fluid collections) increased risk of irregular contour. please quit smoking first. <link>
what are some complications of liver disease?
jaundice fluid build up in abdomen (ascites) gastrointestinal bleeding infections coma.
when can i spot weight loss in aids? is it in the initial stage or after many years?
acute hiv disease is an acute inflammatory process in which cytokines (chemicals released from one cell which influence other cells) may alter perception of hunger resulting in decreases intake and weight loss. the most common would be aids wasting syndrome which occurs in late stages of the disease when the immune system has been damaged and may be increased by some anti-hiv medications.
what is success of laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for hiatal hernia?
don't be afraid to ask your surgeon. most surgeons track their outcomes for at least a few years. if you go to a surgeon with good results and you do your part (eating right and keeping your weight in check) - you can expect durable relief with surgery.
what is success of laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for hiatal hernia?
depends on how you define success. it relieves symptoms 98% but in ten years symptoms return in 40%.
what is success of laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for hiatal hernia?
gold standard for reflux is nissen fundoplication (stomach wrap ).
what is tumescent liposuction vs other liposuction?
tumescent liposuction uses fluid to help in extracting fat and minimizing blood loss. standard non-tumescent liposuction is reserved these days for very small areas. if you need large volume liposuction tumescent technique is the safest way to go. please make sure your plastic surgeon is experienced and well-trained. don't be drawn in to bargain basement prices by inexperienced surgeons.
what is tumescent liposuction vs other liposuction?
tumescence is a form of anesthesia that is used for most cases of liposuction. in this technique a large volume of fluid with lidocaine and epinephrine is injected under the skin to numb the area prior to suctioning. it allows awake lipo to be done but also is often combined with general anesthesia. see: <link>
what is tumescent liposuction vs other liposuction?
tumescent liposuction involves injecting a sterile solution into the tissues before extracting fat. this fluid is a local anesthetic that also reduces bleeding in the tissue. today almost all moder lipo techniques use tumescent anesthesia for safety.
what is tumescent liposuction vs other liposuction?
virtually all liposuction involves infusion of fluid with local anesthetic and epinephrine to the tissue prior to liposuction. this helps allow more smooth fat removal with less pain and less bruising. the extent of extra fluid volume infused relative to the amount of fat and fluid removed is what can differ.
what is the recovery like for tumescent liposuction?
tumescent liposuction is probably the most common denominator for all types of liposuction and simply involves infusion of a dilute mixture of fluid with local anesthetic and epinephrine to the area to be treated to the point of "tumescing" or distending the tissues to allow more smooth removal with less discomfort less bleeding and while providing some fluid replacement.
what is involved in hiatal hernia surgery?
dependending on symptoms and associated reflux or heartburn problem. your surgeon csn fix hernia and perform stomach wrap to fix the heartburn problem. expect to stay in hosp a day or so.
what is the best obesity surgery type?
bypass is ideal for patients with severe gastric reflux or severe obesity or bad diabetes. sleeve is great for moderate diabetes and mild reflux. band is ok for thinner patients ( bmi < 40) who have minimal reflux no diabetes and good eating habits. duodenal switch still too much malabsorption.
what causes mucus plugs in asthma? i take mucinex (guaifenesin) in am & pm proactively. i also have ob. sleep apnea/acid reflux. other treatment options for mucus?
mucus production is one of the main symptoms of asthma. it is just a sign of airway inflammation generally from an allergen or even an infection. the latter is usually easier to recognize by the discoloration and other symptoms like fever and malaise. make sure you are treating the asthma. you likely need a daily controller inhaler. keep in mind other problems like copd can present similarly.
what causes mucus plugs in asthma? i take mucinex (guaifenesin) in am & pm proactively. i also have ob. sleep apnea/acid reflux. other treatment options for mucus?
causes increased mucous secretions in airway which consequently leads to "plugs" of mucous. mucinex (guaifenesin) 1200mg with adequate hydration is a good start you may also consider nebulized atrovent treatments as well as inhaled steroids to reduce the inflammation. these options should be discussed with your asthma specialist.
what causes mucus plugs in asthma? i take mucinex (guaifenesin) in am & pm proactively. i also have ob. sleep apnea/acid reflux. other treatment options for mucus?
asthma is due to an imbalance of the autonomic (automatic) nervous system. the commonest cause is poor diet (yes--- honest! ) and you need to see a physician who is conversant with the elements of good diet and appropriate vitamin therapy.
what are the side effects of taking phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
i have obesity from nsaids what can be done to shed my weight?
nsaids are know to possibly cause fluid retention. this may be a cause of some weight gain. if there is significant weight gain you should discontinue and see a doctor.
i have gerd grade c and hiatus hernia. used to consume alcohol but have stopped for now. can this condition reverse itself. i run 3 km daily.
gerd worsens with factors that push stomach acid back up such as being overweight eating large meals and laying flat. . or factors that relax your lower esophagus allowing reflux like fatty foods alcohol caffeine so running to get in shape and laying off alcohol helps a lot. but the condition is being helped by your hard work not truly "reversed by itself".
what symptoms will i notice or can i look for if i'm pregnant? weight gain tender breasts nausea?
skipped or late period nausea bloating fluid retention tender or sore breasts changes in nipples; weight gain is usually not initial change but it will happen; joint aches; other symptoms as well.
what would cause renal cancer? is it related to diet or to smoking or to pollution?
a specific factor in the etiology of rcc is not known although a number of dietary environmental factors hormonal celllular and genetic factors associated with increased risk. rcc consists of a number histologically defined entities which may occur either non-hereditary or hereditary e. g. the influence of genetic factors in vhl disease in hereditary papillary rcc and familial rcc.
i started adipex 37. 5 3 days ago. 1/2 pill a day. take it about 8:30am. at 9:30pm every pm i break out in hives on chest and face gets flushed. why
please see your allergist to find out.
im 40 years old and had the fundoplication 15 years ago but it failed. what are the side affects of not taking gerd medication for over ten years?
scenario - acid reflux leading to damage to the esophagus progressing to esophageal cancer. you need to be followed regularly by a gastroenterologist to keep this from happening.
i am a 22 year-old obese female with pseudotumor cerebri. my symptomps aren't that severe. can losing weight solve my problem without any medications?
the exact cause of pseudo tumor is not known. it is often found in obese young women but losing weight may not reverse the process. it is now believed that pseudo tumor is in some way associated with excessive spinal fluid production or absorption.
im 18 with sleep apnea i changed my nose mask to a better fit now im just trying to deal with nose tightness as its harder to breathe through my nos?
cpap dries out the nasal membranes drink more fluids put some vaseline in your nose before bedtime and make sure that your device is fitted with a humidifier. consider asking your doctor for a nasal steroid spray if clinically indicated or adjust the pressure of the machine to a lower number.
i have gerd and take omeprazole and zantac (ranitidine) for more than 2 years i've food stuck and recently diagnosed with hiatal hernia what should i do?
i would consider a consultation with a general or thoracic surgeon with significant experience with anti reflux procedures. you would likely need some more testing to establish your baseline then if you are a candidate may choose to undergo a variety of procedures available to control reflux.
i am 28 yrs lactacting mother ( 8month child). now a days milk production is reduced. any mdication or diet plan to increase the milk production?
increase your fluid intake and consume more dairy rich products.
what is liposuction? is it safe? what are the possible side effects?
liposuction is a surgical procedure to remove excess fat. it is performed by passing long narrow cannulas under the skin to suction out the fat. most common risks include: bruising pain fluid collections contour irregularity skin laxity. it's best to discuss the procedure and risks with the surgeon that you have selected to perform the surgery.
what is the difference between hiatal hernia gerd and achalasia?
hiatal hernia is a hernia at the esophageal hiatus through the diaphragm. gerd is acid reflux from the stomach into the esophagus. achalasia is hypertrophy/ stricture at the distal esophagus. gerd can be associated with both hiatal hernia and achalasia but more so with hiatal hernia.
what is the difference between hiatal hernia gerd and achalasia?
hiatal hernia is when the stomach goes up in to the chest because the hole in the diaphragm for the the esophagus stretches out. gerd is abnormal reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus typically causing heartburn and regurgitation. achalasia is when the esophagus doesn't work to propel food through the esophagus and in to the stomach.
what is the best food for gout?
tart cherry juice is effective against gout; avoid organ meats; fatty meats and alcohol will aggravate gout. avoid these. also drink at least 3 liters fluid per day - to enhance uric acid excretion - incline diet to mostly whole grain fruit and veggies using egg white for protein then uric acid levels will come down.
what could be the cause of sudden weight gain (10-12lbs) without change in diet and have been lean throughout adult life. women in family has history of thyroid disease.?
you give yourself an answer. thyroid disease can be one thing. this sudden weight gain requires evaluation. it is probably sudden fluid retention and this can relate to possible medical conditions that can be treated. i would recommend seeing your primary care doctor.
what to do about connective tissue disease & lack of intestinal peristalsis? i have high fiber diet drink lots of h20 & exercise daily.
fiber will not increase peristalsis. exercise and high fluid intake are good. few medications improve peristalsis. baclofen has been tried. in canada cisapride is also used.
i have a baker cyst. docs tell me not to have it removed because it could damage nerves. i'm in lots of pain. could i have been misdiagnosed and it's something more serious than that.
it is true that baker's cyst can usually be left alone. they are simply a collection of fluid usually due to overproduction of fluid from within your knee joint. they are therefore a secondary issue sometimes associated with either arthritis or meniscal tear. they certainly can cause pressure but rarely are very painful. in some circumstances they can be drained or removed but usually it is best to leave them alone and find and treat the underlying cause.
i have a baker cyst. docs tell me not to have it removed because it could damage nerves. i'm in lots of pain. could i have been misdiagnosed and it's something more serious than that.
baker's cysts are caused by small holes in the joint capsule in the knee resulting in fluid buildup between muscles behind the knee. very rarely are they removed because of the risks to the nerves and vessels that provide function and blood supply to your leg. antiinflammatories and rest usually improve symptoms if no better after 2 weeks or worsening then visit local orthopedist.
is there an operation for condition of a hiatus hernia and reflux?
yes there is a surgery. it involves fixing the hernia ( closing the hital opening back to normal size ) and anchoring the stomach in the abdominal cavity so it is less likely to recur. the reflux portion of the surgery is to prevent stomach contents like acid from getting in the esophagus. this can be a complex operation so be sure to talk to your dr about it and the possible complications.
i believe that i have a hiatal hernia due to the symptoms i have what can i do to get rid of it? also can i do regular exercise i. e. gym work.
you cannot tell what you may have by symptoms alone and a significant hiatal hernia would be unlikely at age 18. need to see a doctor for an exam. may be acid reflux gastritis etc. do not go by feelings or symptoms alone. also see a doctor before a major change in an exersice program.
i get a blowing feeling in my ear& they feel clogged up. seen specialst but says they are fine but having a hearing test i know they don't feel right?
may come from eustachian tubes being inflamed/swollen preventing fluid from draining from middle ear. otc decongestant like sudafed may help. caution if u have high blood pressure as decongestants can raise it. check w/ pcp before taking if u have htn. may be viral infxn or seasonal allergies. have doc check those possibilities.
why do i gain most of my weight in my legs?
there are different types of weight gain. the one you described is mostly related to the fact you are a woman(estrogen related ) and possibly some genetic influences as well. there are some forms of weight gain that are worse like the one caused by excess steroids named cushing syndrome.
what is the best diet for a patient with chronic liver disease?
if you have chronic liver disease you should avoid diets high in sodium content as they may result in the developement of edema(swelling) and even ascites(fluid in the abdomen) which can be difficult to manage. you should get enough protein in your diet(0. 5-1gr/kg). avoid any drugs meds or alcohol which can further damage the liver. there are some supplements that may help(eg milk thistle).
what are some things that make up a good cleansing diet?
a good cleansing diet should include fiber-rich foods and lots of fluids (water meets the requirement). you can find fiber in whole grain cereals especially with bran fruits you eat with their rind vegetables including beans and lentils legumes and tree nuts.
i have a "small" hiatal hernia and lately have had pain and swelling in the xiphoid process and around to my back. could these be related?
hiatal hernia (especially a small one) would be expected to cause symptoms of reflux which can be painful but generally is not associated with swelling around the xyphoid.
i had a ear ache so i put a few drops of peroxide in my ear now i can't get the peroxide out and its burning and very sharp pains. what do i need to d?
you should see your md to determine the cause of the earache. in the interim you can gently flush or irrigate your ear with some warm water. tilt your head to the side to allow the water to drain out or if you have a bulb syringe you can use it to gently irrigate and to remove the peroxide and water.
i held back a sneeze my ear plugged feel like i'm in a fish bowl with water behind my eye and in my ear today my ear pop and leaking clear red fluid?
have an ent specialist look at you.
i held back a sneeze my ear plugged feel like i'm in a fish bowl with water behind my eye and in my ear today my ear pop and leaking clear red fluid?
sounds like you had an ear infection and spontaneously ruptured your ear drum. it usually heals on its own but you may need antibiotics so go see your primary or an ent.
what can cause severe stomach cramps after eating fast food?
fast food is notorious for being low in fiber & generally high in calories from concentrated sweets & fat. fats delay stomach emptying & promote reflux. dietary fats also promote release of cck & substance y which alters gut sensitivity contracts the gallbladder & prompts the "ileal brake" which in predisposed patients causes bloating & fullness. choose instead salads fruits & whole grains.
what are the first signs of liver disease from drinking?
the liver is most regenerative organ in the body which means it can take a beating for years and remains fully able to do its work of digestion metablism detoxifying. "early" sx of alcoholic liver disease may be fatigue loss of appetite weight loss jaundice dark urine pale stool ascites (fluid in abdomen) itchy skin. unfortunately it's likely already in an advanced stage. stop now!
who is not a good candidate for nissen fundoplication?
in addition to dr. hoepfner's excellent answer i would argue that anyone who can control their symptoms nonsurgically (diet meds lifestyle) is a "bad" candidate for surgery. lap fundoplication is major surgery thru minor incisions and forever changes the way one processes food--it is not for the "casual refluxer".
who is not a good candidate for nissen fundoplication?
initial considerations are a person's general health and risks for surgery and anesthesia. other indications to avoid surgery would be gastric or esophageal muscle disorders (gastroparesis achalasia) scleroderma and those whose symptoms are not from reflux disease.
why is obesity important to care for or prevent?
obesity has been linked to 20 different medical conditions including reflux diabetes hypertension arthritis asthma cancer sleep apnea elevated cholesterol and depression. curing obesity improves or cures a remarkable number of medical illnesses. the cost of obesity to our country is over $100 billion a year. we can't operate ourselves out of this epidemic and there is no magic pill.
i experience severe cramping periodically in my bowels that cause burning up into my stomach and severe nausea. i have a lapband and am on stool soft?
pain in your stomach and nausea in a patient with a lap band can mean several things. you may have gastro esophageal reflux. your band may be too tight. your band may have slipped (band prolapse). you may also though less likely have a band erosion. regardless you should be evaluated by an experienced bariatric surgeon as soon as possible.
i suffer from gord and hiatus hernia for almost 6 months now could this cause head pressure?
reflux can literally "go to your head" and cause sinus disease which may be your head pressure. also reflux may cause you to cough - even during sleep- after which you may be left with head pressure. gord can also be associated with asthma symptoms such as wheezing or shortness of breath so get it checked out.
i've had a gastric band i get bad pain in my shoulders since. will this go away?
some times fluid collection under diaphragm may cause refered shoulder pain or totally unrelated to your surgery bring to your surgeon's attention for tests and treatment.
i was diagnosed with a hiatal hernia at age 16 i'm now 26 how often should i have it checked?
the combination of hiatal hernia and acid reflux creates the risk for precancerous changes in esophagus aspiration pneumonia and other complications. okay to set up an egd soon. then depending on the results the next egd interval will be set by gi doc. be well and take your medications antacids.
what is the daily range of weight fluctuation?
first see your doctor to make sure there is no significant underlying disease. if there isn't any he/she may give you a gentle diuretic to help manage the extra water. the usual range is 3-5 pounds. the body holds onto water based on messages given by the kidneys.
what to do to help stop loud snoring?
the sound we call snoring occurs due to air passing through a narrowing of the airway causing the tissue to "flutter" and make noise. narrowing can occur as a result of several things. large tonsils excess neck fat loss of muscle tone and most commonly a tongue that falls back blocking the airway during deep sleep. people who snore loudly may also have sleep apnea. have your md check this.
will drinking more water help me stay full and lose weight?
drinking water is absolutely essential to your overall health. you should try to drink about 1/2 of your body weight in ounces of purified water. we often drink other fluids like soda or coffee when we are thirsty. this of course adds sugar and calories. i find that people who are diligent about proper hydration usually maintain their ideal weight.
what's the difference between weight gain and pregnancy weight gain?
some weight gain in the context of pregnancy is expected and healthy. the growing baby along with bodily changes (increase in blood and fluids placenta etc) can account for healthy weight gain. however pregnancy is not a free ticket to eating bad foods and eating should focus on providing you and the growing baby with proper nutrients not junk. you doctor should advise you on healthy gain.
is it safe for diabetics to drink sugar-free soda (like cola light)? does it increase glucose level in blood or has any other influence on health?
sugar-free soda such as cola light does not increase glucose levels in diabetics. there are no studies that show any significant detrimental effect of these sodas in diabetics. it is certainly better than drinking regular sodas though water unsweetened tea club soda and coffee are probably better choices.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
or a mood disorder could be related to decreased appetite. much of rapid weight loss is due to fluid. please seek prompt medical care for the lack of sleep mood swings & weight loss.
i've lost 10 pounds in just 5 days and i'm not on a diet or anything i've mood swings/depression and don't sleep could this be related to weight loss?
true weight that fast. 10 pounds in 5 days would mean burning off 7 000 calories a day that you don't eat. that would be the equivalent of not eating much and running 70 miles a day each day. either the scale is inaccurate and/or you've had a shift in fluid. try a different scale. if it continues to decline which is doubtful see your doctor.
i just went to my 3 day post op liposuction checkup. the nurse recommended that i get lymphatic massages. are these massages required?
most patients experience swelling and liquid retention after liposuction. these superficial massages promote the lymphatic system to drain the excess toxins and accumulation of fluids. it's important to select a qualified therapist to avoid the collection of fluid called seroma caused by post surgery trauma.
im cramping in my abdomen arms and toes. somtims in my neck. i am over weight and diabetic?
this is most likely a complex side effect of too much sugar and thus dehydration. and low potassium and calcium because of the elevated sugar and diminished fluid stores. please this is your body begging you to stop poisoning it. pay attention to these signals. you can feel so much better with the right diet and the right exercise.
is fluoride necessary in a toothpaste containing xylitol (emphasis here on controlling decay at margin crown edges)?
they help to reduce tooth decay by different mechanisms. so i like toothpastes with both.
is fluoride necessary in a toothpaste containing xylitol (emphasis here on controlling decay at margin crown edges)?
fluoride has been shown to reduce decay. there are non fluoride containing toothpastes that contain remineralizing agents ( mi paste available with and without fluoride renew) which are available from your dentist. xylitol does help to reduce the acids that cause decay however fluoride or remineralizing pastes offer additional protection.
is fluoride necessary in a toothpaste containing xylitol (emphasis here on controlling decay at margin crown edges)?
fluoride help desensitize enamel also helping reduce cavity.
is fluoride necessary in a toothpaste containing xylitol (emphasis here on controlling decay at margin crown edges)?
both xylitol and fluoride in tooth pastes are helpful in reducing tooth decay but in different ways. are they "necessary"? no. they may be helpful. the best way to prevent tooth decay and have healthy gums is to brush and floss properly after meals and snacks and minimize sticky sugary starchy foods that cling to your teeth by choosing healthier substitutes.
is fluoride necessary in a toothpaste containing xylitol (emphasis here on controlling decay at margin crown edges)?
fluoride is best for decay xylitol is great-- 5 carbon great for ph issues best to check out your decay rate you can have a ph saliva test or biofilm test with carifree system or bana many tests to see your risk.
what is a suggested diet to gain muscle and body mass?
high protein diets help preserve protein. make sure you take a vitamin supplement and drink plenty of fluids.
why is the mini gastric bypass?
the mini gastric bypass is not endorsed by any asmbs or any of the top academic bariatric surgery programs in the country. it is safe but it is basically a billroth 2 operation which can cause bile reflux. the fix for that problem is a roux-en-y gastric bypass meaning that for 50 years we have known that a roux-en-y is better than a billroth 2. the b2 is just easier for the surgeon to do.
what can i do about? water weight fluctuation?
first see your doctor to make sure there is no significant underlying disease. if there isn't any he/she may give you a gentle diuretic to help manage the extra water. the body holds onto water based on messages given by the kidneys.
what can i do about? water weight fluctuation?
first see your doctor to make sure there is no significant underlying disease. if there isn't any he/she may give you a gentle diuretic to help manage the extra water.
where does the weight go after you get a tummy tuck and lipo?
the skin fat and blood/fluid removed during surgery is discarded as biologic waste and is incinerated. whatever tissue weight is removed is gone but the tissues remaining can certainly be "fed" by continued bad eating habits. with good nutrition habits and no weight gain whatever is removed is gone forever.
where does the weight go after you get a tummy tuck and lipo?
initially the weight may go up after surgery because of the iv fluid given in surgery and inflammation associated with normal healing. in general neither liposuction nor tummy tuck should be viewed as weight loss operations because in appropriate patients the tissue removed should not weigh more than about five pounds. any other application of these surgeries is unsafe.
i have fluid in my ear because of alergies so doctor gave me a medicine called zurtic will that help it go away?
your were given zyrtec (cetirizine) which is an antihistamine. this should improve your allergies but if the fluid doesn't go away in a week with regular use you may need additional medication.
i have fluid in my ear because of alergies so doctor gave me a medicine called zurtic will that help it go away?
there is lots of debate in pediatric circles whether giving decongestants or antihistamines make any difference in clearing middle ear fluid. some swer by it but most studies don't show a big difference versus jsut waiting and doing things like popping one's ears and chewing gum. the side effects are usually minimal so if you doc wants to try that for a month it's ok to give it a try.
i am a gastric bypass patient rxy and all the days i need to take nexium (esomeprazole) 40 mg. why do i suffer from heartburn since i hace rxy?
usually the gastric bypass cures heartburn and reflux. it is afterall an anti-reflux operation anatomically. however you can still occasionally get heartburn. if your pouch large it may have enough parietal cells to make excess acid. a gastro-gastric fistula can deliver acid from the gastric remnant to the pouch. you may also have a large hiatal hernia as well. get an ugi and egd.
what is the sequence of stages leading up to advanced liver disease caused by alcohol?
the liver becomes progressively more fibrotic and functions imperfectly. fluid accumulates in the abdomen and other organs become affected in late stages such as the lungs and kidneys. early changes may be reversible with alcohol abstinence but once into late stages the changes are not reversible.
what're the differences between type 1 and type 2 diabetes?
dm1-earlier age onset genetic tendency insulin antibodies dependent on insulin for treatment prone for ketoacidosis fluctuating blood sugars. dm2- older age related to obesity insulin resistance oral hypoglycemics and insulin to control.
what medications can i take for weight loss if i am a diabetic?
healthy consistent eating is most important for weight loss for anyone but especially diabetics to avoid blood sugar fluctuations. metformin helps a lot of diabetics lose weight when they eat right. if you are talking about diet pills it becomes complicated. none are great and their effects temporary. good habits are best. talk to your doctor.
what is fundoplication surgery like?
it is laparoscopic surgery to decrease reflux of acid into esophagus. discuss with your surgeon.
what could cause a sudden weight loss of 10 pounds?
rapid weight gain could be due to fluid buildup or as a side effect of several drugs. see a doctor.
would this be normal menstrual weight fluctuation if 5 lb?
some women do have large weight swings during their cycle. it is mostly fluid and will go away. talk to your doctor about the option of a diuretic (water pill) if your gain is dramatic.
what is the difference between gastric sleeve and gastric bypass and which surgery is better for weight loss?
both take about one hour laparoscopic. usually home the next day. as safe as appendectomy (with experienced surgeon). weight loss at one year is 80% for bypass and 70% for sleeve. bypass ideal for bad reflux or bad diabetes. sleeve has fewer problems with sugar but mild risk reflux. talk to your surgeon for more details.
i seriously think i might have a problem with overeating/ binging. help?
support groups & self-help groups such as eating do anonymous & overeaters anonymous nutritional counseling with a dietitian recreational activities cognitive therapy (behaviors result from our own thoughts not from outside influences) and medications such as orlistat cortisol zinc (discuss these with your doctor).
if a person has type 2 diabetes and drinks vodka will it affect their blood sugar in a negative way?
alcohol can affect the medications for diabetes & can make blood sugar levels fluctuate.
is it actually true that an overeating day will make me gain weight?
this is difficult to say. it depends on your level of activity that day the number of calories consumed and your body's own rate of metabolism. in general however the answer is usually yes with one pound gained for each 3 000 calories consumed. much of the weight seen after a day of heavy eating is from salt and fluid retention which tends to come off in subsequent days. best wishes to you.
i have something white in my left ear. it's pretty deep. not sure what it could be and i can't get it out. what can i put in my ear to flush it out?
stop what you're doing and go to clinic to have it taken out.
i have something white in my left ear. it's pretty deep. not sure what it could be and i can't get it out. what can i put in my ear to flush it out?
doctor for an evaluation. he/she can look at it more clearly and has sterile tools for any minor procedure or can decide whether it needs a referral to a specialist. don't try to do this yourself.
i have something white in my left ear. it's pretty deep. not sure what it could be and i can't get it out. what can i put in my ear to flush it out?
if you have something white in your ear it could be part of a q tip stuck on wax. your mother probably told you to only use your elbow to put in your ear. because you can cause damage. a foreign object is the most likely answer. see a doctor if it persists.
i have something white stuck in my ear. when i try to take it out it feels hard. not sure if its a piece of qtip or what how can i flush it out?
best to stop picking at and go to urgent care now. damage to the eardrum is something you dont want to deal with which can happen if you try to remove it on your own.
i have something white stuck in my ear. when i try to take it out it feels hard. not sure if its a piece of qtip or what how can i flush it out?
while it may seem simple to try to remove yourself it would be safer to let a healthcare professional remove it for you like an ent to avoid doing damage to your ear. ( i'm not a fan of those home appendectomy kits that they sell on infomercials either) not all procedures should be done at home for the best and safest care.
i have something white stuck in my ear. when i try to take it out it feels hard. not sure if its a piece of qtip or what how can i flush it out?
see ent doc. you can injure your ear trying yourself.
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
a hiatal hernia associated with gerd reflux of stomach contents up your esophagus can cause cough aspiration pneumonia asthma like pulmonary problems. you have choice about next step in care. you may benefit from medical care further testing egd. surgery only after good medical care. start with your regular doc. be well.
i think my breathing problems and post nasal drip was all from a hiatal hernia not asthma. what are the cures for a hiatal hernia from stress/anxiety?
hh is an anatomic problem we do not cure it. we have drugs to minimize esophageal reflux in symptomatic patients.
why would i get hiccups when i wake from a deep sleep and have to go to the bathroom. hiccups go away quickly. am 64 female slightly overweight. ?
sleep apnea can cause gereflux which can cause hiccups.
what does "it's only water gain/loss" mean with respect to talking about their diet?
the make up of the human body is composed of a high percentage of water which permeates all of our tissues. rapid changes of weight over a few day period or within the same day generally reflect shifts in water weight. consumption of salty material may be followed by fluid retention & weight increase while a long day of working outside in the heat may drop you a few pounds.
what causes snoring?
the audible soundof snoring is caused by a constrition of airflow typically by tissues of the throat uvulae tongue or somewhere in the airway. as we relax the muscles during sleep the airway gets blocked and the tissues flutter. sometimes the airway gets completely blocked. this is called sleep apnea and can be quite serious. talk to your md to determine if a sleep study is appropriate.
what's the difference between a hiatus hernia and an unstable angina?
hiatal hernia is a weakness in the diaphragm muscle that may allow a portion of the stomach to go into the chest causing heartburn or esophageal reflux. unstable angina is a very serious and potentially life threatening condition of impeding heart attack or heart damage from low blood flow to the heart.
what is the best diet plan for a vegetarian with ibs?
try a high fiber diet lots of fluids and regular exercise. this is the most natural way to fight constipation.
i can't control myself around food and keep binging. what do you suggest?
some physicians prescribe topiramate for weight loss because it creates a feeling of fullness or satiety. talk to your family doctor about this. if you are on it you must drink 8 glasses of fluid a day to prevent kidney stones. lower the dose or stop it under dr's. direction if you are feeling clumsy. be aware of the sptms of glaucoma since it can cause that on a rare occasion.
i have liquid in my ear because of alergies got medicen for alergies. will it help the liquid to drain?
fluid behind the ear drum can accumulate if allergies swell the drainage tube (eustachian tube). it transports the normal mucous made within the middle ear to the back of your throat. for the liquid to drain the swelling within the tube must diminish and allow the fluid to drain. it will tale time but the meds can help.
i have liquid in my ear because of alergies got medicen for alergies. will it help the liquid to drain?
the fluid is likely due to eustation tube swelling. once the swelling goes down the fluid will drain.
im dieting how to prevent sagging skin on arms and other body parts?
other than wearing supportive garments it is unlikely that you can do anything to improve skin elasticity beyond what your genetics have in store for you. excesses with tobacco use or sun exposure and repeated weight fluctuations may cause diminished skin elasticity.
is it safe to take tramadol ir 10 to twelve hours after a phentermine?
just make sure you drink plenty of fluids.
i have a hiatal hernia that flared real bad burning pain between shoulders and feels like my esophagus is on fire vomiting yesterday is this normal?
it sounds like your hiatal hernia is contributing to severe reflux disease (gerd) that requires treatment. you need to at least have medical treatment with a prevacid-type pill and possibly surgery to correct the hernia (laparoscopic nissen fundoplication). if the severe pain occurred after prolonged vomiting you may have torn your esophagus - go to the er immediately!
is it true if your obese and you exercise allot and eat healthy you can lose weight quickly the first week?
it is common to lose more weight the first week compared to subsequent weeks. most of this is due to the loss of water weight the first week. if you have fluid retention or edema this can be substantial.
is there a reason it feels like i have water in my ear and if so how do i get rid of it?
here is a handy guide to help with your problem: <link> wikihow. com/remove-fluid-in-ears.
what is the easiest way to loose weight?
moderate exercise (ideally 30 min/day) burns off extra weight. portion control of intake of healthful foods (lean protein colorful fruits & veggies low glycemic carbs good fats) reduces caloric intake. use a salad plate for servings; no 2nd helpings. avoid simple sugars soda pop fast food highly processed foods. aim for 2 lbs/week loss. drink plenty of fluids. get support from friends/family.
what type of diet is recommended for someone with ibs with constipation?
try a high fiber diet lots of fluids and regular exercise. this is the most natural way to fight constipation.
what is the diet for the patient in typhoid?
stay away from whatever you ate or drank that gave you the infection. stay hydrated as the fever can cause a substantial fluid loss.
what is the diet for the patient in typhoid?
the patient with full blown typhoid (enteric fever) is very sick with high fever nausea headache body aches and loss of appetite. there is a risk of intestinal perforation. therefore the patient should be given plenty of fluids (whatever they prefer) and light diet high in calories & protein and low in roughage. therefore chicken soup milk shakes eggs are good if the patient can tolerate.
why my eyes are getting smaller? i have started dieting from last few days everybody is saying this is hapening to ur eyes bcoz of improper diet.
the sockets around the eyes are full of fluid and fat. when you diet and lose both of those the eyes move back into the sockets looking smaller.
i understand divalproex sodium causes weight gain by affecting insulin resistance/metabolic syndrome. what explains the weight gain from gabapentin?
i know that gabapentin can lead to changes in fluid distribution in addition to peripheral edema and this may be one possible way that gabapentin leads to weight gain.
if i hear popping in my ear when i swallow is the fluid draining out?
it is either a clogged eustachian tube which runs from to ear to the nose or a swollen tmj from bruxing so start with your ent then the dentist if the ent find s nothing wrong.
if i hear popping in my ear when i swallow is the fluid draining out?
the popping does not necessarily mean that fluid is draining out. you may simply have congestion from allergies clogged ears or infection.
i have a distended stomach. size changes daily. looks like i am pregnant but am not. not overweight. good diet. food allergy? gas? more fiber?
food allergies tend to cause acute reactions like vomiting hives wheezing and/or drops in blood pressure. thus it is an unlikely cause. gas or bloating could potentially make you uncomfortable and look like you have a tiny "baby bump" but wouldn't cause a large change in size. if your belly is very large it could be from fluid accumulation. you should see your doctor about your symptoms.
why do i wake up with weird upper abdominal pain pain when i sleep flat on my back? can it be my hiatal hernia or reflux? should i be worried?
it could be a hiatal hernia or heartburn from reflux or gastritis. try taking an antacid med and see if it improves. then consider seeing a doctor for further evaluation.
why do i wake up with weird upper abdominal pain pain when i sleep flat on my back? can it be my hiatal hernia or reflux? should i be worried?
one of the lifestyle modifications for a hiatal hernia and / or reflux is sleeping with the head elevated. this uses gravity to help keep the acid from running into the esophagus. you should consider discussing this with your dr as well as other causes of the pain.
what are the symptoms of hiatus hernia?
bad heartburn fullness/pain in upper abdomen/chest (worse after eating) regurgitation of bitter fluid (especially when lying flat or bending over) sometimes difficulty breathing frequent pneumonias asthma attacks. severity of symptoms depends on how large the hernia is. most hiatal hernias are small and cause mild heartburn or no symptoms at all.
what are the symptoms of hiatus hernia?
the most common symptoms include heartburn and sometimes regurgitation. some epigastric discomfort may be present. if the hernia enlarges or esophagitis from reflux worsens you may feel as though food gets stuck on the way down. if the hernia continues to enlarge these symptoms plus chest discomfort and occasional difficulty taking a deep breath especially with exertion may occur.
what is a hiatus hernia symptoms?
heartburn food or acid reflux into the throat or mouth food sticking in throat or chest with swallowing vomiting blood chest discomfort. small hiatal hernias may have no symptoms.
what were the common sides effects seen in the qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) study? were there any uncommon but serious side effects?
phentermine+topiramate: numbness dry mouth constipation colds/bronchitis acidosis headaches insomnia dizziness nausea backpain blurred vision fatigue high potassium depression anxiety hair loss reflux and man many more. . and rare but serious ones: allergic reaction high blood pressure heart valve disorders tremors psychosis pancreatitis liver failures. consult doc. good luck.
what in long run are the effects of obesity on health?
obesity has many physical and emotional health risks. increased risk of diabetes which has additional health risks increased risk of blood pressure problems stroke and heart disease. increased risk of pain and joint problems arthritis back troubles and problems with mobility. gastrointestinal problems including increased reflux. increased risk of depression social stigma and stress.
is it possible to develop atherosclerosis if your diet is relatively healthy and you are not overweight if there is a family history?
your risks are higher with your family history but not carved in stone. like the other answer said control your risks with appropriate behaviors. healthy eating weight reduction exercise blood pressure control stress reduction and make sure you see a physician who can check your cholesterol and metabolic factors that can influence your risks.
i heard a crackling sound in my ear why is this?
sometimes people get fluid trapped behind the eardrum that causes such crackling. sometimes it is related to allergies. i have had it for years and cannot get rid of it. if it bothers you please visit your physician who can advise.
i have been got reduced from overweight to normal. as i am taking 3-4 week rest. should this gap make me fat again becoz of poor metabolism inside us?
you need to continue with the changes in your eating behavior that you have hopefully made and continue with your exercise (? 3-4 week rest). weight maintenance is different from active weight loss. your weight may fluctuate a bit.
i have a hiatal hernia can i use almond butter?
there is a difference between having a hh and having reflux esophagitis. what you eat will not affect the hernia but can increase reflux. the four main things that increase reflux are: chocolate nicotine alcohol and caffeine.
i was wondering if having the gastric sleeve done would help my reflux and gerd go away?
the gastric sleeve itself will not improve gerd. however weight loss often reduces or eliminates reflux.
i was wondering if having the gastric sleeve done would help my reflux and gerd go away?
the sleeve is not an anti-reflux operation. in certain circumstances a sleeve may improve reflux. if you have a moderate size hiatal hernia and your symptoms are well controlled on meds then there is a good chance that losing weight reducing acid production and fixing the hernia will help. if your reflux has been difficult to control due to a weak les muscle then it will probably get worse.
i was wondering if having the gastric sleeve done would help my reflux and gerd go away?
there are many reasons for acid reflux. weight loss can help with the symptoms. but there is a chance that your symptoms may be worse after the gastric sleeve. this is due to the new anatomy of your stomach. there are a lot of reasons to have weight loss surgery and a lot of different options. talk with your doctor about what is best for you.
i was wondering if having the gastric sleeve done would help my reflux and gerd go away?
of my patients who have had this procedure none noted a big difference till they changed their diet. i would reduce your carbs take out soda increase protein. see your md for more guidance. also www. weighstation. net each newsletter will give you some insight. i wish you the best.
i was wondering if having the gastric sleeve done would help my reflux and gerd go away?
maybe not. a proton pump inhibitor like nexium (esomeprazole) or prilosec would be much more effective.
i was wondering if having the gastric sleeve done would help my reflux and gerd go away?
yes most likely. but remember to succeed with these surgeries you have to change your life. you must limit your calories. you must limit the sugars you ingest. you must stop using the foods or drink that caused the reflux!
what's proper diet for a person who has kidney stones of calcium oxalate?
avoid dehydration; follow diet: avoid spinach rhubarb strawberries nuts chocolate tea wheat bran and all dry beans; increase citrate: orange juice 8 oz twice daily; realemon extract: 5 tblspns per day; increase fluid 4 liters/day; only 4 oz meat/day; 4-5 fruits/day; maintain low salt; egg white 2 per day as protein; 25 mg hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) daily to reduce ca in urine - you can do it.
what are some baratric surgery complications?
complications in the immediate post-op period are: leak from the staple lines or new connections bleeding nausea/reflux. the risk of these changes depending on the specific procedure. in the long run complications include stenosis (narrowing) of the connections internal hernia gallstone formation weight regain nutrition deficiencies. again these risks may not apply to all procedures.
what does "severe'" gas-bloat after nissen fundoplication mean/look like? what causes gas-bloat after this surgery?
an effective nissen fundoplication provides a barrier to gastroesophageal reflux but also a barrier to vomiting and burping since the lower esophageal sphincter no longer relaxes to let air (or other stomach contents) escape upward from your stomach. the air then accumulates in the stomach resulting in gas and bloating until it can be evacuated into the small bowel.
what is the symptom of lap band slippage?
a slip can occur in 1-2%. usually causes sudden nausea and vomiting. the doctor usually removes the fluid and some small slips will go back into place. big slips will likely need surgery. often the band can be salvaged. the re-slip rate is about 50%.
what is the symptom of lap band slippage?
abdominal pain heartburn bloating vomiting difficulty swallowing liquids or solids failure to lose weight reflux.
what fitness programs can help me lose weight?
with regular medium-high intensity 5-6x/wk aerobic bworkouts and a healthy/balanced diet along with setting a realistic steady wt loss 3-4lbs/month you can accomplish this. don't do crash diet because u will likely regain it and some more later. drink plenty of fluid especially water minimize junk foods/sweet drinks and you will succeed. remember: good health=lifetime commitment. good luck.
i had massive dental work. lots of bridges etc. after a car accident in2008. everything was tight and right. i started a sleep apnea machine last?
some people with sleep apnea may have dry mouth which often leads to significant decay. make sure you drink plenty of water and talk to your dentist about constructing soft easy to wear trays that you can fill with fluoride or mi paste to protect your remaining tooth structure from rampant decay. with extensive dentistry you should see your dentist- 4 or more times per year .
i have eczema in my ears. they itch daily then i scratch & then they will drain clear fluid -at night mostly. is this normal- it's a daily cycle!
control the itch with oral histamine and a prescription topical steroids of moderate potency from your physician. do not use it when your skin is weepy or not intact. at those times you may need to apply topical antibiotics to get it healed then proceed with the topical steroids. aquaphor ointments are very good to apply when it is dry cracked bleedy. if no better consult with your physician.
i have eczema in my ears. they itch daily then i scratch & then they will drain clear fluid -at night mostly. is this normal- it's a daily cycle!
check with your dermatologist because you might use a topical anti-fungal for a short time and feel better.
i have eczema in my ears. they itch daily then i scratch & then they will drain clear fluid -at night mostly. is this normal- it's a daily cycle!
use qtips and hydrocortisone cream over the conter.
i have eczema in my ears. they itch daily then i scratch & then they will drain clear fluid -at night mostly. is this normal- it's a daily cycle!
my patients have also found good improvement with the use of ceratopic by skinmedica. this can be purchased in many physician offices. we also have this available in our online store at www. ohioplastic. com.
i have eczema in my ears. they itch daily then i scratch & then they will drain clear fluid -at night mostly. is this normal- it's a daily cycle!
could be an infection on top of the eczema. i would get it checked out.
i have a hiatal hernia. if i don't stick to a diet since i have bad acid reflux what will happen? will i have to see my gi every year for a check up?
you should check up yearly. your doctor will monitor your progress. if you have good control then perhaps no changes will be needed. as you age having a doctor who knows you well and can offer good advice is priceless. they can save you an operation or recommend an operation and save your life. that is what they try to do every day.
i have a hiatal hernia. if i don't stick to a diet since i have bad acid reflux what will happen? will i have to see my gi every year for a check up?
don't ignore the symptoms that are trying to tell you something. you may suffer long term damage to the lower esophagus. your diet is important as is maintaining a good body weight. if your symptoms are not adequately you might controlled with meds you might be a candidate for a surgical procedure that usually works well. and yes ignore advice and you will get to know your gi doc well.
i have ibs and waldmanns disease. i try to eat a low fat diet high in protein take mct oil and a water pill. can you tell me more about the disease?
also know as primary intestinal lymphangiectasia. enlargement of lymph vessels supplying the lamina propria of the small intestine. cause unknown. loss of lymphatic fluid into gi tract and protein loosing enteropathy and too little albumin in blood causing abdominal discomfort and leg swelling diarrhea and degrees of immnunodeficiency. are you under the care of a gi doc or in a univ. hospital?
i have type 2 diabetes and recently joined a gym and am wondering what kind of diet i should be eating?
the american diabetes association web site has good instructions on this and the kinds of foods that represent a healthy diet. you want to achieve a healthy weight. if you are exercising you need fluids electrolytes adequate protein all of which is in healthy normal foods. you may want to consult a rd who takes care of diabetics.
what would make it sound bubbly when breathing and feel like rubbing at sternum? 31/f overweight but healthy
we need to have more informations such as history of smoking do you cough a lot do you have any pain when you breathe a bubble sound may be an indication of air passing through a fluid chronic bromchitis or fistula between trachea and esophagus; you probably need to see a doctor for further evaluation.
will chromium help in insulin resistance?
any one is deficient in chromium. while chromium does influence insulin resistance any body eating anywhere near a normal diet is not likely to be deficient. see this site for more information. <link>
what is chance that nissen fundo by highly skilled surgeon will last forever? what is lifetime chance of redo? what % still have reflux post-surgery?
there is no lifetime guarentee for this repair. many are asymptomatic even with x-ray proven reflux after surgery. if done correctly reflux will be gone immediately after surgery.
what is the reason for dizziness when dieting?
you are likely being too aggressive with your efforts and are not taking in enough food and fluids. because of this you don't have enough blood volume and/or nutrients going to cells in your body like your brain cells. you might have low blood glucose or be anemic as many things like vit b12 and folate (folic acid) are neccessary for correct blood cell production. so drink and eat more see how you do.
what are health risks of obesity as a huskie?
there are many health risks of obesity. heart disease diabetes stroke joint and body pain fatty liver acid reflux bowel issues sleep apnea and other pulmonary issues social stigmatization emotional risks like increased stress and depression.
i hv sliding hiatus hernia with gerd esophagitis la grade b duodanitis. i don't have any symptom now like heartburn etc. does it mean medication nt rqr?
i would use anti-acid producing medication until you know the damage to your esophagus heals. this means another endoscopy. if the esophagitis comes back after healing and stopping meds may need to consider an anti-reflux procedure which could be done endoscopically or surgically. hope this helps and you have a merry christmas!
i have gone for my endoscopy test and result shows mild hiatal hernia. can i still do strenuous exercise? would it make it worse if i do?
you can exercize but any increase in abdominal pressure (by straining while holding your breath) may exacerbate your reflux. so if you lift breathe as you do so.
is there any over-the-counter water pill that i buy before i state my weight loss program? i really need to do that or master cleanse.
not the right way to start a weight loss program. often this can lead to laxatives then inducing emesis starvation or over- exercising. i would encourage you to drink at least 8 - 8 ounce glasses of water per day (not diuresing off your fluids).
i have a painful sore throat it to hurts swallow. i have a hiatal hernia and my vomiting has gotten worse do to the sore throat. what causes this?
your hiatal hernial sets you up for significant acid reflux which will cause your sore throat and vomiting. acid is very irritating to the throat. your reflux needs to be treated aggressively.
what is disruption of fundoplication?
a fundoplication is a surgery to prevent reflux from the stomach to the esophagus. the upper part of the stomach is wrapped around the lower esophagus. a disruption is when that wrapping or folding unwraps.
what are the complications from nissen fundoplication?
there are the usual surgical complications like bleeding infection organ injury etc. and risks of anesthesia like cardiac events and pneumonia. the major complication of the nissen itself would be the failure of the operation to continue controlling reflux in the long-term. this would be especially likely in morbidly obese people who are better off having a rny gastric bypass for reflux.
what are the complications from nissen fundoplication?
generic risks such as infection rare as it is a clean operation. if it is a laparoscopic procedure there is the risk of conversion to open with a larger incision. the fundoplication might be made too tight making it difficult to swallow. it might also come unwrapped resulting in recurrent reflux symptoms. it might be harder to burp or vomit afterwards. have a good discussion with your surgeon.
want to lose weight but am still nursing a child what's a safe way to do that?
if you eat a well balanced diet based on your pre-pregnant weight ( calorie wise) & simply breast feed you can lose a pound every week or two. make sure you are taking prenatal vitamins & plenty of fluids. the loss will be slow but natural. the books that say to up your calorie intake to bf are assuring that you won't lose weight.
why do you have to wear a garment after having liposuction?
any time a surgeon makes a cut and tunnels under tissue two major things can happen: bleeding and creation of empty space. the pressure of a garment helps to minimize bleeding initially. in the long term the more important issue is to reduce the amount of free space that was created by liposuction tunneling. this helps prevent accumulation of fluid/seroma that can lead to infections bumps etc.
why do you have to wear a garment after having liposuction?
compression after liposuction helps to reduce bleeding swelling and fluid collections.
what is obesity effect on the human breathing?
obesity can lead to sleep apnea or lapses in breathing at night. weight loss can reverse the changes. obesity can also cause reflux with acid in the esophagus. acid irritating the vagus nerve can also affect breathing and even trigger asthma like episodes.
what does 'fluid' in menier refer to? i can make 'click/crack' sound in my ear everytime and it sound like fluid/water.
the menier's syndrome is not well known to me so i can not speak on that. however the fluid that the inner ear utilizes to control balance is no where near the area were you could hear sounds produced by it. i would more likely assume that you are hearing crepitus from your temporomandibular joint. tmj pain and noises are a very common problem for people and can present with varying symptoms.
what does 'fluid' in menier refer to? i can make 'click/crack' sound in my ear everytime and it sound like fluid/water.
your cochlea (hearing organ) has microscopic fluid filled spaces. the excess fluid that is referred to in meniere's is excess fluid in these microscopic spaces. it is a result of improper salt ion transport. not the same as the fluid you get behind your ear drum.
what are the long term effects of a fundoplication?
a properly performed nissen fundoplication will stop your gastroesophageal reflux getting rid of your heartburn. some patients have difficulty belching or vomiting; some also have some difficulty swallowing solid foods such as meat bread and rice.
i have ehlars danlos and a hiatal hernia. is there a relationship between the two? i have significant pain but my gi doc thinks it might be due to the ed?
hiatal hernia is a known manifestation of ed. both hh and ed can cause pain but hh frequently has no symptoms and if there is pain it is usually due to acid reflux. the question you need to ask your gi doctor is "how do you know this is not due to acid reflux? " if s/he cannot give you a clear explanation seek a second opinion. reflux is treatable so it is worth it to be sure.
is binge eating unhealthy?
type 2 diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol heart disease gallbladder disease osteoarthritis joint and muscle pain sleep apnea gastrointestinal problems ;#40;such as reflux;#41; certain types of cancer emotional problems such as depression anxiety and panic attacks substance abuse problems obesity restrictive lung disease increased vascular disease increased risk of gastric rupture if the amount eaten is particularly severe. this is by no means to be taken lightly.
what are the side effects from body jet liposuction? are there any known side effects or problems from body jet liposuction? .
the side effects are comparable to any form of liposuction and include but are not limited to infection bleeding over or under correction fluid overload pain numbness tingling irregularities and mores.
what are the side effects from body jet liposuction? are there any known side effects or problems from body jet liposuction? .
the wet technique in liposculpture involves infiltrating first with fluid and then sectioning with a different cannula. body jet liposuction has both mechanisms on the same tool so that the shaping of the whole curve can be less significant/exact. body jet liposuction requires the same attention to fluid and electrolytes for patient safety. pain is less in any wet technique of liposuction.
what are the side effects from body jet liposuction? are there any known side effects or problems from body jet liposuction? .
the risks of body jet liposuction are the same as other forms of liposuction. these are bleding infection seroma (fluid collection) skin loss cellulite or contour abnormalities worsening. i would reccomend you have your treatment performed by a local board certified plastic surgeon.
what is hiatal hernia? what is hiatal hernia and how do people contract it?
a hiatal hernia is a hernia through the diaphragm. the natural opening where the esophagus comes through the diaphragm enlarges. sometimes it gets big enough that a significant amount of stomach can get through the hole into the chest. this may or may not be related to reflux disease which is the most common symptom associated with hiatal hernias.
what is hiatal hernia? what is hiatal hernia and how do people contract it?
a hiatal hernia is an enlarged opening of the hole that your esophagus comes through the diaphragm allowing your stomach to slide up into your chest. it can be caused by increased pressure in your abdomen such as from being overweight. other times it just happens and we don't have a reason for it. if it causes symptoms like pain or reflux it can be fixed either laparoscopically or robotically.
what is hiatal hernia? what is hiatal hernia and how do people contract it?
a hiatal hernia is when the diaphragm that surrounds your esophagus as it passes from your chest to your abdomen is not tight but is loose. this allows acid reflux to occur. if the hernia is large it can also allow your stomach to slide into your chest and cause more discomfort. you are either born with it or you just develop it over time.
when i go to the toilet i always have to push or strain a bit to get things moving. i have a well balanced diet and exercise frequently. i have a bow?
you should not have to strain routinely for a bowl movement. i do not know what you mean by a "well balanced diet. " if you getting proper fluids eating fruits vegetables fiber and whole grains you should be ok. please consult with your physician.
what is the definition or description of: hiatal hernia surgery?
a proper diagnosis is required to expect the best results for hiatal hernia surgery. it is a hernia weakness in the diaphragm muscle and the stomach pushes through. usually a laparoscopic procedure using a portion of the patient's upper stomach to wrap around the lower esophagus. this repairs he hernia defect & tightens the lower esophagus so food will not reflux into the esophagus.
i hav put on weight i was 57kg six mnths ago. it's 67kg now. it's been six mnths since marraige. soon aftr takin lunch i use to sleep. is dat d reason?
sounds like you need to re-learn signals your body uses to indicate after-meal fullness. however there are lots of other causes of excessive weight gain (in your case almost a pound ; a half a week)--perhaps metabolic (thyroid adrenal) fluid-retentive emotional binging even pregnancy ; more. start with the pregnancy test then if negative go see your doctor to address other causes.
i'm suffering from cough for so many years. earlier it was said as "hiatus hernia". recently after doing endoscopy again the result "stomach ulcers".
cough could be an atypical symptom of the reflux from the hiatal hernia. consider getting an operation to repair it. the stomach ulcer usually not caused by the hiatal hernia unless you have a cameron ulcer which is associated with it.
i got diagnosed as lactose intolerant. just recently informed i may have hiatal hernia they related?
but drugs like omeprazole used to treat reflux associated with hiatal hernias can cause diarrhea that could be incorrectly blamed on lac intolerance. if thats possible in your case try either tums or zantac (ranitidine) for the heartburn symptoms short term to see if the diarrhea gets better.
i have been so nauseous the last 3 hours and my stomach hurts. my stomach is all bubbly but its painful. i have not vomited. i have had fast food alot?
abdominal pain has many etiologies. diet affects gall bladder and bowel. fatty foods can cause pain and nausea related to gall bladder function. irritable bowel syndrome usually has pain with alternating constipation and diarrhea. gastroesophageal reflux can cause nausea and usually right upper quadrant abdominal pain. if symptoms continue should consult physician for exam and possible diagnosis.
i am taking prozac (fluoxetine) for bulimia but depression and binges have worsened help please!?
communicate this to your prescribing provider promptly. if you are not working with a psychiatrist already - would recommend that. hopefully you are already in talking therapy.
what is the difference between liposuction of the thigh and a thigh lift?
liposuction is a very effective contouring procedure for the thighs if the skin has reasonable elasticity. with age and weight fluctuations there is loss of elasticity ("skin tone") which lessens the efficacy of liposuction alone. in patients with less ideal elasticity a lift procedure should be considered. liposuction is less invasive than a lift with longer incisions and longer recovery.
what are symtoms of lapband slipage.?
symptoms may be subtle at first such as night time reflux. patients may also experience nausea and vomiting that occurs more frequently along with reflux through out the day. patients may also gravitate to softer more liquid foods due to intolerance to solids. freq vomiting may lead to a slippage. to tight of a band will give similar symptoms. get it checked if concerned with a barium swallow.
what are medical used of ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate)?
ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) is an amphetamine-like substance that has been used medically for asthma as a decongestant cold/flu symptoms and to aid in weight loss. it has been banned in the us since 2004 because it can dangerously raise blood pressure cause heart rhythm problems and in rarely even death. there are too many risks and as there are so many other meds to use instead to use it any more.
i've a hiatus hernia and a gastritis which give me terrible nausea. which food do i need to avoid absolutely?
these diagnoses can aggravate nausea through reflux and malabsorption but there is no absolute dietary restrictions. alcohol use and smoking most certainly aggravate the stomach and gi tract and can worsen your gastritis. see your doctor for followup!
i've a gastritis hiatus hernia and irr. bowel. when i eat i've strong nausea with air reflux inside mythroat. after that i'm starving. am i any probems?
this can be gastritis gerd or other your other gi issues. i would recommend seeing your pcp or gi doctor to begin work up and get you proper medications or refer you for additional testing like esophageal manometry or an ugi study or endoscopy.
i had a fundoplication about 9 years ago because i didn't have a valve and had severe reflux. do i need to get it re-done now?
if you do not have any symptoms revision is not required but you need to see your doctor if you have symptoms for follow up and if necessary endoscopic examination to see any changes inside your stomach ; ge junction. some will need.
weight gain shortness of breath even while sittng bloating pain between rib cage and belly button?
abdominal pain swelling weight gain and shortness of breath can indicate excess fluid in the abdomen (ascites). this needs to be evaluated. even if it is not ascites this pattern needs to be promptly evaluated.
which juice or diet should i take after exercise?
it is important to hydrate not just after exercise but actually before and during as well. electrolyte containing fluids (gatorade or similar) or water rehydration is recommended. as far as your next meal is concerned follow your usual routine- just remember to eat balanced and healthy meals to complement your exercise routine.
i'm 16 years old and have gord/gerd and hiatus hernia what to do?
you can certainly try antiacid medication or antireflux medication but this may not work or you may require being on this medication for the rest of your life. surgery is a option to repair the hernia and wrap the stomach to prevent reflux.
i have reflux and esophagitis. taking prilosec 40mg daily. i lost lots of weight. where can i get a good diet plan for this? i need to eat more
start with your physician nutritionist and supplement with a google search.
i have reflux and esophagitis. taking prilosec 40mg daily. i lost lots of weight. where can i get a good diet plan for this? i need to eat more
gi for endoscopy to be sure they didn't miss diagnosing a malignancy. god bless u! <link> <link>
is it safe to go get a flu shot with everything that i take? levothyroxine atenolol hctz lexapro (escitalopram) suboxone vyvanse klonopin esterc & plexus slim?
yes. you can take flu shot.
is sleeve gatrectomy surgery safer as compared to the gastric bypass surgery?
that's a common misconception by patients. the gastric bypass is a more complicated operation than a sleeve but the risk of a leak is the same for either operation. in addition if a leak occurs it is much harder to control in a sleeve than in a bypass. there are many other pros/cons for each but the bottom line is that the risk is about equal. for diabetes and heartburn/reflux bypass is best.
i was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes 2 years ago now. im fighting a lot of issues with it. but now i cough up phlegm after eating anything! help?
the problem you are having has several possibilities depending on how long after eating this occurs position you are in and the color/consistency of the phlegm. food increases acid reflux which with/or without diabetes can lead to the pipe from mouth to stomach getting scarred and uncoordinated which can lead to your problem. do not lay down after eating eat small portions bland food. see md.
i need to know what is tumescent liposuction?
it is using a fluid called tumescence that has medications for pain relief as well as to diminish risk of bleeding.
is gastric bypass/lap band surgery elective since they should just stop eating?
bariatric surgical procedures including gastric bypass and lap bands are not replacements for dietary control for weight loss. obesity is a disorder that can be influenced by dietary control but many patients will regain weight over time. these procedures help to provide durable weight loss but fundamentally changing how patients eat and how the body absorbs food.
will eating too much sugar affect my health as a teenager?
a diet with high amounts of simple sugars can cause fluctuations in insulin levels and lead to highs and lows of perceived energy and mood. such a diet is associated with overweight and obesity in teenagers and might increase the risk for type ii diabetes in the future. simple sugars should compose a small part of your diet.
would like to have explanation of how can water make you loose weight?
increased hydration may assist in excreting sodium. the other major theory involves drinking ice cold water. every milliliter of fluid consumed requires energy to bring it up to body temperature. so if you do the math 2000cc x 37 = 74kcal. therefore drinking 1/2 gallon of ice water will burn 74 "calories" a day.
what is a diet plan for esophageal ulcers?
the following foods worsen gastroesophageal reflux: caffeine alcohol mint chocolate. acidic foods such as citrus fruits and juices and tomatoes exacerbate the injury to the esophagus caused by reflux and usually worsen heartburn. other common offenders are peppers spicy foods and fried foods. a higher protein content in a meal can help decrease reflux.
what is a diet plan for esophageal ulcers?
if esophageal ulcers reflect damage from gerd (gastroesophageal reflux) then combine acid suppression medication with the following: minimize meal size as well as intake of alcohol tobacco caffeine tomato-based products fatty/fried foods fizzy drinks; avoid bending over or laying down within 4 hours of a meal elevate head of the bed. advice changes of course if ulcers are not due to gerd.
i am currenty on the dukan diet but i feel really constipated? what can i do to ease it?
i don't know the specifics of the dukan diet but most constipation will be relieved by an increase in fluids and fiber. you can get fiber through vegetables and fruit but also through products like metamucil and benefiber. don't forget to exercise; that helps too. lgromkomd.
i am currenty on the dukan diet but i feel really constipated? what can i do to ease it?
dukan diet is low carb- and hence low fiber- it is constipating by nature. try not to stay on this diet too long and get back to a healthier balanced diet that includes vegetables. if you can have vegetables on this diet- i would recommend it- as they are low carb and help with constipation. you also need to take adequate fluids- 45-60 ounces of water a day to help the vegetables and fiber.
i have vericose vein can i try squads exercise (slowly) for reduce thighs is this cause problem because of varicose vein? i am obese & big thighs?
varicose veins are due to refluxing (malfunctioning) valves usually of the saphenous system. exercising will not not make the veins worse but then may engorge more with venous blood with straining. you should consider solving the varicose vein problem by seeing a vein specialist for a venous reflux ultrasound exam.
im getting wrinkles under my eyes and i am 24 if i eat healthy and drink water etc would i get rid of that problem or is it possible i'm aging already?
at 24 the wrinkles are unlikely to be age-related. wrinkles can be due to lots of causes such as stress fatigue sun exposure dehydration and smoking. eat a healthy diet drink plenty of fluids don't smoke and wear sunscreen while outside.
i have a known hiatial hernia ulcers as of july 2013. this past week i keep having pain under lower rib cage dull sever pain. belching a lot helps?
you may need to have an upper endoscopy done to see if there is active gastritis reflux esophagitis or peptic ulcer disease. you may need to have testing for h. pylori if not done and to have your antacid regimen maximized depending on the findings. also seeing a dietician may help in avoiding foods that worsen this discomfort.
will you lose weight if you hit puberty?
some grow into their earlier fluffy weight & convert it to muscle & bone growth. however a balanced dietary intake exercise & avoiding sedentary activities like computer games & tv are needed to slim down. if you continue feeding in excess of need puberty will just push you to get heavier faster.
would drinking protein shakes help when you want to start working out?
taking supplemental protein is most effective in the first 20 to 30 minutes after a workout. don't forget fluid replenishment is very important as well.
i've had a perforated ulcer and hiatal hernia both corrected in the past two years and still experience nausea bloating chest pains and reflux. will this eventually go away?
if you continue to have symptoms you need to go back to your doctor because you may have reflux even after your ulcer and hiatal hernia have been repaired.
i've had a perforated ulcer and hiatal hernia both corrected in the past two years and still experience nausea bloating chest pains and reflux. will this eventually go away?
sometime surgeries are not successful. you should be taking a pump inhibitor.
i have been diagnosed with a hiatus hernia i also have sessions of rapid heat rate is there a conection?
a hiatus hernia is a mild weakening in the diaphragm musculature around the upper portion of your stomach. the most common consequence of this condition may be slight acid reflux.
i'm 20yo female bmi 27 have obvious pulsating in my abdomen and feel sick when i lie on my front should i be worried definitely not pregnant?
i would highly suggest you see a doctor. it could be nothing or could be reflux hernia or possibly something more serious. best to get peace of mind since it appears to be concerning you as well.
what is the defect of liposuction?
liposuction is real surgery and carries a small risk of complications. risks of surgery include bleeding and bruising infection multiple small scars fluid collections asymmetry contour irregularities and blood clots. risks are often dependent on your current medical condition. please discuss with your board certified plastic surgeon. <link>
when i eat too close to bedtime i wake up with acid going into my lungs. i had a gastric bypass 14 yrs ago. what is going on?
acid reflux and or regurgitation is the transit of gastric contents (acid digestive enzymes bile) back up the esophagus. common risk factors include lying down or bending over after eating or drinking hiatal hernia and impaired esophageal motility. eating or drinking too much to close to lying down is also a risk of reflux. stop eating or drinking at least 2 hours before bedtime.
what am i suppose to eat after getting lipo suction?
foods so your body can eliminate the remaining anesthetic meds from your system. narcotic pain meds reduce your gut's ability to tolerate food so avoid fried or spicy foods and start with fluids and "easy" comfort foods that you would eat after stomach upset. by the next day regular foods are usually ok. stay hydrated. of course you should ask your surgeon and lipo is not an excuse to overeat!
what are the risks of taking adipex?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
i am stil having problems with gastritis hiatal hernia went from 4 to 5 does that me it is growing? been taking nexium (esomeprazole) since sept 2013 and no change
hiatal hernias are not malignant and spread- or "grow" in that sense. they do enlarge or expand as tissue stretch. scarring and strictures can occur so gastroenterology evaluation and egd can help clarify. reflux treatment is important as well as elevation of head and head of bed when lying down small meals nothing late or right before bedtime and medication.
i was wondering what does a hiatal hernia do to your body?
hiatal hernias in the u. . s. may be as common as 1 in 3 people. a hiatal hernia is when the junction between esophagus and stomach slips up into tbe chest from its usual place in the belly. this causes the g-e junction to stop acting as a one way valve and stomach contents (food and acid) can back up into the esophagus and even the lungs. acid reflux aspiration pneumonia and food sticking occur.
if someone that works at a fast food place has hepatitis and thier bodily fluids (saliva) come into contact with your food can you contract anything?
hepatitis a is spread through feces. the other types of hepatitis are spread through blood to blood contact. saliva can certainly spread other diseases and shouldn't be coming in contact with food that people are preparing or serving.
if someone that works at a fast food place has hepatitis and thier bodily fluids (saliva) come into contact with your food can you contract anything?
it is possible.
i increased my calories to 1400 calories a day and i should be maintaining my weight but instead i gained three pounds why?
several common reasons. first weight gain can come from fluid retention which can be due to many factors: premenstrual high salt intake heavy exercise with soreness others. second you may be eating more than you think. how good are you at counting calories? most people underestimate. portion size is confusing. a food scale may help along with a diary.
im 14weeks pregnant and have put on too much weight. is the soup diet safe in pregnancy for 1 week as i am over 210lbs and don't want to get any bigger?
no "certain diet"; always an issue of quantity in retained ; out. high fat foods of natural origin ? likely stored as fat; carbs most converted to fat ; stored. exercise also a factor. with pregnancy ? water retention for amniotic fluid (swimming pool for baby if your will also an issue). weigh food ; self daily after commode nothing on on scale to 0. 1 lb record food eaten ; experiment.
i am 40 just had a baby 5 months ago have a hiatal hernia and really bad acid reflux what would be a good diet to lose work?
typical foods that are known to lower the pressure in the valve between the esophagus and stomach causing more reflux are citrus caffeine chocolate red sauce an red wine/alcohol. weight loss is more of a calorie intake issue. hiatal hernia is no problem unless it is large. hope this helps!
will the incisions from tumescent liposuction require stitches?
liposuction is performed through very small incisions. it is not necessary to places stitches in the incisions. i used to place stitches but now i leave them open so that all the fluid drains out. every surgeon has a different approach to stitches but ultimately it doesn't make a difference. <link>
will the incisions from tumescent liposuction require stitches?
i don't stitch the wounds after tumescent liposuction. they are extremely tiny and serve as drainage ports for the tumescent fluid. the wounds close on their own after 2 days or so.
will the incisions from tumescent liposuction require stitches?
the incisions from lipo are tiny (less then 1/2 inch generally). most incisions are left open to allow the tumescent fluid to drain out. if they are in a more conspicuous area your surgeon may choose to close them with a single suture to help reduce scarring. the scars are generally tiny even if they are left open. <link>
why am i not experiencing bloating post nissen fundoplication? it's been 8 weeks so i'm concerned its not tight enough.
consider yourself lucky! not everyone gets the dreaded gas bloat after fundoplication surgery. as long as your reflux is better your wrap should be fine.
why am i always having constipation during my diet? (trying to lose weight). i am eating a lot of fiber. its annoying cuz im always bloated.
foods with inadequate fluids or excessive caffeine or alcohol will cause your symptoms. drink 80-100 ounces of caffeine free/alcohol free fluid daily more if you exercise.
what can you do about a hiatal hernia when youu also have acid reflux i am now having trouble with laranx spasms?
nissen fundoplication can be performed at the time of the hiatal hernia repair.
what can you do about a hiatal hernia when youu also have acid reflux i am now having trouble with laranx spasms?
there are times when acid reflux hiatal hernia laryngeal spasms and aspiration pneumonia are related; the acid comes easily up the esophagus (due to the hernia) and irritates the throat. okay to get evaluated by a gi doc. an egd (scope) with manometry will get you a diagnosis. you may benefit from a surgery to correct the hiatal hernia. good luck.
i have a haital hernia. is it possible to repair without the nissen fundo?
hiatal hernias general only require repair when they are large a condition also known as a paraesophageal hernia. these usually occur later in life after age 60. small hiatal hernias can be associated with reflux and when treated surgically are appropriately repaired during a nissen fundoplication. if no reflux and small hernia don't repair. hope this helps!
i have a haital hernia. is it possible to repair without the nissen fundo?
if symptoms are mostly related to acid reflux (burning and regurgitation) then a fundoplication should be performed with repair of the hiatal hernia. if there are no reflux symptoms but chest pressure shortness of breath abdominal/chest pain with meals then a fundoplication may not be as important as getting the stomach out of the chest and repairing the diaphragm defect.
i saw a gi doc that said a gagging feeling in lower throat when bending over is not a symptom of a hiatal hernia (which i have). would you agree?
agreed. of the 70 million americans with reflux about half have symptoms without esophageal inflammation. some may have gagging cough hoarseness. perhaps behavior ; diet modification (answered previously on healthtap) may help if gerd is present but my best recommendation is to follow your gi doc's advice. afterall he knows you best ; what your tests have shown. if questions ask him please.
what is easy and economical method of diagnosing hiatus hernia? does gerd means high possibility of hiatus hernia.
probably the least invasive and most economical method to diagnose a hernia is an upper gi. in this test you drink contrast material and x-rays are taken as it goes down your esophagus into your stomach. a hiatal hernia can be seen. most people with a hiatal hernia have reflux but the majority of people with reflux do not have a hernia.
what is the prescription diet drug that is similar to pondamin (sp? ) i'm concerned about the behavior it's causing in my friend.
pondamin is generical fenfluramine and redux is similar to it. redux is generic dexfenfluramine. fenfluramine was removed from the market because it caused heart valve disease and pulmonary hypertension. these medications are not deemed safe for use. i suggest seeking medical help since they affect serotonin in the brain and can change mood and behavior.
what should i expect with a hiatal hernia during my pregnancy?
you may not experience any symptoms from your hiatal hernia during your pregnancy. on the other hand you may develop heartburn and reflux which is quite common in pregnancy. if you develop these symptoms you can take prilosec otc daily or get a prescription for another proton pump inhibitor which is generally felt to be safe for pregnancy.
is there any side affects in nissen funduplication surgery and what's the percentage of successful of surgery as i am suffering from reflux 2 years.
this is surgery that is designed to recreate the sphincter at the distal end of your esophagus such that acid reflux problem is reduced. unfortunately in addition to post-surgical complication there is up to 50% incidence of recurrence of gerd symptoms following surgery and often patients require resumption of proton pump inhibitor.
i have chronic phlegm. i have also hiatal hernia and frecuente sore throat. what condition do you think i have? and what woul be the best treatment?
i think that gastro-esophageal reflux (gerd) has to be ruled out. high reflux of acid from the stomach now called laryngeal-pharyngeal reflux (lpr) can be associated with a hiatal hernia and frequent sore throats. see gi specialist.
i have chronic phlegm. i have also hiatal hernia and frecuente sore throat. what condition do you think i have? and what woul be the best treatment?
it is hard to tell without being able to evaluate you in person but acid reflux can occur all the way up to the back of the throat. a hiatal hernia can make acid reflux easier and more severe. acid can irritate the throat and lead to a sore throat. it can also spill over into the lungs and cause coughing and choking. the acid irritation can lead to excess mucous as well. see your doctor for eval.
i have halitosis this past week i went to my gastroenterologist and he told me it's caused for an hiatal hernia how can i remove bad breath?
links. treating ur acid reflux may help. take care! <link> <link> healingcenter. com/natural-health/7-herbs-for-bad-breath/.
i have a stuffy nose alot. & very nasally do i have sleep apnea?
nasal congestion does not mean you have sleep apnea for sure. but it can exacerbate it. if you snore have morning headaches daytime sleepiness gasp or choke for breath at night wake up with a dry mouth and/or have night time acid reflux it may be sleep apnea. if so please consult a sleep medicine specialist for evaluation. at minimum your nasal congestion can be treated. hope that helps!
is there a specific doctor that treats obesity and overweight patients to help them lose weight?
all physicians are trained in treating obesity related conditions. these include high blood pressure elevated cholesterol arthritis reflux heart disease diabetes among others. so all physicians should be helping their patients loose weight. specifically regarding weight their are medical doctors. bariatricians. and surgeons. bariatric surgeons. dieticians are also very helpful.
i found out i have hiatal hernia. what does it do to your body what to do?
small hiatal hernias are nothing to weepy about and can be associated with reflux disease but not necessarily in a cause-effect relationship. large hernias also known as paraesophageal hernias can pose problems with swallowing bleeding and chest pain. if the hernia is large consider a consult with an experienced laparoscopic surgeon (general or thoracic). hope this helps!
i have had my gallbladder removed and a scope that discovered a hiatal hernia. i started taking apple cider vinegar. terrible stomach and chest pain?
the hiatus hernia may be causing reflux of stomach acid into your espohagus. vinegar will not help- it is a mild organic acid. you may benefit from over the counter ppi like pepcid- 20mg am/pm for at least 1 week and if not improved seek prompt medical examination.
i have problems with acid reflux. would taking garcinia cambogia make it worse or cause it to flare up?
please do what your doc says but a natural approach is to take dgl. dgl is licorice tablets with an enzyme remove (because too much of it can raise bp). you need to take a lot of it but many find it helpful. i know it's difficult but please try to stop smoking also. you will be glad you did. peace and good health. i'm not familiar w/research on garcinia cambogia.
i get full only after eating small amt thn hungry in few hrs. abd ct. w/wo oral & iv contrast. hiatal hernia. gp says poss. gastroparesis. other ideas?
while the ct rules out bad things there may be gastritis or inflammation of the stomach lining. this could be made worse by a bacterial infection (h pylori). i would recommend an egd or upper endoscopy to biopsy and visualize stomach. your acid reflux suggests this possibility. treatable with antibiotics.
im about 15 lbs over weight could this be the cause of my gerd. i also have gastritis but they did biopsies and those were normal. i eat healthy normall?
there are many things that cause gastroesophageal reflux disease. usually there are multiple contributing factors such as diet and medications. being overweight absolutely can contribute to the development of gerd. losing weight may cure or alleviate your symptoms of heart burn.
i have chronic constipation problem & my body mass is very less so i want a perfect diet plan for myself?
high fiber and fluids will help with constipation- to gain weight- add healthy oils to your diet such as olive oil and polyunsaturated oils. eat a serving of fruits and or vegetables with each meal. aim for at least 20 grams of serving a day. you need about a gallon of water as well. eat lean meats chicken fish try whole grains- legumes- nuts stay away from junk and processed foods-.
which is the best diet to cure hiatal hernia/esophagitis?
if you have fod allergies i would consider a "food diary" and note if certain foods cause your symptoms (bloating reflux of sour liquids foods that stick and then cause exces saliva). you might experience pain with swallowing. i would chew your food well and to slow down. enjoy the food and try to not talk too much while eating.
what are the reasons that people always say drink more water to lose weight?
the body takes excess water and flushes it out. it really doesn't decrease appetite or increase satiety. on the other hand water in soups and fruits (not juices) does do both and can help one lose weight.
i'm on prozac (fluoxetine) have been for many years started taking garcinia cambogia and now i'm having face numbness. can this be an interaction?
there is little available information regarding garcinia cambogia and various medications. however it would make sense to stop it. i'd also get evaluated to make sure there are no other medical issues at hand. please note that this herbal isn't a proven weight loss remedy despite it being widely promoted as such.
i'm on prozac (fluoxetine) have been for many years started taking garcinia cambogia and now i'm having face numbness. can this be an interaction?
i see that you are also taking omeprazole and ropinirole (requip). it's possible that you are having interactions between these three and the herbal preparation. stop the herbal. consider also that facial numbness could be signs of a stroke or other issue. review the signs of stroke and make sure this doesn't apply to you. it could also be a side effect from your medications that is now showing up.
i would like to know about hairloss after gastric bypass surgery and how often it happens. is there a lot of lost and does it grow back.
there is often a lot of hair loss after surgery. this is called telogen effluvium and due to the stress of surgery and anaesthesia. this shedding will eventually stop and your hair will re-grow. you need to be patient since it could take a year.
i have a hiatal hernia that was diagnosed in 03. no surgery was necessary but will this affect conception? i am trying to conceive
it does not affect conception. in hiatal hernia part of upper body of stomach is in chest - above diaphragm. it causes reflux.
i have a stomach ulcer which sometimes make me feel hungry and thus increase my weight?
treat the ulcer to avoid the hungry feeling you need to take daily medications gaining weight will make you have acid reflux and worsen your condition
i had a endoscopy revealed chronic antral gastritis can you explain this diagnosis what is a good diet plan. as i have constant dull pain.
antral gastritis is a non-specific diagnosis; it may be caused by h. pylori nsaids acid sensitivity bile reflux; further there is no certainty that your symptoms are caused by the gastritis; gastritis is often asymptomatic; you could have non-ulcer dyspepsia;
is linx system a better option for me than nissen fundoplication? if i have severe gerd les(0 3mhg)? thanks
no nissan fundoplication have a fifty years or more of success in spite being more invasive has better track record of success now done with laparoscope as out patient make it more appealing the surgery fix the problem of hernia and reflux at the same time any other alternative like linx could prevent reflux for a short time and it does not have long record of success yet get second opinion
when sick i can't stop eating! i get pain & reflux but continue to eat. does it mean i'm not getting the right nutrients or is it something else?
i can't guarantee that nutrients are unrelated but it's more likely an emotional reaction. you don't say what kind of sickness. anxiety & mood disorders can directly lead to strong drives to eat while any type of (medical) illness can lead to a wish for caretaking and nurturance. binge eating especially of "comfort foods " can be a way to satisfy this emotional need. not a good idea though.
what causes rapid weight gain and abdominal pain?
in the absence of uncommon medical problems or fluid retention the only reason for rapid weight gain is rapid and excessive eating.
what to if i am going to have surgery for hiatal hernia repair. what can i expect after the surgery?
you can expect improvement of your reflux symptoms. you may have some swallowing issues for the first 1-2 weeks so chew food carefully. some patients stick to a soft diet during the immediate post operative period.
i take 20mg of omeprazoldaily for hiatus hernia problems is this safe to take longterm?
a hiatal hernia simply means the stomach is a bit higher above the diaphragm than what is expected. it does not cause symptoms in and of itself. reflux of stomach acid into the foodpipe (esophageal reflux) can cause heartburn in which case use of weight loss antacids and elevation of the torso in the bed is advised. only after these fail should a drug such as omeprazole be considered.
what's the primary difference between gastric bypass and lap band?
many differences. the band is purely restrictive is the safest is removable but has the highest failure rates. very easy to cheat the band and never lose wt or regain wt after losing. bypass is restrictive and malabsorptive is permanent has the highest average wt loss is the best operation for someone with diabetes (also great for reflux disease).
what to do if i was diagnosed with hiatal hernia and i'm supposed to fast for religious duties soon?
if your hernia is not causing you symptoms then i wouldn't worry about it. i am assuming you will abstain from food and/or water for a prescribed amount of time. this should not aggravate your hernia. if you have other symptoms related to the hernia such as reflux then this will probably continue through the fast.
what should i expect after hiatal hernia surgery?
you can expect improvement of your reflux symptoms. you may have some swallowing issues for the first 1-2 weeks so chew food carefully. some patients stick to a soft diet during the immediate post operative period.
what are the many factors that contribute to getting type 2 diabetes?
age family history and genetics but 70-90% of the influence is obesity. stress steroids illness infection also increase insulin resistance.
want to start thermo cla but period didon't start today i don't want to take it if im pregnant if i test nd it says negative can i trust it?
this class of meds known as nsaids(motrin advil aleve ibuprofen) have ling documented side effects on the stomach including: " heartburn" or gastric reflux nausea diarrhea and even poetic bleeding ulcers. some people are very sensitive to one many or all of these meds. try tylenol (acetaminophen)!
if taken 37. 5 phentermine twice a day for 14 days how long should someone wait to resume breastfeeding?
the half-life of frontera mean is approximately three nafta four hours you need approximately five have lights for the drug to be clear from your system which are then equal approximately 20 or so hours i would wait at least one full day dreaming breast-feeding i would also recommend draining your breast by expressing the milk the fluid over that. so that no drugs would be left in the breast
i've been dizzy a lot lately. could it be my sugar? i'm not overweight. what would be a normal sugar level for a 19 year old?
the cause of your dizziness may be due to fluid in your ears and not blood sugar. normal sugar levels would be 80-100 mg percent
i'm 5 days post op lipo of flanks. can i shower in warm water? or wait another 2 days to see my ps? i'd love a quick shower
your surgeon should answer this question. usually he or she will give instructions about this. if no instruction call the office. as the other dr wright answered factors which influence the decision to when it is ok to shower are : " how are the surgical sites sealed? any stitches? if the incisions are sealed and sealed with dermabond or agent or plastic dressing. "
i am asking about that doctor cause my body water percentage is 61% and the normal range is 52% so i think that the cause of my overweight?
no. your obesity is causing extra fluids. it is about sugar and fats. so. rather than worrying about water it us best to exercise lower the sugars in your diet to 25% of your calories and to limit total calories to 1500 per day.
what one of these is not an effect of diabetes mellitus on the eye?
adults with diabetic retinopathy most often lose vision from swelling in the retina. with good control of blood sugars this can sometimes resolve. if you start to develop poor blood sugar control elevated blood pressure or elevated cholesterol the swelling can return causing fluctuating vision. diabetics can also develop bleeding in their eyes causing vision changes. go to your eye doctor.
what physical effects of losing too much weight too fast are there?
weakness dizziness faintness. in more extreme cases kidney damage although this can be mitigated by drinking plenty of fluids.
i am diagnosed with pcos and will undergo vertical sleeve gastrectomy in a month. will the surgery decrease my libido?
a vertical sleeve gastrectomy is a surgery to treat obesity and cause weight loss which will bring people down to their ideal weight. none of the structures in that area influences libido so there is no reason to think the surgery should affect your libido.
i recently had a endoscopy and they found i have a hiatal hernia. are there any other treatments for this?
medications such as zantac nexium (esomeprazole) or pepcid can help control symptoms of reflux (gerd) which often accompany hiatal hernia. a severe hernia may require surgery but most don't. see your gi doctor for more info about the best treatment options for your hiatal hernia which will depend on its size and other factors. don't ignore reflux since it can harm your esophagus.
whenever i drink/eat i feel like it won't pass right away having acid reflux some stomach pain have hiatal hernia should i be worried?
possible obstruction from esophagitis or schatski ring or scar or spasm. rarely cancer as well. see you gi and get swallow or scope.
woud you please discuss the complications of liposuction?
reaction to anesthesia fluid accumulation fat or blood clots which can migrate to the heart or lungs leading to death skin injury infection excessive fluid loss asymmetry (uneven contour or shape) friction burns damage to vital organs many of these are extremely unlikely but the importance of going to a abms certified plastic surgeon cannot be understated.
woud you please discuss the complications of liposuction?
liposuction is a surgical procedure to remove excess fat. it is performed by passing long narrow cannulas under the skin to suction out the fat. most common risks include: bruising pain fluid collections contour irregularity skin laxity. it's best to discuss the procedure and risks with the surgeon that you have selected to perform the surgery. <link>
why can i hear myself breathe in my ear? it gets really annoying and a little painful.
you can hear your breathing because the sound is transmitted through bone. you may have a conductive hearing loss such as wax build up or fluid in middle ear. this should be evaluated by a health professional.
in july of 2013 i had a partial nissen. my hiatal hernia recurred on 04/14/14. had an open surg. on 07/17/14 hernia is back. should i try again?
when you say the hernia is back it is difficult to know in what capacity. barium swallow frequently shows a "hernia" but the test has limitations and it is usually small and not clinically significant. typically anti reflux procedures are primarily done to relieve heartburn and regurgitation. if the symptoms are better no need to repeat an operation. also may want to consider stretta if the reflux symptoms are back.
i need help. i tried every diet but didn't work now i want to choose between gastric band and liposuction. which one is better and why (pro and cons)?
amount of weight you want to lose will influence your choice. liposuction is really designed for patients close to their ideal weight but can't get off the fatty tissue after diet and exercise. if you have lipo and gain weight the fatty tissue will enlarge in other areas. gastric bypass is for patients with obesity that don't respond to diet and exercise. hope that helps
is toothpaste containing xylitol good for 8 month old baby?
it is great that you are brushing your baby's teeth. the most important thing is to use toothpaste without fluoride. use a baby toothpaste or non at all for brushing the teeth. xylitol is used in toothpaste as a filler in very small amounts. it will not harm your baby. in fact there have been several studies that show xylitol can prevent tooth decay in the right amount.
is toothpaste containing xylitol good for 8 month old baby?
after the baby has first tooth use a non fluoride tooth paste for infants. it's not a good idea to use xylitol containing paste
is continuous diffulty in swallowing be a sign of sleep apnea. i have poor sleep and wake up with sore throat. md dismissed sleep apnea as iam not obese?
swallowing difficulty is not a typical sign of sleep apnea but can be related to other problems that may affect your sleep (like very large tonsils for example). this should be evaluated by an ent. throat could be sore because of dryness and irritation from mouth-breathing/snoring sinus drainage or acid reflux. if your nose is obstructed (e. g. deviated septum) this can worsen mouth breathing.
when my stomach swollen & heavyness then my breast also swollen & become heavy why it happenes. i have small hiatus hernia + gerd.
the symptoms you describe may be 2 differnt problems. the abdominal bloating and breast heaviness may be related to changing hormones specifically the estrogen and progesterone levels. you should see your gynecologist for an exam and to have your hormones checked. a hiatal hernia and gerd will give you symptoms of reflux-heartburn chest pain chronic cough. it does not cause breast swelling.
what causes sleep apnea if one os not overweight and has no history. tmj clenching stiff neck muscles psychiatric medication?
sleep apnea can happen in people who are not overweight so if you are tired all of the time have acid reflux high blood pressure or diabteic talk to yor doctor about having a sleep study. if you are tired even though you have slept enough time call your doctor.
what can i do to take care of and remedy a hiatus hernia without medicine?
the only 'cute' is surgery. medicine just controls the acid so the reflux does less damage to the esophagus.
would a hiatal hernia cause nausea and vomiting or only acid reflux?
a hiatal hernia most commonly causes reflux. severe episodes of reflux can result in nausea and vomiting. gastric motility problems often the cause of reflux could result in nausea and vomiting as well. good luck!
would a hiatal hernia cause nausea and vomiting or only acid reflux?
if it contained small bowel.
i have been on different antipsychotics gained weight when off it i lose weight. i will be getting lapband to reduce intake what are side effects?
the most common are nausea vomiting acid reflux constipation and abdominal pain but there are many others that are related to malfunction of the hardware(either the band or the attached port) or known complications of any laparoscopic surgery. your best bet is to review your concerns with your respective surgeon.
is large volume liposuction safe?
large volume liposuction by definition is over 5 liters of fat removal. this type of operation needs to be done in a operating room hospital setting. this is due to large fluids shifts in the body. plus at least 2 to 3 days recovery in the hospital is needed. these operations are quite lengthy in the 5 hours + ranges. plus the costs are near $20 000. best to see boarded plastic surgeons.
i have ibs. i am 340 pounds and 5'9" (former body builder but larger gut). am i at risk for anything extending from this? i try to eat healthier now
hi ibs as annoying as it could be doesn't cause any complication mortality and morbidity. although you are very overweight which that could cause diabetes high blood pressure sleep apnea heart attack acid reflux cancer among others please try to decrease calorie intake and increase activity to lose weight.
i have hiatus hernia acid reflux. last night i had breathless sleep and quiverings in my middle-chest area. something more than gerd?
sleep with trunk and head elevated and see if that helps
what's the best way for me to burn fat on my shin?
localized fat deposits can only be removed by liposuction. fat over the shin ( anterior portion of the tibia overlying the bone) can be removed as part of fat reduction universally in the body otherwise. sometimes what a person thinks is fat over the shin bone is actually swelling of the tissue (edema) due to fluid retention.
what does it mean if your ear itches all the time deep inside the ear? i also have liquid in my ear my doctor said
might be allergies due to inflammation in the maxillary sinuses causing the fluid to back up into the ear. and itch is typically an allergy symptom. see an allergist for proper testing and treatment.
what to do if i need help with a good diet plan for a person whom just had a kidney transplant?
you should eat a well balanced diet with no added salt. limit the fat intake. if you have good kidney function there should be few limits on fluids and food groups.
wen i go on a diet i cut down my food intake even though i drink lots of water and den i am constipated. is it normal to nt excrete under sch situatn?
this is probably related more to a dehydrated state (poor fluid consumption) rather than a reduction in food intake.
i recently found out from an egd that i have a 3-4 cm hiatal hernia and grade a erosive esophagitis. how can i have erosion when i almost never have heartburn? egd was done due to only 2 weeks of it.
hi sometimes acid reflux if symptomatic especially if you don't have a lot of triggers hiatal hernia increases the risk of acid reflux.
i recently found out from an egd that i have a 3-4 cm hiatal hernia and grade a erosive esophagitis. how can i have erosion when i almost never have heartburn? egd was done due to only 2 weeks of it.
the hiatal hernia pre-disposes you to have acid reflux. over time the acid exposure can erode lining of lower esophagus. it may never get "high" enough for you to feel symptoms but good to know it's there and please follow it with surgeon or gi doc.
is it healthy to drink protein shakes when you barely turn 18?
make sure you are drinking lots of fluids and i would avoid any creatinine drinks and/or powders. not good for your kidneys.
is it ok to just suddenly start a paleo diet or should i ween off carbs slowly? also what is your opinion of intermittent fasting?
there is no harm is abruptly avoiding carbs. there's no harm in intermittent fasting as long as you drink enough fluid. note: if you skip breakfast and don't eat between meals you're effectively fasting roughly from 6 pm to 12 noon (18 hours) everyday - that hasn't been shown to be particularly effective. when people fast they tend to overeat when it's over. small frequent meals may be better.
i just had laser assisted lipo on my hips. they are not swollen much. however my upper thighs are pretty swollen! is that a normal thing to happen?
your thighs are swollen because soft tissue fluid moves downwards due to gravity. elevation or compression may help if you aren't already doing this. follow your doctor's postop directions. thanks for trusting healthtap!
i have small sliding hiatal hernia have faced problem like poor digestion peptic ulcer symptom on what stage i will think its time for surgery?
you should wait until symptoms of reflux are not controlled by medication.
what could cause gastritis duodenitis & esophagitis? have had nissen & lap chole for acalculous cholecystitis.
the most common cause of gastritis and duodenitis is a bacterium called helicobacter pylori. when large amounts of the bacteria invade your stomach or small intestine inflammation can occur. curing helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection may provoke reflux esophagitis.
what could cause gastritis duodenitis & esophagitis? have had nissen & lap chole for acalculous cholecystitis.
if the nissan is not working then your symptoms of reflux can return. the other option is the nissan is to tight and food sits above it and ferments causing reflux. either way should get a endoscopy and upper hi x-ray to evaluate anatomy.
what causes an irregular z-line other than barrett's esophagus or a hiatal hernia?
the z-line where the esophagus lining connects to the stomach lining varies quite a bit from person to person. not everyone has a straight circle -- that's why it's called the "z"-line because an irregular border is normal. some things that can make it more abnormal could be reflux of bile or acid into the esophagus poor esophageal squeezing or just a normal variation. good health!
what are doctors views in adixpex?
phentermine has long been promoted as appetite suppressant for obesity but never had a great track record combined with fenfluramine (fen-phen) was more effective but induced permanent heart valve damage for many. best get away from the gimmicks/fads/nonesense & go for real food. study: "how the government make you fat" taubes big fat lies attia dietdoctor. com lustig fat head westman md.
what medical problems would cause simeone to gain15 pounds in one month when they aren't overeating. 47 year old female?
15 pounds is a lot of weight to gain in one month and you need to check this out with your own physician. bloating and swelling due to buildup of fluid in the tissues such as from heart or kidney failure certain medications like steroids and hormonal conditions like cushing's polycystic ovaries and hypothyroidism can all cause rapid weight gain like this. take care.
what medical problems would cause simeone to gain15 pounds in one month when they aren't overeating. 47 year old female?
first distinguish fluid weight (like edema ascites "third spacing") from tissue weight (e. g. bodybuilding reparative tumors adipose). there are lots of metabolic reasons to rule out (organ disease like heart liver kidneys) insufficiency (thyroid adrenal kidney) more. often high calorie (but low volume) foods & drink may add up quickly (3000-3500 extra calories per pound gained).
what to do if i had 4 liters of fat removed with liposuction have many pound is it?
the amount removed usually include fluid and fat. the percentage of fluid versus fat will determine the amount of fat removed. 500cc of fat is approximately one pound.
when to take 5m old to the dr? productive coughx5 days watery/red eyes and snoring. no fever- acting eating fine. bottle fed breastmilk formula.
if your baby has a cough but is eating and sleeping well doesn't have a fever over 101 and doesn't have other symptoms you can usually watch him for a few days. give him extra fluids clean his nose with saline and a suction bulb and run a cool mist humidifier. if he is running fever acting sicker or you are concerned have him checked by your doctor.
what can cause me to hear a fluttering in my ear?
there is a muscle in your middle ear that can flutter. it is called the stapedius muscle.
what causes insulin resistance in a non-diabetic person? can it be cured? anything important i need to know?
and 70-90% of the influence is weight gain. you are commonly resistant for 5-15 years before resulting in overt diabetes. it's a progression you can delay by diet and exercise and weight loss.
what's a good diet plan for acid reflux?
consider an elimination diet to see what foods may be bothering you. www. wholelifenutrition. net.
i have hiatal hernia my reflux has been worsening and now i've vomited blood. could it have ruptured and what should i do now?
you may have a bleeding ulcer or varicose veins in esophagus if u r alcoholic.
i have bile reflux treated with cholestyramine. can i have gastric sleeve surgery?
simple gastric sleeve resection may not benefit you if you are a candidate for weight loss surgery gastric bypass will be beneficial to you due to " roux 'n' y " procedure.
i'm 327lbs and 18wks preg. sometimes i catch myself waking up laying more on my stomach than my side. could be smushing the baby in any way. im concern?
my answer comes as much from my physics back ground as my ob back ground. the fluid keeps the baby remarkably safe due to hydraulics which spreads the pressure out and protects the baby.
i'm 51 year old woman never been over weight till this last year?
the most likely cause is the combination of changes that occur as we grow older "the change in life". visit your doctor to check all your hormones and especially your insulin levels as high levels sometimes influenced by the decrease in hormones and our present diet makes it hard to lose weight. the good news we have diagnostic and treatment options to counteract it and age gracefully.
what would be a great food to eat to get rid of belly fat exercise and quit smoking?
spray saline into your nostrils frequently to flush out allergens and irritants. you will get the best care in a long term relationship with a provider who knows you over time. discuss this with that provider.
i'm obese can it cause tightness in my chest while laying flat on back? had ekg done everything came back normal.
causes would be pressure on the diaphram and stomach. this can directly cause discomfort and limitations on breathing and indirectly cause reflux secondary asthma (from reflux) esophageal spasm perhaps sleep apnea or epiglottal problems and probably other things. not eating directly before bed. slight propping up (contacting me on weight loss) and perhaps other studies.
intermittent fasting. i heard that fasting for 16-18 hours per day increase hgh which preserves muscles and burn fat. can you elaborate?
fasting more likely to loose muscle mass. muscles take both use & raw materials to maintain. endocrine hormone control mechanisms complex multiple interacting issues not just a function of concentrations but moment-by-moment fluctuations & interactions. carefully focusing on just single ones.
i noticed upper limit of recommdations for vit a for a 3 yo is 2000 iu. his vitamins have 2500 iu per day. will this cause harm? did it cause damage?
it would not cause harm and it won't have caused damage. if you don't feel comfortable with the 2500 iu per day try to find a brand of vitamin that has the exactly recommended daily dose in it. keep in mind that these are in a way ballpark figures. the actual intestinal absorption of the vitamins is difficult to gauge and can be influenced by many factors beyond our control.
it looks like gastroenterologists specialize. how do i find one that might do hiatal hernia + acid reflux surgery?
under medical specialties there is training program in gi diseases. these clinicians are the gastro enterologists who treat and handle the diagnosis of gi disorders such as crohns disease ulcerative colitis bleeding ulcer disease and are the one who do upper and lower gi endoscopy. surgery of the upper gi tract is performed by general surgeons who can handle reflux and hiatal disease.
i have hiatal hernia acid reflux & gallbladder sludge. can these all be fixed in one surgery? is it advisable? are these all for gastroenterologist?
the surgeries to address these problems are different surgeries. could they be done together - yes. will they be done together - ask your surgeon. gastroenterologists do no do surgery.
i'm diagnosed with tourettes & hiatal hernia. both cause dry cough. can it be known what's causing my dry cough. coughing since 8 y. o .
will help the cough caused by reflux associated with hiatal hernia. it will have no effect on a cough tic.
iam 25 yaears old my length is 160 cm and 73 kg wight after my baby birth iam fat please what need to loos my wight?
congratulations on giving birth! pregnancy is a long and difficult time. do not worry about the weight you gained. try to eat healthy drink lots of fluids. breastfeeding can help lose some of the extra weight you gained during pregnancy.
i have a 1cm hiatal hernia and it is casing me a ton of pain also my sides hurt due to kidney stones. shld i go to the hospital?
the ed cannot do much for the hiatal hernia other than treat any heartburn pain - probably a gi cocktail to neutralize the acid. the kidney stones are probably your bigger concern. some people with kidney stones need to be treated as an inpatient with iv pain meds. often kidney stones are treated consevatively for up to 72 hours with forced fluid intake and oral pain meds. go to ed if pain severe.
i want to lose belly fat arm fat and face fat what do i do?
healthy diet and exercise to include aerobic and weight training adequate fluid intake and sleep 6to 8hours a day. avoid stress at all cost. good luck
i work in an office. wash my hands constantly eat healthy get lots of sleep. how else can i prevent getting sick this winter ie cold/flu?
wash your hands before touching your eyes nose or mouth. wash with warm water & soap for 20 seconds. use paper towel to turn off faucet & open door when exiting a public restroom. antiseptic wipes can be used on doorknobs keyboards & other surfaces. stay away from people who are ill. to avoid flu – get your flu shot each year.
i had gastric bypass surgery rny and i'm having constipation problems my surgeon told me i could use stool softener i don't know witch one is good?
a commonly used stool softener is docussate sodium or dss (brand name colace). its a gel- capsule and it softens and lubricates your stools. increasing soluble fiber and drinking plenty of fluid is an even better and more healthy way to soften your stools. add at least 2 tablespoons of soluble fiber (metamucil citrucel etc. ) to a glass of juice or on cereal each day is usually enough.
what is the best cure for binge eating apart from willpower?
support groups & self-help groups such as eating do anonymous & overeaters anonymous nutritional counseling with a dietitian recreational activities cognitive therapy (behaviors result from our own thoughts not from outside influences) and medications such as orlistat cortisol zinc (discuss these with your doctor).
i am overweight and take prozac (fluoxetine) and adderall. i've been having a strange throbbing pain in my left thigh like a burning stinging?
there isn't enough information to answer your question but if this has been a problem for just a day or two and you have had no injury to the area or to your lower back i would consider possible shingles. if you notice any form of rash in the area call your doctor or a dermatologist right away.
i am overweight and take prozac (fluoxetine) and adderall. i've been having a strange throbbing pain in my left thigh like a burning stinging?
this may be a pinched nerve(meralgia parasthetica) which can be seen in overweight people or people who sit for prolonged periods like truck drivers. if you have further concern see a neurologist for evaluation and advice.
i am overweight and take prozac (fluoxetine) and adderall. i've been having a strange throbbing pain in my left thigh like a burning stinging?
ruth i am sorry but i am unclear on your question. i assume it is why are you having the burning stinging pain in your left thigh. i would suggest a virtual consult to discuss more with one of our doctors who are all willing to help you as best we can. thank you
is it safe to work out twice on a 1400 calorie diet daily?
it depends on several factors what type of workouts are you doing? how long do they last? how do you feel after the second workout? i really think it would be better to do one solid hard workout and then recover from it if youre working out for an hour to 1 1/2 hr you might want to increase your intake somewhat also i think you need to be conscious of your fluid and electrolyte intake
i am probably in a stage 3 ckd. i am a bit confused about my diet. what i can/cannot eat especially when there are early signs of a type 2 diabetes?
would try to not stress the kidneys. less protein less salt less fluid and avoid making the diabetes go very bad by avoiding sugars/sodas/sweets and syrups. whole grain starches are fine. vegetables dairy in moderation. limit meats to about 1-2 portions per day.
i had kidney stones last september followed by sever gastroenteritis at the start of october. i weighed 7s 8ibs in september and now im 7s 1ib how can i regain this lost weight. my bmi is now 17. 6?
most people want to loss wt----lol easiest way of muscle weight gain is to use body builders mass gain---you want muscle not fat---try gnc or other similar heath food outlets--- this is a good way---as well as general healthy diet----drink plenty of fluids with these mixes-----also this is assuming you generally are in good health--no kidney disease or poorly controlled diabetes/liver disease
what seems to influence high blood pressure most? 30 lbs over weight eating bad lack of exercise or stress. looking for which one to tackle first.
exercise and diet would be my first choice. it's up to you which one you believe you can achieve first. no time in your busy day then choose diet. time for exercise then i would choose that. exercise is far more likely to improve your stress level than any change in diet.
what seems to influence high blood pressure most? 30 lbs over weight eating bad lack of exercise or stress. looking for which one to tackle first.
fastest first: eating clean (can be done stat) eliminate processed food from your house; next exercise & start slowly under an mds advice; reduce stress by taking a meditation course; develop the habit of drinking water: rest too. bottom line: starting them all at once is not only possible but desirable. just know that weight changes happen gradually for everyone. be patient but get started!
what seems to influence high blood pressure most? 30 lbs over weight eating bad lack of exercise or stress. looking for which one to tackle first.
being overweight poor nutrition habits lack of exercise & stress all can increase blood pressure. personally i'd focus on changing your eating habits 1st followed by regular exercise as a close 2nd (could go either way). get a bp cuff to track your response to various foods. stay away from fast food prepared foods & extra salt. new study suggest 4min exercise three times weekly can improve.
why theres a black fluid in my ear?
your problem requires a clinical examination. see your primary care physician.
why theres a black fluid in my ear?
see your pcp.
what are the dangers of low bmi and high cholesterol?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what to do if i have a sharp pain in my ear please help?
too complicated of an issue as there are so many possible reasons between simmers ear middle ear fluid tmj pain eustachian tube dysfunction acid reflux cancer of the throat. the list goes on. you should see an otolaryngologist.
what to do if i have an occasional drumming in my ear what is going on?
you're likely hearing your carotid pulse as this artery courses right through the bones that support the ear. we hear by both air conduction and bone conduction: when your air conduction is impaired you hear the bone conduction better. you likely have reduced hearing in the affected ear - you should get tested. it may just be "fluid"(serous otitis media) or something more serious.
what can i do to help me with hiatus hernia neck throat pain?
without seeing and examining you impossible to truly ascribe this pain to the hernia but if it is it may be related to reflux disease and something which lowers the acidity may help. the best thing to do is to go back and see the doctor who diagnosed the hiatal hernia and let them make an assessment and treat this.
i have a 2cm hiatal hernia i am 24 years old and underweight i have symptoms since maybe 3 years. how can i know if its congenital or acquired?
if u have chronic reflux (gerd) symptoms as a result then u should be treated to prevent progression or serious complications (ie erosive esophagitis ulcers barretts etc). treatment includes medications (h2blockers/ppis) and lifestyle changes. differentiating congenital vs acquired-traumatic vs atraumatic (sliding vs paraesophageal) is important only when considering surgical management.
i had gastric bypass 2 weeks ago would marijuana smoke do the same harm as cigarettes would to my new stomach?
tobacco smoke contains a number of substances that increase stomach acid and reduce the lower esophageal sphincter pressure which increases reflux and esophagitis while reducing the effectiveness of gastric mucous. marijuana smoke does much less of this but if you have had problems with peptic ulcer gastritis or esophagitis you are far better off not smoking anything.
i think i have a hiatial hernia im suppose to be getting a ph monitoring test will that show if i have one?
ph testing would show reflux which could be a consequence of hiatal hernia. and double contrast upper gi swallow would be a better test.
i had nissen fundoplication 6 weeks ago for reflux and hh. in the past week i am having bad pain in centre of chest under sternum. maybe spasms?
fundoplication may be too tight and can't belch. see your surgeon for symptoms may need dilation
is it normal for weight to fluctuate 3-5lbs per day? i weigh every day and it's between 209-214. 20 weeks pregnant.
variation in the weight on the same day is merely reflecting the margin of error on a scale and minor fluid fluctuations from water retention. weigh yourself once daily at the same time each day. best time is first thing in the morning
with a fundoplication does one always get a big gut?
a fundoplication is an antireflux operation that affect only the esophogus and upper stomach not the rest of your abdomen.
why you need compression after lipo?
compression after surgery controls swelling. after surgery the body adds fluid to the area of liposuction. compression helps to limit this influx of fluid. there is no universal agreement on the length of time that compression is needed. there are some surgeons that use it for a short time and some use it for a long time. good results are obtained by both groups.
i have been on acid reflux ppi for over 10 yrs. will i ever be able to stop or reduce dosage? hiatal hernia.
try to wean yourself off the meds and see what happens. if its still intolerable you may want to look in to a stretta procedure or surgical fundoplication to actually mechanically repair the valve and "cure" the disease. it is important to note however that not all patients are candidates and a normal amount of reflux still occurs and you may still occasionally need meds. hope this helps!
i have been on acid reflux ppi for over 10 yrs. will i ever be able to stop or reduce dosage? hiatal hernia.
probably yes but you won't know until you try. if things get worse please see your doctor asap. if things don't get better you also see your doctor. if things get better - i hope they do - keep decreasing the dose one week at a time.
i have obstructive sleep apnea and now i have flu is this dangerous and should i see my doctor.
sleep apnea itself is a disease that can have deadly consequences. so can the flu. don't self diagnose. have an md see you immediately to conclude you have the flu and get it treated. if you have been diagnosed with sleep apnea and are not being treated stop procrastinating.
i have obstructive sleep apnea and now i have flu is this dangerous and should i see my doctor.
is very common viral infection. usually the condition resolves on its own with home care. drink water and get a good rest. nsaids (e. g. aleve advil) or tylenol (acetaminophen) are also recommended every 6 hours. an untreated obstructive sleep apnea (osa) can have a significant impact on your personal health. if concerned see your pcp for examination.
i have obstructive sleep apnea and now i have flu is this dangerous and should i see my doctor.
both sleep apnea and flu are dangerous particularly if they occur together. as soon as you can please see your primary doctor and the sleep team. if you are very concerned now please go to the nearest emergency room.
i have obstructive sleep apnea and now i have flu is this dangerous and should i see my doctor.
combination can be a problem. discuss with your md and sleep doc for advice.
i am 46 years old. i know i am not pregnant but yet my stomach looks pregnant. could this be an age thing?
retained air in the gut can certainly lead to bloating. however a "hard" abdomen raises greater concern such as fluid (ascites) in your abdomen or intestinal blockage. ascites can be due to significant liver disease infection perforation of the gut trauma to an organ with bleeding or even cancer. intestinal blockage if present risks rupture peritonitis. concerned then get checked pls.
what does hiatal hernia feel like?
most commonly patients with hiatal hernias will experience symptoms of reflux such as heartburn and regurgitation if they have any symptoms at all. the vast majority of hiatal hernias encountered are small asymptomatic hernias that require no intervention. only those hernias that are symptomatic should be treated. if surgery is required it usually can be done laparoscopically.
what is a hiatus hernia?
hiatal hernia is a hernia in the diaphragm where the esophogus go through. if that opening is too big then the stomach can go up into the chest and can cause heart burn and reflux this can be treated with pepcid (famotidine) or prilosec. rare requiring surgery to repair.
what is a difference between belly fat or fluid?
difference. belly fat is tissue composed of fat cells and deposition of fat which is present in most people in various amount. it is part of the body. fluid in belly is abnormal and could be sign of serious illness. if fluid is in peritoneal cavity it is called ascites. if it is in subcutaneous tissue it is called edema
why would i cough after eating even though i've had the nissen procedure and off all my meds?
hello this procedure is performed at the junction of the lower esophagus and the stomach in hopes that reflux of food and liquid back into the esophagus is eliminated. the surgical field is right adjacent to the diaphragm. with swallowing the diaphragm is stimulated which can trigger a cough. this should resolve soon after healing is complete. if it persists follow up with your surgeon.
why doesn't my doc want to repair hiatal hernia? i have been diagonsed with barretts and sometimes take120mg of prilosec a day
you are quite young. an antireflux procedure is complex and significantly changes your anatomy. there's a slip rate of 15% and a 7% chance of recurrent symptoms. barrett's can be followed by endoscopy. have you done all you can on your part e. g. weight loss reduced alcohol no recline after meals no eating after supper and elevate the legs of the head of bed? it may happen some day. good luck.
why doesn't my doc want to repair hiatal hernia? i have been diagonsed with barretts and sometimes take120mg of prilosec a day
barrett's esophagus is a condition that arises due to chronic acid reflux or gerd. it increases the likelihood of developing esophageal cancer. there is a procedure called halo which can cure barrett's without major surgery. the more important step is to get your reflux fixed by either a tif (transoral incisionless fundoplication) linx or a laparoscopic nissen fundoplication.
i was told your bones could shrink when you lose weight so underneath all this "flubber" i might be a size 6. is that true?
weight loss does not make your bones move. see your pcp for discussing your weight concern. it is an excellent place to start.
i was told your bones could shrink when you lose weight so underneath all this "flubber" i might be a size 6. is that true?
you have been misinformed. your bones do not shrink when you lose weight. all weight loss is from soft tissue. good luck with your weight loss program.
i can feel water splashing just below sternum when lying down. also have belching when getting up and constant gurgling. is it a hiatal hernia?
the water splashing sound is the sound of fluid in your stomach that part of it had herniated up to your chest yes it is a hiatal hernia avoid tight cloths avoid late meal and snaks /sleep with your head up 30-40 degree eat multiple small meals avoid coffee chocolate peppermint take medication like prilosec or prevacid (lansoprazole) see a doctor for proper treatment
i am having a 24 hour tube for checking acidity for hiatus hernia? what are the pros and cons for this? i have the swallowing assessment. thanks!
24 acid levels add understanding about the severity of your reflux and if medication is adequate to control the problem. take a friend or family with you to next appointment to ask questions. if the acid readings are severe you may benefit from a surgery in addition to the medications. be well.
what is causing me to have flushed pounding tingling cheeks after exercise while taking adipex? thanks
or generic phenteramine is a sympathomimetic medication that works by releasing epinephrine/norepinephrine. those neurotransmitters are active in a complex way on the blood vessels. it is the effect of those vasoactive chemicals that are released as result of exercise and the medicine
why does prednisone make you gain weight and how come diet and exercise won't help?
steroids affect how your body stores fat and glucose so can literally cause you to gain weight on top of excessive appetite/water retention along with metabolic changes in fat and glucose metabolism. it also increase fluid retention.
why on an empty stomach do i have gas and. bloated and stomach pain and feel like i can't breathe and feel like passing out but when i eat it goes away i have a hiatal hernia and acid reflux. help.
possible you have an ulcer since symptoms get better interns of pain. bloating could be from hiatal hernia or from gallbladder.
why on an empty stomach do i have gas and. bloated and stomach pain and feel like i can't breathe and feel like passing out but when i eat it goes away i have a hiatal hernia and acid reflux. help.
a duodenal ulcer but that is a textbook answer. i would contact your doctor for more specifics and a possible referral to a gastroenterologist for a diagnostic endoscopy.
whats happen when you overeat?
at holidays people often eat a lot more than they do ordinarily and their reactions can differ widely. one can feel pleasantly full or get heart burn from reflux due to over-distension of he stomach. digestion can be upset causing bloating and gas or even vomiting. if food causes craving and one overeats chronically one can gain excess weight.
i hv a daughter of 9 months i breast feed her for 7 months now im dieting n exercising but my weight is not loosing wat to fo i want to loose weight?
of 1/2 to 1 pound a week is healthiest and requires that you cut back 250 to 500 calories a day from your baseline intake when your weight was stable. be sure to get enough rest and to take in adequate fluids. limit simple sugars like juice and pop and processed grains like white bread white rice and pasta. be patient. it will happen.
i have chronic excess throat clearing excess burping no heartburn. gastroscopy showed sliding hiatus hernia is laryngopharyngeal reflux likely?
laryngopharygeal reflux is when a small amount of acid comes up into the throat and irritates it. it is a common cause of dry tickle cough chronic sore throat lump in the the throat post nasal drip phlegm in the throat and throat clearing. many studies show it responds best to proton pump inhibitor rx. it is possible you may have this. see an ent for evaluation.
is it common to have food cravings or be hungry in general when using a laxative (dulcolax)?
^'ed appetite/ food craving is not listed as a side effect on drugs. com. use of this type of laxative could lead to' nausea cramps griping and/or faintness' as well as 'diarrhea gi irritation and fluid and electrolyte depletion'
i have had diarrhea on and off for 6 days. if i eat it comes out. i am a type 2 diabetes help please?
how acute diarrhea is associated with diabetes. regardless you may need some tests to help figure out and help you feel better. in meantime don't worry so much about eating but do increase your fluid inake. half gatorade half water should do the trick. see a doc this week.
i have had diarrhea on and off for 6 days. if i eat it comes out. i am a type 2 diabetes help please?
number one is to stay well hydrated. drink plenty of fluids to keep your urine pale yellow to clear. secondly get some kefir which has twelve different strains of probiotics (good bacteria for your gut) and drink two large glasses per day. your diarrhea should stop in two to four days.
i occasionally randomly get this pain in the middle and right below my chest. i eat healthy & exercise and am healthy in general. what could it be?
that area is the epigastric area and may be due to many reasons: 1. anxiety or panic attacks 2. reflux disease or heartburn (if its worse with certain types of foods) 3. gallbladder disease (pain worse at night or after eating meals) 4. stomach ulcer 5. musculoskeletal pain from straining muscle rib cage
i weighed 171lb. about 2 months later i'm 163lb(now this morning). i have done nothing and for the past week i've been eating junk food what is wrong?
use same weighing scale early morning weights may be slightly lower than later. minor weight fluctuations may be normal. some people may lose weight with stress.
i have been diagnosed with a hiatal hernia and had a endo scope done. i have been taking prilosec famitodine and tums (calcium carbonate). i still cant eat much?
patient with hiatal hernia and reflux do not have a problem with how much they eat as much as what they eat. yes we do advise patient to eat multiple small meal to facilitate the digestion. more important is to avoid eating spicy greasy and rich creamy food and food that might contain a lot of acid. the medication does not cure gerd it is simply trying to control the chemical part
i just started fluticasone i am wondering if it will cause weight gain?
you didn't mention what form at any rate in any form dosage is tiny not absorbed into circulation unless you use mega doses don't worry about weight gain
when i breathe in and out with my mouth closed it sounds like snoring could that be an indication of something serious going on with my lungs?
or your soft palate. it could be laxity of the naso- or oropharynx as well. this may best be diagnosed with videofluoroscopy or endoscopic visualization. discuss with an ent.
was diagnosed with gerd a year ago. i've been taking protonix (pantoprazole) since then had gastric sleeve on 10/21/13. med not working is there another med better?
many patients that suffer from gerd are treated with acid reducers like protonix (pantoprazole). if you are post-sleeve and/or cholecystectomy you may very well be refluxing bile which is a base. a good treatment for this is gaviscon or maalox. try taking before meals and at bedtime. increasing the protonix (pantoprazole) doesn't make sense because your stomach makes much less to little acid after sleeve resection.
what is the nissen fundoplication wrap?
nissen fundoplication is a commonly performed operation to prevent/decrease significant gastroesophageal reflux. the top (fundus) of the stomach is fully wrapped around the bottom of the swallowing tube (esophagus) in the abdomen to make a better valve there. it can be performed as an open operation via upper midline or left subcostal incision or laparoscopically with 4 to 5 small trocar wounds.
why do i have flu-like symptoms (joint pain weakness fatigue irritability brain fog) for days after eating one piece of junk food (i. e. candybar)?
it is extremely unlikely that candybar has anything to do with your symptoms. you may have a common cold flu reaction to medication and in uncommon cases it may be a prodrome of a more serous illness. if the symptoms do not abate in week it would be prudent to see your doctor.
i have type 2 diabetes under control. my question is what could be causing my left ankle to swell a little but severe pain?
congrats on blood sugar control. i suggest you see your doctor about your ankle. it could be fluid retention in your foot or could be a minor fracture or something else.
i am a 68 yr old female considering bariactric surgery with bmi of 44. 3. should my age be a concern in my decision? i have medicare.
and i'm sure your age is one of the factors influencing your treating doctors. this is a classic risk vs. benefit assessment: you and your doctors take into account all the risks including age coexisting health problems skill of surgeon risks of operation etc. and balance those again all you have to gain: improved health and happiness. age is just one factor; 68 yrs doesn't seem too old<positive_smiley>
what causes thyroid imbalance? and what causes weight gain with a thyroid imbalance?
there are many causes of thyroid imbalances but our growing exposure to toxins including fluoride (yes fluoridated water causes it) bromine ; mercury is likely the most common cause. see <link> ; <link> for details. thyroid hormone controls our metabolic rate like the rate an engine idles. the resultant slow metabolism in hypothyroidism causes weight gain.
what's d best way to find i'm having a hiatal hernia? endoscopy normal. freq belching acid reflux sensation behind breast bone bloating breathing prob.
the old fashioned barium swallow and upper gi series is an effective way to diagnose a hiatus hernia and reflux.
what's d best way to find i'm having a hiatal hernia? endoscopy normal. freq belching acid reflux sensation behind breast bone bloating breathing prob.
the short answer is an upper gi contrast study. this should ideally be done looking at both the esophagus and stomach and with both solids and liquids to see how the esophagus can push them down into the stomach. best however to get a more throrpugh eval. may also need a ph study and esophageal manometry. hope this helps!
what's d best way to find i'm having a hiatal hernia? endoscopy normal. freq belching acid reflux sensation behind breast bone bloating breathing prob.
for the time being handle what you have felt like gerd and indigestion-related event with the followings: 1. watch what you eat and drink to see if able to identify some offending goods 2. eat small portion and lightly seasoned foods 3. don't lie flat to sleep soon after meal 4. take probiotics and anti-gerd drug. and see if getter better. if yes good; if not ask doc for next timely. best.
i have hypothydroid n gird the acid is so bad im on ranitidine 250mg twice a day is gastricbypass a good option will it help with my weight n acid?
gastric bypass is used for obesity not bad gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) or acid reflux. if h2 blockers like ranitidine don't work for gerd next step is ppi (proton pump inhibitor) such as omeprazole which is now available otc w/o prescription. levothyroxine is used to treat hypothyroidism which if left un(der)treated can make weight loss difficult.
i've been having sugar cravings increasingly over the past year and have gone from 49 to 55kg in 2 years. very hard to shift. also get hot flushes?
you may have diabetes. you need to see your physician
i've been having sugar cravings increasingly over the past year and have gone from 49 to 55kg in 2 years. very hard to shift. also get hot flushes?
cut both sugar and starch. it appears that you may be spiking sugar and over secreting insulin lowering your blood sugar therefore making your body crave more. a low carbohydrate diet is probably your best option! a 13. 2 weight gain over two years quite serious to a young woman such you. are you carrying you weight on the middle? are you bosomy? high waisted? i suspect so.
i am an 18 year old female and today i had a endoscopy they seen a 1 cm hiatus hernia and mild inflammation characterized by congestion (edema) and erythema found in the cardia in the gastric fundus etc. is that bad? will i need surgery?
-is that u need 2 b treated not necessarily surgery. many medications r around 2 handle this. the meds will do well 4 the stomach issues but it you have persistent trouble with the reflux &all conservative treatment does not relieve ur symptoms surgery could b in ur future
what are the most fatal health problems are linked to being overweight?
over 20 different medical conditions have been linked to obesity. the yearly cost to the healthcare system is estimated at over $100 billion. the common disorders include hypertension asthma reflux diabetes arthritis sleep apnea hyperlipidemia depression and an increase risk of falls. life threatening conditions include heart disease certain cancers and blood clots.
what could be the cause that i get dry throat when i would sleep on my left side? i am suffering from sleep apnea. i don't use any machines.
dry mouth upon awakening snoring gasping or choking for breath at night morning headache night time acid reflux daytime sleepiness are all potential symptoms of sleep apnea. it is recommended you consult a sleep medicine doctor for evaluation and if needed treatment. hope that helps!
i am obese and have a clear water like liquid leaking from "sores" in my stomach. do you know what this might be?
go a doctor for examination and treatment. could be oozing serosanguineous fluid from an infected sore. needs treatment.
i have sliding hiatal hernia (la-b) and reflux. i read there are risks of cancer and barrett in the future. shall i have surgery to fix the hernia?
you can take acid reducsing medication and follow lifestyle changes such as weight reduction (if overweight) avoidance of smoking avoidance of fruit juice fatty and spicy foods
is it safe to fast during daytime (no food or water 19 hrs) i had surgery 4 years ago (adhesive intestinal obstruction). surgery was also when fastin (phentermine)?
people go on fast 12 hrs fast routinely for religious and other reasons but int well hydrated state. some one with severe systemic disease (s) may harm the body drink plenty of fluid before going on 19 hrs fast
if i drink lots of water/green tea go to the gym eat healthy exfoliate wash my face morning and night will that help my skin?
drinking plenty of fluid is good for hydration therefore keeping the skin moist washing the face is also good but do not over do it using a sun block may be a good idea when exposed to sun light for too long good eating habit is not only good for the skin but good for health in general
i work outside 100 plus temp is it dangerous with type 2 diabetes?
working outside in that type of heat can be dangerous for anyone. with diabetes you need to make sure that your sugars are well controlled that you are drinking lots of fluids and that you are eating regularly. if you feel faint or dizzy get to a cool place and check your sugar. drinking water is the best way to stay safe in the heat.
what do you advise if i'm going to get the sleeve done - bariatric surgery - i found out i have a hiatal hernia is that procedure done together or separate?
the presence of hiatal hernia is not contraindication to having a sleeve done at the same time. if you have severe reflux in addition to the hiatal hernia most surgeon would push you to have a rygb. however few surgeons believe that just repairing the hiatal hernia at the same time will decrease the reflux in combination with the weight loss. very few surgeons may add a fundoplication.
water retention18-24 pounds per month bloating. i eat healthy (approx. 1500 kcal/day) and exercise regularly. kidneys liver and heart are o. k. please help?
where do you retain the water? if it is in your legs then you may have vascular problems. also despite of normal kidney function have you been checked for the presence of protein in the urine and do you know your blood albumin level protein in the urine and/or low blood albumin level may cause fluid retention as well. some medications cause fluid retention such as steroids and contraceptives.
if i eat something that bothers my gerd in moderation will it make my hiatal hernia bigger?
the hiatal hernia would be made worse by increasing your intraabdominal pressure--from activities like heavy lifting. things that bother gerd increase the reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus. the two are not necessarily related.
i was diagnosed with sliding hiatus hernia 7 months back. chest pain acidity post meal fatigue sleep problems. should i walk for 10 mins after meal?
walking after a meal should help. eating small meals more frequently may also help. sleeping with your head and body on pillows will help at night. also taking acid reducers before you go to bed will help. the hiatal hernia allows for acid reflux (gastroesophageal reflux disease or gerd). the hiatal hernia is fixable if medical therapy and conservative maneuvers don't help.
i lost 20 pounds wieght but see nothing difference in my body why is it because of low protein diet or i lose muscles plz tell?
some weight fluctuations can be fairly dramatic and sometimes visible changes take a few weeks to settle in. in general no matter what diet you are using i would not limit protein. a good strategy is to just be patient continue healthy diet with some aerobic exercise and you will see the results you're looking for.
is spironolactone a safe treatment for hirsutism? does it cause weight gain and harmful side effects?
this drug has some activity in blocking the male hormone receptors and is moderately effective for hirsutism. at the usual doses it has no major side effects and does not cause weight gain. if it does not help you you could ask your doctor to try a drug called flutamide which is somewhat more potent but with a risk of liver side effects.
i have gerd 5mmhg les and 0 peristaltic of esophagus. am i a good candidate for 270° fundo? will it cure my non-working esophagus and gerd? thanks
you are not a good candidate for a 270 degree wrap because of your esophageal dysmotility. the wrap may improve or "cure" your gerd but you are at increased risk of dysphagia. improving the function of your esophagus needs to be addressed in order for you to have good functional result from antireflux surgery.
ive gained too much weight. ive tried going to my doc about it but she doesnt seem to understand that my metabolism is practically dead. what do i do?
exercise is best way to start up your metabolism. start w/walking. work up to at least 10 000 steps/day. don't forget to do body weight exercise to build strength too. muscle is metabolically active so more muscle will burn more fat. and finally focus on eating healthy. more fruits & veggies. plenty of fluids & fiber. lean protein. get enough sleep. avoid drinking to excess. and check your tsh.
i just started exercising/ dieting and i keep having a warm sensation in the top of my throat not an acid burning but a warm heat. is this reflux?
are felt lower in the body closer to the stomach. your doc can screen you for medical conditions and if all clear please continue the diet and exercise program you have started and adjust it according to what your doc suggests. congrats on what you are doing. peace and good health.
i just started exercising/ dieting and i keep having a warm sensation in the top of my throat not an acid burning but a warm heat. is this reflux?
reflux is generally symptomatic and painful is the belching burping and repeating of food
what is considered excessive weight gain i've gained 9 lbs in 5 wks for no apparent reason?
first reason may be from fluid or salt and water retention from an increase in salt and water. diuretics may also cause swelling. heart and kidney trouble may be a concern. associated shortness of breath; prompt medical need is indicated. also excess calories or combined excess calories and reduced physical activity could cause excess weight gain.
what to do if i have the surgery to treat sleep apnea?
hello. rest fluids and follow your doctors recommendations. your sleep apnea will improve and hopefully a cure will follow. good luck.
is it ok to take doxycycline if u have gerds hiatal hernia gastritis?
however doxycycline like any other antibiotic can worsen preexistent stomach conditions but usually a short course is tolerated. take with plenty of fluids and take your previous stomach meds as before.
is it normal to feel hot on my back i have no fever 98. 7 not sick arms/legs aching but i am 208 over weight what is going on i have no flu?
you don't have temp and you have no other symptoms. it may be normal for you. but i suggest you get checked by your doctor to rule out any thyroid problem etc to be sure and advice about your being over weight
i have severe lpr want to get surgery stretta or nissen which one is good for lpr?
well in both cases there's a strong possibility of the same loosening of the area happening again and the reflux returning years/decades later. stretta is minimally invasive and not risky and doesn't require a lot of preparation nor recovery time. both work in the short run.
i had a vertical banded gastroplasty 20 years ago. i suffer pain similar to one i had when my gallbladder was removed 25 yrs ago. it's severe. ?
vertical banded gastoplasty complications include staple line disruption stomal stenoisis band erosion reflux nausea/vomiting marginal ulcers and weight regain. the diagnosis is established by upper endoscopy. set up appointment today!
my infant has gerd what is the chance that they have a hiatal hernia?
though many children may have symptoms of reflux with episodes of vomiting it usually is only of concern if there is associated respiratory problems or poor weight gain. the symptoms are monitored to see if they improve once advancement of diet to more solid food occurs. if significant symptoms including respiratory complaints evaluation would include a contrast study to exclude hiatal hernia.
my infant has gerd what is the chance that they have a hiatal hernia?
although not impossible an infant that is growing developing well and meeting milestones is highly unlikely to have a major gi problem even with reflux. in fact most babies do have some degree of reflux and rarely does medicine help with this - although it can help with the discomfort associated with reflux.
medication for yeast ordor under stomach i'm morbid obese i have dibetec and a real bad smell coming from up under my stomach that the dr. say it yeast and i want someone to tell me how to get rid of the smell.
you have a condition called intertrigo which is caused by yeast (usually candida albicans) infecting your skin. these organisms thrive in moist warm conditions such as the folds beneath your breasts or lower abdomen. diabetics are particularly likely to develop intertrigo as their immune systems don't work well and elevated blood glucose levels encourage the growth of yeast. keeping the infected areas clean and dry is an important part of treating and preventing intertrigo. (this can be difficult if you're obese. ) avoid using powders that contain cornstarch which may aggravate the condition. topical antifungal medications such as clotrimazole and terbinafine will help but you may need to get a prescription for an oral antifungal such as diflucan (fluconazole) from your doctor. as long as you're obese you'll probably have recurrent problems with intertrigo. your doctor has no doubt discussed this issue with you. i've attached a link that provides more information about intertrigo. i hope things go well for you! <link>
my friend is 55 and postmenauposal. in the last two months she has lost 15 lbs without dieting and developed total insomnia- though her life is stable?
unintentional weight loss here is of a concern. menopause should not cause wt loss. it may interfere with sleeping on/off because of the random hotflushes.
my mom wakes me up choking and snoring in the middle of the night?
your mom should have a sleep study as soon as possible. sounds like she has sleep apnea but other issues may also be at hand such as acid reflux bronchitis and heart disease. she should see her doctor soon.
my left foot has been swollen for 4 days. what can i do to reduce the swelling? i am a 40 year female who is overweight and am inactive. i stood on my feet the last several days cooking. i have a heart condition too.
if only one foot is swollen it's unlikely it's from fluid retention or your heart. it's probably something local. it's hard to say exactly what is causing your swelling although varicose veins and/or phlebitis come to mind. you're best off having your primary care physician take a look especially given that you have a heart condition as well.
why do no ppis work for me? can't take domperidone/metaclopramide as cause arrithmias. can you suggest anything else? already had failed nissen fundo
domperidone and metaclopramide are pro-kinetic agents that help stimulate stomach and intestinal motility. if you are having gastroparesis as the underlying cause of reflux then you may also be a candidate for gastric pacemaker. this involves significant screening and testing to determine whether you would be a candidate.
what can cause pain under left rib pain in stomache through to back already have a hiatus hernia and type 2 diabetes chronic cough with choking?
you could have pain from a pulled peri coastal muscle from coughing. the pain could be from esophagitis from reflux. if it does not respond with tincture of time with antacids and nonsteroidals you should see your physician.
why do corticosteroids cause weight gain?
the simple answer is that they can cause the body to retain fluids or water. usually if you are only taking the medicine for a short time this is not an issue. when you take steroids for long periods of time then there are a number of side effects that may occur.
what are foods that i can add to my diet to lose belly fat that want trigger my acid reflux?
stay away from all foods white in color and you will lose wt. obviously candies and cakes that are not white are also included
what are foods that i can add to my diet to lose belly fat that want trigger my acid reflux?
wow. to lose your weight you must take sugars and simple carbohydrates out of your diet and that includes milk. (milk is a high sugar food). you may want to add or increase your proteins but the answer to your problem is a sugar issue.
what is it like to have fundoplication or antireflux surgery?
bloating is very common after reflux surgery you can over come that by eating multiple small meal eat slowly and chew your food very well cut your meat to a small bite keep your bowel regular and do a lot of walking stat on anti gas medicine
what to do if i have a mini belly an a bit of flubber around my hips. would duromine get rid of this?
the best way to control excess weight is not the most popular but it continues to be diet and exercise. duromine generically phentermine is an appetite suppressant similar pharmacologically to amphetamines. it is indicated for weight-loss only in people who have increased medical risk due to their weight. my best advice? figure out a good program to lose 1-2 pounds per week and stick with it.
what causes weight gain and water retention?
the list is virtually endless and may be different for each person. in general however foods high in sodium can lead to water retention as can high carbohydrate meals due to the amount of water needed to store carbohydrates as glycogen. hormonal and even environmental changes can also affect total body water. lastly many medications can lead to fluid retention.
what is the role of diet and exercise in controlling hypertension?
hypertension (high blood pressure) is genetic but also influenced strongly by lifestyle. check out the us government's dietary approaches to stop hypertension (dash) plan at : <link> regular exercise also helps control weight (and thus hypertension) and may also directly influence bp. especially watch alcohol which increases bp.
what to do if i always crave junk food but lately i have eaten way too much and put on weight is this normall?
taubes who just released why we get fat a layman's version of his influential scientific tome. in the absence of carbs your body will burn fatty acids for energy. it's how you sleep through the night without eating for eight hours. "the brain does indeed need carbohydrates for fuel " taubes says "but the body is perfectly happy to make those out of protein leafy green vegetables
i'm currently taking prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg i just got put on adipex can these two drugs be taken together?
these drugs are usually fine together. be on the lookout for an increased amount of confusion agitation dilated pupils headaches twitching muscles shivering or goose bumps and diarrhea. if you should notice that let your doctor know.
i'm currently taking prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg i just got put on adipex can these two drugs be taken together?
i commend you for your concern about effects of medications. prozac 40 mg/day is for moderately severe to severe depression. this dose with long duration of use can cause many side effects. adipex is a stimulant like amphetamine. both medications can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia and lack of libido. use relaxation music meditation yoga. see a psychiatrist for therapy and medication.
is it possible for using an electric blanket to cause weight gain?
indeed if you sweat from it the loss of fluid will cause a minor temporary weight loss if interested in weight loss seriously consider <link> amazon. com/dp/0692496157/
i have a chronic cough sometimes clear mucus comes our i do have a hiatal hernia and occasionally some acid reflux. this normal? do i have cancer?
can be triggered by acid reflux. or allergy symptoms. or smoking cigarettes or inhaling drugs. or taking a blood pressure medicine (the ace inhibitor class is especially guilty). or cancer. but the first 3 are more common in your age group. and no that is not normal.
i have a chronic cough sometimes clear mucus comes our i do have a hiatal hernia and occasionally some acid reflux. this normal? do i have cancer?
greetings. personally i am very suspicious for he reflux or gerd to be causing irritation of the area around your vocal cords to be irritated. cancer is possible but not my #1 thought. see your ent doctor who can perform a npl which will assess your vocal cords.
is saffron a safe and effective appetite suppressant?
white sauce with saffron with scallops sauted sugar snap peas over a good fluffy jasmine rice. no. <link> details recipes that are not over 600 calories and how to transcend appetite.
i'm 23 never had gerd symptoms before my hiatal-hernia i was wondering if i can get hernia surgery without fundoplication? worried about side effects
90-95 % of people with gerd get better with medication. surgery reserved to a very small section of people. yes you can have a hiatal hernia surgery without the fundoplication but that will not stop the efflux in any way. try to get the best medical treatment before start thinking about surgery.
im 23 and have a hiatal hernia. doc found 8mm nodule in distal esophegus. how long do i have take acid reflux medicine? its bad long term use?
while as you get older typically the reflux issues get worse. so maybe even lifetime. long term side effects of proton pump inhibitors (assuming that is what you have been prescribed) are not well studied and there are no major trials to support presence of long term side effects. but potential problems include achlorhydria - complete absence of stomach acid - which may not cause real sympto
i have a dull very annoying pain in my upper right abdomen. it seems to get worse after eating sugary foods. i went to the dr. he did blood worka and i have had an ultrasound. all came back normal. now he wants to start me on meds. to treat reflux. what
please re-ask so we know what your question is.
i have a dull very annoying pain in my upper right abdomen. it seems to get worse after eating sugary foods. i went to the dr. he did blood worka and i have had an ultrasound. all came back normal. now he wants to start me on meds. to treat reflux. what
question?
i hope i don't have cancer 23 yr 2 years of acid reflux from hiatal hernia doc found distal esophagus nodule 6 months later ultrasound 2days cancer?
acid reflux can lead to cancer but it takes 20 to 30 years of persistent reflux before we can suspect that complication. your problem is likely to be unrelated to acid reflux. but your doctor will provide you some answers. ultrasound is not always reliable. so an endoscopy is done as a preferred test to examine the esophagus from inside and check it out more reliably.
my daughter is almost 8 months and diagnosed with moderate to severe sleep apnea. she is on prevacid (lansoprazole) for acid reflux is this the cause of the apnea?
if i understand this correctly your eight month old child has significant sleep apnea. this is very unusual but can sometimes occur in the face of enlarged adenoids and tonsils. reflux can always make things worse but reflux by itself usually will not cause such significant apnea. if you have not already taken your child to a pediatric ent doctor you should.
my daughter is almost 8 months and diagnosed with moderate to severe sleep apnea. she is on prevacid (lansoprazole) for acid reflux is this the cause of the apnea?
apnea in anyone is due to compromised activity in brainstem control mehanisms. please go to my blog "oxygen the spark of life" look at earlier posts. i always have a deep respect for apnea particularly in an infant.
my dad is in his 50's. after he runs his hands swell up. what could be the cause of this? he is slightly overweight. runs 3 miles every few days.
swollen hands after running could be due to increased blood and fluid flow to hands as a result of an increased heart rate which helps the muscles contract and move efficiently. other causes include dehydration running outside during high temperatures and fluid retention as a result of a high-salt diet.
my 8 week old has been diagnosed with reflux and milk protein allergy; been giving breast milk in a bottle and on a complete dairy free diet. going back to work travel a lot and need to switch to formula. tried alimentum and neocate. baby's reflux is s
other suggestions include feeding at an angle and thickening her feedings with rice cereal. there are also medications available to treat her reflux if switching formula and these measures do not improve her symptoms.
my 8 week old has been diagnosed with reflux and milk protein allergy; been giving breast milk in a bottle and on a complete dairy free diet. going back to work travel a lot and need to switch to formula. tried alimentum and neocate. baby's reflux is s
nutramogen is similar to alimentum but may work. there are very expensive amino acid formulas that would be a last resort.
my 8 week old has been diagnosed with reflux and milk protein allergy; been giving breast milk in a bottle and on a complete dairy free diet. going back to work travel a lot and need to switch to formula. tried alimentum and neocate. baby's reflux is s
alimentum neocate and pregestimil are known as elemental formulas-indicated for milk protein allergies. other than breast they are the mainstream choices. they are expensive and taste is usually hands down terrible. try to pump and save your breast milk. if in short supply you may mix the formula w/breast milk to allow gradual adaptation to the formula.
my father has had type 2 diabetes for the past 20 years. is diabetes hereditary?
while there is some gene influence there is a greater impact of lifestyle weight gain and level of exercise. think of t2dm as the body growing too big for its ability to make insulin as the biggest factor.
my ankles are swelling some. i am 38 obese f. i have fatty liver. would this be the onset of cirrhosis? all blood work is good
if your blood work is good then the swelling may be due to poorly working valves in your blood vessels that are allowing fluid yo accumulate.
my ankles are swelling some. i am 38 obese f. i have fatty liver. would this be the onset of cirrhosis? all blood work is good
ankle swelling can be from a variety of causes including liver failure. most likely your is from venous reflux ( blood work normal) disease. this is due to des tension of the internal valves in he veins allowing fluid to build up in the ankles when standing. try elevating feet 4 x per day.
my hair has been falling out for 3 months. i found out i have fatty liver from obesity so i have lost 50 lbs. my thyroid is fine. when will this stop?
telogen effluvium is a form of nonscarring alopecia characterized by diffuse hair shedding often with an acute onset. a chronic form with a more insidious onset and a longer duration also exists. telogen effluvium is a reactive process caused by a metabolic or hormonal stress or by medications. generally recovery is spontaneous and occurs within 6 months.
my daughters sugar levelswere 8. 1 and she went for a fasting glucose test the following day but i was told it will be following day results in but 2nd day still waiting is this normal or is something wrong. she is a bedwetter and overweight with asthma.?
a blood sugar of 8. 1 mmol/l is elevated for anyone. however if your child also has asthma checking a blood sugar while on oral steroids could acutely raise blood sugar. a hba1c would be much more accurate for assessing chronic blood sugar control. chronic bed wetting not sign of diabetes. if she is overweight consider obstructive sleep apnea which causes this & it makes asthma worse esp w/reflux.
why lpr reflux causes breathlessness my all repoets are normal echo pft xray thyroid cbp m not overweight?
if your heart lungs blood level and thyroid are all normal and you are not overweight then your shortness of breath most likely comes from deconditioning (out of shape). reflux does not generally cause breathlessness but a very large hiatal hernia (part of stomach slipped into chest cavity) could cause both the reflux and also shortness of breath. treatment would be surgery.
what is the difference between phentermine and phen phen? is phentermine safe? i just a little help to get started loosing
sorry but that combination of drugs fenfluramine has been banned by the fda as it was found to cause heart valve problems. . phentermine is considered safe and it has not been banned. hope that helps
what would cause ones to sweat more than other people in this heat wave? maybe because im outta shape not use to the heat?
some people just perspire more. sweating allows your body to cool down. if you are not in shape not used to the hot weather overweight on certain medications--this can cause you to sweat more. make sure you drink plenty of fluids to compensate for the sweating
why do i have a hot face can bring overweight cause it?
it more? all day? when you get up? does your face appear flushed and red at the same time it feels hot? just being overweight isn't the cause of this but other symptoms or conditions may contribute to it. do you drink alcoholic beverages? is your face and neck red at the same time you feel hot? sorry for so many questions but it will lead to a better answer. noticing when your face feels is impt!
i have no acid reflux symptoms except for i can burp nonstop. recently i've noticed a sensation of shortness of breath. hiatal hernia?
the belching and substernal symptoms with shortness of breath are findings seen in many cases of reflex esophagitis and hiatal hernia. inflammation of lower esophagus is frequently associated with shortness of breath due to substernal extension of the inflammation. omeprazole is used to treat these symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux.
i ate skinny cow ice cream and it says sugar alcohol will that make a positive on a breatherlizer?
breathalyzers measure only ethyl (drinking) alcohol aka ch3ch2oh. the term "alcohol" in chemistry describes a any ch2oh compound. the "alcohol" compounds in ice cream are safe and will not get you drunk (obviously) or show up on a breath test. errors with breathalyzers (false positives) are few like if people drink gasoline paint remover etc. severe diabetes or gastric reflux may do it too.
my 4month old snores and wakes her self up choking what are the chances of her having sleep apnea like i do? she also has reflux too
if your child even has 1 episode an hour of sleep apnea treatment is recommended. i would not wait at all referral to have a sleep study in a children's hospital setting would be my first priority.
my 4month old snores and wakes her self up choking what are the chances of her having sleep apnea like i do? she also has reflux too
it is common for reflux to increase initially & peak @4-5m. it often causes nasal congestion (noise in sleep) & choking. most sleep apnea is associated with the acquisition of a significant amount of tonsil & adenoidal tissue. babies have little or none. while some premi babies often have apnea episodes even they seldom do after 4m.
my 4month old snores and wakes her self up choking what are the chances of her having sleep apnea like i do? she also has reflux too
you would probably be wise to seek out a consultation with a pediatric ent. your child should not be making any sounds while asleep. snoring is an almost blocked airway and waking up chocking is a blocked airway.
my 4month old snores and wakes her self up choking what are the chances of her having sleep apnea like i do? she also has reflux too
sounds like her airway needs to be checked. baby's should not snore. while apnea is possible there are many other things that need to b checked soon. consult with a pediatric otolaryngologist. ( ear nose and throat. ) make the appointment now. please.
my 10m old caught a viral infection and isnt eating much! she was mostly on solids but now wont even drink bottles. took her to dr and was told she is dehydrated. what can i do? i have poly v should i add to diet?
viral infections are self limited lasting few days to a week. if baby is dehydrated he needs fluid intake like jello water pedialyte 7up juice etc. multivitamins can be added. she will regain wt. loss easily.
my mom 47 is overweight but not obese. she said that she woke up in the mid of night gasping for air. she fell asleepagain and woke up the same way again. why could this happen?
i would consider either nocturnal acid reflux or sleep apnea as the most likely problems. with sleep apnea the gasping is a sign of more serious problem and there are likely to be other symptoms like excessive fatigue and daytime somnolence.
my 70 yro diabetic mother in addition to the shoulder blade/chest pain is having fainting spells and weight loss. how concerned should i be?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
my 5 month old has decreased appetite and passes stools 3 times a day (the usual for her is 1). stools are normal not runny. could it be teething?
i can be hard to determine the exact cause of your infants symptoms. . it might be related to teething or it might be something else. encourage fluids and monitor your child temperature.
my 5 month old has decreased appetite and passes stools 3 times a day (the usual for her is 1). stools are normal not runny. could it be teething?
some children do get a low grade fever with teething. if the rest of her behavior is basically normal then just give it more time. it is important to keep her hydrated with fluids. as long as she doesn't stop eating and drinking a day or two of reduced eating is no problem. if other behaviors change you should have her pediatrian check her out just to be sure she doesn't have a cold as well.
what else can i do to take the pain away from a hiatus hernia? i always feel lile my chest and throat is on fire.
the sensation of "fire" is due to acid reflux with or without the hernia. to improve that sensation take anti-reflux or antacid medications many of which are otc. obesity nicotine caffeine alcohol chocolate grease mint etc. make the reflux worse. make sure you have an actual confirmed medical diagnosis of hiatal hernia and acid reflux before you start treatment.
what are natural way to cure gerd other than taking medication? i don't smoke average alcohol consumption. am overweight
to reduce reflux it is wise to reduce the acid foods you may be eating. thsi would include tomato sauce citrus fruits and their juice foods picked with vinegar. and overuse of alcohol. try to limit bending over to lift things as this can move stomach contents into your throat. bned with your knees (gospeak to your physician about the many other foods and things you can do to relieve your reflux.
will a nissen fundoplication loosen (fail) over time? research on the internet shows redos are common after 10 or 20 years.
nissen fundoplications r not a cure-all. because nothing is removed in this surgery the effects of surgery do indeed wane over time. how fast depends on the patient their lifestyle & the skill of the surgeon (among other factors). however it is better than living thru heartburn in that time (espeically if medications have not worked) bcuz at some pt damage from acid reflux can be permanent.
what is the best diet and exercise plan for someone with hashimotos disease?
hi. people with hashimoto's hypothyroidism treated with the correct dose of thyroid hormone replacement to normalize tsh and free t4 can eat whatever they want! i always recommend healthy diet and regular exercise but that's because it's good for them not because of any influence on their thyroid hormone replacement! live healthily because it's good for you! holy cow!
what are the interactions between prozac (fluoxetine) and adipex?
if you look at the fda approved prescribing information for adipex it clearly warns against combining the two due to serotonin syndrome risk (abnormal jerks increased reflexes temperature confusion sweating elevated heart rate and bp seizure risk). prozac (fluoxetine) also blocks an enzyme that many medicines rely on for their own metabolism and can sometimes affect blood levels that way.
what does a hiatal hernia have to do with heartburn?
a hiatal hernia occurs when a portion of the stomach pushes up through the diaphragm and enters the chest. the negative pressure in the chest during the inspiratory part of breathing increases acid reflux into the esophagus and worsens the symptoms of heartburn.
i have a small hiatus hernia. no gerd or heartburn at all. shud i be worried? scared to go gym and do weights as it could worsen it? thanks
a small asymptomatic hiatal hernia is of no clinical significance at all. you do not need to limit your workouts in any way. if you start having symptoms of acid reflux try antacids. if they do not work then see your doctor good luck.
i'm currently taking pills for my constant acid reflux called rabeprazole and i just started hydroxycut drink mix. starting to wonder if these two things will clash and make my acid reflux return? should i stop taking the drink mix?
only half of the hydroxycut (c. canephora robusta). your digestive system may need to get accustomized to it. after a week then advance to a full meal. best wishes.
my wife has had gastric bypass and she has the flu what can i do for her?
does she have gi or ent/respiratory manifestations? if high fever shortness or breath or chest pain dehydrated--then take her to the er. if typical flu distress without co-morbidities that place her at risk then treat her the same way you would treat yourself for the flu--fluids rest moderate analgesic use symptom-based otc medication. (the gastric bypass does not contraindicate to these. ).
my wife has had gastric bypass and she has the flu what can i do for her?
the most important thing in patients with the "flu" moreover gastric bypass patients is hydration. also if your doctor thinks appropriate anti-nausea medications may also help.
my 2nd old is 1 wk post op fo. nissen fundoplication is it normal for her to choke vomit and dry heave when she attempts to eat her safe soft foods?
early on after fundoplication one often experiences retching/dry heaving as the stomach gets used to the inability or decreased ability to reflux stuff up into the esophagus. that said sometimes there is swelling/edema in the area of the fundoplication wrap that makes it hard to swallow food into the stomach. in such cases an esophageal dialtion may be necessary. discuss this w/ your surgeon.
my mother is 64 over weight diabetic high blood pressure she is having chest pains fatigue and keeps falling we cannot figure out what is wrong she i?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
my ortho recommended the synvisc (hylan g-f 20) shot for my arthritic knee. dose this shot really work? i am overweight and walk slow.
synvisc (hylan g-f 20) is one of many types of viscosupplementation products on the market. they replenish hyaluronic acid which is a natural component of joint fluid. the cartilage damaged in arthritis is nourished by the surrounding fluid so by replenishing this component of the fluid you potentially help the cartilage. this often relieves pain associated with arthritis.
my son two years old has ileostomy and acid reflux. i just start to feed him a little so what the best food for him that can help with acid reflux.
with your young son his acid reflux may not be diet related. it may be mechanical. i am glad you are concerned the acid is painful for him. small frequent meals with soft foods (rice and oatmeal puddings and soups) can help. okay to see doc for medications to acid reduce. okay to ask for surgery consult about the mechanical issue.
what is tumescent liposuction? is it safe?
tumescent literally means swollen or engorged. it describes a method of preparing for liposuction and by itself does not remove any fat. it's intended purpose is to add large volumes of fluid ( physicians use different formulas) to achieve some degree of anesthesia as well as to facilitate the extraction of fat by limiting blood loss or improving the conduction of energy such as ultrasound.
weird feeling under throat. like a sudden wind. guaranteed not pvc's. esophageal issue? had fundoplication a year ago
this could be reflux from the esophagus or from the pharynx to the larynx. either way you can consult a gastroenterologist for diagnosis and treatment advice.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
phlegm in the back of the throat that occurs during sleep can be caused by post nasal drip or acid reflux and may be related to sleep apnea. a sleep study would be helpful to sort this out.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
possibility as well as acid reflux post nasal drip anxiety/panic attack etc. get examined. god bless you!
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
waking up coughing and gagging with "stuff" in your throat suggests gastroesophageal reflux. after food enters your stomach certain muscles (the les or lower esophageal sphincter) contract to prevent stomach contents from regurgitating back into your esophagus. -sleep with body elevated using a wedge -no food or drink after dinner read about reflux just type: bit. ly/zquhbk in search box
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
gi reflux etc. given description mucous would? any sleep apnea issues with tongue falling back into pharynx enough to close airway or asthma. internalized grief/revulsion could drive the secretions issues most docs ignore. trail prilosec etc? sleep on side/prone avoid back to minimize sleep apnea. get a home 3 night or more sleep study for clues that you are closing off airway after asleep.
when i go to sleep within minutes i wake up coughing/gagging. it also feels like i have stuff in my throat and need to swallow in order to breathe. i used to get it once a month and now it happens every time i sleep. could this be sleep apnea or asthma
you may have reflux esophagitis and also could be sleep apnea. you need to see your physician for a workup. please see your physician for your complaints. it's important that it be evaluated thoroughly.
will the lumps after my liposuction resolve on their own?
lumps after lipo can be due to swelling bruising (hematomas) fluid collections (seromas) or from contour irregularities (fat missed or too much fat removed). some will resolve on their own over the 3-6 months after your procedure some will not some will improve with massage or ultrasound treatments. see your doctor to discuss possible causes and treatments.
will diet pills take the fat out of your butt and breasts?
commonly used "diet pills" work through appetite suppression and increasing metabolism. so if you end up consuming less calories than your body is utilizing the result is weight loss. however the weight can be fat water or muscle. where you lose fat will depend on genetics and your sex. exercise and a healthy diet low in carbs is helpful. multiple small meals per day and fluids are important.
why is that when i seem to sleep for a long period of time 10 hrs. i get this headache sometimes effecting like my ears. no history of sleep apnea or bp?
especially in migraine sufferers (which it appears you are). the mechanism may have something to do with rem sleep just before awakening. even if you don't have sleep apnea the influence of sleep is felt to be a strong factor in those with headaches. too little sleep ( 9 hrs) both seem to be aggravating factors. target 7-8 hours of sleep a night. good luck!
will there be side effects of taking garcinia cambogia while on prozac (fluoxetine) and desmopressin?
not always but it does happen. if it does stop the carcinia. if no change in two weeks the patient should see the doctor.
why is it that my psoriasis flares up on a low-carb diet?
that diet has no influence on psoriasis.
i saw a post on website on which it was written that weight is determined by genetics. if this is the case with me then any solution for this?
b"sd there is a gentic component - in a recent study from scotland looking at 520 000 genetic snippets about 11% of the variance in body size and shape was accounted for. that leaves about 90% up for grabs and available to influence beyond inheritence. it doesn' mean it is easy and certainly much harder for some but in my experience we can help just about everyone with a weight problem
i'm 26 female overweight and non-smoker. i started having left sided chest pain ( achy burning) belching forceful burps burning/sore/swollen throat stuffed nose & mucus in throat. ruled out heart thyroid and inf. prilosec not working.
since heart problems are ruled out still reflux/gastritis can be the cause prilosec dose might not be enough prescription strength or other meds may be needed. your best bet is to see a gastroenterologist goodluck
i'm 26 female overweight and non-smoker. i started having left sided chest pain ( achy burning) belching forceful burps burning/sore/swollen throat stuffed nose & mucus in throat. ruled out heart thyroid and inf. prilosec not working.
sounds like reflux symptoms talk to your doctor about it.
i recently had a gastric sleeve and my reflux has been ten fold i take protonix (pantoprazole) maloxx and tums just to fet relief any suggestions?
use cholestid to bind bile acids. antiacid not cure since acid is not the culprit.
in morning i weighed 90. 7kg after medium sized lunch i weighed 92. 2kg is this normal?
weight fluctuates throughout the day. weight increases due to the food and liquid you take in (water is heavier than most people realize! ). weight is lost through sweating breathing (your body water evaporation is slight but it's there) urination defecation and the burning of fat and other fuels both during workouts and in the general course of your day. up to 5lbs/2kg is normal.
is orlistat (alli) safe to take for someone who is on prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg daily? is it a safe medicine?
absorption and has no interactions with prozac (fluoxetine) simvistatin or allopurinol. grapefruit juice can significantly increase the blood levels of simvastatin. you are wise to review interactions when on medications. therapy may assist with anxiety obsessions and compulsions which can lead to fatigue. best regards for relief.
is orlistat (alli) safe to take for someone who is on prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg daily? is it a safe medicine?
no one should take a additional medication unless prescribed by your doctor. if the doctor has prescribed it you should be informed of the reason for orlistat.
i have a knot under my left rib it's sore can it be a hiatal hernia. i have trouble swallowing too?
-also reflux & esophageal information can cause this. a gastric ulcer is also possible. my advice is to make an appointment to see a gastroenterologist for evaluation. all of these are treatable.
my 3 year old son has grade 4 tonsils. osa- sleep apnea. & surgery is tmrw. what can we expect for him?
bad sore throat. pain medication fluids ice cream. ask for written instructions from ent doc.
my daughters 14 she's 4'11 and 140 lbs. she wants to lose weight. she does kickboxing 3 times a week. how many calories should she have per day?
but make sure these are healthy calories! eating a lot of veggies whole fruit (not juice) real grains like oats w plenty of fiber and plenty of lean protein can help. dont forget calcium & water & limit foods & drinks w processed sugar. liked robt lustigs website re sugar & book fat chance. some may be influenced by if she's had her growth spurt. check w pcp if concerned re thyroid etc.
what is a good healthy eating schedule/diet?
a good rule of thumb would be 3 meals and 2 snacks. focus on some protein in each meal balanced with a complex carb. avoid processed foods and focus on fresh whole food. that's food that can spoil. avoid high calorie fluids like sweet tea juice and soft drinks. eliminating a diet that's high in liquid calories can shed almost 25 lbs in a year.
what is a good medicine for snoring?
the only cases when medicine can work are when treating underlying conditions that make the snoring worse such as allergies causing upper airway congestion or treating heartburn/reflux with medication. the only other types of meds for snoring is weight loss meds. snoring is often weight related and loosing weight can help. overall though sleep apnea is risk. you should see you doctor.
which would you try first for binge eating if wellbutrin (bupropion) didn't work. prozac or zoloft? which has better results and which is safer?
generally speaking prozac (fluoxetine). however i do not know the source of your problem. i would suggest you get with a mental health professional and figure this out. in addition many people with this problem have been helped by overeaters annomous.
i have a 2cm hiatal hernia no symptoms. chances of it growing in the future?
the size of the hernia is not as important as the presence of symptoms. it is very common to have a hiatal hernia without symptoms. in that setting there is not much cause for concern. symptoms of reflux heartburn trouble swallowing regurgitation as well as other atypical symptoms. weight gain excessive straining tight fitting clothes are some of the reasons symptoms appear or worsen.
i have a hiatal hernia and suffer migraines. meds to treat the hernia symptoms (severe acid reflux) give me headaches. what are my other options?
to choose from so trial and error. also po antacids are available.
i am planning to loose body weight with healthy fruits diet. will weight loss cause hairfall?
will not lead to hair loss. for best and safest results see your doctor for a food plan that meets your needs. ask about exercise plan also. low fat diet is not the way to go and fruits only will cause blood sugar and mood fluctuations. peace and good health.
i had surgery to repair a hiatal hernia 3 weeks ago and ever since i have had horrible gas and gas pain in my stomach and a lot of bloating!
an effective nissen fundoplication provides a barrier to gastroesophageal reflux but also a barrier to vomiting and burping since the lower esophageal sphincter no longer relaxes to let air (or other stomach contents) escape upward from your stomach. the air then accumulates in the stomach resulting in gas and bloating until it can be evacuated into the small bowel.
is sucralose really bad for you?
research shows linkage to cancer & diabetes. fluctuations of blood sugar. best sweetener is plant based stevia
metformin - side effects? using this to counteract insulin resistance. any comments on side effects etc?
abnormal stools changes in taste muscle pain difficulty breathing lightheadedness or dizziness nail problems flu-like symptoms such as muscle pain fever chills and weakness feelings of a rapidly or forcefully beating heart (heart palpitations). flushing (a skin reddening commonly on the face) increased sweating increased thirst
my dad uric acid is 7. 8. suggest a proper diet plan?
you diet has no influence of uric acid levels. you need to have a 24 hour urine collection for uric acid (ua). if you are a high amount of ua in the urine you are an over-producer of ua and need to be on allopurinol. if you have a low level of ua in the collection you are an under-secreter of ua and need to be on colcrys. if you ua is normal uloric is the drug for you to take to lower you ua.
my headphones i use have a small piece of cushion on them and it broke off in my ear and i have made it deeper by trying to get it what can i do?
its nothing dangerous first of all. you can try to gently flush it out with warm water (don't use q-tips) and if not successful see and ent doc who will fix it in a heart beat.
my gyn noticed a "bump" in my creatine level and asked how my kidney function was. i was unawear. could a low carb diet be the cause?
creatinine levels can fluctuate and tend to increase to a certain degree with high protein diet creatine supplements etc. if the creatinine increase is more than 30 % then you need evaluation by nephrologist. my advise is to recheck the creatinine level after adequate hydration first.
my mom is overweight. she has acidity problem and her body gets tired. suggest ways to reduce weight and cope acidity and tiredness issue.
overweight causes both reflux & fatigue. reflux treatable with meds. make sure fatigue is not from low thyroid or sleep apnea (is she nodding off? ). if she already had obesity surgery we wont solve this over the internet. she has to work with her team & to want to get better using diet and daily exercise. glad you are involved. why dont you go with her to the doctor visits to see how you can help.
what would help to reduce weight to eat small meals in regular intervals or to eat normal meals 3 times a day?
small meals 4-5 times a day. drink plenty of fluids and exercise regularly
what are common complications with a gastric sleeve or a lap band?
with an experienced surgeon complications from both procedures should be very low probably less than 2%. most problems i see arise from patients eating incorrectly. eating to large of a bite too fast or not chewing well can lead to nausea vomiting reflux & discomfort. this can also happen if a patient's band is filled too tight. make sure you follow your surgeon's recommended eating guidelines
what is the difference between a mini gastric bypass and a sleeve gastrectomy?
a sleeve removes about 75% of your stomach to reduce the amount of food you eat as well as decrease a hormone called ghrelin which helps control hunger. a mini bypass also reduces the stomach capacity but reroutes food beyond the first part of the small intestine to create malabsorption of calories. this can help with additional weight loss. rny bypass better choice than mini to avoid bile reflux
what do you think about "the china study"? how can we prevent illnesses?
there are a lot of good suggestions in this book such as eating a healthy diet and increasing sunlight exposure. however i worry about overpromising on reversing disease. to prevent infection make sure you get all needed immunizations wash your hands carefully get your flu shot and avoid ill friends and family members.
want to eat a high (good) fat low carb diet but it makes my acid reflux act up terribly. take daily prevacid (lansoprazole) now. any advice?
daily or uncontrolled heartburn despite a ppi (like prevacid) is a warning sign to stop whatever is triggering it. fats commonly trigger acid reflux &heartburn & are thought to do so by relaxing the lower esophageal sphincter. although gaviscon is a good add-on med & lifestyle measures (raise head of bed avoid eating late avoid caffeine etc) can lower symptoms it's best to avoid known triggers.
i have swelling around the back of the ankles. i have had this for 20 years. no pain or swelling elsewhere. i am overweight but i had it when i was not.
if this has been going on for 20+ years there may not be much to do about it. it could be that you have "leaky" veins that allow the fluid to collect in the ankles. you could see a vein specialist to see if there is anything to do. if the swelling causes discomfort try wearing compression stockings and elevate your feet whenever possible.
i have pcos what is the best diet and exercise plan? i travel for work so i constantly have to eat at restaurants. any advice? i feel like im ganning to much weight.
for weight loss you will require a program which specializes in this discipline. a useful medication is phentermine 37. 5 mg once a day am. one of the side effects may induce insomnia and the dose is reduced by half. another problem may induce hypertension. pcos or polycystic ovarian syndrome is a common hormonal disorder in women that with interferes with the growth and release of eggs from the ovaries or ovulation. it is the most common cause of infertility among women. pcos occurs when a woman's body overproduces sex hormones called androgens. the hormone imbalance prevents fluid-filled sacs in the ovaries from breaking open and releasing mature eggs. the fluid-filled sacs bunch together causing many tiny cysts. symptoms of pcos include missed periods abnormal facial and body hair growth acne and weight gain. pcos may run in families. follow the links below to find webmd's comprehensive coverage about pcos what the symptoms are how to treat it and much more. • reduce excessive hair growth. your doctor may recommend birth control pills to decrease androgen production or another medication called spironolactone (aldactone) that blocks the effects of androgens on the skin. because spironolactone can cause birth defects effective contraception is required when using the drug and it's not recommended if you're pregnant or planning to become pregnant. eflornithine (vaniqa) is another medication possibility; the cream slows facial hair growth in women. • help you ovulate. if you're trying to become pregnant you may need a medication to help you ovulate. clomiphene (clomid serophene) is an oral anti-estrogen medication that you take in the first part of your menstrual cycle. if clomiphene alone isn't effective your doctor may add metformin to help induce ovulation. • if you don't become pregnant using clomiphene and metformin your doctor may recommend using gonadotropins — follicle-stimulating hormone (fsh) and luteinizing hormone (lh) medications that are administered by injection. another medication that your doctor may have you try is letrozole (femara). doctors don't know exactly how letrozole works to stimulate the ovaries but it may help with ovulation when other medications fail. • when taking any type of medication to help you ovulate it's important that you work with a reproductive specialist and have regular ultrasounds to monitor your progress and avoid problems. • keep your weight in check. obesity makes insulin resistance worse. weight loss can reduce both insulin and androgen levels and may restore ovulation. no single specific dietary approach is best but losing weight by reducing how many calories you consume each day may help with polycystic ovary syndrome especially if you're overweight or obese. use smaller plates reduce portion sizes and resist the urge for seconds to help with weight loss. ask your doctor to recommend a weight-control program and meet regularly with a dietitian for help in reaching weight-loss goals. • consider dietary changes. low-fat high-carbohydrate diets may increase insulin levels so you may want to consider a low-carbohydrate diet if you have pcos — and if your doctor recommends it. don't severely restrict carbohydrates; instead choose complex carbohydrates which are high in fiber. the more fiber in a food the more slowly it's digested and the more slowly your blood sugar levels rise. high-fiber carbohydrates include whole-grain breads and cereals whole-wheat pasta bulgur wheat barley brown rice and beans. limit less healthy simple carbohydrates such as soda excess fruit juice cake candy ice cream pies cookies and doughnuts. • be active. exercise helps lower blood sugar levels. if you have pcos increasing your daily activity and participating in a regular exercise program may treat or even prevent insulin resistance and help you keep your weight under control.
my wife has had a hiatal hernia. it now looks larger than a golf ball sticking out of her stomach. she's been short of breath nauseated and bloated. what should i do?
if the hiatal hernia is causing severe reflux and aspiration surgical intervention and enteral feeding may required see your g. i asap.
my weight seems to fluctuate alot. is it normal or okay for it to be fluctuating from 62-65kg each few days?
it is not uncommon for your weight to fluctuate as much as 3 kg if not mire in a day. usually is water weight.
my weight seems to fluctuate alot. is it normal or okay for it to be fluctuating from 62-65kg each few days?
your changing weight is due to fluid. you can easily gain or lose 1 kiolgram/day in fluid weight. rapid weight gain or loss is due to fluid accumulation or excretion. if you continue to gain weight rapidly you are accumulating fluid and need to see a cardiologist to see if you have congestive heart failure.
my weight seems to fluctuate alot. is it normal or okay for it to be fluctuating from 62-65kg each few days?
yes probably normal.
most definitive way to diagnose hiatal hernia barium swallow or endoscopy?
the tests are useful in different ways. a hiatal hernia can diagnosed with either test and very reliably. the egd allows for a biopsy. the ugi allows for an evaluation of the function of the esophagus as well as visualizing actual episodes of reflux.
my feet & ankles swell during the day when i wake in the morning they are normal. my doctor says i have arthiritis in my ankles and over overweight?
it sound more like fluid retention than arthritis especially if there is no pain involved. . get another opinion.
m indian. if during the conceiving of first child parents were slim and during second child they were obese more chance of second child becoming obese?
the risk has more to do with parents maintaining an "obese lifestyle. " the interesting thing is when obese children go to a weight reduction camp come back slimmer and maintain healthy weight a year later their parents are statistically more likely to lose weight as well by being influenced by changes in the child's routine.
should i have a thigh lift and liposuction of the same area as one procedure? i've gained and lost weight numerous times. the skin on my inner thighs is loose and flabby and there are clumps of fat that won't disappear no matter how much i exercise. will
is to get control of your lifestyle and eliminate the frequent weight fluctuations. these make it really hard to get a good result even with multiple surgeries. that being said it is possible to do an inner thigh lift together with some liposuction to improve that area.
sudden rapid weight gain. would have to be water retention right?
sudden weight gain can relate to fluid overload. best way to adress it is to see your pcp.
sleep apnea doctor recommends having part of the soft palate removed. is this safe to do?
the uvulo-palato-pharyngo-plasty (uppp) is safe enough although some patients can be left with an uncomfortable sensation in the throat or with fluids going up the nose when they drink. however it only works in 10-30% of patients depending on amount of tissue in throat shape of jaw weight apnea severity. cpap works much better. effective surgery usually involves jaw surgery following uppp.
what is the difference between a gastric sleeve and a mini gastric bypass?
a "mini-gastric bypass" usually refers to a loop gastric bypass. this is a procedure you should not have. it will put you at risk for severe bile reflux gastritis. a gastric sleeve is removal of the outer portion of the stomach and is a procedure that is safe and well studied.
in the sun for 30 mins suddenly felt dizzy and my head was tingling. back home now and still feel a little lightheaded. ? im 30 a little overweight
being in the sun can make you dizzy (light headed) when you are standing getting warm and perspiring (losing water through perspiration). this is normal - the treatment is get out of direct sun drink more fluids and sit or lie down until feeling better. also if you are overweight you may be at more risk of overheating in the sun - protect from direct sunlight and drink plenty of fluids.
iam having a very low calorie diet and loosing weight but i think my blood pressure becomes low we i stand from a prone pos i feel dizzy and fast h. bt?
please consume at least 8-10 8 oz. glasses of fluid daily preferably electrolyte rich fluids ( powerade gatorade g vitamin water) plus broth bullion consume' ( for protein). you may be suffering from orthostatic hypotension related to position change. time to get examined if not improving with fluid volume expansion.
i'm on a homely diet (low fat/oil moderate carb/protein) frm april. no red meat/alcohol/fast food/fried fd. i'v probs with acid reflux. bit high sgpt/sgot/bilirubin panc-ok. hb-14. i'v lost 14. 5 lbs since april mid. is the wgt loss ok or due to ca?
hi gpc you have made some great changes and weight loss is to be expected. losing 1-2lbs/week is considered healthy weight loss. if you become weak tired or have other symptoms suggestive of malignant weight loss go see your doctor. otherwise keep it up. you are doing great!
i'm on a homely diet (low fat/oil moderate carb/protein) frm april. no red meat/alcohol/fast food/fried fd. i'v probs with acid reflux. bit high sgpt/sgot/bilirubin panc-ok. hb-14. i'v lost 14. 5 lbs since april mid. is the wgt loss ok or due to ca?
it would seem most reasonable that if you are dieting that is the reason you have lost the weight.
my doctors will not recommend acid reflux surgery or bariatric surgery even though they have said the acid reflux is causing 8 bouts of bronchitis why?
not sure why. however if you qualify for weight loss surgery by your bmi and you have significant reflux the best operation for you would be a gastric bypass which will make you lose weight and correct your reflux.
my doctors will not recommend acid reflux surgery or bariatric surgery even though they have said the acid reflux is causing 8 bouts of bronchitis why?
you sound like a good candidate for wls if your overweight enough to qualify - should make the reflux go away.
my doctors will not recommend acid reflux surgery or bariatric surgery even though they have said the acid reflux is causing 8 bouts of bronchitis why?
i cannot speak for your doctors but many of my patients that have had a procedure wonder why they had to suffer for so many years before it was fixed? the best endoscopic procedure (my opinion) is stretta and the most common operation is a nissen fundoplication. gastric bypass may also be an option depending on bmi. see an experienced general/laparoscopic surgeon for a consult. hope this helps!
my dad is on a diet for type ii diabetes he has been told to go on a low oxalate diet(no stone). the food goes against everything we know. ideas?
he needs to void dehydration; follow diet: avoid spinach rhubarb strawberries nuts chocolate tea wheat bran and all dry beans; increase citrate: orange juice 8 oz once daily; realemon extract: 3 tblspns per day; increase fluid 2. 5 liters/day; only 4 oz meat/day; 3 fruits/day; maintain low salt; egg white 2 per day as protein; fish is excellent too
my friend recently found out he has a hiatal hernia. what does it exactly do to your body?
your diaphragm has a hole in it (the hiatus) which allows passage of things like the aorta and esophagus into the abdomen. a hiatal hernia is when the hole in the diaphragm is too big. this can allow the stomach to slide up into the chest. most people with a hiatal hernia have reflux (gerd). if the symptoms cannot be controlled with medication or if other problems arise surgery may required.
my sister is 34 yrs old. she is obese. now is getting worse. having swelling on body and frequent fever. is there any possible solution please advice. thanks?
your sister needs to see a physician (p) to find out why she is "swelling" or forming edema. if it is her abdominal area she may have fluid in the peritoneal cavity ascites. if it is in her legs she may have heart or kidney disease or a low serum albumin causing her to have edema. it is unfortunate that i cannot give a more detailed answer and a visit to a p can give you an answer. good luck.
may i know how obesity is associated with cancer?
obesity has been linked to over 20 different medical conditions ranging from hypertension to reflux disease. the higher estrogen levels in obese females has been linked to a variety of gynecological malignancies. also screening tests are more difficult to perform in the morbidly obese like mammograms and colonoscopies thus impacted the success of those screening tests in identifying malignancy.
my weight fluctuates. mon it said one number andby thurs it was 9lbs heavier. am i retaining fluid? could it be scale? now i am 6lbs heavier than mon.
there are many reasons you may have day to day weight fluctuations and this is normal. i note you had a steroid shot and this could be the cause as well. try taking your weight once or twice a week at same time of your morning with similar clothing. then follow trends only.
possible hiatal hernia - how can one tell without an x-ray or some procedure?
a hiatal hernia can cause reflux heartburn difficulty breathing(if large) after eating. the problem is that all these and other symptoms can be caused by othe conditions. the only way to know for sure is through a barium swallow and or endoscopy.
please give some idea on how to make a good diet for addison's disease person?
addisions is a disease of cortisol or stress and fluid balance hormones. if you are on synthetic cortisone like prednisone you will have a negative impact on insulin the storage hormone of sugar/carbs/starches. this 'feedback' is regulated by the pituitary the master gland in your body. so you can balance this 'teeter totter by controlling/minimizing foods which create a need for insulin.
prozac (fluoxetine) weight fluctuation common? expected to lose weight.
prozac (fluoxetine) is supposed to be weight neutral. i have seen people gain and lose weight on it but i suspect the weight change is from changes in their depressive symptoms. remember depression can cause changes in appetite either lowering or increasing so if you're getting better appetite should move toward normal.
prozac (fluoxetine) weight fluctuation common? expected to lose weight.
many people tend to lose weight when they first start to take prozac (fluoxetine) but within a few months that effect is gone sometimes replaced by considerable weight gain.
side effects on a very low cal diet. i need some advice on hydrating?
relative dehydration d/t low intake of salt that makes people not thirsty so they don't drink also the body does not hang on to its fluids. see how much you drink when you eat the salty pizza! some sensitive people even swell in legs after that! so if your diet does not have salt at all you may benefit from a cup of broth daily or a piece of pickle and 8 cups of fluid intake. avoid that if chf.
symptoms of liver disease in girls?
in esld (end-stage liver disease) much of liver has been replaced by scarring & may not repair itself. has higher risk of liver cancer. if compensated asymptomatic; get symptoms if progressive disease +/- alcohol. in acute liver disease however common complaints include: jaundice (yellow eyes skin; dark urine light stool) itching liver enlargement & ruq pain ascites fluid build-up more.
start my diet tomorrow. how can i prevemt food cravings?
plenty of fluids help. also staying busy.
since i have an ileostomy and no colon does that mean i cannot get fat?
the colon does nothing but reabsorb water to maintain your fluid balance. fats sugars are absorbed in the small intestine and assuming you have had none of that removed. you can easily gain weight if you eat incorrectly and do not exercise.
so i've been trying to loose weight but i just don't loose any! im on the depo-provera shot could that be a problem?
the progesterone in the injection may increase your appetite. in addition you retain some fluid which is noticeable with the weight gain.
what are some reasons my 3 year old keeps getting ear infections. i had my tonsils and adenoids removed as a child from sleep apnea?
in his age group. many younger children are prone to ear infections. they suffer many colds as they play with other children and the congestion can spread behind their ear drums and lead to infections. also as in your case enlarged tonsils and adenoids can be a source for ear infections. if he is having frequent ear infections and persistent fluid behind his ears an ent may be of help.
will i still have to take omeprozole daily after hiatal hernia surgery?
if you're having it fixed to control reflux symptoms you will likely be able to take medication as needed. there are some patients however that still need daily meds but the meds control symptoms far better after surgery. this doesn't mean anything is wrong. the goal is to control reflux symptoms and give you a more normal lifestyle. only you will judge your results however. hope this helps!
will primolut cause weight gain if taken 3 pills daily for 3 days?
that's pretty quick but in this world almost anything can happen ( just ask art bell). primolut seems to be noted for its fluid retention side effect (like most progesterone-like medications) so yeah you can start on your merry way to weight gain in three days. but if that doesn't suit you talk to your doctor about something else. primolut wasn't the first and won't be the last progestin
what is the likelihood of having shortness of breath and cough from hiatal hernia?
cough and shortness of breath can be caused by many things but a hiatal hernia can cause them by allowing stomach fluids to reflux into the esophagus and upper airway. however if you are severe shortness of breath you should seek medical attention right away.
what is the likelihood of having shortness of breath and cough from hiatal hernia?
in general a hiatal hernia would not cause these symptoms but if you have a large hiatal hernia and you are refluxing from it and aspirating chronically it could definitely cause shortness of breath and cough. this can eventually lead to serious pulmonary problems. get checked out by your local health care provider. it is treatable.
what's considered yoyo dieting? my weight ranges 3-4 kilos depending on metabolism or anxiety. is that a normal fluctuation?
yoyo dieting implies that someone diets and loses significant amounts of weight (greater than 20 lbs) and then regains that weight and usually more after stopping the diet. the fluctuation of up to 3-4 kilos ( 7-10 lbs) can be normal in a reproductive aged female with normal and predictable cycles. these changes can be a result of stressors hormones etc and are not worrisome.
i have a lifestyle habit where the past few years i tend to eat and then lay down on my back and go on my computer. should i stop this habit? i noticed belly fat am not sure if this is why. long term effects? what steps to take to change?
too sedentary so will get belly fat and other areas of fat too. laying flat after eating can encourage acid reflux. should not do heavy exercise or swim right after eating either. do more than computer and eat. take up a physical exercise you like and can do regularly. join weight watchers which works with you at meetings or online so to learn healthy eating
i have fluttering feeling lower right leg with aching on and off for 3 days now. what could cause this. i am over weight & been in bed a lot lately. ?
you must go to the nearest emergency facility as soon as possible. have someone take you there. you will be examined and xrays of your leg will be taken. once that is done the doctors will know what needs care. hope all goes well - please keep me posted.
i had colitis elev bili & mild fatty liver since april mid. i took low fat ok on curb & med protein diet. no meat or greasy/junk food outside no alch/soda. i'v lost 13lbs(218->205) till aug 21st. since mon i got bad stool & lost 3 lbs. major illness?
may be just mild indigestion or mild gastroenteritis if it continues see your doctor for evaluation meanwhile increase oral fluids and bland diet. congrats on losing weight continue dieting as you are move exercise is important not to lose weight but to keep your shape and avoid complications of being sedentary good luck
my mons-veneris is swollen not red or itchy but resembles orange peel skin its very large compared to normal im over weight and 48?
this could be due to blocked lymph ducts which could cause fluid accumulation in the area. obesity could be the underlying cause of this but there is no way for me to tell without an examination. if the swelling gets worse i would recommend seeing a doctor in person.
my grandson takes neocate only. he is 9mo old. he is flushing on chest and face while eating. we r concerned he is reacting to the corn syrup. help?
what else is he eating at 9 months? it is possibly a reaction to some other food. when did he start neocate how old was he? i would expect that he would have had a reaction to neocate at a younger age. it is known that some pt's do react to the corn syrup in the powdered form of neocate and those pt's need the ready made form. see doctor to figure out whether rash related to food and to what.
my penis shrinks during exercise and even while sitting doing nothing. ive sleep apnea untreated and borderline low testosterone. what could it be?
size change of penis with temperature activity rest is ordinary. this reflects blood in the sinusoidal vessels of the shaft which can expand or contract with various influences.
my mother (86)has a hiatal hernia. the top of her bed is elevated one and a half feet to prevent reflux. however she slips on the slope. any answer?
a commercial foam wedge which would only elevate her from the waist up might be better tolerated. also use microfiber or flannel sheets and pajamas (less slippery). a second "body pillow" (extra long pillow) can also be curved around her backside to help prevent sliding but might make it difficult for her to roll to the other side at night. also use other methods to improve reflux- checklist
mood swing going bad feel bloated swollen from head to toe never missed a patch eat alot never feel full can this mean pregnacy? period lasted 3 days!
while i suppose given some facts like unprotected sex near ovulation a positive hpt and a missed period that it is possible it's not likely. any period is probably going to flush out an egg along w/ it. if your other complaints are worsening or if your periods continue to be irregular - have an exam. use protection for any sex. cut back on over-eating avoid salt and drink water - be active.
please recomened a diet plan for me while breastfeeding my 8 month olld baby?
best to eat a normal diet with lots of milk and cheese. continue taking your prenatal/ multivitamin. it is very important to drink lots of fluid to stay hydrated too provide suffient milk for the baby.
pressure in my ear. ~2 years ago i flew with a sinus infection. randomly since then it feels like my right ear needs to pop but won't. what is this?
more than likely your continued feeling of ear congestion (feels like ear needs to pop) is a result of either allergies a sinus infection or some other cause of fluid in ear. things that you can try include a decongestant irrigation of any waxy build-up in the ear or hot steam treatments using a bowel of hot water and a towel over your head. don't use q tips do consider medical evaluation.
pressure in my ear. ~2 years ago i flew with a sinus infection. randomly since then it feels like my right ear needs to pop but won't. what is this?
eustachian tube dysfunction could cause the popping or blocked sensation. you should be checked by an ent doctor to assess for fluid behind your ear drum. you may have an allergy causing fluid to build up and allergy medicines/shots may be needed as well so an allergist may be the next step after the ent doctor.
physician told me to put on as much weight as i can asap; have hiatal hernia diverticulosis acid reflux & ibs - and constipation. what foods are ok?
ask again and/ or consider a second opinion.
possible hiatal hernia how can i tell if it is or not?
that is easy: xray and endoscopy will clarify the diagnosis. important to treat as reflux esophagitis(gerd) can cause barret's esophagus that is a precursor of esophageal cancer. you can also get laryngeal and lung problems with chronic reflux disease.
please describe the down side to lap band surgery?
slower weight loss lower total weight loss high failure rate 20-30% lifetime re operation rate it can cause reflux (the gastric bypass cures this) it can cause esophageal dysmotility the band can slip/prolapse the band can erode or cut into the stomach the band can leak the port can flip. it is however the safest weight loss operation and it is reversible.
still hiccuping after eating 3 months post-nissen fundoplication. is this permanent? otherwise surgery was complete success.
this is likely related to ingesting air. many reflux patients swallow air. this behavior must be "unlearned". it often resolves with time but takes months. delayed gastric emptying is also possible. try simethicone to see if it improves symptoms. also avoid carbonation gum straws raw veggies and crunchy foods as these all increase gastric air swallowing.
safest surgery done to lose weight after accumulating 2 pregnancy weights. i am 26 years 120 kg 165 cm height breast feeding. cant lose alone.?
the bypass band and sleeve are all quite safe. for experienced surgeons about as safe as taking out your appendix. it is best to think of the three procedures individually. bypass ideal for bad diabetics and severe reflux. sleeve is ideal for appetite reduction and reliable reduction of weight. band is good for some patients who are pretty compliant with diet. all are quite safe.
superficial fragments of oesophagel mucosa lined by stratified squamous epithelium showing mild acanthosis and papillomatosis. please explain?
i just looked up in a medical dictionary: acanthosis means a thickening of a layer of the mucosa of the esophagus. this can be seen with chronic inflammation ( like with reflux disease). the word papillomatosis refers to papilla or projection of tissue sticking out. this can occur if there is chronic injury to the tissue and regeneration. please ask your gi doctor to take the time to review this.
symptoms: vomiting blood 2 egds reveal hiatal hernia severe inflammation of esophagus and duodenum. weight loss of 15 lbs in 2 months. what's wrong?
why aren't you getting this info from those who are treating you? no one here can know any better than those who know your story your labs and have actually looked inside. i can only guess that you have erosive esophagitis secondary to reflux or perhaps h. pylori. but your doctors know. ask them.
scope showed sm sliding hiatal hernia. symps persist after 6-8 months nexium (esomeprazole) & domperidone. do i need surgery? worst-pain mid&rt upper ab fullness alwa
you need further work up with a ph study to prove if you have signifigant reflux. not all patients with hiatal hernias need surgery. if you do have reflux with a hernia and persistant symptoms despite medical therapy and risk modification than surgery would be adviseable.
scope showed sm sliding hiatal hernia. symps persist after 6-8 months nexium (esomeprazole) & domperidone. do i need surgery? worst-pain mid&rt upper ab fullness alwa
it is hard to tell without more details. reflux is a complex disease and there are seared factors that will be use when deciding on surgery options. see a specialist and make sure that a complete workup is performed.
spirulina is good for thyroid?
spirulina is great for alkalanizing the body. it helps with decreasing reflux an help improving acid base balance concepts in holistic medicine. i have not seen an association with thyroid.
sleep apnea how do u get this what causes it?
obstructive sleep apnea is a condition where the back of the throat closes and prevents breathing. contributing factors include the structure of the throat which is influenced by how we develop and being over weight. central sleep apnea is a condition where the brain does not send a signal to the lungs to breath. they are treated differently. see your physician asap if you have this problem.
why would my gastro doc discourage nissen procedure when i have chronic gerd? i do not have barrett's but am concerned about that progression. i reflux constantly. is aciphex (rabeprazole) enough to keep esophagus healed?
your doctor is right. surgery should never be taking lightly. medication can take care of gerd 90-95% of the cases yes aciphex (rabeprazole) can do the job. surgery for gerd is indicated if there is a risk of cancer failure of medical treatment. potential life time use of medication. complication associated with reflux like aspiration that can cause pneumonia chronic cough.
why my inside lateral foot is swollen? mostly happens in summer days. i am overweight
structures that even when standing individually must bear 1/2 of your body weight. walking puts more strain on them and being overweight even more. when the weather's hot blood flow to your arms & legs increases. leaky capillaries & weak veins can cause fluid to move from the blood vessels into the body tissues. the combination of strain on the feet & hot weather can cause feet to swell.
will using nexito plus and mirnite 15 cause weight gain? what are side effects of using these medicines?
is in the same class of meds as prozac (fluoxetine). it doesn't usually cause wt. gain. however mirnite (mirtazapine)_can cause wt. gain and this wt. gain can contribute to other problems. there are many other side effects ranging from mild to severe. if you notice problems that might be caused by one of these meds it's best to follow up with your prescribing doctor.
what are side effects of u lipo for reducing stomach fat only?
may cause gallstones. hence drinking of plenty fluids and sometimes it is not very effective
what is the safest anxiety medicine you can take with adipex. currently on prozac (fluoxetine) what could i take that won't affect each other?
i understand your need to have relief from anxiety. adipex can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia and tremors. taking prozac (fluoxetine) with adipex may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome- confusion hallucination seizure extreme changes in blood pressure coma and death. see psychiatrist for diagnosis medication benefits and side effects dose monitoring and therapy for stress in your life.
what is the safest anxiety medicine you can take with adipex. currently on prozac (fluoxetine) what could i take that won't affect each other?
probably not the greatest combination for someone with chronic anxiety. stimulants can overide the positive effect of most antianxiety agents and lead to potentially dangerous escalation of doses.
what kind of foods should i eat to weight loss and how much quantity of water should i drink a day. before working on weight loss do i need to take an?
get app like fitness pal or loseit to count your calories in (what u eat a cow drink) and out(exercise). enter weight now and goalthen it will tell you where to set you calories daily to get to et goal. follow and see the weight get to goal drink ink when thirsty. no need to force fluid intake. .
ways to burn fat by eating?
i commend you for your desire for good health! eating following foods will burn fat: oat meal walnuts flax seeds salmon soy beans avocado grapefruit pea nut butter ginger chili pepper flakes honey olive oil drinking eight 8-ounce glasses of fluid a day will also help. happy and healthy holidays!
when taking bupropion 300 mg per day how normal is it to gain weight as opposed to losing weight? and is it normal that weight fluctuates over kg/day
bupropion in known to increase some weight over time fluctuations 1-2 lbs can be rather related to quantity of hamburgers or fries consumed in a certain day usually 1 hamb adds 1-2 lbs in24 hrs
i am 5. 4 in height. 25 female. i got much of fat in chest and belly. waist size is 95-97cm. how can i reduce my chest and waist size?
being deposited is influenced by several factors including heredity and hormones. and you are smart to try to reduce it as it is metabolically active and risk for cardiovascular disease/type 2 diabetes. but visceral/abdominal fat does respond well to exercise (at least 30 min up to 60 minutes/day) including strength training. and calorie reduction--healthy fruit/veggies/whole grain/lean protein
i started belviq last week i happen to have for a few days a fluttering high up abdomen on left side and towards middle. it comes n goes?
51 f from us: notes "i started belviq last week i happen to have for a few days a fluttering high up abdomen on left side and towards middle. it comes n goes? " ans: what is the question. without talking to you directly cannot really help. so ask the dr who gave it to you but write out some details such as what brings it on makes it go away what helps.
i have hiatal hernia 4cm an grade reflux a! some dr says get surgery some not because i never have heart burn! i am confused what to do! please help me!
how'd you even know that you have a hh & then get so much info? did you ever have symptoms like heartburn nausea vomiting stomach bleeding / ulcers? while 4 cm is a generous size if you're not having symptoms then weigh any (future) benefit of surgery with the risks of surgery (anesthesia bleeding infection complications) which go up with age. talk to the doc who knows you best. good luck!
is there anything i can do to make the hiatus hernia go away an how would i know it is that? other than the constant single hiccups all day long
thereare many an that can cause constant hiccups. so first make sure the your hh is what is causing them. to improve the problem-use an acid blocking medicine eat small volumes of food avoid foods known to aggravate reflux(eg chocolate alcohol caffeine) proper positioning at night and after meals. good resources for more thorough discussion include the mayo clinic and aafp websites.
if you have had nissen fundo will drinking cause: 1. no reflux 2. some reflux if wrap is loose 3. some reflux whether loose or not?
this is part of the reason you had this procedure. any of these could be occurring and this is something you need to discuss with your physician who did the procedure.
if you have had nissen fundo will drinking cause: 1. no reflux 2. some reflux if wrap is loose 3. some reflux whether loose or not?
it all depends on how well the nissen work. as a rule drinking water should not cause reflux.
i'm looking to start the ketogenic diet and i am worried about the production of ketones in my body and whether it is safe for me?
if you are healthy with no metabolic deficiencies and you apply the diet correctly and maintain fluid intake the diet is safe. essentially the ketogenic diet is high fat and low carohydrate. although low carbohydrate diets have been tested in pregnancy i do no recomend such a diet if you are pregnant or planning pregancy
i took claritin and had diarrhea 8 & 11 hours later due to overeating does that mean claritin got flushed out and wasted too?
but i wonder if your diarrhea is from something else such as food poisoning. normally overeating does not cause diarrhea although it may lead to heart burns abdominal pain and obesity
male 28. lipid-p 6 mons ago. total 225 hdl 43 ldl 165&trig 85. bmi of 23. 1. doc did not put on meds. change diet/re-test 1yr. was he correct? ate 1 hour b4.
hi. no change in diet will get your ldl to goal. your ldl is very influenced by your genetics and minimally influenced by your diet. i would at least make sure you're not hypothyroid. treatment with a statin is lifelong and most people aren't that into preventive medicine. lowering your ldl with a stain would lower your long term risk. period. what is your family history of cardiac events?
my father has fluid in the brain. whole body infection kidney failure and delerious also loss of appetite. he has type 2 diabetes hypertension?
we do not see a question here. apparently your father is very sick and i am sure he is in a hospital being treated by a group of doctors. i hope with proper treatment which he is receiving he recovers. he must be on antibiotics dialysis iv fluids and other supportive care probably in icu
my daughter is 13 yo. she has not started her period yet she is obese she has recently developed darkened mustache hair. what's going on?
lack of menses at 13 is not unusual but lack of any breast tissue would deserve a workup. sometimes excess weight can mimic breast tissue. menses will usually follow early breast development by 2-3 yrs at the latest or age 15. darkening of hair is usually due to hormonal influence from the adrenal glands. your doc could pursue these issues for you.
my husbands toes especially the one next to the big toe get purple and lose feeling. what could cause this. he's overweight but no health conditions?
the purple color means that the blood is having a difficult time leaving the toe. as the slows fluid leaves the vessels and causes swelling. the swelling can initiate the numbness that should be relieved by elevation. the condition you are describing is a potential start of a health concern. it's time for a evaluation by his doctor.
my 10 year old son doesn't eat large amounts of food and we follow a reflux diet. we can't seem to shake the rotten egg breath no burps no gas.
halitosis (bad breath) is not usually from reflux. there are several other causes for halitosis. start with your pediatrician. and dentist. a visit with the ent may be needed as well.
my daughter 9years old snores loud pitch and then suddenly starts to cough. is it sleep apnea for her?
associated with childhood obstructive sleep apnea (osa) include allergies asthma gastroesophageal reflux palatal muscle weakness & obesity. history physical exam & a video of her snoring will help her pediatrician determine if she needs an overnight sleep study & subspecialty referrals. osa can cause learning & behavior problems & symptoms of mild -moderate adhd in children.
please describe a good exercise for someone with acid reflux that needs to lose belly fat?
make your daily activities more difficult - take the stairs park further away bike/ walk to work/ store sit on a swiss ball/ at your desk and stand up every time you answer the phone or lunge/ hop/ jump from place to place in your house. things like these may seem small and silly but the increased calorie burn can add up over time. don't forget a healthy diet!
per urgent care md i have fluid in my ear. taking claritin and nasal spray. 48 hrs later i continue to feel dizzy is this normal?
no it is not normal but it may not be uncommon. if you have an ear infection the claritin and nasal spray may assist with the inflammation but will not eradicate the infection. you may need to see and ent to get it taken care of.
per urgent care md i have fluid in my ear. taking claritin and nasal spray. 48 hrs later i continue to feel dizzy is this normal?
the ear fluid can cause it use a decongestant it will help.
pimple in my ear hurts. discharge of small fluid from ear?
use a warm compress as much as possible. the pimple will drain then heal.
pimple in my ear hurts. discharge of small fluid from ear?
this could be a design of a more serious underlying condition and will require a physical examination as well as possible diagnostic imaging.
please can you give me the rda of calcium fluoride magnesium iron zinc?
in the us the rda has been replaced by the dri- daily recommended intake; different countries differ in the dri. for the us see <link>~/media/files/activity%20files/nutrition/dris/5_summary%20table%20tables%201-4. pdf there is no dri of fluoride as it is not only not an essential nutrient but a toxin- see <link>
please can you give me the rda of calcium fluoride magnesium iron zinc?
what source do you trust for the recommendation?
please tell me the difference between symptoms of hiatus hernia & gallstone pain?
hh usually does not lead to pain predominant symptom is reflux. biliary colic gallbladder pain usually happens after eating can be sharp in the right upper abdomen and can cause back pain. usually described as worse than child birth.
person has been throwing up sweating hot and cold. also person has type 2 diabetes?
there definitely is not enough information in your question on which to base a diagnosis. but it is the flu season right now and the stomach flu is out in full force. if the patient is severely ill or if the sugars are out of control it may be best to be seen at the family clinic.
some mornings i feel/hear some fluid in my ear canal. q-tip appears yellowish. dries up and crusts around opening during day. no pain. what gives?
you may be puting water in your ears during shower. may use ear plugs. minimize using q. tips. if pain or symptoms persist see. your doctor.
some mornings i feel/hear some fluid in my ear canal. q-tip appears yellowish. dries up and crusts around opening during day. no pain. what gives?
careful with this kind of ear infection. it can cause meningitis if untreated.
spirometer test show i have trouble getting air in not out. could a hiatal hernia cause symptoms like this?
gi symptoms reflux heartburn etc your cigarettes are causing airway obstruction or copd from earlier.
sudden weight gain with no change despite altering diet and exercise. what could cause this?
are you retaining fluid? this can cause a sudden weight change with no change in diet. are you constipated? sometimes after a few days of dieting bms slow down and weight goes up (temporarily). a high fiber diet and drinking plenty of fluids will prevent this nasty problem.
sounds like i have water in my ear help?
this needs to be evaluated by a doctor. could be canal blockage from wax water swelling. could be fluid behind ear drum. could be problem with ear drum and bony structures. could be neural hearing loss. see an ent.
snoring! if a person has the flu/cold an is sick what makes her stop snoring wen she sleeps? i contactd u b4 about my friend marisa!
depends partly on what's in the nasopharynx and partly on the muscle activity - relaxed or weak neck/throat muscles allow the palate to collapse on top of the tongue and cause snoring.
thinking of gastric sleeve? how do i decide if it is the right choice?
that requires a long answer. if you have diabetes have significant heartburn or reflux are primarily a sweet eater have a bmi well into the 50's you should thing of a gastric bypass. if you have a family history of stomach cancer or have a vitamin or iron deficiency i would lean towards a sleeve. i spend over an hour discussing this with patients so there is more to it though.
type 1 diabetes and pregnancy. what is risk of baby dying?
the baby can have macrosomia (large birth weight) increased amniotic fluid fetal death neonatal hypoglycemia jaundice shoulder dystocia brachial plexus injury cesarean section cardiomyopathy. the mother is also at risk for diabetes after pregnancy especially if she is overweight older than 35 physically inactive hispanic or has a family history of diabetes.
tumescent liposuction? what are the different types of liposuction?
most smart lipo is done as tumescent lipo but not all tumescent lipo is smart lipo. tumescence is just a description of the way that the area is numbed (by injecting numbing fluid). vaser lipo and even traditional lipo can all be done with tumescence. smartlipo adds laser vaser adds ultrasound. <link>
tumescent liposuction? what are the different types of liposuction?
basic premises of the procedure is to suck out the fat without sucking out too much blood with it. original procedure was straight liposuction with suction canula fat is broken down by too and frow movement of blunt suction canula and then suck out the fat. then came injection of tuescent fluid and then suction the fat. then came ultrasonic liposuction to reduce the blood loss. infact the injection of.
throbbing in head when eyes/head moves left to right & vice versa happening more often x1mo. ; 39yo obese f history htn hypothyroid depression on meds.?
throbbing headache (usually associated with light bothering the eyes and upset stomach) is typical of migraine type headache; best treatment would be imitrex (sumatriptan) (rx only). another much rarer concern that can be associated with obesity is "benign intracranial hypertension" due to excessive production of spinal fluid. best to consult a physician if these symptoms continue.
trying to find a diet for someone who has diverticulitis?
diverticulosis: hi fiber diet and and plenty of fluids. include fruits vegetables salads and whole grains. diverticulitis: low fiber diet no fruits vegetables salads or whole grains and plenty of fluids. until inflammatory/infection completely resolves approx 6 weeks.
toddler with severely blocked nose for 3 days slight temperature snoring tired no coughing. what could it be?
possibly just a cold or flu with the resultant effects from their being in discomfort. if it lasts more than another day or two call your md.
the area behind "swollen glands" in neck/throat feel tight. i have acid reflux & hiatal hernia on meds but this feeling persists. what's a cause?
swollen glands in the neck are generally the result of chronic sinus drainage or other head and neck inflamation especially in young otherwise healthy individuals. you should seek the attention of a medical doctor to better assess the situation or an ent doctor.
if i consume caffeine beverages chocolate or sugary foods i get a burning sensation in the base of my head on the right side what is going on?
you may be having reflux with certain foods and symptoms might be related to an ulcer in that location. avoid the trigger foods for a few weeks and see. you may need an upper endoscopy
is it safe to take pre workouts or fat burners such as c4 or hydroxycut while on 20mg of fluoxetine?
your workout and the number of calories you eat each day burns the fat. the supplements burn your cash.
i got my period 5 days early this month and am normally very regular its day 7 and still going but i have recently started dieting and exercising?
sometimes a sudden increase in exercise and at the same time a sudden decrease in calorie intake can put undue stress on your body which can cause hormonal fluctuations. balance your calorie intake/output so that you don't lose more than 2 pounds a week. your goal should be a healthy bmi around 23-24.
lab band i had a lap band surgery on nov. 18 i had major bruising. and my stitches began to leak blood. the blood has no oder and is dark in color. with this leaking the bruising has began to fade and the doc says to press the blood out if i can is this n
not normal but it does happen occasionally. patients undergoing surgery are usually given a blood thinner at the time of surgery which tends to make your blood thin. some people can end up bleeding more than others. it usually stops and the bruising will eventually go away. your wounds should not be draining fluid though. that is often a sign of a wound infection.
lately i've seen some pregnant women that seem like they've swollen up so much i barely recognize them anymore. what is this? is it just weight gain?
pregnancy is a transforming experience. the whole body changes under its hormonal influence. water retention may vary in women. this retention can be intensified by the intake of dietary sodium lack of sleep and protein intake. the effects of these "physiologic" events range from barely visible to a virtual metamorphosis!
liposuction. good idea? what are the potential long term side effects?
liposuction is one of the safest cosmetic procedures when performed by a skilled trained cosmetic surgeon. tumescent liposuction is the key where the tumescent fluid decreases all the potential risks of liposuction including a decreased risk of bleeding and infection plus a marked decrease in dvts and pes since it can be performed awake without a general anesthetic.
last month have been diagnosed hypothyroidism. how can i loose that extra weight that i have gained?
if your thyroid level is returned to normal with brand name t4 you will lose some of the weight and fluid you accumulated while your level was low. the rest will have to be burned of by diet and exercise.
my monthly period has fluctuated each month for the last several months. 29 day cycles. 36 day cycles. i'm 39 and obese. when do i get concerned?
now would be a good time to get this checked out medically. take care.
male 43 year old professional no anxiety. playing sports healthy (bit overweight). i wake (for 2 weeks) with daily nausea in the morning. ok by 10?
i guess it's safe to assume you're not pregnant conditions that can cause morning nausea include acid indigestion (reflux) and post nasal drip both of which can be worse when you're lying down for a long time and more noticeable when you wake up. gallbladder dysfunction is also possible as are alcohol & certain medications taken at night. please see your doctor!
male 43 year old professional no anxiety. playing sports healthy (bit overweight). i wake (for 2 weeks) with daily nausea in the morning. ok by 10?
this may be something like gastric reflux but one or two other problems may exist. please see your primary care physician who i am sure will be able to get down to the bottom of your complaint.
my cousin26 yrs old is having gout attacks frequently inspite of avoiding protein diet. small strain on foot like walking leads to severe attack.
has to see he doctor to reduce the blood uric acid levels. gout is a serious systemic disease can cause major problems by depositing uric acid in blood vessels in critical areas. tell your cousin drink plenty of fluids to hydrate well help to prevent an attack
my bmi says 29. 2 which means overweight. i been feeling uncomfortable because i have asthma and get easily out of breath. how can i lose this weight?
and great attitude! you listed "asthma pump" but not which name/brand. if it's a brand of albuterol eg proventil (albuterol) or ventolin need to ask your family doc or pulmonologist or allergist for controller/preventive inhaler eg fluticasone. perhaps add montelukast. ask about using albuterol right before starting exercise session. work w/your docs to develop asthma action plan w/your goals
my fiancee was diagnosed a little over a treat ago with type 2 diabetes he is experiencing lower left stomach pain bloody silks and extreme fluctuation in his glucose levels. 479 then dropping into the 40s what could cause these symptoms?
his marked blood sugar fluctuation most likely reflects changes in therapy dosing and food intake. the lower left stomach pain and fluctuating blood sugar level indicates a need to go to the nearest emergency facility as soon as possible. things will work out.
muscle weakness and weight loss after gastroenteritis. i have had the symptoms for 6. 5 days now. i have gone from 147 pounds to 144. 8 pounds. thoughts?
gastroenteritis can be a very serious problem for your body to deal with. the amount of fluid lost through diarrhea in addition to the lack of intact can lead to severe dehydration. furthermore the lack of nutrition causes the body to break down protein for energy. it takes a lot of fluid nutrition and rest to recover. if the symptoms do no improve i would recommend a visit to your doctor.
my husband keeps getting dizzy spells with nauseam occuring shortly after eating usually. hes overweight and has sleep apneoa high blood pressure borderline diabetic what could possibly be going on to cause these dizzy spells?
blood flow is shunted away from head due to need to digest (just as waiting not swimming after eating because there is not enough blood for the abdomen and muscles) but this is not normal after meals. given htn obesity dm osa needs a stress test and carotid dopplers. may also be reflux gb but need to check heart. f/u today w/ er or cardiologist.
need to know i am a 41 year old female i started my period three weeks ago went thru the normal 5 days then i started spotting. yesterday i restarted what is like my period i have sore tingaly breast specially the right one weight gain headachs emotion
if a patient has spotting and the symptoms described and there is any possibility of pregnancy then a pregnancy test should be checked. sometimes other hormonal fluctuations (from physical stress on the body weight (too high or too low)) can cause abnormal spotting. perimenopausal patients get spotting at times though 41 would be considered very young for that. if spotting continued of the patient had other symptoms then the patient should see their provider for an evaluation and also to be sure that their pap is up to date.
not sure why doctors think my mom would qualify for gastric bypass surgery or the band? yes she's 350 lbs but she has copd chf diabetic with fluids around lungs and her legs swell up a lot due to the fluid. how could she qualify?
needs some tuning but a great candidate since most of her problems will resolve with sleeve or bypass. less benefit with band. she would be one of our typical patients.
not sure why doctors think my mom would qualify for gastric bypass surgery or the band? yes she's 350 lbs but she has copd chf diabetic with fluids around lungs and her legs swell up a lot due to the fluid. how could she qualify?
all issues made worse w obesity. band is easiest tolerated surgery. she needs it.
not sure why doctors think my mom would qualify for gastric bypass surgery or the band? yes she's 350 lbs but she has copd chf diabetic with fluids around lungs and her legs swell up a lot due to the fluid. how could she qualify?
most of her health problems were caused by her obesity namely chf diabetes and she probably also has sleep apnea. so they should improve greatly if she loses weight. we recommend diet and exercise but realistically this is very hard to do and she has probably tried multiple times. go for it.
not sure why doctors think my mom would qualify for gastric bypass surgery or the band? yes she's 350 lbs but she has copd chf diabetic with fluids around lungs and her legs swell up a lot due to the fluid. how could she qualify?
all three conditions that you have mentioned would be helped by loosing weight. it seems she cannot do it by doing physical exercise. her best option becomes surgery.
not sure why doctors think my mom would qualify for gastric bypass surgery or the band? yes she's 350 lbs but she has copd chf diabetic with fluids around lungs and her legs swell up a lot due to the fluid. how could she qualify?
your doctor along with the surgeon performing the procedure and anesthesiologist will adequately evaluate your mom before taking a decision. gastric bypass is not an easy surgery it has it's own complications. the doctors will take extreme precautions. may be banding may be less invasive procedure.
not sure why doctors think my mom would qualify for gastric bypass surgery or the band? yes she's 350 lbs but she has copd chf diabetic with fluids around lungs and her legs swell up a lot due to the fluid. how could she qualify?
as you have stated the risk is significant with the surgery when you have those conditions. the risk of not doing anything is also very great as her weight is straining many organ systems in her body. this is a complicated decision to decide whether the risk is warranted given the outcome. discuss your concerns with the doctors.
nissen fundoplication needs to be redone can it be reversed/taken down instead?
revision fundoplication is more involved than the primary operation. the reason for revision needs to be identified. recurrent reflux and difficulty swallowing are common reasons. preop testing should include endoscopy barium swallow and possibly ph probe manometry and gastric emptying studies. i do not recommend simply reversing as it will result in severe reflux symptoms in most cases.
obesity surgery question. what percentage fail after 5-10 years?
the failure rate for bariatric surgery depends on the type. for the band we are seeing about 25-30% band removal at 7 years. mostly due to reflux. for the bypass only 1/1000 have reversal. all regain some weight. most lose about 75% of excess weight but regain about 10%. about 15% regain more than 25%. for the sleeve most lose about 70% of excess weight but regain about 10% over 5 years.
on a estrogen rich diet would it be possible to increase breast size?
breast size and shape is influenced by heredity and puberty development. both estrogen and progesterone are needed. finally body posture fat and muscle development add to the final shape and size of the chest and breasts.
obese female-42y-tennis ball size lump on lft hip-painful; ultra-sound=normal tissue; mri=inflammed tissue no mass of collecting fluid. next step is?
you can go to a surgeon either a general or orthopaedic surgeon and have it excised if it is really bothering you. sounds like it is a benign lesion and nothing that has to be excised; however if it bothers you enough your next step is to remove it surgically.
on medications for dcm and heart failure. is a weight loss program like body by vi that involves natural supplements safe to use to lose weight.
careful with any weight loss program using natural supplements. when you have dilated cardiomiopathy treatment require a fine balanced of low sodium diet fluid intake and medications. any changes of the above can decompensate the balance and start chf symptoms. i will talk to your cardiologist and dietitian and do a careful search of the diet. good luck.
please answer! what makes one more likely to gain weight other than diet and exercise?
diet and exercise are the most important. hormonal changes like hypothyroidism can also cause weight loss by decreasing metabolism salt excess or kidney disease can cause fluid weight and other hormonal changes can cause weight gain.
please explain what does a hiatal hernia do to your body?
most hiatal hernias are asymptomatic. when symptoms occur they are usually reflux burning and regurgitation. large hhs can cause pain after eating fullness vomiting. rarely hiatal hernias require emergent repair if they volvulize (twist). a volvulus could cause the the stomach to lose its blood supply and necrose (die). a surgeon can help evaluate a hh and determine if it needs repair.
please explain what does a hiatal hernia do to your body?
a hiatal hernia is when the diaphragm that surrounds your esophagus as it passes from your chest to your abdomen is not tight but is loose. this allows acid reflux to occur. if the hernia is large it can also allow your stomach to slide into your chest and cause more discomfort.
pudgy stomach after eating. next day it's smaller but still pudgy. used to go away but now it doesn't. do i need colon cleaner to flush system?
sometimes that helps temporarily. are you getting fat or a "roll".
please talk to me about melatonin vs ppi's for gerd. i have a moderately sized hiatal hernia.
i know of no role for melatonin as treatment for reflux made worse by hiatal hernia. melatonin is a sleep aid. ppis are proton pump inhibitors and reduce acid production in stomach at the source - helping to relieve reflux issues common with hiatal hernia.
partial nissen fundo may13. extreme upper abdo\upper back pressure nausea\burping. can burp and vomit. ph test shows sig. reflux and manometry shows lax sphincter?
it sound like you have failed surgery it might not be the surgeon fault it could be your anatomy or if you have other pathology in your digestive system like spasm or irritable bowel syndrome my question is why the partial repir not the original 360 degree wrap as dr nissen described it mean while you need to keep taking your reflux medicine eat multiple small meals avoid late meal or snack
pain in right side of throat when swallowing - i have gerd due to hiatal hernia leading to chronic pharyngitis (although have never felt sore throat)?
gerd can cause throat irritation from acid reflux. you should have your throat checked out by a doctor to make sure you don't have an infection.
rapid weight gain over the last couple weeks. how do you tell if it's fluid?
rapid weight gain is best assessed by your doctor who could determine if this is because of retained fluid due to an endocrine (thyroid/adrenal glands) kidney or cardiac problem or simply because of increased calories. your doc would ask pertinent questions and perform a physical examination. shortness of breath swelling of your legs feet abdomen or around the eyes may suggest fluid retention.
started dieting and exercising and lost 4lbs! but then i started my period and am gaining the pounds back. i haven't changed my diet is this normal?
no worries it's just extra fluid that is commonly there before a period which will soon disappear.
should fundiplication be done? manometry shows achalasia in 10 yr old grandson. dr recommends cutting muscle along with fundiplication. is that best?
cutting the esophageal sphincter muscle which is the primary and most definitive treatment for achalasia usually causes reflux so a fundiplication should be done to prevent reflux. this is especially important in a 10 year old who hopefully has a lifetime to live with the adverse consequences of reflux. you have gotten good advice!
should fundiplication be done? manometry shows achalasia in 10 yr old grandson. dr recommends cutting muscle along with fundiplication. is that best?
the myotomy or cutting the muscle is the most important part of the procedure. it's often helpful to do a 24 hour ph study to see if there's reflux. only 10% of patients with achalasia have reflux. they absolutely need the fundoplication. if the operation is done laparoscopically you must do a fundoplication regardless. it's a technical issue. if it's done through the chest no fundoplication.
suggestions on pharm treatment for soa secondary to hiatal hernia?
reduce reflux: elevate head of bed. small meals and not late into evening before sleep. no smoking control weight then antacids blockers etc.
should i be worried about conjugated linoleic acid in my eyes!?
there is no toxicity to this and the eye will flush it out with no difficulty. as long as it is not contaminated or mixed with something else you should be fine.
symptoms - rapid fluctuations in bp in explained weight gain sweating lightheadness muscle pain and weakness fatigued what causing this
this sounds concerning and i recommend that you see your doctor soon. some of these symptoms could be medication side effects from your adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) or relate to problems with your thyroid. i hope you feel better soon!
suspected failed fundoplication. extreme upper abdo tightness&pressure. can belch easily. prescribed 80mg nexium (esomeprazole) daily. what r the effects of high dose?
i you really suspect the fundoplication failed you should get another endoscopy barium swallow ph test and even manometry and compare them to the preoperative data. it may be that the sunrooms are not due to reflux. long term high dose ppi medication may be associated with osteoporosis and heart attacks but the data are not iron clad. hope this helps!
started low carb diet on 6/1. cholesterol test on <negative_smiley>5 showed: total 256 ldl 196 hdl 40 tri 96 vldl 19 how do i know if my ldl is fluffy or dense?
hi. you would need a more in depth lipid profile to measure whether your ldl is pattern a (large buoyant aka "fluffy") or pattern b (small dense). however small dense ldl is often associated with triglyceride elevation which you don't have. but don't be too comforted. that's a very high ldl (with an hdl lower than you'd like) and places you at substantially increased risk! statin!
started low carb diet on 6/1. cholesterol test on <negative_smiley>5 showed: total 256 ldl 196 hdl 40 tri 96 vldl 19 how do i know if my ldl is fluffy or dense?
your question suggests you know that dense ldl is linked to higher risk for future heart disease than "fluffy" ldl. this can be determined through an additional test called particle fractionation probably adding $150-200 to the lab bill. you have some work to do through diet and exercise to get your total ldl down to 100 if possible. knowing about "fluffiness" won't add anything at this point.
since i started taking lexapro (escitalopram) i am always hungry. even after eating a full meal i'm still craving more foods. is there any way to reduce this effec?
what happened with prozac (fluoxetine)? it causes weight loss usually. eat healthy foods with low calories and exercise. stop liquid calories in cokes or fruit juices and eat whole fruit instead. low carb diet may be better than low fat. is it helping depression or anxiety?
swallow study shows toddler aspirates on all liquids & purées. ph probe showed "some" breakthrough reflux but mostly "normal" results. nissen needed?
severely restricted diets in growing children combined with demonstrated aspiration is highly suggestive of the need for more definitive management such as a nissen fundoplication.
swallow study shows toddler aspirates on all liquids & purées. ph probe showed "some" breakthrough reflux but mostly "normal" results. nissen needed?
i would get a couple of opinions from pediatric surgeons but my guess would be yes. the swallow study for me is more important because chronic aspiration leads to pneumonia and sepsis (infection)
swallow study shows toddler aspirates on all liquids & purées. ph probe showed "some" breakthrough reflux but mostly "normal" results. nissen needed?
i would try small frequent thickened feedings first
so recently i went on a high calorie high protein diet. but within a day or two of starting this diet i got a fever and i was incredibly tired.
any time you change your routine you stress your body. if you start a diet and exercise program too aggressively you put too much stress on a body and immune system not prepared for it. unless you have a genetic problem metabolizing protein or are taking a supplement that caused the fever it is more likely an opportunistic viral infection and a weakened immune system. try fluids and moderation.
there is a drug called ( lipo 6 black ultra concentrate ) i heared it helps to lose weight quickly i wanna know wt are the side effects of it?
possible lipo 6 black ultra concentrate side effects include headaches jitteriness nervousness irritability insomnia indigestion nausea dizziness anxiety facial flushing insomnia headache drowsiness dry mouth and an elevated heartbeat. some others also include heart attack stroke renal failure and kidney damage.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
your symptom of acid reflux for 10 years is not causing your symptoms but it is in your interest to get that treated to prevent esophagitis and other complications. your sode throat and cough are probably due to an acute viral or bacterial infection and you should see your doctor to find if you need antibiotics or not. aand also discuss you weight loss and acid reflux and treatment.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
with gastric reflux could be barretts esophagus. see an md asap.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
see a physician for a physical exam. may have tonsillitis strep throat etc. regarding acid reflux try over the counter antacids like omeprazole daily. see you physician.
treatment for gerd after gastric sleeve surgery?
there is a 15% incidence if de novo reflux symptoms after sleeve. it may be that repairing hernia at the diaphragm where esophagus come through may prevent these symptoms. gastric bypass cures reflux 100%. if there is a history of sever reflux causing esophagitis or barrett's esophagus go with bypass.
treatment for gerd after gastric sleeve surgery?
reflux after sleeve is important to address. if you have a hiatal hernia it likely would need repair. also medications like omeprazole are indicated. close follow up with your surgeon is important for this issue.
this may be a strange question but is prescription toothpaste and protein shakes ok things to use in the days leading up to liposuction? thanks.
follow the instructions given by the liposuction group. the most commonly prescribed perscription toothpaste is one that contains fluoride. this is ok for you to continue to use before your procedure. as for protein shakes and other dietary things ask the liposuction group for dietary recommendations.
today i didn't have anythin for breakfast but i drank a 7up soda can. and i've been havin reflux all day. im on a diet by the way. is that normal?
sodas are acidic loaded with unhealthy sugars & cause reflux. even one soda a day is associated with many serious health consequences-it increases diabetes risk by 22%. sodas are associated with increased risk of heart attacks kidney stones osteoporosis obesity tooth decay heartburn & high blood pressure. diet soda is just as bad! see <link>
thoughts? could one day of overeating make me gain weight?
if you are concerned about weight gain then focus on the long haul and do not obsess about the every day fluctuation. you may find that weight loss is more about the destination than the journey!
type 2 diabetes for a male age 42 what would be the symptoms and side effects of treatment?
hi. symptoms of untreated diabetes are drinking & peeing a lot fatigue blurred vision etc. side effects of treatment depend on the treatment(s) used! depending on the treatment side effects can include: nothing nausea weight loss weight gain hypoglycemia fluid retention. hmmm and probably some others i'm not thinking of right now. control it well and live healthily!
well my physician has finally said you don't respond to ppis and have bile reflux so it may be surgery time. i've been begging for nissen for three years now i'm nervous as sin. will it really help reflux and reduce cancer risk?
nissen fundoplication does help with reflux but not with cancer
well my physician has finally said you don't respond to ppis and have bile reflux so it may be surgery time. i've been begging for nissen for three years now i'm nervous as sin. will it really help reflux and reduce cancer risk?
postprandial bile reflux is blocked by fundoplication but not by ppis which can only block resting bile reflux. make sure you consult with a gastroenterologist at an academic center because further trials are needed to support the growing belief surgery may reduce cancer risk. radio frequency ablation and other therapies based on biopsy <link>
well my physician has finally said you don't respond to ppis and have bile reflux so it may be surgery time. i've been begging for nissen for three years now i'm nervous as sin. will it really help reflux and reduce cancer risk?
it will.
why does nissen fundoplication reduce reflux symptoms but not barrett's or cancer risk? i'm getting mixed messages on benefits of surgery.
this is a tough question and still being looked at. the data so far does show that antireflux surgery)does shows some regression of short amounts of barrett's. it has also helped slow the progression of barrett's to cancer. however it does not eliminate the need for continued surveillance. consult your physician on that. if a hiatal hernia repaired it may also help with future barrett tx.
why does nissen fundoplication reduce reflux symptoms but not barrett's or cancer risk? i'm getting mixed messages on benefits of surgery.
your question is best addressed by the following reference: clin gastroenterol hepatol. 2016 may;14(5):678-685. gastroesophageal acid reflux control 5 years after antireflux surgery compared with long-term esomeprazole therapy. hatlebakk jg et al. -- an abstract of which can be found at: <link>
what is hiatal hernia a risk factor for?
esophageal cancer gastroesophageal reflux disease mallory weiss tear heartburn upset stomach esophagitis.
what are the complications of binge eating disorder?
complications can include lowered self-esteem compromised quality of life loneliness/social isolation impaired social functioning depression anxiety and substance use disorders. medical complications include obesity heart disease type ii diabetes breathing problems during sleep acid reflux and joint problems. please consult a medical or mental health provider as treatments are available
walking seems to irritate my hiatal hernia. what can i do to minimize that irritation. i want to walk for exercise or even out of necessity. but can't?
are you talking about reflux from your hiatal hernia? if so then the best solutions would be to exercise on an empty stomach or use some sort of acid blocker before you exercise. good luck.
why excessive sugar intake leads to diabetes?
yes it can lead to diabetes. you need to take much less sugar. i don't have a share in this but i am drinking "lipton diet green tea". it is free of calories and it is not expensive - 12 bottles (each 16. 9 fluid ounces) for somewhere between 4 or 5 dollars.
why can prozac (fluoxetine) cause weight gain? always been skinny until i started it for panic/gad. now on 40 a day it causes extreme weight gain & fail to lose it.
hi it isn't always clear if this is due to the medication the nature of depression or if people eat more when they begin to feel better. if the benefits of taking the medication outweigh the weight gain then consider making lifestyle changes (e. g. increased exercise and dietary management) to offset the side effect. adjusting dose or changing meds might help. hope this is helpful. take care.
what are the consequences of eating more than the recommended level of saturated fat just one day one time? really worried.
to be so misinformed about dietary fat and that this is a source of worry. guidelines about limiting saturated fat are meant to influence long term consistent dietary choices that favor health. but no one follows them 100% of the time and no one expects you to. there would be no measurable health effects from eating high saturated fat one day. congratulations on your commitment but educate yourself
i was diagnosed with a 2cm hiatal hernia. can my hiatal hernia get bigger?
the amount of symptoms present from a hiatal hernia is much more important than its size. although it is possible to get bigger it is not important unless the symptoms are getting worse. the primary treatment for a hiatal hernia is medication for acid reflux. surgery is not recommended unless symptoms are not controllable. there is no need to recheck a hiatal hernia's size.
just been diagnosed with diabetes insipidus any tips?
do not try to control the excessive urination by withholding fluids. your body needs fluids to function normally and cannot stop making urine even when dehydrated. medication may be able to help reduce the amount of urine produced and the frequency of voiding as well as how water much you need to drink every day. water is the best thing to drink.
just had a gastroscopy and got diagnosed with a large hiatus hernia. what should i do? i get severe indigestion everyday & heartburn.
hiatal hernia is a very common condition and top cause of reflux(heartburn). not everyone with a hiatal hernia will always reflux though. having said that acid will tend to hit the esophagus and cause inflammation. your endoscopy should have shown if there are esophageal changes consistent with esophagitis from reflux and your doctor will be able to treat this.
joint aches all over esp left elbow left shoulder knees ankles neck and back. is it a lack of exercise or something else? is it serious? pls help!
your complaints are unfortunately vague and could represent many possibilities such as a rheumatologic condition or a viral syndrome. if you just started having these symptoms then it would be reasonable to watch it for a few days take nsaids drink plenty of fluids and be as active as tolerated.
july 2016-nissen performed for bile reflux. still suffer nighttime reflux. is i try zantac at night is it even effective or is a ppi better?
you might try reglan to promote gastric emptying or a new drug domperidone
july 2016-nissen performed for bile reflux. still suffer nighttime reflux. is i try zantac at night is it even effective or is a ppi better?
nighttime zantac is often an add-on therapy for heartburn and not a single primary therapy for heartburn. if you are already on a ppi nighttime zantac may be a reasonable option.
knee pain. also have slightly bulging veins in knee and calf near knee. veins twitch some times. im 70 lbs overweight. shud i be worried?
could all be related veins noted may be due to venous reflux in the thigh area evaluation important venous doppler sonogram weight loss helpful but will not reverse issues
lump in my throat. constantly drinking water. what could this be. how can i treat it. i have acide reflux hiatal hernia stomach ulcer anxiety.
the sensation of something stuck in the throat is common but poorly understood. it is often referred to as a "globus" sensation. probably not related to your hiatal hernia or gerd. it is not dangerous at all. anxiety could have something to do with it but that can be difficult to control as well. see your pcp for more advice but don't worry it won't hurt you.
lump in my throat. constantly drinking water. what could this be. how can i treat it. i have acide reflux hiatal hernia stomach ulcer anxiety.
i understand your discomfort with so many symptoms. these symptoms specially stomach ulcer are warning signs of not coping with life. stresses of relationships unresolved conflicts stresses of school work and finances may be causing emotional turmoil and anxiety please see a psychiatrist for psychiatric and medical diagnosis; and treatment including psychotherapy medication and meditation.
localized burning pain in stomach(just on small area) belching feels like food coming back up my throat. this happens after i eat. ulcer hiatal hernia?
sounds like gerd (gastroesophageal reflux disease) may be an issue or at least part of it. burning pain and belching/gas are frequent symptoms of gallbladder disease but the food coming up sounds reflux--which can be caused by a hiatal hernia. a detailed history and exam by a general surgeon can help pin it down and help decide on the best test.
localized burning pain in stomach(just on small area) belching feels like food coming back up my throat. this happens after i eat. ulcer hiatal hernia?
it sounds like you are suffering from gerd (gastroesophageal reflux disease). regurgitation can be a component of gerd. an ulcer or gastritis are possible as well but check with your regular physician or see a gastroenterologist for treatment.
lap band in '08. had all saline removed as transfer addiction with alcohol began. sober. now stomach pain nausea acid reflux. what could this be?
nobody can tell you what you have from just the history although it is highly suggestive of acid peptic disease either gastritis duodenitis esophagitis as well as reflux. could also be peptic ulcer or pancreatic inflammation from the previous drinking. see your doctor for a more complete history physical examination and necessary lab tests including gi referral for possible endoscopy.
l renal failure due to reoccurring reflux. dx= crohns sleep apnea copd chronic fatigue anxiety. what could cause all of this? no answers so far!
it's likely that your conditions are not all coming from a single source. a physician would need to know more about your medical history social history and specifics surrounding each complaint in order to give helpful advice. you may want to have a health tap virtual on line consultation. a video/phone consultation or an inbox text consult is best. a real time text consult is not the best for you
luq pain over a year. mri us and xray is clean. lipase is 223. hurts worse in the morning & when deep breathing. low fat diet helped a little. next?
you probably have irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) a common disorder that affects the large intestine. ibs commonly causes cramping abdominal pain bloating gas diarrhea and constipation. try to avoid foods that trigger your symptoms. also try to get enough exercise drink plenty of fluids and get enough fiber and sleep. if symptoms continue see your doctor.
my mother dm2 insulin use she complain of flutter like feeling or like movement of baby at lower abdominal not pregnancy. ?
if your mother has type 2 diabetes she should work with a dietitian to rid herself of diabetes. yes that can and should happen. with the symptoms of lower abdomen issues you must take your mother to her primary doctor. please let me know how things go.
my doctor said that i have hiatal hernia with mm size. so don't worry and no need for any medication now. please share your opinion. and whether th?
a hiatal hernia by itself is of little consequence. the problem arises when the hh prevents the lower esophagus to work normally in preventing reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus. if you are not suffering from reflux disease you are probably ok. you should still get endoscopy to evaluate the lower esophagus to make sure there isn't silent damage being caused to the esophagus.
my husband is experiencing heartburn (gerd). the following also describes him: obesity. what should he do?
you cannot ask questions here about another person. i do not know him and would have to get his permission to discuss health issues with you. so have him to give us a call. but given that he likely needs to lose weight as obesity pushes on stomach when lying down and can be cause of reflux. ask him to give me permission to discuss his health with you.
need expert advice. what health problems are related with teen obesity?
there are over 20 different medical conditions that have been linked with obesity. the damage is cumulative over time. they range from elevated cholesterol to high blood pressure to heart disease diabetes sleep apnea reflux asthma and arthritis. these over shadow the depression social isolation social dysfunction and anxiety all magnified as a teen and all related to obesity.
need to know if i can take diflunisal(dolobid) along with lipo 6 black ultra concentrate?
yes you can but why would you ever want to take lipo 9 when there is absolutely no evidence that it does anything?
night cough no allergies no uri symptoms no allergies. nonsmoker. adult 63 module ratels obese. cause?
if your cough occurs while lying down it could be either cardiac or gastrointestinal in origin instead of just pulmonary. if it is associated with shortness of breath and chest or back pain you need to see your doctor right away. if it is associated ever with a sour taste in the mouth almost vomiting and heartburn it may be gastrointestinal reflux of stomach acid into the esophagus.
night cough no allergies no uri symptoms no allergies. nonsmoker. adult 63 module ratels obese. cause?
the most common causes of cough in ambulatory patients are asthma post-nasal drip and gastroesophageal reflux disease. reflux occurs more often in the overweight and obese and frequently occurs at night particularly after a large meal. medications including ace-inhibitors are common causes of cough as well.
night cough no allergies no uri symptoms no allergies. nonsmoker. adult 63 module ratels obese. cause?
post nasal drip (pnd ) can cause night time cough and so does reflux esphagitis in supine position. try taking claritin like drug at night. do you have pet?
no family history of diabetes. bmi is at 30 5'5 asian male. i feel i had lost weight thts the only symptom. i did also have a stomach flu. ?
hi. asians are at a risk of type 2 diabetes at a lower average bmi than caucasians. for sure the stomach flu may be responsible for a little weight loss. most people with a bmi of 30 are overweight but some are just very muscular. what's your waist circumference? if >40 inches you're at risk for diabetes. again diabetes is easy to test for. good luck!
nissen fundoplication 5 days ago. i can tell i have a wrap. ate something earlier and had pressure on the wrap. still i have some reflux coming past the wrap. does this settle as i heal hopefully leading to symptom free?
you will need about 4 weeks before you will know the answer about the effectiveness of the procedure.
nissen fundoplication 5 days ago. i can tell i have a wrap. ate something earlier and had pressure on the wrap. still i have some reflux coming past the wrap. does this settle as i heal hopefully leading to symptom free?
if you are noticing less reflux symptoms that sounds like a good thing. i would anticipate as your body gets used to your new anatomy your symptoms will go away. make sure you have your follow up appointment with your surgeon.
nissen performed in july. symptoms so much better but i can hear a gurgle up after i swallow at night. it a lot less than what it was before surgery but i am refluxing. redo nissen now? or monitor for barrett's and wait?
it's a general rule (of course not dealing with cancer) one should wait at least one year for most post-surgical final results. this is when adhesions anatomic positioning has maximized. next you should still have barrett's monitoring if you were biopsied positive pre-procedure.
nissen performed in july. symptoms so much better but i can hear a gurgle up after i swallow at night. it a lot less than what it was before surgery but i am refluxing. redo nissen now? or monitor for barrett's and wait?
patients to follow up with their physician/surgeon if they have questions or continue to have problems after a surgical procedure. if your symptoms are so much better than before they will likely want to monitor you rather than dive in to a redo. your physicians can also review any other treatments or lifestyle changes that might further improve your symptoms. dr. anne
occasionally after i eat i feel full (up to my throat) nauseous weak and shaky. fyi overweight little exercise. what could be the cause?
these are signals from your body telling you that enough is enough. it is enough calories; it is enough sugar; it is your body begging for a break. when one gives their body a lot of calories at once insulin is pumped into the blood stream to manage the sugar. your symptoms represent the rapid fluctuation between insulin and blood sugars that portend weakness in the system and pre-diabetes.
on implanon obese 7negative pregnancy tests bottom and top of stomach is hard movement in stomach. no pregnancy symptoms bloated. what could be wrong?
could be related to constipation reflux gallbladder or ovarian pathology. a sonogram could check for pregnancy and ovarian/uterine pathology a plain abdominal film would assess constipation. consider a trial of milk of magnesia (magnesium hydroxide) for 3 days and see if there is result and change. follow up with a doctor/urgent care this week
on <negative_smiley>21 had open repair of recurrent hiatal hernia. a week ago started having extreme pain a half hour after eating. getting progressively worse. ?
there are a number of reasons that you can develop pain after eating following repair of a hiatal hernia. these include: slippage of the repair (wrap dislocation) esophageal stricture (wrap too tight) recurrent reflux (wrap breakdown). in order to determine which the cause and treatment will be you should see a consultant that specializes in esophageal disorders for further testing.
obese & trying vegetarian diet but i soon feel weak & my body seems to hang onto extra weight/go into starvation mode. why? thank you in advance!
programs need to be followed by your doc. consider low carb and higher protein food plan. your protein may below and your blood sugar fluctuating. see your doc and include some exercise if ok w/him/her. peace and good health.
overweight and in my 1st week of weight loss i loss 5lb. is losing this much concerning or could it just be water weight?
b"sd not really in experience with multidisciplinary weight management men lose on average 5 lbs/week women 3 lbs/week. initial losses may represent depletion of glycogen (stored starch) and not fat loss - which will not be sustained. fluid loss mostly in morbidly obese with leg swelling.
on a diet. started 124 lbs. two days ago i weighed myself & scale said 118. today i weighed on same scale and was back up at 122! how's that possible?
i do not know what diet you are on but often you can lose water weight. this can fluctuate so do not get discouraged.
obese f 165 cm 120 kg heartattack patient with edema. water leaks from legs. cracks are there. what can be done? any medicines? any advices? who can help?
tricky situation. leg swelling can be a sign of worsening heart function. sometimes we treat edema (leg swelling) with diuretics like lasix (furosemide) which send a signal to the kidneys to eliminate the extra fluid. the problem is that lasix (furosemide) can also damage the kidneys if over used. also patients have to be careful not to "over drink" and add excess body water to the system. this requires close attention.
one day i check my weight it was 113 kg and then that day i eat some carbs and then the next day the weight was 114. 5 some thing why is that? help me?
weight might go up with the amount of food you eat and also with the mount of fluids you consume. sugary drinks is a rich source of energy and can cause an increase in weight you need moderation in what you eat. rule of thumb advise is to have your plate divided to: 1/4 carbs 1/4 protien 1/2 vegetables you might need to see a dietician to help you with the weight problem
pain acheyness and trembly feeling in legs. some similar aches in arms but not as bad. been eating very low fat diet. related or what else?
could be many reasons. are you dehydrated & not taking getting plenty of fluids? there's no need to eat a very low fat diet especially since "healthy fats" like olive oil and fats in avocados are very beneficial and your body needs healthy fats. talk with your clinician to troubleshoot the problem and help you with a balanced eating plan.
pt on hospice care no flu shot or thorazine (chlorpromazine) for hiccups either sure to kill him. losing weight. why?
since it is hospice care discuss with the doctors what should be done
pre-nissen: reflux and a lot of gurgling and foamy saliva after swallowing. post nissen 6 days: i can tell the wrap is blacking reflux good but when i swallow i still hear gurgle up and get frothy mouth. will this resolve as i heal?
you should talk to a gastoenterologist. talk to your dr
pre-nissen: reflux and a lot of gurgling and foamy saliva after swallowing. post nissen 6 days: i can tell the wrap is blacking reflux good but when i swallow i still hear gurgle up and get frothy mouth. will this resolve as i heal?
you are just 6 days from surgery the spinchter to stomach is tight now and food has to pass through slow. it will get better after few weeks
pre nissen bile reflux 20 mg aciphex 2 daily. post nissen gurgle and reduced reflux at night. go back on non-responsive ppis or is there an alternative?
<link> com/viewarticle/804147_4 post nissen there are several causes. gas venting motility recurrent reflux ( though many who feel like reflux do not have ph evidence of reflux) would elevate head of bed at night( pillow under mattress) avoid smoking alcohol caffeine reflux triggers eat small meals check gastrin gallbladder consider reglan ranitidine f/u /w /doc
pre nissen bile reflux 20 mg aciphex 2 daily. post nissen gurgle and reduced reflux at night. go back on non-responsive ppis or is there an alternative?
until your surgery you will continue to have stomach juices gurgle up into your hernia and further up. but there are a few things you can do. first elevate the head of your bed. not just extra pillows! put concrete blocks under the bed supports to raise the head 8" and chock the foot so it doesn't move. also stop all caffeine; no eating 4 hrs before bed; eat a light dinner! good luck.
pre nissen could swallow count to 3 ton of fluid in mouth. now happen to a way lesser degree only when lying down at night. feels like an air pop but sometimes sounds fluidly. when is best to take antacid ppi h2 and which one. i have bile reflux?
these are important questions that you need ask your physician. you may be able to take these medicines at the regular time. it really depends on what is being treated and your symptoms give us some clues but your physician who did the nissan know you and can better individualize the advice
pre nissen could swallow count to 3 ton of fluid in mouth. now happen to a way lesser degree only when lying down at night. feels like an air pop but sometimes sounds fluidly. when is best to take antacid ppi h2 and which one. i have bile reflux?
it's very important to make sure the wrap is properly in place especially if you are having fluid come up (called a "mechanical" symptom - the wrap has slipped is too loose or a hiatal hernia is present). an upper gi or egd can see the problem. taking an antacid doesn't change bile reflux but bile coming into your stomach can irritate the stomach and make it more susceptible to acid injury.
question about pregnancy. do you get more or just bigger fat cells during a pregnancy?
my recollection of med school listed 3 times in life when you add fat cells; early infancy puberty & pregnancy. existing fat cells can always enlarge but the hormonal flux of these periods seems to play a big role in adding cells.
recently found out have low potassium added 2 banana's orange juice and tomoato juice to diet but causing loose stools concerned counterproductive?
do you know why is it low? is it because you're on medicines that artificially lower it? there are rare genetic conditions that can lower potassium? or was this a random lab finding. if it was a random finding realize potassium levels can fluctuate moment to moment. also machines have error too. if its borderline low don't go nuts with a high potassium diet. if it's markedly low talk to doc!
recently i have noticed a fluttering sound in my ear. im just curious to know what its caused by i've nose pinched+swallowed/yawned and nothing helps.
you might have some water trapped behind some wax. the wax may need to be removed. an otolaryngologist (ear nose throat or ent) is the person who can best evaluate this.
recently i have noticed a fluttering sound in my ear. im just curious to know what its caused by i've nose pinched+swallowed/yawned and nothing helps.
you may have an ear infection or inflammation which can cause these symptoms. also sinusitis can do this as well. please check in with your doctor asap for a diagnosis and feel better!
recently i am diagnosed with hiatal hernia the doctor told me about the operation but it has risks on me so please tell me if there is another way.
if your problem is heartburn then you likely have gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) which is often attributed to a hiatal hernia. gerd should never be treated with surgery first & rarely requires it. acid-reducing medication avoidance of caffeine tobacco acidic foods weight loss avoiding large meals just before bedtime sleeping propped up on pillows are but a few rx's. talk 2 a gi dr.
regarding my reflux do i need nissen surgery or continue using nexium (esomeprazole) with diet & healthy foods. no chocolate fried food acids alcohol etc.
the surgery can help reflux but many people get relief with losing weight modified diet and elevating head of bed. your gi doctor can probably predict your chance of getting better without surgery and recommend a good surgeon if you need one.
regarding my reflux do i need nissen surgery or continue using nexium (esomeprazole) with diet & healthy foods. no chocolate fried food acids alcohol etc.
it depends on a number of factors. how large is your hiatal hernia? do you have a hiatal hernia? how often do you have reflux attacks? how many pills do you take each day for reflux? is this something that really impacts your life? is it worth the surgery. generally if you have a large hernia take pills at least 2x a day and have multiple attacks per week you may want to consider surgery.
rny 2wks ago. need b12. need 500 mcg daily. can i take 2500 mcg every 6 days or will my kidneys flush out the excess?
far better to take on daily basis to allow absorption use and prevent waisting valuable vitamin need.
recently lost 48 pounds been getting way more migraines then i would when overweight why do you think this is?
estrogen which is stored in fat cells is thought to be a cause of migraines. fluctuating levels with that much weight loss may be the source of your headaches.
recovering from virus used advil (ibuprofen) sudafed nyquil. now have bad acid reflux with gagging. on prevacid/antacids but still gagging. diet? drugs?
you should see a gastroenterologist and probably get an upper endoscopy to see what is wrong with your stomach or esophagus.
really sick and tired of hemorrhoids. is there a way to rid them for good? i drink fluids and eat fiber (yes i'm overweight). doc says no to surgery.
hemorrhoids are a normal part of our anatomy. we have three and each has an internal and external component. the treatment should be based upon each persons specific symptoms. internal component can be managed with minor office procedures such as banding but external component requires surgical excision if bad. medical therapy can cause them to shrink but by definition they cannot "go away"
recently i had incresing pulse with a sudden push in heart. after ecg eco confirms normal. i had sliding hiatal hernia. is it the cause?
it is possible that you have symptoms like this related to a hiatal hernia. they can also be due to reflux. i would let your cardiologist know. www. drlugo. com
recurring toe gout. orthopaedic treats with cordisone shots. other treatment/prevention available? definitely not due to diet.
a cortisone shot is only a temporary fix. the first step is make sure it is gout. fluid from the joint should be looked at under polarized light with a microscope. the usual treatment is colchicine to stop the flair then allopurinol or an equivalent type mecication daily to prevent future flairs. you should see your family doctor or a rheumatologist for further eval and treatment
rapid weight gain. not pregnant. drinking a lot of coffee not eating a lot. not really exercising could it be from coffee or medicine? was 130 now 140
many "coffee" drinks contain an enormous amount of sugar and calories. there are many potential causes including a medical condition such as a thyroid problem a problem with fluid retention and other medical problems; or your calorie intake has really began to over take your calories burned. getting a good medical check up can be a good ace to start.
sometimes after eating junk food /having beer when i lie down i get a heart flutter that my heart races for aboutt 10 seconds. goes away when i cough?
this is likely a fast heart rate that resolves with a canal manoeuvre or cough. see your doctor for an ekg and a monitor study. note foods/drums that trigger it and try to avoid them. all the best.
struggling with tinnitus and notice lately my belly button hurts i'm a cancer survivor and overweight for my height but eat healthy;bad metabolism.
may be small umbilical hernia especially if you had surgery or are obese or may be gastritis /reflux with or without h pylori or gallbladder. tinnitus may be from medications/infections or age noise rarely vascular. would follow up with doc and ent for the ear
sea or table salt for pots? what about trace minerals? appetite ravenous but still losing weight consult md? or normal? 225 down to 208 in about a wk
by pots - i assume you mean postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome- in that case the type of salt will not make a difference - it is the increased salt intake and "fluid intake " that helps. most people on a regular diet should not be deficient in trace minerals. if the weight loss is unexplained it is a good idea to see your doctor
so post nissen you swallow and hear gurgle back up to throat like a had before nissen. now i have no reflux but the gurgle. is that because air is hitting the wrap and coming back up? i'm three weeks post nissen.
hi ameetg you will likely notice all sorts of different things. a 'gurgle' is not likely a dangerous finding. things to looks out for are fever loss of appetite nausea/vomiting pain 'knot in your stomach' and severe bloating that doesnt go away. see your doctor should these issues arise. hope that helps
so post nissen you swallow and hear gurgle back up to throat like a had before nissen. now i have no reflux but the gurgle. is that because air is hitting the wrap and coming back up? i'm three weeks post nissen.
use 6-8 meals a day small and semi solid soft
should you take dicyclomine if you have a small hiatal hernia?
if you have gerd it might be worse. anticholinergic med slows gastric emptying which results in more reflux.
suffer from bike reflux had nissen in july have minor nighttime reflux what's a good medication and when would you take it? over the counter or prescription options.
eat evening meal early less fried food and stay up for 90 minutes after meal. may use antacids if necessary
suffer from bike reflux had nissen in july have minor nighttime reflux what's a good medication and when would you take it? over the counter or prescription options.
as your history has so much to do with the proper medication choice you should check with your pcp and your gi/surgeon.
suffer from bile reflux. if my nissen is loose after 7 months. redo? i did this to get off meds now i feel stuck and unhappy with continued gerd.
could be continued reflux or it could be due to other issues. an upper gi( x-ray) should help document if any reflux if still there. and then unfortunately you are looking at a redo
suffer from bile reflux. if my nissen is loose after 7 months. redo? i did this to get off meds now i feel stuck and unhappy with continued gerd.
surgical outcome is never absolute for residual issues f/u w/ doc and second opinion. consider diet ( no alcohol caffeine energy drinks spicy food elevate head of bed when sleeping) gallbladder status check gastrin level rarely may be zollinger ellison syndrome check for gastroparesis. medications like reglan or erythromycin may promote motility. f/u/ w/ do
sore throat and pharynx for half a year phlegm at pharynx -> hem/cough. more burping but reflux diet/pill didnt help.
the issues to be addressed would be whether there is post nasal drip from a nasal or sinus condition sore throat due to chronic tonsillitis or if reflux is playing a role. you mentioned being treated for reflux but may not have been optimal dosing and duration of treatment. you need a good ent exam fiber-optic nasophryngoscopy and then treatment can be properly initiated.
sore throat and pharynx for half a year phlegm at pharynx -> hem/cough. more burping but reflux diet/pill didnt help.
obviously this needs more clarification. it sounds like you're on the right track. could be reflux or could be an allergic reaction. you can discuss this with your physician
totalcholesterol 220. ldl 165 hdl 43. trig levels60(times 20%)=12. doc said to change diet and exercise. no meds prescribed. isn't my ldl danger lvl? age29
this ldl would be in a range which should be actively lowered. that being said it would be nice if you didn't need to medicate it down. i agree with cardiovascular exercise and diet of course and you might want to add some no-flush niacin 2000mg daily in divided doses; this would be a more natural way to lower the numbers.
the burning pain under left breast from acid reflux is now radiating to my back. could this be something worse like an ulcer or hiatal hernia?
your epigastric pain can be related to gerd but you must have a doctor examine you to make sure it is not cardiac related.
tha doc suggested i lose weight and give me antidepressant like contrave a naltrexone + fluoxetine combo will that work for backpain hiccups laughing?
what your question is bu contrave is a naltrexone/bupropion combo approved only for weight loss. otherwise check w/your doctor.
tsh 4. 57 &on 50 mcg synthroid (thyroxine). 20 days back tsh was 2. 6. why fluctuated? bmi is 19. 7. take prenatal vits at night&synthroid (thyroxine) in mrning breakfast 3 hr later
consult the doctor who prescribed the synthroid (thyroxine)
this happened twice now: 1 week before my period i get distention and put on a lot of body fat and after my period is gone (usually 5 days) i lose it?
it isn't body fat but sequestered tissue fluid brought on by a change in your hormone levels at the end of each menstrual cycle.
this may sound kinda odd. i have been addicted to meringue cookies from krunchymelts. i would like to know can you gain weight eating too much cookies?
yes the sugar and chemical additives in the cookies can increase weight trigger blood sugar fluctuations which can make you moody and feed the candida you mention in your history. sugar is poison. consider some dark chocolate for a treat and a natural product called stevia to sweeten things. peace and good health. you can do it and you will be glad you did.
unexplained weight loss in one week. delighted but is that ok?
i wouldn't worry too much about short-term weight loss over the course of one week. it really depends on your diet during the week as well as any fluid shifts or water loss. if this trend continues then you should see your dr. many people will lose a significant amount of weight when it gets hot but this only represents water loss.
update on my mom. she still in hospital it's been a month now. remember she has copd chf and is a diabetic and in & out of afib a lot. also has fluid retention but can't increase dierutics because kidneys act up. they were going to do a heart cath but he
need to check renal parameters.
update on my mom. she still in hospital it's been a month now. remember she has copd chf and is a diabetic and in & out of afib a lot. also has fluid retention but can't increase dierutics because kidneys act up. they were going to do a heart cath but he
what is the question? if kidneys are acting up heart cath may be difficult to do as enough dye cannot be injected. your cardiologist may be able to help out after reviewing all the test results.
unexplained rapid weight gain bloating in stomach and legs. what could this be from? please help
the bloating in belly and legs could be related to excess fluid. excess fluid could be related to liver kidney or heart problem. hormone disorders can lead to rapid weight gain and include thyroid or adrenal issues. as you can see there are many causes of rapid weight gain. these are just a few. i strongly suggest you discuss the weight gain with your doctor so that he/she can figure out the cause
varicose veins anything to do with being over weight?
increased weight can theoretically cause more pressure on the veins resulting in weakening of the venous valves leading to vein formation but this is just a theory and has never been proven. varicose veins are due to malfunctioning (refluxing) of the saphenous system of veins. if you have varicose veins see a vein specialist for a full venous evaluation with a venous ultrasound.
visible pulse in jugular (random) heartbeat twitch in legs. i am 24y/o female 230lbs and 5'2. not many other symptoms. cheeks get warm and flushed. ?
anxiety is making you aware of normal processes
what causes excess salivation post nissen funds?
you had fundoplication. you note excess salivation. if the surgery was just performed then it might be a response to glycopyrolate from anesthesia. this initially stops secretions. if the surgery was done weeks ago it might be recovering and temporary. sounds like the reflux is better and thats a good thing.
what causes weight gain using zoloft? if you eat the same & exercise why do people gain on it? what mechanism is involved? does metabolism change?
a number of psychiatric drugs including most ssris (with the exception usually of fluoxetine or prozac) cause an increase in appetite. i am not aware of evidence that they lower metabolic rate. increasing physical activity and being more careful with eating particularly craving-driven eating generally helps. drinking more water gives you a full sensation in your stomach; also carrots & celery
will otc nexium24hr help acid reflux caused by hiatal hernia? i currently take 300 mg of zantac qd and it helps very little if at all.
different drugs. zantac an h-2 blocker blocks the acid at the "target" and is effective for some people nexium stops the acid from being released altogether. the latter is usually more effective in relieving reflux but takes longer. get on it and be patient. about a week should result in improvement in almost 100% people! hope this helps dr z
will i gain a lot of weight if i eat little for breakfast and exercise eat more at lunch and dinner but not exercising after that? i starve then eat.
creates blood sugar fluctuations so you may become moody and fatigued. starving yourself can provoke you body to store fat to protect itself. please see your doctor and ask about low carb higher protein food plan. good fat is good for you and it will create a feeling of satiety thus you won't feel so starved. peace and good health. exercise once daily if doc says your health is ok for that.
what amount of weight loss would be indicative of cancer typically? i weighed 212 several weeks ago but now weigh 207lbs without trying.
hi if you have no other symptoms i'd say that given your age and the amount of weight loss it's unlikely that you have undiagnosed cancer. keep in mind that total body water can fluctuate a lot which is typically the cause of day to day weight fluctuations. 1 liter of water = 1 kg = 2. 2 lbs if you continue to lose weight an exam at a regular walk-in clinic would be ok. hope this helps.
why is the urine of patients with diabetes mellitus bright (almost neon) yellow? also what causes the ph spike with diabetes insipidus?
bright urine most often comes from dehydration (too little fluid or excess loss of fluids) often seen in diabetes. it can also come from the fillers and buffers in pills including vitamins. ph spiking is alkalosis or excessively alkaline state from abnormal fluid and electrolyte dynamics. see your pcp or endocrinologist for electrolyte lab work and more info and discussion.
years ago my mother died of breast cancer and i am afraid that i might have it too. what are some red flags i should watch out for?
the signs and symptoms of breast cancer include: a lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the underarm that persists through the menstrual cycle; change in the size shape or contour of the breast; blood-stained or clear fluid discharge from the nipple; change in the feel or appearance of the skin on the breast or nipple (dimpled puckered scaly or inflamed). if concerned see your doc.
can a small sliding hiatal hernia be repaired by just pulling the hernia down back to the abdominal cavity then tightening the diaphragm hiatus?
these small types of hiatal hernia can be fixed but generally it is only done as part of an anti-reflux procedure that is done to alleviate the symptoms of reflux. small hiatal hernias do not need to be repaired just because they are there. mesh can be used but it is controversial regarding the type and method of mesh repair. small hiatal hernias are not dangerous. hope this helps!
anyone done a nissen fundoplication laparoscopic surgery?
this is the most common anti-reflux procedure involving closure of the hiatal hernia and re-creating a new valve by wrapping a portion of the stomach around the esophagus. while very effective this procedure is reserved for the rare patient who cannot manage their symptoms with lifestyle and dietary modifications supplemented by anti-acid medication. an incisionless option tiff is available 2.
anyone done a nissen fundoplication laparoscopic surgery?
is a great option for people with reflux most patients are very satisfied after the surgery.
anyone done a nissen fundoplication laparoscopic surgery?
yes. it is a good operation for reflux but it does have side effects. it is one of several surgical options for reflux.
what is the liquid secreted by the glands after mastectomy called?
i am not sure what you mean by saying "secreted by the glands". with mastectomy the breast is removed. the space between the skin and the chest muscles may fill with fluid which is called seroma. usually a drainage tube is placed in that space to drain the fluid until the tissue is healed. collection of the seroma fluid after the drain is removed can be aspirated with a syringe and needle.
child obesity:how significant is the parental influence in causing this?
define parent <positive_smiley> genetic parents - very significant childrens weight of obese-parents correlates with the genetic parents not adoptive parents who are not genetically related.
how safe and helpful is ultrasound liposuction?
ultrasound liposuction does carry a higher rate of a mild side effect of seroma or fluid collection. it can enhance skin contraction following procedure but may also cause burns. in general i prefer traditional liposuction though in skilled hands us assisted liposuction is an excellent procedure.
what are the most effective breast enlargement pills?
the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
why can't these implants be used in the us? i have just been told i will either have allergan or silamed in the uk. why have the uk allowed silamed but the us haven't?
i believe they are approved i a saw plastic surgeon add you have to consult. the implant has polyurethanecoating to keep in shape preventing capsular contraction flurry feeling also it will releases carcinogenic chemicals uproar in uk for their removal if it is not allowed that could be the reason ask your plastic surgeon remember us has best protection the fda.
had nissen done over 10 yrs ago. it has loosened and slipped into chest cavity. can it be taken down and reversed and can hernia just be fixed. ?
revision fundoplication is more involved than the primary operation. the reason for revision needs to be identified. recurrent reflux and difficulty swallowing are common reasons. preop testing should include endoscopy barium swallow and possibly ph probe manometry and gastric emptying studies. i do not recommend simply reversing as it will result in severe reflux symptoms in most cases.
can doctors tell me what does your body fat percentage mean?
body fat percentage is the percentage of your body that is lipid (or fat) compared by the fat-free mass (bones muscle fluid & connective tissue).
why is having fewer pregnancies or fewer kids a risk factor for cancer of the breast?
pregnancy is protective against cancer because there is a natural change in hormone fluctuations. the estrogen produced in pregnancy estriol is very protective against breast cancer. however this occurs only if the pregnancy occurs before 30 not after. breast feeding stops the hormones which can also be protective; so its age how often pregnant and breast feeding that are the factors to see.
why would a woman who has undergone a left radical mastectomy have a swollen left arm?
a radical mastectomy involves removal of all the breast tissue the chest wall muscle and the axillary nodes. this is rarely done today unless the tumor directly involves the muscle. the axilla contains nodes that not only drain the breast but also fluid from the arm. if too many of the letter are removed or the pathways damaged fluid backs up and causes swelling.
what are fibrocystic breasts?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
how can i remove or even reduce cellulite from my butt thighs i used to play kong fu but i stoped now i am not really fat 64kg 162cm so what to do?
cellulite & stretch marks remain anathema to the plastic surgeon. cellulite & stretch marks may occur in very thin patients as well. cellulite is attributable to the way the skin connects to the underlying structures namely muscle by fibrous septa causing the stereotypical dimpling & made worse by localized swelling due to lymphatic fluid skin laxity localized fatty deposits & genetic factors.
what are the main symptoms of fibrocystic breast disease?
fibrocystic breast disease is quite common with 40% to 50% of women having this problem. physical exam findings include lumpy nodular granular breast tissue in some or all areas of the breast. many women with fibrocystis breast disease have breast pain or tenderness that commonly fluctuates with the menstrual cycle. the symptoms sometimes increase with more caffeine or chocolate in the diet.
what are some common side effects of herceptin (trastuzumab)?
most people do pretty well with herceptin (trastuzumab) especially after the first few doses. flu-like symptoms are common and you may have issues with your blood counts. your oncologist will monitor these. uncommonly herceptin (trastuzumab) can lead to diminished heart function or irregular heart beats. your oncologist will check your heart before treatment and continue to monitor.
had gastric bypass in 2005 and teeth keep breaking i now have 5 broken teeth and they even break on soft foods am taking vitamins regularly?
they can also be susceptible to the acid reflux which can occur from the gastric bypass. the acid destroys the enamel and makes it easier to get decay and erosion. mi paste is good to use can reflux into the.
why can arm swelling and pain happen after breast cancer surgery?
an essential part of breast cancer staging is the removal of some of the lymph nodes under the armpit. the lymphatic system's job includes draining tissue fluid and bringing it back into the circulation. lymph node removal short-circuits this process leading to the risk of chronic swelling or lymphedema. the less nodes removed the lower the risk.
what is a mammogram? how is a mammogram different from other types of breast imaging methods?
a mammogram uses ionizing radiation to generate an image of the breasts. it is excellent at detecting tiny calcifications which can indicate the presence of cancer. ultrasound uses sound waves to generate an image of the visualized breast. ultrasound uses no ionizing radiation and is excellent at detecting cysts (fluid collections) lymph nodes and abnormal blood vessels. breast mri uses a strong magnetic field and radio waves to image the breasts. contrast is injected into a vein and then the breasts are imaged over time to detect cancer.
what does a breast ultrasound tell you? i found a lump in my breast and am scheduled for an ultrasound to get a better look. what exactly will the dr be able to tell from the ultrasound?
breast ultrasound is useful to further characterize breast lesions. ultrasound it is excellent for detecting in characterizing cysts (well circumscribed fluid pockets). ultrasound can also be used determine if the lesion could represent a benign fibroadenoma. ultrasound can also be used to evaluate for enlarged lymph nodes in the armpits and around the breasts. it can also be used two evaluate if there are large vessels associated with a mass.
can birth control damage your kidneys? i have high levels of protein in my urine & need to see a nephrogist. 29yr w/ high cholesterol/obese.
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45? mol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
can loosing weight get rid of my hiatal hernia?
losing weight will likely help symptoms of reflux. the hernia however will remain unless surgically corrected.
can loosing weight get rid of my hiatal hernia?
however it may eliminate the symptoms you feel from your hernia. excess weight would definitely make an existing hiatal hernia more symptomatic. if you lost weight then the hernia symptoms (such as reflux/heartburn or chest pain) may go away and you may not need surgery. either way losing weight would make your risk for surgery less as well.
can loosing weight get rid of my hiatal hernia?
the only way to get rid of a hiatal hernia is with surgery. losing weight may however help reduce or eliminate acid reflux which often goes along with a hiatal hernia.
could my swollen lymph nodes and weight loss be caused by my celiac disease?
weight loss is a possibility if you are having flares of your celiac disease based on dietary problems. swollen lymph nodes is typically a drainage of fluid or infectious process or even rarely tumor-related so i would have my doctor evaluate the swollen lymph nodes more thoroughly.
can a hiatal hernia cause chest pain in a 20 yr old woman?
hiatal hernia is usually associated with acid reflux. this can cause some chest discomfort.
can having acid reflux lead to sleep apnea?
not likely. however the opposite is a real possibility. the negative pressures present when one is struggling to take a breath can lead to bringing up acid from the stomach.
can having acid reflux lead to sleep apnea?
by causing inflammation of the throat reflux can lead to swelling and narrowing of the airway thereby leading to obstruction and apnea.
can having acid reflux lead to sleep apnea?
it is unlikely that reflux causes apnea. . in a newborn it may by causing airway swelling from the irritation. it is more likely that apnea causes reflux - there is a strong relationship between apnea and reflux.
how will sodium intake affect dieting?
less salt intake less fluid retention less weight on scale.
calories and grams of fat intake for weight loss is it more important to count grams of fat per day or is it just the amount the calories taken in per day that matters? for weight loss how many grams of fat and calories should a sedentary woman take in p
prior to answering your question avvo's terms of use state "such information should be used only as a starting point for addressing your medical issues. it is not a substitute for medical advice diagnosis or treatment. you should not disregard medical advice from your doctor or avoid obtaining medical care due to any health information you obtain on the site. " this simple question is actually very complex. overall food intake in does not always equal food intake out. your body is a complex machine that utilizes energy from food in order to function even at the cellular level. many factors influence your weight including sodium and water intake muscle and bone mass height and of course calories consumed versus calories burned (exercise) just to name a few. if your food intake (calories eaten) and your energy expenditure (calories burned) are exactly equal then your body will be at homeostasis (same weight) if all other factors are kept constant. this being said this never happens in real life. we experience a variety of changes from a physiologic level on a daily basis and it is nearly impossible to calculate the calories burned on a daily basis because every individual has a different basal metabolic rate (bmr) which are the calories you would burn if you would do nothing all day (analogous to a bear hibernating). calories are needed in order for your body and organs to continue to funcion. as we age everyones bmr decreases so if you eat the same amount of food as you did 10 years ago and don't exercise you will gain weight over time. eating a well balance diet with carbohydrates proteins and fat is crucial for your body to continue to function normally. 1 gram of protein = 4 calories 1 gram of carbohydrate = 4 calories and 1 gram of fat = 9 calories so by logic if you eat more foods that contain fat you are indeed consuming more calories for a similar food item with less fat and the same amount of protein and carbohydrates. this being said the overall amount of calories you take in are important for weight loss but it doesn't discount the fact that eating a meal high in fat but lower in calories than another meal is healthy (as your cholesterol and cardiovascular risk of atherosclerosis can increase). on average every 3 500 calories = 1 pound of fat so if you decrease your daily intake by just a 100 calories a day (example is to only drink half a can of soda instead of the whole can) you will have consumed 36 500 calories less per year which translates to a 10 pound weight loss in 1 year without really giving that much up. of course watching your calorie intake and getting regular exercise is the best way to loose weight and stay healthy. robert rahimi md mscr.
how do you know if your eating too much fiber? do you start getting a lot of gas?
too much fiber can give excess gas (so can too little) bloating big bulky stools and/or excessively frequent loose watery stools. depends on amount and type of fiber other diet components fluid intake meds gut function/disease. aim for 25-35gm/day preferably from diet; not all at once. supplements if diet inadequate.
how can i whiten my yellow-brown teeth if i was eating too much acidic fruit that wore away enamel?
brush and floss your teta eth daily to improve the health of teeth. healthy teeth will help your smile. fluoride supplementation for children and drinking water with fluoride that has been added has also shown to help prevent tooth decay.
how do i know if my chubby child has diabetes yet?
diabetes comes in 2 basic forms. the children's form develops abruptly after a virus destroys insulin production. they quickly loose sugar in the urine eat & drink ravenously & loose 10lb in a week. the fluffy adults make insulin but not enough and they gradually get into trouble over months or years. a glucose tolerance test or a1c can give you early indication on a teen in pre teens a urine test.
how do you know you have a hiatal hernia?
small hiatal hernias usually don't cause any problem or could be responsible for reflux symptoms. large hiatal hernias can cause anemia chest pain and difficulty eating. they are typically diagnosed with an upper gi contrast study and/or upper endoscopy. the x-ray study can be ordered by primary care the upper endoscopy is done by a gastroenterologist (gi). hope this helps!
has a genetic cause for obesity been found that would make one obese even if eating a typical number of daily calories?
there are 70 different genes that predispose for obesity. some influence where fat is stored some influence hunger some cause binge eating and many influence metabolism. for our bariatric patients we are finding that they burn about 8 cal per pound. that's 1600 cal per day if they weigh 200lb. for genetically thin patients they burn 13-14 cal per pound. that person could eat 2600 cal per day.
how can i lose weight from my upper thighs and hips?
thyroid stimulation helps with thigh weightloss and hips are influenced by hormones esp testosterone to balance estrogens.
how can a teenage girl lose belly fat and a bloated rounded looking stomach?
have to be sure she is going to the bathroom need to have three bowel movements a day the sludge will definitely add up to the belly and put on weights. 5 pounds weight gain for not going in one day! sum it up. drink plenty of fluids too decrease carbs more proteins and fibers.
how can type 2 diabetes affect your eyesight?
diabetes whether it is type 1 or 2 can affect vision several ways: fluctuating blood sugars can cause the vision to blur in and out over days or weeks; dry eyes can develop which cause minute-to-minute vision changes; cataracts can develop causing decreased vision and difficulty with glare; and the retina can develop bleeding scarring and detachments all of which cause permanent vision loss.
how can i prevent large weight fluctuations?
successful dieting requires that a person stick to a plan for months or years so easier goals & small milestones are good. he must be happy with the foods he gets to eat so severe calorie restriction is usually unsuccessful. one can cut back on calories enough to lose 1-2 pounds a week and he will be more likely to stay with that modest type of plan. one-two pounds a week is 50-100 pounds/year!
how can i prevent large weight fluctuations?
and regular prolonged exercise.
how common is hiatal hernia in children?
while reflux can occur in children having a hiatal hernia is less common. most hiatal hernias develop over the course of a person's life.
how does the fluid injected during tumescent liposuction minimize bleeding? i read that during tumescent liposuction my doctor will inject salt water adrenaline and anesthetic into my fat before it is suctioned out. this supposedly reduces bleeding. why
epinephrine or adrenaline is a vaso spastic medication that make your small blood vessels shot down for about three hours. during that time liposuction cannula which may disrupt a few blood vessels will not cause any major bleeding.
how does the fluid injected during tumescent liposuction minimize bleeding? i read that during tumescent liposuction my doctor will inject salt water adrenaline and anesthetic into my fat before it is suctioned out. this supposedly reduces bleeding. why
adrenaline is a powerful chemical that your body produces naturally. it constricts blood vessels and makes your heart pump faster. that's why your heart beats faster when you get nervous or scared. it's injected during lipo to shrink down blood vessels thereby minimizing bleeding.
how does the fluid injected during tumescent liposuction minimize bleeding? i read that during tumescent liposuction my doctor will inject salt water adrenaline and anesthetic into my fat before it is suctioned out. this supposedly reduces bleeding. why
epinephrine (adrenaline) will cause your blood vessels to contract which decreases the amount of bleeding. using this technique for every liter of fat removed you loose about 10 ml of blood.
how does the fluid injected during tumescent liposuction minimize bleeding? i read that during tumescent liposuction my doctor will inject salt water adrenaline and anesthetic into my fat before it is suctioned out. this supposedly reduces bleeding. why
adrenaline is a vasoconstrictor and vessels will bleed less. please consult with a board certified plastic surgeon.
how does a hiatal hernia cause gerd?
one mechanism that prevents reflux of food or acid from the stomach up the esophagus is the fact that the pressure within the abdominal cavity is higher than the pressure in the stomach. if the stomach "yo-yo's" into the chest cavity through a hiatal hernia the negative pressure within the chest cavity changes this pressure gradient favoring reflux.
how does a hiatal hernia cause gerd?
the hiatus helps control reflux by placing pressure at the distal esophagus where it comes through the hiatus. when you have a hernia this pressure is reduced which can now allow reflux to occur. the position can change with a hernia and this change of position can allow reflux as well.
how is a hiatal hernia repaired?
a hiatal hernia is an enlargement of the normal hole in the diaphragm muscle thru which the esophagus passes to enter into the abdomen. a hiatal hernia may lead to gerd by virtue of the stomach yo-yo-ing up thru the hiatus into the chest. surgical repair involves three key steps: return the stomach to the abdominal cavity tighten the hole in the diaphragm and create a new valve to rx reflux.
how is a hiatal hernia repaired?
hiatal hernia surgery is almost always done laparoscopically with a few small trocar incisions. the stomach and some esophagus are brought back down into the abdomen. the diaphragmatic crura are sutured together. sometimes this is reinforced with a prosthetic. usually an anti reflux procedure like nissen fundoplication is done as well. the fundus may be sutured to the crural repair also.
how are diabetes insipidus and diabetes mellitus different?
both causes frequent urination however diabetes insipidu (di) is different from diabetes mellitus (dm). dm involves insulin problems and high blood sugar. di is related to how your kidneys handle fluids. it's much less common than dm. urine and blood tests can show which one you have. usually di is caused by a problem with your pituitary gland or your kidneys.
how is a hiatal hernia diagnosed?
a hiatal hernia is an enlargement of the hole in the diaphragm thru which the esophagus passes to enter the abdominal cavity. this commonly leads to the stomach "yo-yo-ing" up into the chest which may cause gerd (reflux). this can be seen by ct scan and by upper endoscopy.
how is a hiatal hernia diagnosed?
usually symptoms of reflux (heartburn) prompts evaluation. upper gi contrast study and upper endoscopy are the typical methods to diagnose a hiatal hernia.
how exactly does bariatric surgery affect health?
bariatric surgery has a major impact on diabetes hypertension sleep apnea joint disease gastric reflux infertility high cholesterol headaches urinary incontinence and depression. the latest press showing dramatic correction of diabetes should make anyone with a bmi over 35 (70 pounds overweight) and diabetes really think about bariatric surgery.
how does orthosiphon help in weight loss?
it can aid in weight loss due to fluid loss however if fluids are not also taken it can cause kidney damage. understand that any weight lost from taking orthosiphon is water weight so this is not a permanent weight loss solution. i would not recommend. see your md for help in your weigh loss goals.
how does orthosiphon help in weight loss?
it can aid in weight loss due to fluid loss however if fluids are not also taken it can cause kidney damage. understand that any weight lost from taking orthosiphon is water weight so this is not a permanent weight loss solution - orthosiphon called java tea.
how does losing weight get rid of cellulite?
cellulite is found in obese overweight and normal weight individuals. fat is not the cause of cellulite. it is a victim of cellulite. cellulite is a complex problem involving the connective tissue that has origins in the hormonal influences and derrangements in the lymphatic system and the microcirculation of the connective tissue leading to trapped fat cells in fibrous bands.
how do you define self-monitoring in weight management?
i agree with dr. gupta and would say that you should only weigh yourself on a weekly basis-- same day same time same clothes. the main byproduct of the breakdown of fat is water so when you lose weight water is released back into the system and that fluid retention can influence the scale especially for women premenstrually.
has there been any link found between sleep apnea and seizures?
short answer is yes. seizure control can be significantly influenced by arousals and sleep deprivation resulting from sleep apnea. in patients with epilepsy or seizure disorders controlling sleep apnea is an important part of seizure control and prevention.
how can you decide between gastric bypass or lapband surgery?
band is good for patients without heartburn (reflux) without insulin dependent diabetes and with bmi < 45. only downside is a 25% failure rate (usually due to reflux). bypass is ideal for heavier patients or patients with significant reflux (heartburn) or diabetic patients. both take about one hour both about as safe as taking out an appendix. choose a doc that does both procedures well.
how exactly is lap band bariatric surgery done?
it is usually done with small incisions. an instrument needs to be placed gently behind the stomach and it grasps the band. this allows the band to be locked in position around the upper stomach. the tubing is connected to a port which sits on top of the rectus muscle. the port is accessed with a special needle and fluid is added or removed.
how do diuretics cause weight loss?
diuretics are a class of drugs that cause the kidneys to excrete a larger volume of urine. this can be a beneficial effect in patients with high blood pressure congestive heart failure or soft tissue fluid retention. these are not generally used for weight loss except in those individuals retaining extra fluid. can cause dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities in normal pts trying to lose weight.
how safe is to drink 2 gallons a water a day while on a low calorie diet?
not really safe. you need roughly 64 ounces of fluid a day. 2 gallons of water is 256 ounces of fluid not only that it is free water rather than balanced electrolytes. the net effect will be that you will eventually become hyponatremic and that can cause you all sorts of problems. you could probably do a gallon and still be okay. 2 is pushing it.
how does the nissen fundoplication reduce the symptoms of gerd?
the lower esophageal sphincter (les) is a high pressure zone at the junction of where the esophagus meets the stomach. in reflux disease the les is weakened allowing stomach acid to reflux back into the esophagus causing symptoms of gerd. the nissen procedure restores the pressure of the les by wrapping a portion of the stomach around the junction.
how does the nissen fundoplication reduce the symptoms of gerd?
a nissen is wraping the loose upper portion of the stomach around the lower esophagus to reinforce the valve that is located there to prevent reflux from the stomach into the esophagus. it also works by bringing the lower esophagus into the abdominal cavity where pressure is greater furthing reinforcing the valve. also an hiatel hernia found at the time is repaired.
how does the nissen fundoplication reduce the symptoms of gerd?
gerd (gastroesophageal reflux disease) occurs typically when the lower esophageal sphincter (les) is lax. this allows for stomach acid to splash up into the end of the esophagus creating the burning sensation. the fundoplication is a surgical procedure that wraps the top of the stomach around the base of the esophagus in order to tighten the sphincter to prevent this backwash.
how does the nissen fundoplication reduce the symptoms of gerd?
fundoplication prevents reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus and thus reduces or eliminates symptoms.
how does obesity affect your digestive system?
many different digestive diseases are associated with obesity like acid reflux esophagitis hiatal hernias malabsorbtion gall bladder diseases. . and many other diseases.
how does obesity affect your digestive system?
obesity affects digestive system by: 1) gastric reflux or heartburn from belly pressure. the acid reflux can cause asthma and even cancer in the esophagus (rarely) 2) fatty liver from obesity can cause cirrhosis in a few 3) when diabetes arises from obesity you can see delayed stomach emptying with vomiting.
how does obesity affect relationships?
obesity is a complicated disease. it is the result of genetic influences ; interactions with our environment. when a patient is obese they may have self esteem issues medical illnesses related to obesity lack of energy ; difficulty with social interactions. like sitting in chairs booths toilets. on the other hand some obese are happiest around food and weight loss can cause depression.
how is water lipo different than regular lipo? isn’t it sucking out the fat that makes it dangerous?
water lipo uses a jet of water-like fluid to loosen fat cells from surrounding connective tissue while gently aspirating out the fat cells. it’s not sucking out the fat that makes lipo risky. it’s general anesthesia iv sedation and the use of large cannulas and aggressive aspirating that can increase the risks. water lipo does not require any of these uses local anesthesia and is much safer.
how do i lose belly fat within a week i just got off the depo-provera shot in lost 4. 5 pounds with the help of wii fit for a hour twice a day but im not losing any stomach i also have not had a bm in like 2 weeks and also haven't had a cycle in 5 years du
it sounds like you are doing a good job with exercising. using the wii is a great idea. abdominal fatty tissue is very frustrating for many people. it also gets harder to lose in that area after we have children and when our hormones are fluctuating. things that can help: 1. drink plenty of cold water during the day 2. the higher fiber diet the better (this will also help with your bowel movement issue) 3. walk as much as you can every day losing weight is very difficult but it sounds like you are doing everything right. slow steady progress will help you. "spot exercises" for the abdomen unfortunately will not help; it takes overall body weight loss to affect the abdomen. but remember don't be too hard on yourself and just keep gradually working on this. the main goal is good health.
how does liposuction work?
use of syringes or low pressure vacuum pumps to provide suction upon fat tissues that have been infiltrated with dilute local solution. when the fat is permitted to go into "suspension" in that fluid carrier relatively low pressure suction permits gentle and safe removal of undesireable fat deposits which do not otherwise respond to diet and exercise.
hi i wanna know! i'm exercising everyday but i got weight lose about 1 kilograms is this normal? thx
i'm not sure i fully understand your question but a bit about weight loss: reducing the amount of calories your body requires each day by 500 should result in about a 1 lb. weight loss each week (1 kg = 2. 2 lbs. ). thus you have to have a 3500 calorie deficit to lose one pound. losing 1-2 lbs. /week is a safe and effective way to lose weight and maintain that loss. rapid losses = fluid losses.
how overweight do you have to be to have gastric bypass surgery?
if you are 80-100 pounds overweight you would be a potential candidate for gastric bypass. if you have conditions like diabetes hypertension gastric reflux joint disease bladder incontinence sleep apnea heart disease or vascular disease you are a particularly good candidate. you can search for bmi charts online. surgery is ok with bmi over 35 with conditions. over 40 without.
how long is the recovery period after an arm lift? i was successfully able to lose about 70 pounds but the excess skin on my upper arms will not go away. i want to have an arm lift procedure done to eliminate this extra skin but i am concerned about how
congratulations on your success with weight loss! you are undoubtedly experiencing the many of the wonderful benefits of your new body. after successful weight loss the upper arm area commonly appears very loose and lax as a result of the inability of the upper arm skin to "snap back" after the volume of fat in the arms is reduced. arm lift surgery or brachioplasty is a very effective means of removing the loose skin and tissue from the arms and chest wall and creating a tighter and more toned appearance. to remove the excess skin a long incision is made extending from the elbow up the back of the arm to the armpit and beyond along the upper chest wall. i always mention to my patients that this is a long scar that will always be visible in a short sleeved shirt or tank top and i emphasize the importance of weighing the benefits of the arm lift against the fact that there will always be a visible scar at that sight. after arm lift surgery you will likely have surgical drains in place in each arm to remove the natural tissue fluid that accumulates after surgery. these drains are usually removed within a week if used at all. you will need to wear a compression garment at all times except when showering for the first 3 weeks after surgery and then wear the garment for another 3 weeks for at least half of the day. the garment usually consists of snugly fitting flesh colored sleeves that fasten in the back and are easily hidden under clothing. these compression sleeves help reduce swelling and fluid accumulation and may improve the final shape of the arms and the appearance of the scars. lifting pushing and pulling should be very light for 6 weeks after surgery. i typically recommend about 7-10 days off of work for a desk job but a longer time off may be required if your job is very physical and requires heavy lifting. your board certified plastic surgeon can discuss your options with you and help you decide whether you'd benefit from this excellent procedure. all the best dr. skourtis.
how will my thyroid disorder influence thermage procedure results? i suffer from hypothyroidism following a surgery of the thyroid gland. my medication regimen consists of hormone replacement therapy to balance hormone levels. i am a bit overweight and i
basically you are no longer hypothyroid because you are taking thyroid hormone. now you are euthyroid hypothyroidism have no influence on thermage and vica versa.
how will my thyroid disorder influence thermage procedure results? i suffer from hypothyroidism following a surgery of the thyroid gland. my medication regimen consists of hormone replacement therapy to balance hormone levels. i am a bit overweight and i
if your thyroid level is in the normal range then the thyroid situation should not interfere with any therapy.
how to get rid of water weight gain?
low salt diet decreasing fluid intake. need to find out the cause- kidney disease heart disease liver disease low albumin.
have had lap band surgery and tummy tuck with breast lift. starting to gain some weight back can i take an appetite depressant? i am a 49 year old female married 30 years have 4 children. i have had a lap band surgery 2 1/2 years ago and 16 months ago a
seeing your lap-band surgeon. maybe you need a little more fluid in the lap-band?
how much water should i be drinking now that i'm working out more often? i have started a new exercise regime in order to lose weight. is the standard 8 glasses of water a day sufficient or should i be hydrating more? should i be drinking something other
yes a good rule of thumb is eight 8 oz glasses of h2o daily. but increase intake if high level of perspiration hot climate length of exercise. weighing yourself prior to your exercise then afterwards gives you an idea of how much water weight you've lost which you should try to match with fluids. adding some electrolytes to your water can help with "salt" loss.
how much water should i be drinking now that i'm working out more often? i have started a new exercise regime in order to lose weight. is the standard 8 glasses of water a day sufficient or should i be hydrating more? should i be drinking something other
eight glasses of water with 8 ounces/glass is a good ballpark figure. however you may need to hydrate more depending on the level and intensity of exercise as well as the climate. if you are trying to lose weight you should be aware that any measurable weight change immediately following exercise is due to water loss. in other words if you lose 2 pounds right after a workout you are dehydrated by that amount. the dehydration affects all systems including delivery of nutrients to muscles removal of metabolic waste products and regulation of body temperature. if your weight is the same after a workout and/or if your urine is clear (as opposed to dark or concentrated) then you are probably ok on fluids. water is an adequate replacement. for more extreme conditions (like running a marathon) it may be helpful to use a sports drink which has additional electrolytes. if your goal is to lose weight don't lose more than 2 pounds per week and make sure that that weight loss is fat rather than muscle mass or water. good luck!
hi i am recovering from a 6month deep depression am on lovan60mg zyprexa5mg feel amazing now but scared of my sudden weight gain. please help. thanks?
i'm glad you're feeling better. about a third of people who start zyprexa (olanzapine) will develop weight gain diabetes and high cholesterol as well. weight gain with lovan (fluoxetine) is not associated with these things. see a doctor to check this. you will have to consider the risk of relapse vs the side effects. perhaps you can slowly taper to weight neutral meds like bupropion or aripiprazole?
how will my thyroid disorder influence thermage procedure results? i suffer from hypothyroidism following a surgery of the thyroid gland. my medication regimen consists of hormone replacement therapy to balance hormone levels. i am a bit overweight and i
hypothyroidism can cause chronic swelling of the tissue. and almost negate any benefit from thermage. if the hormone levels are normal with replacement therapy some success may be achievable.
how will my thyroid disorder influence thermage procedure results? i suffer from hypothyroidism following a surgery of the thyroid gland. my medication regimen consists of hormone replacement therapy to balance hormone levels. i am a bit overweight and i
there is no known interference between thyroid medication and thermage.
hiatal hernia is there surgery for it.?
surgery for a hiatal hernia can be done. the surgery is called a fundoplication and these days its a laparoscopic surgery that should be small incisions with surgery lasting 1-2 hrs in length and 1-2 days in the hospital. this procedure should fix hiatal hernias and help improve and reflux symptoms you might have. but should only be done for symptomatic or larger hiatal hernias.
hiatal hernia is there surgery for it.?
absolutely. it is almost always done laparoscopically with small incisions. it involves getting the stomach and distal esophagus back into the abdomen and fixing the defect in the diaphragm by suturing the diaphragmatic crura back together. some surgeons will reinforce this repair with a biological or synthetic prosthesis. in the majority of cases an anti reflux procedure (fundoplication) is done.
how does obesity cause swelling of the legs?
there are two mechanisms by which obesity tends to cause leg swelling (edema). excess weight tends to compress the veins that are supposed to take fluid out of your legs. also obesity is usually associated with getting less exercise which is important for helping the veins to do their job. one final thought is that obesity is associated with an increased risk of clots which can cause leg swelling.
how can i reduce kidney pain resulting from kidney stones cystine stones and persistent renal pain reducing it naturally by diet.?
cystine stones and cystinuria is a rare autosomal recessive disease. stone formation occurs because cystine is not very soluble in urine. pain is related to stones or crystals or both. diet must be low protein and high in fruit and vegetable. you require 3-4 liters of fluid per day bicarbonate (sodium bicarbonate) and citrate supplements and close follow up. meds that dissolve cystine crystals work but have hazards.
how should i treat hiatal hernia?
if you are like most people you are using "hiatal hernia" to mean gastroesophageal reflux disease(gerd). proven rx include dietary changes avoidance of caffeine tobacco and alcohol wt loss and acid-lowering meds. if your symptoms are bad at night putting the head of the bed up on blocks helps as does eating dinner early. if symptoms persist it's best to see a gi dr(gastroenterologist).
how should i treat hiatal hernia?
rarely hiatal hernias are treated by surgery. usually patients are told to avoid foods that cause acid reflux like chocolate alcohol coffee tomato sauce.
hw many times during pregnacy are u suppoe to go for an ultrasound to check the babies weight gain?
most women in the western world get 3 prenatal scans: at 12 20 and 32 weeks for dating anatomy and growth respectively. high risk cases (diabetes mellitus; hypertensive disorders; obesity; lupus; multiples; thyroidopathies; smoking; amniotic fluid aberrations; fetal anomalies; vaginal bleeding or chronic placental abruption) merit additional growth scans at 28 or 36 weeks. your ob/mfm will decide.
how does tumescent liposuction differ from smartlipo? are tumescent liposuction and smartlipo the same thing? if not what's the difference? .
most smart lipo is performed as tumescent lipo but not all tumescent lipo is smart lipo. tumescence is simply a description of the way that the area is numbed (by injecting numbing fluid). vaser lipo and even traditional lipo can all be done with tumescence.
how does tumescent liposuction differ from smartlipo? are tumescent liposuction and smartlipo the same thing? if not what's the difference? .
tumescent is a type of anesthesia not liposuction. any type of liposuction can be performed under tumescent anesthesia. in tumescent liposuction a fluid containing numbing medicine is gently inserted underneath the skin so the procedure itself is painless.
how does tumescent liposuction differ from smartlipo? are tumescent liposuction and smartlipo the same thing? if not what's the difference? .
tumescence is what is done before liposuction. it is injecting some fluid into the areas to be suctioned. what it does is minimizing blood loss during liposuction and making fat removal easier. liposuction can be done in many ways: by a syringe vacuum pump power assisted ultrasonic etc. tumescence is used for almost all of them
how long should i wait to see a dr. if it feels like i have water in my ear sometimes i have some virgo with it for 2 days now
i agree with dr. benda above. eustachian tube problems can cause pressure sensations in the ear and cause muffled hearing occasional pain and fellings of dizziness--usually just poor balance but occasionally also vertigo (the feeling of motion/spinning). meneire's disease is caused by too much pressure/fluid in the inner ear (as opposed to the middle ear this is found in an ear infection). it can cause the spinning vertigo along with fluctuating hearing loss full feeling in the ear (usually one side) and tinnitus (ring/roar/hum etc. ). these symptoms are usually associaed together in meneire's. this is a chronic problem that can be managed with medications but those that do not respond can get surgery. this problem needs a hearing test and evaluation with an otolaryngologist (ent).
how long should i wait to see a dr. if it feels like i have water in my ear sometimes i have some virgo with it for 2 days now
without associated pain and discharge from the ear canal your symptoms may be reflective of an inner ear problem. a sense of fullness or pressure in the ear hearing loss that fluctuates and episodic vertigo can suggest meniere's disease. a more detailed history ear exam and audiometric testing would seem appropriate. while not urgent i would still have it checked out particularly if symptoms have been present for a week or more. in the mean time it is reasonable to avoid products/substances that can aggravate inner ear fluid balance such as foods high in sodium sugar alcohol and caffeine.
how much swelling will i have after chin liposuction? i've seen some people complaining that they looked worse after chin liposuction than before. does it really cause that much swelling? .
you need to wear a compressive garment after chin liposuction to prevent swelling. if you don't by gravity post operative fluid will build up under your chin and when it gets ultimately absorbed will leave irregularities or lumps.
how important is it to wear my compression garment after vaser liposuction? i've seen some doctors say they don't think it really helps and they don't even give their patients the garment to wear after vaser liposuction. does that mean i don't need to wo
compressive garment will keep the swelling down prevents fluid build up called seroma and will help you help in good shape. not wearing it could compromise the result. it also feels more comfortable to move around with it.
have backed up water in my ear that won't dissapear and i've had a cold for a month. i tried everything.
a cold or other upper respiratory tract infection can cause the eusachian tubes to swell and not allow them to relieve the pressure in the middle ear. it feels likel there is pressure in the ear you can get fluid in the middle ear sometimes pain popping etc. a cold that last for longer than 14 days should be seen by a doctor. ear symptoms after a cold/uri can last up to 2 months.
have backed up water in my ear that won't dissapear and i've had a cold for a month. i tried everything.
assuming you have serous otitis media ( clear or amber fluid seen in middle ear space often precipitated by viral upper respiratory infections) the likelihood of spontaneous resolution at 4 weeks is approximately 60% 80% by 2 months and 90% by 3 months. in other words the longer one waits the greater the likelihood of it resolving on its own. most ent physicians begin to consider draining the fluid from the ear (myringotomy +/- tympanostomy tubes) after 8 weeks of persistent fluid. in an adult (where typically problems like this are less common than in children) and particularly if the problem is unilateral a nasophayngoscopy is important to rule out a space-occupying growth that may be interfering with normal eustachian tube function. patients with cold-like symptoms such as nasal drainage ear and nasal blockage may attribute this to a "cold" when in fact it represents a more serious problem. i don't say this to unnecessarily worry you only to highlight other things we as physicians consider. i would have an ent phsician examine you to put your mind at rest and treat you appropriately. in the mean time i would recommend a trial of topical nasal afrin for 3-5 days every 12 hours and attempt periodic gentle attempts at popping your ears (autoinsufflation) to try to open up the eustachian tubes.
how does sleep apnea affect arterial blood gas?
if the blood gas is taken while the person is awake the results are likely to be normal unless there is an underlying breathing or lung disorder. if taken while asleep it could show a low oxygen level a higher than normal co2 level but these changes are constantly fluctuating on a breath by breath basis.
how can i get constipation relieved when on a low calorie diet?
low calorie diet should include high fiber meals and you need to drink 80-100 ounces of noncafeinated non alcoholic fluid daily. calories have nothing to do with constipation.
how can i get weight loss without losing muscle?
you need adequate protein (about 70 g/day) of good quality. plus you need some carbs. also adequate vitamins minerals fluid fiber. and of course you need to exercise especially some weight lifting exercise. all this will minimize loss of lean mass however with significant weight loss you will lose some lean body mass. it is inevitable because the excess fat makes you "overmuscled".
had gastric bypass. i stay extremely thirsty but my blood sugar stays around 100. anything i can do?
the normal blood sugar rules out diabetes or similar problems. the first treatment is just to drink more fluids. the thing to be watching out for are sources of increased fluid losses--e. g. excessive urination diarrhea excessive sweating or fever. if you are still in the early post-operative period your gut may still be hiding some fluid losses from your system inside.
had gastric bypass. i stay extremely thirsty but my blood sugar stays around 100. anything i can do?
my understanding is that this is a temporary problem which many people experience following such an operation. suddenly you can't just drink a whole glass of water at once. you don't have enough room anymore. it gets better. some patients recommend sucking on ice or popsicles. having something that wet and cold in your mouth may be satisfying. don't gulp down fluids! hang in there!
how is gestational diabetes outcome correlated to polyhydramnios?
if mom's blood sugar is high the baby's is too. the same way high sugars cause an adult to urinate more this high sugar. causes the baby to make more urine and the baby's urine is what makes up the amniotic fluid.
how could diabetes be a cause of polyhydramnios?
if mom's blood sugar is high the baby's is too. the same way high sugars cause an adult to urinate more this high sugar. causes the baby to make more urine and the baby's urine is what makes up the amniotic fluid.
how can i slow down hair loss after bariatric surgery?
after any surgery especially one that dramatically changes your nutritional intake; it's called "telogen effluvium. " it's temporary and the hair will grow back but it might take awhile (weeks to months). it's worrisome i know; happened to me after an operation and i knew what it was and knew it would grow back and it still freaked me out! but rest assured it's a temporary thing.
have gestational diabetes and low amniotic fluid. shouldnt it be high?
i don't think so.
have gestational diabetes and low amniotic fluid. shouldnt it be high?
if your gdm is in good control your afi should be normal. if you are on insulin most obs start weekly afi checks once or twice a week nsts @ 32-34 wks. an afi 25 is too much (poly). if not normal or borderline your ob will give you a plan of action. usually gdm pts don't have low fluid unless something else is going on. check with your doc.
how close to my ideal weight do i need to be for liposuction? i struggle with my weight and would like to get extensive liposuction to get my body looking the way i want. how close do i have to be to my idea weight to be a good candidate? .
liposuction is not a form of weight loss. the most that is removed during liposuction is about 10 pounds. the ideal candidate is close to their ideal weight with localized areas of fat that are disproportionate. most important is a stable weight. large fluctuations in weight can redistribute fat and undo any benefits gained. if your weight is stable then fat can be selectively removed from the problems areas. this can reshape your body and reduce areas that are too full improving proportions. when the weight is maintained the results are usually maintained.
how to watch my weight without having to eat vegetables?
use loseit livestrong or any of many smart phone apps to keep track of calories nutrition exercise weight fluctuation. easy and fun. effective. can have a friend also watch your progress and encourage you.
has prozac (fluoxetine) caused excessive hunger or weight gain?
i am not sure about hunger but weight gain is listed as one of the side effects so it's possible.
how common is weight gain on luvox (fluvoxamine)?
this is not one of the more common side effects. indeed it is more likely that one will lose weight when taking this medication. however some people do gain weight when taking it.
how common is weight gain on luvox (fluvoxamine)?
my own experience has been 50:50 with more weight gain on the regular release & wt. neutral or some wt. drop on the luvox-cr form.
how good is mesotherapy for hair loss?
androgenic alopecia is a common disorder affecting both men and women. both androgenic alopecia and telogen effluvium can be treated with mesotherapy with results ranging from good to excellent. during the fourth international mesotherapy congress in 1985 the first paper outlining a protocol on this topic was presented by dr. philippe petit.
how to lose weight and varicose veins: if i lose weight will the veins go away?
no varicose veins will not go away with weight loss. varicose veins are a result of broken valves in your superficial veins thus causing increased pressure in your veins which results in varicosities. deep vein reflux and /or chronic dvts can also cause varicose veins. none of these can be fixed by weight loss.
how extensive is the gastric bypass surgery?
the gastric bypass is now laparoscopic and takes about one hour. most patients go home the next day. back at work in 2 wks. driving to store in one week. in experienced hands about as safe as appendectomy. specifically suited for patients with significant acid reflux (heartburn) or severe diabetes.
how can i avoid gaining too much weight with pregnancy?
weight while you are pregnant. the idea is not to gain too much more than the recommended by following good eating habits. baby: 7-8 pounds placenta: 1-2 pounds amniotic fluid: 2 pounds uterus: 2 pounds maternal breast tissue: 2 pounds maternal blood : 4 pounds fluids in maternal tissue: 4 pounds maternal fat and nutrient stores: 7 pounds.
how can i prevent myself from overeating?
you should probably be working with a dietician on portion control and a counselor on the emtional porblems that influence you to over eat. you may need to consult other professioanals to.
how much should i be eating 3 months post-op from gastric bypass?
the purpose of a gastric bypass is to lose weight safely. the easy way to do that is to drink lots of fluid and eat several small meals a day. it is possible to out-eat your bypass and regain lost weight. don't get caught in that trap.
can hiatal hernia affect my child?
while reflux can occur in children having a hiatal hernia is less common. most hiatal hernias develop over the course of a person's life.
can hiatal hernia affect my child?
if you have a hiatal hernia you will likely have more heart burn during your pregnancy but it won't hurt your child. hiatal hernia is mostly a problem affecting grown ups. congenital hernia is not common and most kids can "out grow" their reflux problems. however if your child has a hiatal hernia in association to frequent reflux see a pediatric gi doc or surgeon to discuss treatment options.
can hiatal hernia affect my child?
i'm assuming your child has the hernia? most are asymptomatic. the most common symptoms are reflux. the larger the hernia the greater the risk. in infants and young child the symptoms can be severe enough to require surgery especially if failing to thrive or pnemonia. if no symptoms and the hernia was found incidently can follow. if you have the hernia it wouldn't affect the child.
can my hiatal hernia increase my chance of an ulcer?
no but having a hiatal hernia may increase your risk of reflux into esophagus and perhaps increase your risk of asthma and esophageal ca if not properly managed by lifestyle and treatment. also one should check for h. pylori infection with hiatal hernia to make sure that one is not at risk for ulcers from this cause. and finally one should not eat within 2 hours of sleep to decrease reflux risk.
can my hiatal hernia increase my chance of colon cancer?
hiatal hernias can increase your chance of developing cancer of the esophagus especially if there is longstanding reflux over many years. there is no known association between a hiatal hernia and cancer of the colon.
how fast will you lose weight using something like the gym ball weight loss workout?
exercise in the gym can vary as intensity changes. good vigorous exercise may burn between 400 and 800 cal/hr but that is very vigorous exercise indeed. 1 pound of fat is equivalent to 3500 cal so you can do the math and see that it will take roughly 7 days of intense exercise to lose 1 pound of fat. some of your short-term weight loss may be just fluid shifts and not represent true weight loss.
how can i believe my diagnosis of high cholesterol? i eat a healthier diet than anybody i know!
for the average person diet only accounts for a small percentage of your overall cholesterol the remainder of your cholesterol is produced by your liver and influenced by genetics. if you believe that your cholesterol level is not acurately reflecting your cardiac risk you may want to request advanced testing to measure the lipoprotein particles in the blood a more specific marker of risk.
have bad reflux for years. only help is nexium (esomeprazole). can i take this forever? what are the risks? i have a good diet already.
if your problem genuinely is acid-related (e. g. reflux heartburn peptic ulcer) then liquid antacids *have to* work. simple chemistry (acid/base) dictates that this is the case. the base (antacid) neutralizes any excess acid creating water and salts. try tapering nexium (esomeprazole) and if there is heartburn use maalox (prn). stomach acid has an original reason: sterilizing and breaking down foods.
how to get rid of sleep apnea?
apnea cannot be cured only managed. weight loss eliminating alcohol consumption improving sleep hygiene are ways to influence it without active treatment. overcoming it's effects is accomplished with different types of positive pressure devices dental appliances and surgery. but you are never rid of it.
can a gastricbypass reu n y of ten years reverse itself or stop working? 10 years ago i had gastric by pass surgery i lost weight however recently i have been following same routine and i have been gaining weight like crazy. i am on an antidepressant
the roux-en-y gastric bypass is the most common and successful type of gastric bypass procedure. the surgeon begins by creating a small pouch by dividing the upper end of the stomach. this restricts the intake of food. next a y-shaped section of the small intestine is attached to the pouch to allow food to bypass the lower stomach the duodenum (the first segment of the small intestine) as well as the first portion of the jejunum (the second segment of the small intestine). the procedure creates a direct connection from the stomach to the lower segment of the small intestine literally bypassing portions of the digestive tract that absorb calories and nutrients. the success of this procedure to achieve significant long term weight loss is shown by an average 70% excess weigh loss within the firs two years after surgery. it is also been shown to be effective in stabilizing or reversing the complications of obesity including: type 2 diabetes heart disease sleep apnea gastroesophageal reflux high blood pressure and elevated cholesterol levels. the surgery should be only part of a comprehensive approach to weight control. careful monitoring pre- and post-operatively should be done in order to prevent nutritional complications after surgery and maintain weight loss. however in about 20% of patients weight gain after initial weight loss can occur. this may be due to psychological reasons such as non-adherence to diets but also from anatomic reasons such as the gastric pouch enlarging or the connection between the stomach and the bypass opening enlarging. on rare occasions a false connection between the two ends of the stomach called a gastro-gastric fistula will allow food to bypass the bypassed intestine. if you are gaining weight you should see a gastroenterologist that follows such patients or a bariatric surgeon to assess why this may be occuring. a consult with a nutritionist may also uncover whether inappropriate diet may be contributing. in some cases revision of the previous surgery may allow for weight loss.
can amyloidosis cause weight gain?
some types of amyloidosis can cause the heart or kidneys to function poorly. this could lead to fluid retention and weight gain.
can amyloidosis cause weight gain?
kidney or heart damage can lead to fluid accumulation.
can you really take prozac (fluoxetine) with any appetite suppressants?
however prozac like any ssri has a potential to cause weight gain wellbutrin (bupropion) or viiibryd may be better alternatives for people who are focused in keeping weight off.
can you really take prozac (fluoxetine) with any appetite suppressants?
i would not be combining prozac (fluoxetine) with appetite suppressants. please discuss any concerns about appetite or medication with your doctor -- s/he knows your whole situation and can advise you appropriately.
can you really take prozac (fluoxetine) with any appetite suppressants?
i can not recall any but check with your md. my patient seem to gain weight on prozac (fluoxetine). my patients take low-dose phentermine that are on prozac (fluoxetine) and do not seem to have any problems at all. however everybody's different so be sure you clear any medications you take with your doctor.
can you take xenical and prozac (fluoxetine) together?
xenical should be taken with or just before a meal. prozac (fluoxetine) should usually be taken in the evening just before bed time. there is a significant possibility that the xenical will decrease absorption of the prozac (fluoxetine) if taken together.
can you take xenical and prozac (fluoxetine) together?
yes there is no interaction between 2 medications not sure what is purpose you take xenicals.
can weight loss surgery help any other physical conditions?
the bypass sleeve and band can resolve diabetes in 90% 85% and 30%. gastric reflux is resolved in 95% 70% and 30%. all procedures can help resolve: high blood pressure sleep apnea joint disease urinary incontinence headaches pcos high cholesterol snoring and infertility. the predicted weight loss is calculated for the % excess weight and is 75-80% bypass 70% sleeve & 50% band.
could you get asthma by eating too much?
reflux ("heartburn") is a known consequence of overeating and a known asthma trigger.
could you get asthma by eating too much?
i don't care what anyone says eating too much does not cause asthma. it can cause or worsen reflux. but is does not cause asthma. reflux is a known cause for cough. not for triggering asthma. nejm published data supporting this recently.
could taking phentermine alone cause pulmonary hypertension?
pulmonary hypertension occurs after consumption of appetite suppressing drugs such as fenfluramine & dexfenfluramine which have been commonly prescribed with phentermine. when used alone it can still cause pulmonary hypertension & a lot of other serious side effects. please consult your doctor to discuss the risks versus benefits before taking any medication.
how long does it take to lose weight from pregnancy?
if you were unlucky ones who did not lose much weight after birth check your face hands and ankles. are they swollen? the good news is that you should lose most that fluid weight in about 2-3 weeks by urinating and perspiring more frequently.
how long would it take for an obese person to starve to death?
the same as a non-obese person. a person can live about 3-4 days without any fluid intake and about 7-10 days without food.
how long to heal after gastric bypass surgury for acid reflux disease?
acid reflux is virtually gone in the recovery room since all acid and bile can no longer go up the esophagus. some patients still have an irritated esophagus from prior acid reflux which must heal after the surgery.
how long to heal after gastric bypass surgury for acid reflux disease?
gastric diversion or gastric bypass when performed for severe reflux disease is done laparoscopically and therefore most people would take a week off of work. the complete healing processes takes longer and you may have dietary restrictions of a liquid diet for a week to months depending on your procedure and your surgeon's recommendations.
could having surgery for my hiatal hernia also help my gerd?
gerd is associated with hiatal hernias. acid refluxes from the stomach to the distal esophagus in the chest since pressure is lower there. a defective sphincter is also to blame. surgery replaces the upper stomach and lower esophagus to a more normal abdominal location closes the hiatal defect and wraps the upper stomach around the esophagus to restore sphincter competency.
can i still have surgery for my gerd if i had a hiatal hernia repaired 2 years ago?
yes you can but it is highly probable that you already had an anti reflux operation. some gerd symptoms may still occur even if nothing is wrong with previous operation. you should see your surgeon who may need to do some testing. redo operation however should generally be done by someone with extensive experience with these types of operations.
could diet pills have severe side effects when mixed with alcohol?
it depends on the type of diet pills. some are in the category of stimulants which suppress one's appetite. therefore one may be able to drink more alcohol without feeling sleepy for example. this may lead to a dangerous situation like trying to drive while under the influence. as such i would be very careful. a single glass of wine or one beer is okay but i would stop there. good luck.
can weight loss pills worsen my heart condition?
one particular type of weight loss medication pen/fen (fenfluramine/phentermine) is no longer on the market. when it was available this medication was well known to cause valvular heart disease. the trade names were pondimin and redux.
could i have cervical or ovarian cancer if i haven't had a period in 2 years? i have always struggled with my weight. so i am overweight. could that hyave something to do with it too. my weight has always fluxuated.
easy enough to screen for ovarian and cervical cancer would be unusual if you are less than 30 though. more likely it is due to insulin resistance syndrome and depressed sex hormone binding globulin (shbg). this would also be the reason you have been struggling with your weight issues. could also be polycystic ovarian syndrome pcos also due to insulin resistance.
could i have cervical or ovarian cancer if i haven't had a period in 2 years? i have always struggled with my weight. so i am overweight. could that hyave something to do with it too. my weight has always fluxuated.
consider visiting your gynecologist regarding your lack of regular periods. obesity and lack of regular periods can be related to endometrial cancer. your gynecologist may recommend that you undergo an endometrial biopsy.
can i have multiple liposuction procedures? i am dissatisfied with several areas of my body including my buttocks knees thighs and abdomen. i read that only a certain amount of fat can be taken out during a liposuction procedure. is recommended to have
yes assuming you are a good candidate for liposuction surgery ( not overweight but concerned with localized areas of adipose tissue and good quality skin elasticity) several areas can be treated at the same time. safety should be your surgeon's and your first priority with careful attention paid to volumes of tissue removed fluid “resuscitation” duration of surgery etc.
can i have multiple liposuction procedures? i am dissatisfied with several areas of my body including my buttocks knees thighs and abdomen. i read that only a certain amount of fat can be taken out during a liposuction procedure. is recommended to have
the goal of liposuction is to improve the body contour. one is at a healthy weight & in good physical condition. if one gains weight after liposuction the fat cells in areas not suctioned get disproportionately large giving an odd shape & more internal unhealthy fat (i. e. on the omentum). safe mount suctioned is based on the idea of an "internal burn" with needed fluid & protein & blood to heal.
can't lose weight no matter how hard i try. i eat 1340 calories a day and workout twice a day for 30 minutes. i have thyroid test and all. any suges?
it's not just the calories that count but also the quality of the calories. a low glycemic index diet is the healthiest diet. definitely eliminate processed foods if you have not already. consider eliminating gluten & dairy as many people have sensitivities to these proteins. consider probiotics; new evidence suggests gut health stongly influences weight loss.
how can i control binge eating and lose weight?
support groups & self-help groups such as eating do anonymous & overeaters anonymous nutritional counseling with a dietitian recreational activities cognitive therapy (behaviors result from our own thoughts not from outside influences) and medications such as orlistat cortisol zinc (discuss these with your doctor).
how can i help a low functioning morbidly obese adult?
its very hard to change someone's behaviour unless they want to. however i think having a positive influence showing them how healthy food can be yummy exercise can be fun or just moving around can be may motivate them to make a change. also emphasizing their improved quality of life. berating someone or negative talk most likely will not lead to any real change. they have heard it before.
how can i prevent myself from binging while im fasting?
support groups & self-help groups such as eating do anonymous & overeaters anonymous nutritional counseling with a dietitian recreational activities cognitive therapy (behaviors result from our own thoughts not from outside influences) and medications such as orlistat cortisol zinc (discuss these with your doctor).
can acid reflux cause weight loss?
there is a possibility that gerd (gastroesophogeal reflux disease) could lead to weight loss if the severity of the illness was so severe that you were being malnourished as a result. if you have frequent symptoms of acid reflux despite treatment with over the counter or prescription medication you need to contact a gastroenterologist and have an exam and upper endoscopy.
can acid reflux cause weight loss?
if the reflux is so severe that you are not eating and taking in enough calories yes it can cause weight loss. if this is the case you should be seen expediently by a gi doctor or surgeon and get an endoscopy of the gi tract to see what is going on. stricture tumor and infection could be present and causing this. this sounds extreme and i would not put it off. see doctor now!
could i have a hiatal hernia? i had my appendix out in april. ever since i've been dealing with constipation. only going 1 time per week. feels like something is stuck in the center of my abdomen between xiphoid process and umbilical area. there's a cons
you should research low or no cost clinics in your area. also call your local county hospital for assistance. you could very well have a hiatal hernia and/or gastritis ulcers reflux disease esophagitis etc. the only way to know is by having an appropriate work up and diagnostic tests. in the meantime start taking daily over the counter prilosec. in addition avoid ibuprofen advil spicy foods caffeine acidic foods and chocolate. best of luck.
can i have a gastric sleeve surgry with disrythmia?
generally speaking yes. whether it is atrial fibrillation atrial flutter etc. even if you are on coumadin (warfarin) you can usually undergo a weight loss operation. you would need to have a full cardiac workup and clearance from your cardiologist but after that there shouldn't be any barriers to having surgery.
can drinking too much water ever be a bad thing or cause weight gain?
excessive water intake generally is more than 80 ounces is named potomania psycogenic polydipsia. may produce abnormal sodium'(hyponatremia) increase extracellular fluid volume edema could produce liver cardiac kidney damage and 'gain weight' because water shifts into the cell acting like a renal failure inappropriate adh (vasopressin) excess etc.
can i take an h2 blocker with a proton pump inhibiter? i'm having trouble with a hiatal hernia gerd and sour stomach
if your reflux is so severe that you need to be on both medicines medicine may not be the best way to go. symptoms of reflux shoudl go away with medicine. if they don't surgical correction of your hiatal hernia may be necessary.
can there be a natural remedy for acid reflux disease barretts esophagus and hiatal hernia?
keeping the intra-abdominal pressures low is the key to keeping food/acid from refluxing into your esophagus. if you keep your head about 30 degrees (using cinder blocks under the bed posts is an inexpensive way to do this) of the parallel most reflux is prevented. weight loss also reduces abdominal pressure and keeps the food where it should be. good luck!
can there be a natural remedy for acid reflux disease barretts esophagus and hiatal hernia?
if your reflux is so severe that you have barretts i would suggest aggressive action. barretts is early signs of the esophagus cells changing to cancer cells. you do not want to see how little you can do you want this fixed so you do not have esophageal cancer in 10 yrs.
can a person have gastric bypass or a lap band if they have had a nissen fundoplication? i am just curious if i am a candidate
technically yes you can have bariatric surgery after a nissen fundoplication. a previous nissen fundoplication for gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) will make bariatric surgery more difficult and put you at higher risk for certain complications such as stomach injury and leak. a gastric bypass would be the most effective procedure that would also treat gerd. if you are pursuing bariatric surgery you should let your surgeon know up front that you have had this type of procedure and make sure they would be willing to do your surgery.
can a person have gastric bypass or a lap band if they have had a nissen fundoplication? i am just curious if i am a candidate
having done a number of these procedures it can be done. a gastric bypass simply drains the area and does not prevent reflux. the band is a barrier against reflux unless it is too tight or gets a slip.
can a person have gastric bypass or a lap band if they have had a nissen fundoplication? i am just curious if i am a candidate
although all cases should be evaluated on an individual basis it could certainly be possible to have weight loss surgery after nissen (or other) fundoplication. one should consider why the fundoplication was done (usually for reflux symptoms) and incorporate this into the overall treatment plan. both lap band and sleeve gastrectomy could potentially worsen existing reflux and to perform either the fundoplication would probably need to be "unwrapped" (thus possibly leading to recurrent reflux symptoms). a gastric bypass could be done "under" the fundoplication (thus keeping it intact) and because the anatomy does not present obstruction to the flow of food (like the band does) reflux should not worsen or recur.
can the gastric sleeve be performed during the laproscopic surgery for the hiatal hernia?
the hiatal hernia (opening in diaphragm that allows for acid reflux) is usually repaired at same time as gastric sleeve. there is another type of hernia repair called a nissen that involves a wrapping o the stomach. this type of repair cannot be done with the sleeve.
can tumescent liposuction be done in conjunction with a face lift? i want to have a face lift but i also have a lot of fat under my chin. can i have tumescent liposuction for the neck fat at the same time as the face lift? .
liposuction of the neck is often done in conjunction with a facelift. tumescent fluid or just local fluid infiltration can be used and is a surgeons preference and should not make a difference. fat removal of the submental /chin area by liposuction or direct excision is part of the face/neck lift.
can you die from liposuction in your thighs and stomach? how expensive is it verses tummy tucks (witch hazel) or any kind of stomach surgery?
there have been deaths associated with lipo and most have to due with fluid overload and electrolyte imbalance. most practitioners think intumescent lipo with sedation is safer.
can a hiatal hernia or gerd cause heart symptoms and difficulty breathing?
severe symptoms such as these indicate a need for surgical repair if medicines aren't working. a surgeon with expertise in reflux disease should get involved for appropriate work up and possible surgery. severe reflux can lead to a variety of serious problems if not treated. hiatal hernias should be carefully evaluated to investigate the possibility of a paraesophageal hernia- may be serious.
can a sliding hiatal hernia ever get well by itself?
these types of hernias won't fix themselves but really are not dangerous or need treatment. they are fixed during operations performed for reflux disease but otherwise just left alone. they can get larger over the years but there's no specific activities or diet to avoid to prevent this. hope this helps!
can a sliding hiatal hernia ever get well by itself?
a hiatal hernia is an anatomic abnormality that cannot correct itself. however people mistakingly refer to a "hiatal hernia" when they mean gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd). many people with gerd have no hernia and many people with hiatal hernias do not have gerd. gerd can respond very well to conservative measures such as changes in diet wt loss medication etc.
heart failure diet to lose water retention?
the most important thing--almost the only thing--is to restrict the sodium content of your diet. sodium will cause fluid retention.
had fundoplication 2 weeks ago. still taking ppi for acid stomach but less than before. will this improve? also my throat swells + voice is hoarse.
don't know what you were like before. sounds like reflux but may not be. call your surgeon see your doc.
how can i enjoy pepper sauce & spicy foods without the harsh effects of diarrhea and stomach pains? ! i refuse to give up my spicy food cravings!
millions and millions of people enjoy spice without either stomach pain or diarrhea. do you have an ulcer? do you have reflux (where stomach acid abnormally comes up into the tube between your stomach and your throat causing a burn)? do you eat the spice in a bowl of greasy fat filled or fried food instead of over roasted lean meats or vegetables? find the cause to make it better.
how long after fundoplication do you get the full benefits of the surgery?
the operation will provide protection from reflux immediately. however you experimce some pain with eating feeling full and some esophageal spasm for a few weeks but you should not feel reflux symptoms.
can taking weight loss pills have an affect on pregnancy? mom took them in 70s
dehydration from weight loss pills or worse scant amniotic fluid both have an effect on developing pregnancies when used. potassium losing diuretics are the most common form of weight loss pill.
can you do abdominal exercises such as sit-ups if you have a hiatal hernia?
a hiatal hernia is an enlargement of the hole in the diaphragm thru which the esophagus passes to enter into the abdomen. this usually causes no symptoms but may contribute to acid reflux if the stomach slides thru this hole into the chest. theoretically increased abdominal pressure such as ab exercises may accentuate this reflux; if so this would cause heartburn at the time.
can dental problems cause an ear infection? i know it can cause ear pain but it feels like i had liquid in my ear. the pain started a few days after a bad tooth infection. can this be related?
yes dental problems can cause an ear infection. you had a bad tooth infection and started to have pain and fluid in your ear a couple of days later. i do not know whether you saw a dentist for the infected tooth. if you did he should have placed you on antibiotics to clear up the infection before he treats the tooth. if you did not see a dentist and are not on medication for treatment of the infection it will travel to other areas of you head including sinus and ears. your pain is due to the infection and the water or fluid buildup in the ea r causing pressure and pain. this usually is in the back of the eardrum. my advice to you is too seek medical treatment for the infection if you have not already to stop it from spreading to other parts of the body. please see a dentist or a doctor and take care of this. it will not get better by itself!
could it be hiatus hernia that is causing gerd?
a hiatal hernia can be a cause of food reflux into the esophagus causing heartburn or esophageal injury or esophagitis. other people with reflux can be from a weakness in the muscle at the junction of the stomach and esophagus without hiatal hernia.
could i take diflunisal(dolobid) along with lipo 6 black ultra concentrate?
dolobid is safe for mild arthritis pain. the other stuff who knows? is it even inspected by the pa department of agriculture if not beware other imported agents have been sold and had stuff like cortisone butazolidine whenb analyzed ina lab.
can you give me some good tips for monthly food cravings?
list down what you crave for and slowly ration the quantities of each food item while substituting with fluids.
how to loose belly fat quickly as posible?
quickness does not happen with belly weight. this is very heavily vascularized ''fluffy'' fat very resistant to burn. diet with complex carbs fiber protein good fats plenty of water and avoiding sweets help. you need frequent low calorie(200-300) feeings to keep insulin levels low. without excess insulin this fat will burn with time. keep at it inches will go down before weight.
have mucus that comes up into throat i assume from my lungs as my sinus' are clear. it has been going on for 5 years now with no diagnosis. feel bad and sometimes a little short of breath more a heaviness feeling. have had pft and test for asthma foo
asthma is still possible even if pft doesn't show it. less likely if you have had metacholine challenge not sure if that is what you mean by test for asthma. acid reflux is another possibility as well as occupational exposures to fumes or chemicals that may irritate your airways without actually causing asthma. i assume you don't smoke; if you do that would explain everything.
have i an ear infection icant hear out of my ear it sextremly sore when i blow my nose it makes a very loud crackling noise in my ear is very sore?
the symptoms you are describing seem consistent with middle ear inflammation and fluid accumulation. if you have not been evaluated already go in to your doctor. he/ she will determine how best to manage your symptoms.
how long does decreased appetite associated with teething last?
teething symptoms will be different for every child. decreased appetite can be associated with teething and only your child will no how long this will last. provide loving support teething rings the correct dose of tylenol (acetaminophen) for severe pain and plenty of fluids until your child completes teething. remember teething is a natural life process. your child will get through it just as you did.
how long does decreased appetite associated with hand foot mouth last?
mostly poor appetite due to pain and fever. when the lesions subside the appetite usually gets better. advise: lots of fluids.
how many nutritionists support the usda food pyramid?
i have no idea & don't know how to find out- like any area of medicine there are many different philosophies/approaches to nutrition. i am sure many nutritionists support it but am quite certain that many find it lacking. the usda food pyramid is ultimately a political document designed by committee influenced by special interests. i much prefer <link>
can certain medicines cause lots of weight gain?
some medicines can stimulate your appetite and/or make you retain fluid - the net effect of either is weight gain. let me be clear though: not all medicines do this! each medicine should be considered on its own merits/risk of adverse reaction.
can i take phentermine chantix and celexa (citalopram). i'm healthy and lowestdoseof each?
combining phentermine and another sri called fenfluramine led to the so-called fen-phen crisis in the 90's when 1 000's developed pulmonary hypertension a non-reversible often fatal debilitating condition. we discovered this because the fen-phen craze created a huge study population. there's no reason to think another sri (celexa) won't interact the same way. wanna be the cel-phen guinea pig?
how to diet and not become weak?
enough protein calories minerals fluid vitamins. cut out junk simple sugars minimize alcohol. small frequent meals can help; don't skip breakfast; protein at every meal.
can diet help lupus nephritis?
to my knowledge there is no specific diet recommended that can help the course of lupus nephritis. however most people with kidney damage are placed on certain dietary restrictions such as salt potassium and fluid intake. much of this depends on the degree of kidney damage involved.
could prozac (fluoxetine) be the cause of my weight gain?
weight gain is listed as a possible side effect but weight loss is listed too. depression itself can also cause weight loss or weight gain.
can eating to much fast food block up your intestines and cause acid reflux?
fast food is notorious for being low in fiber & generally high in calories from concentrated sweets & fat. fats delay stomach emptying & promote reflux. dietary fats also promote release of cck & substance y which alters gut sensitivity contracts the gallbladder & prompts the "ileal brake" which in predisposed patients causes bloating & fullness. choose instead salads fruits & whole grains.
can eating to much fast food block up your intestines and cause acid reflux?
there is no connection with eating too much food and block in intestines and acid reflux if your question is if eating too much food causes acid reflux the answer is no. food stays in stomach in the stomach for 4to5hours if you eat too much of solid food and it can give you a bloated. acid feflux is caused by different mechanism.
can massages help remove the apperance of cellulite?
massage does promote better circulation and can improve soft tissue health. combined with other behaviors to promote a healthy lifestyle (diet and exercise) massage can contribute to healthier fat metabolism. massage can influence the body's management of fluid and temporarily affect the appearance they same way a facial makes skin look better. its effects last as long as you continue it.
can noticeable weight be gained after one day of overeating?
it takes about 3500 calories to gain one pound. that's a lot. the key to weight control is consistency. one occassional "cheat day" shouldn't make a difference. on the other hand if a person is gaining water weight by retaining fluid that can be the sign of a more serious condition with the heart or the kidneys and should be evaluated by the appropriate medical specialist.
can enalapril cause weight gain?
if enalapril causes kidney failure then the weight gain would be related to fluid retention. if you just started it then it is standard of care to check for this with bloodwork within the first week.
hi my dad aged 57 is recently diagnosed with diabtetes he is not overweight. he does hard work daily but i donot understand why he got diabetes?
most diabetes is inherited. the genetics may be slightly or greatly prominent so the age of onset and severity will vary accordingly. diet aerobic fitness and % body fat also influence the age and severity. if habits are unhealthy dm shows up sooner.
had treatment for external otitis then my ear worsened started ringing 24/7. had a painful pop felt fluid in my ear and it seams much better now.?
congrats! the pressure that was build up through the inflammatory processed has been released and and inflammatory fluid has washed out of your ear. keep clean please.
had treatment for external otitis then my ear worsened started ringing 24/7. had a painful pop felt fluid in my ear and it seams much better now.?
the pop was likely your ear canal opening up or may have been your eardrum moving rapidly. try taking an oral decongestant for a few days as this may help open your eustachian tube. not getting better go see your doctor.
how does liver disease affect the quality of life?
liver disease is complex varied and fluctuates meaning that no one person’s experience of liver disease is the same as another’s. your experience of liver problems may vary from day to day. treat every day in as positive a manner as you can. talk to others in your situation. above all don't beat yourself up. look forward not back.
how does liver disease affect the quality of life?
early liver disease may not have many symptoms but end stage gives u cirrhosis (hardening of liver) that leads to increase pressure in blood vessels that drain bowel and can lead to varicose veins in esophagus bleeding hemorrhoid hernias trouble clotting and making protein (leads to fluid build up) fatigue inability to detoxify toxins leading to delirium (altered mental status). .
what is mastitis?
mastitis is an infection of the breast tissue. it is intensely painful particularly while nursing. many women may experience flu-like symptoms and high fever in addition to the pain. though it is fine to continue breast feeding your baby you should contact your obstetrician as you may need to take antibiotics in order to resolve the infection.
what are the symptoms of mastitis?
mastitis is an infection in the tissue of the breast. it usually caused by a common bacteria (like staph or strep) found on skin. the bacteria enter through a break or crack in the skin usually on the nipple. the infection takes place in the fatty tissue of the breast and causes swelling. this can feel like a hard painful lump and may be red or warm. you may have a fever and flu like symptoms.
what is the best treatment for mastitis?
antibiotics. treating mastitis usually requires a 10- to 14-day course of antibiotics. you may feel well again 24 to 48 hours after starting antibiotics but it's important to take the entire course of medication to minimize your chance of recurrence. also remeber to rest and continuing breast-feeding and drinking extra fluids and importantly fully empty your breasts during breast-feeding.
could you tell me how much green tea should i drink to lose weight?
there's no magic amount that you need to drink in order to lose weight. it is a healthful method of including fluids and to that extent it is valuable.
can i lose weight from sweating?
you will temporarily lose weight with sweating but as soon as you drink your body will replace that fluid. this is not real weight loss since it represents only a temporary shift. weight loss only comes from burning calories not sweating. if exercise causes you to sweat then weight loss that is real will be from the exercise not the sweat.
can i lose weight while i'm breast feeding?
weight loss is all a calorie in/calorie out deal. if you expend more calories in a day than you take in over time you will lose weight. make sure you are getting enough fluids to keep your milk supply going and enough variety of foods to get appropriate nutrition for the baby. other than that take your daily vitamin and enjoy the weight loss without having to work out!
can severe sleep apnea cause chest tightness in an overweight person?
chest pain can be due to an heart attack esophagitis acid reflux musculoskeletal problems gall bladder disease pericarditis pneumonia pleurisy etc. check with your doctor.
could switching to a low protein diet cause kidney stones?
depends on the stone type but fluid intake is a much more influential variable.
cytoplasmic fluorescence on ana test in pattern of liver disease further bloods negative do i need liver biopsy? or repeat tests later on?
cytoplasmic fluorescence usually means nothing. if your physician is not worried i would not be either. your physician may order a tube test for anti-ro/ssa etc. if these relate to the present concern. the workup of elevated liver enzymes / transaminases is too difficult to explain in 400 words -- glad you're taking a proactive approach in any case.
have gerd hiatal hernia had dialation xs 3 in 6month been on several meds only help awhile also have schatzki ring would i benefit the fundoloplicatio?
reflux might be the source of the ring. in that case an anti reflux operation would help but i advise a motility study of the esophagus prior to considering surgery. if motility is impaired your condition will worsen with surgery.
hi. what treatment should i take for hiatal hernia? and how can i avoid stomach pain?
many hiatal hernias require no treatment at all. often the hiatal hernia is associated with gastresophogeal reflux disease (gerd). symptoms of gerd can be treated with over the counter antacids. if these fail there are prescription strength acid blockers available. if these are ineffective you should see a gastroenerologist. less than 5% of gerd related problems require surgical correction.
how do marathoners run so long? most don't have much fat reserve?
you train your bodies systems over many months slowly. at the same time you learn the proper nutrition to fuel your body properly not only while running but pre- and post - run. also you ingest energy sources and fluids and electrolytes while running.
how can i tell if i have stretched out my gastric bypass pouch are there any symptoms?
after a bypass you can test your pouch size and emptying by a bagel test. eat mini bagels until full (in morning without any fluids). record number of bagels (could be up to two for normal). then wait 30 minutes. dont drink anything. try eating mini bagels again. ideally most of the pouch should still be full and you should only be able to eat one.
hi! i have a muffled feeling in my ear and itchy fluid feeling. giving me an imbalance. is that an infection or sinusitis since i suffer allergies?
this could very well be either the result of your allergies or be a viral infection that was helped by the congestion caused by your allergies. this could very well be a case of labyrinthitis which is an infection of the vestibular system within the inner ear. you should probably have it evaluated by your primary care doctor.
hi! i have a muffled feeling in my ear and itchy fluid feeling. giving me an imbalance. is that an infection or sinusitis since i suffer allergies?
usually a virus or an allergy. have your doc look in your ear and nose throat.
high res meno 1. severe dysfunction of the smooth muscle esoph. 2. no hiatal hernia hypotensive les with normal relaxation.? explain above cure?
based on the findings: hypothesize les normal relaxation means that you are likely to get occasional symptoms of heart burn or reflux but the lower esophageal sphincter relaxes as needed- good news. the severe smooth muscle dysfunction can occasionally be seen in people with chagas' disease. this is seen more in asiatic region. this means that your ability to swallow solid foods is diminished.
how come my weight changes daily even though i eat the same amount?
you may have sweat more one day than another. perhaps you drank different amounts of fluids. the amount of feces in your body will change your weight. you may be burning off different amounts of calories. it is normal for our weight to fluctuate slightly day to day.
have flu type a. my voice is now gone! is that normal? also when mouth breathing. it feels like breathing through a straw but not when nose breathing
influenza a virus can affect the larynx and so one may have loss of voice. the difficulty with breathing that you describe is worry some. if the fever is high and deifficulty with breathing seems significant you may want to call your md now or go to the nearest er to be evaluated.
how can i identify a hiatal hernia in 14yr? we are unable to go to doctor for quiete a while and he complains of upper stomach pain sore throat
it would be difficult to make this diagnosis without seeing a doctor. usually an upper gi barium study could show this as well as an upper endoscopy. you could try some over the counter omeprazole(prilosec) to see if this alleviated the symptoms. which would give you a presumptive diagnosis of reflux. but ultimately you should see a physician as these symptoms could be caused by other diseases.
what are some causes of fibrocystic breasts?
usual physiologic changes that include hormonal fluctuations increase or decrease of different components of breast (pregnancy lactation aging) or thick secretions can all cause fibrocystic changes. these are not associated with increase risk of cancer. regular breast exams and mammograms are still recommended.
what are some causes of fibrocystic breasts?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breasts feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
what about nipple discharge is it serious?
discharge is a pathologic process caused by a tumor or inflammation within a duct; secretion is a physiologic process. discharge tends to occur spontaneously from one duct orifice& is clear or bloody; secretion is elicited milky-green &bilateral. ~10% of discharge may be secondary to cancer although this # goes down if mammogram and exam are normal. pap smear of fluid or duct excision helpful.
will there be any sagging after i have a breast implant removal? i'm not happy with how my breast implants have appeared over time and i'm thinking about getting them removed. i'm concerned about how my breasts will look after a breast implant removal ho
it is not possible to give you advice without direct examination and a full communication of your goals. whether or not a breast lift will be necessary will depend on the amount and quality of overlying breast skin and skin elasticity. life experience since your breast augmentation procedure such as pregnancy or weight gain /weight loss will potentially influence the factors discussed above.
what are the known risks of breast reconstruction?
the two types of reconstruction are "flap" procedures where tissue is transferred from the abdomen or back to the chest or implants. both have low risks of bleeding infection fluid build-up etc. the flap procedure runs the small risk of failure; the implants can cause hardening around the capsule or even rupture. in general these are low-risk procedures in healthy women.
what are the known risks of breast reconstruction?
the risks of flaps and implants are similar bleeding infection numbness pain scarring asymmetry fluid collections wound breakdown need for further operation injury to underlying structures. with implants there is also the risk of rupture and capsular contracture. this is a discussion that must be had with you plastic surgeon prior to any operation so that you are informed.
what are the known risks of breast reconstruction?
the risks of reconstruction (specifically implants) are infection collections of blood or fluid implant failure wound healing problems skin flap circulation problems reaction to either the implants or skin substitute (i. e. allograft) asymmetry scarring or need for further surgery. by knowing the possible risks your surgeon is better prepared to avoid them.
what are the known risks of breast reconstruction?
the risks of each surgery are general interns of skin infections bleeding in the surgical site fluid build up in surgical site(s) and scarring. each technique used has different concerns. in fat grafting you are more worried about how much fat survives. with implants it is infection and scarring. with flaps it is a rare blood vessel problem that leads to partial or total loss.
can a hiatal hernia cause uou to throw up in your mouth?
a hiatal hernia can make symptoms of gastric reflux worse and sometimes cause you to regurgitate (throw up in your mouth).
can a hiatal hernia cause uou to throw up in your mouth?
a hiatal hernia is what happens when the opening of the diaphragm that allows the esophagus to pass through from the chest to the abdomen is too large and allows the top part of the stomach to slide up into the chest. it distorts the shape of the natural anti-reflux valve and causes reflux gerd trouble swallowing and even regurgitation like you are describing. it should be fixed with surgery.
can a hiatal hernia cause uou to throw up in your mouth?
reflux of gastric acid and contents secondary to a hiatal hernia can occasionally reach all the way up to the top of the throat and mouth even into the sinuses. this regurgitation of gastric contents is one of the more distressing symptoms associated with hiatal hernia / gastroesophageal reflux disease.
can peeing a lot make you lose weight?
voiding will allow you to lose a small amount of water weight but unless you stop drinking fluids or are a patient on diuretics the weight will be replaced. more importantly urine production is unrelated to the metabolism of the muscle and fat which are more important in maintaining a healthy weight. make sure you consult a doctor before starting on any risky or unproven diets.
could someone with a gastric band and a recurred hiatal hernia have a hernia repair and a gastric sleeve?
we now seem to take out 6-10 bands for every band we put in. this past year has been remarkable. most band removals are due to gastric reflux and band intolerance. in your case a band removal followed by sleeve six weeks later plus hiatal hernia repair would likely be ok. our office usually checks for severe reflux prior to sleeve to make sure you are not a better candidate for bypass.
can a small hiatal hernia cause stuck food / loose stools and gerd? i had to go to er becuase chicken was stuck said i had hernia and inflammation.
inflammation at the transition zone between esophagus and stomach can result in luminal (phenobarbital) narrowing and impede food transit. yes food may get stuck here. even a small hiatal hernia can contribute to reflux injury hence be partially responsible for causing the food to stick. most small hiatal hernias dont need surgical correction. loose bm - not generally associated with reflux problem.
could a high salt diet or high protein & fat (low carb) be to blame for my water retention?
the high salt would cause fluid retention in persons with heart or kidney disease. if healthy you should not develop edema with this diet. it is important to note that high protein diet is not sure to be safe for kidneys for the long haul i. e. a year or more. if you have fluid retention you need to have your kidneys and heart evaluated by your doctor.
could a high salt diet or high protein & fat (low carb) be to blame for my water retention?
yes high salt intake will promote fluid retention particularly if your legs are in a dependent position most of the day and you are not exercising much; high protein and fat will not necessarily retain fluid unless salt is a component. if you are dieting to lose weight be sure to include exercise and be moderate with salt; put your legs up now and then.
can melatonin cure sleep apnea related rbd? i've been using melatonin for a week not getting any better.
melatonin influences the sleep cycle. it does nothing to change the obstructions that cause apnea and related arousals. ditto for central apneas. managing sa requires medical diagnosis cpap and/or an oral mad.
can gerd cause lightheaded feeling and swollen glands? i am a 41 year old female have a hiatal hernia. feeling like food is stuck in chest as well.
i would see a doctor about the swollen glands and lightheadedness. unlikely related to hh. hiatal hernia and acid reflux could cause the esophagus to spasm or even develop scar tissue and narrowing. this would cause the feeling of food sticking or catching. i would see your doctor about getting a test to check your esophagus. if not already taking acid medication twice a day recommend doing so.
can a hiatal hernia cause mid to upper back pain?
most people usually don't have symptoms from hiatal hernias. when symptoms are present they are usually those of heartburn or reflux.
can weight loss surgery cause stomach gas acid reflux or heartburn?
reflux issues are common in the obese population. it has been attributed to the increase in intra abdominal pressure associated with morbid obesity. certain surgeries like the sleeve and an overly tight lap band can contribute to reflux. often this can be controlled by medications from your surgeon. occasionally the reflux may require combination of medicines rarely repeat surgery.
can weight loss surgery cause stomach gas acid reflux or heartburn?
the sleeve and the band can both lead to a worsening of gastric acid reflux. if we see patients with severe reflux preop we usually advise the gastric bypass since it immediately corrects the reflux.
can you loose weight but the scale read sames the?
if you've been dieting &/or exercising and your clothes fit differently even though the #s on the scale haven't changed you may be converting fat to muscle or gaining muscle while shedding excess retained fluid. water is denser (heavier for the same volume or amount of space) than muscle and muscle is denser than fat. so body size and shape can change even when #s on the scale don't move.
can oxycodone withdrawal cause seizures?
not common. opioid withdrawal usually results in flu like symptoms that usually resolve in a few days. the symptoms are rarely life threatening.
how does carpal tunnel relate to my last question about my illness's meds and wanting to lose weight?
previous question as i answer this but cts can be made worse from fluid retention excess swelling thyroid disease diabetes and many other conditions that affect metabolism.
how frequent anxiety attacks linked to testosterone levels in a 29 year old physically healthy male? can't build muscle nor lose weight. please advise
high testosterone may lead to rages and emotional fluctuations. however this is generally rare unless you are taking supplemental testosterone at higher than recommended doses. if you are concerned about your levels see your internist or endocrinologist who will measure your serum concentrations and provide better answers to your questions following a thorough evaluation.
hot flushes frequent urination waking to urinate constant urge to urinate thirsty rapid weight gain vivid dreams. thyroid/hormones normal tho so?
several possibilities should also be considered including but not limited to: peri- or postmenopausal hormonal changes possible vulvovaginal atrophy leading to urinary symptoms and weight changes as well!
hot flushes frequent urination waking to urinate constant urge to urinate thirsty rapid weight gain vivid dreams. thyroid/hormones normal tho so?
possible sugar issues. have u had your glucose levels checked? . hba1c level done? . consult your pcp.
hiatal hernia treatments. any non-surgical advice to ease this painful condition?
stomach acid refluxing back into esophagus is painful. so avoiding acid stimulation and overfilling your stomach will help. alcohol and tobacco drive acid production. also avoid large fatty meals carbonated beverages and lying down after eating (stay upright for 2 hours). check in with your doc to consider anti acid medication and referral for scoping/egd. tums (calcium carbonate) over the counter work well.
how much does liposuction typically cost?
the cost of lipo will vary depending on a number of factors. 1-the number of areas being treated 2-the type of facility and anesthesia used 3-whether this is an initial or touch-up or improvement procedure 4-the method and technology applied to the particular case also the geographical location where lipo is performed may influenced the cost. for example lipo costs in manhattan or beverly h.
what is the most likely reason a young woman would have breast lump?
the most common breast tumor is a fibroadenoma. this is a benign tumor which may be present as early as the teen years. as women age breast cysts may develop which are benign fluid-filled lumps (peak incidence ages 35-50). it is often very difficult to distinguish a lump from normal "lumpy-bumpy" tissue. when in doubt it is best to see your primary care physician or gynecologist.
what is the difference between an mammogram and a ultrasound?
different imaging studies. mammogram is usually to see breast tissue. if there is any cyst in breast sometimes ultrasound is ordered to see if this is fluid filled cyst or solid to differentiate.
what are the recommended exercises for lymphedema of the arm?
an occupational therapist can customize a program for you. compressing a hard rubber ball to work the forearm muscles biceps and triceps exercises with weights can help move fluid from the upper arm
what kind of exercises can i do for lymphedema in my legs?
any aerobic activity would be of benefit but was aerobic activities they will be increase blood flow into the legs and the lymphatic system will have to work harder. use of a compression stocking in the recovery phase is very important to help return fluid more efficiently and rapidly back towards the heart. the easiest would be low impact aerobics like elliptical or bicycle
will the scar from the breast implant removal surgery be larger than the initial one? i am considering a breast implant removal procedure due to the change of the breast shape and asymmetry. i am concerned about the size of the incision necessary for the
changes in breast shape and asymmetry after breast augmentation can be due to several different factors including weight fluctuations changes in skin elasticity capsular contracture and loss of implant integrity. the asymmetry can be corrected with additional surgery. revision breast augmentation can be rather complex because accurate evaluation of the problem is necessary in order to create the desired outcome. the surgery also takes substantially longer than a simple breast augmentation. alternatively the breast implants may be removed. this is a rather simple operation. the implants are typically removed through the same incision that was used to place them. this is true for inframammary or periareolar incisons. however umbilical or axillary incisions are not used for implant removal. saline implants can be removed through a very small incision whereas a silicone implant will need to come out through a larger incision. removal of a ruptured silicone implant is a longer operation because a total capsulectomy is typically performed. implant removal may create an undesirable breast contour. later you may consider having a breast lift (mastopexy). the scars from a breast lift must be weighed against improved shape. for more infomation: www. dassmd. com.
what are the causes of fibrocystic breast changes?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breasts feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cause the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer.
what's my chance of surviving breast cancer with each type of surgery?
survival data or prognosis is very dependent on stage of the cancer and the response to each tumor by therapy. in general the type of surgery mastectomy versus a lumpectomy when coupled with radiation therapy does not influence the survival.
what are the causes of cyclic breast pain?
this is the normal response to our changing hormone levels during the menstrual cycle. the breast become fluid filled (called cysts). this causes tenderness or pain in many women. you can look up some of my other posts to fibrocystic breasts.
can acid reflux cause weight gain?
obesity often causes gastric reflux. this is due to high pressure in the abdomen (like a pregnant person). but reflux doesn't cause obesity.
can going off zoloft (sertraline) cause weight gain/bloating? how do you rectify that without going back on zoloft (sertraline)?
weight gain or boating isn't usually a result of gradually stopping zoloft (sertraline) - bloating can actually improve on zoloft (sertraline). however in some folks there are flu-like symptoms that arise from the first couple of weeks of being on zoloft (sertraline). see below for more info. <link>
can going off zoloft (sertraline) cause weight gain/bloating? will this side effect go away the longer your off?
weight gain or boating isn't usually a result of gradually stopping zoloft (sertraline) - bloating can actually improve on zoloft (sertraline). however in some folks there are flu-like symptoms that arise from the first couple of weeks of being on zoloft (sertraline). see below for more info. <link>
can safflower oil with weight loss?
there is no proof that this oild help with wt loss. with regular medium-high intensity 5-6x/wk workout and a healthy/balanced diet along with setting a realistic steady wt loss 3-4lbs/month you can accomplish this. don't do crash diet because u will likely regain it and some more later. drink plenty of fluid especially water minimize junk foods/sweet drinks and you will succeed. good luck.
can anxiety cause back and abdomen pain? i also have a hiatal hernia could this cause sharp chest pain? all heart test came back normal.
hiatal hernia can cause chest pain but so can reflux and esophageal spasm. see a general surgeon with experience treating gerd or a gastroenterologist for a consultation. you may need some tests to figure it out.
can a person suffocate/die from eating too much?
although rare it's possible. reflux followed by aspiration in to lungs choking very rarely gi tract rupture are some of the causes in acute cases. in long term obesity kills you by metabolic syndrome and its consequences.
what is lymphedema and do you treat lymphatic disorders?
latin lympha "water goddess" - lymph is essentially recycled blood plasma. the lymphatic system returns the interstitial fluid to the thoracic duct and then to the bloodstream where it is recirculated back to the tissues. tissues with lymphedema are at risk of infection and ulcer. yes i am certified in lymphatic therapy. we use fda approved lymphedema laser therapy for lymph drainage.
what is lymphedema and do you treat lymphatic disorders?
lymphedema is a condition that causes the body to build up protein rich fluid in the affected area resulting in swelling. generally it affects the limbs but it can occur in other areas such as the abdominal region. if left untreated the fluid will eventually reduce oxygen availability to the area and may result in delay of wound healing and possible infection. i specialize in this disorder.
why does my breast implant feel hard? i've had my breast implants in for 3 years now and i've noticed that the right breast it feels hardened on one side. did it rupture? is this something to worry about?
when any implant is inserted the body reacts by forming a lining of tissue around it called the capsule. in some cases the capsule begins to shrink squeezing the implant that it surrounds. though the exact causes of capsular contracture are largely unknown there are factors that can contribute to this complication including: germ contamination during implantation seroma (the development of extra fluid around implant) hematoma (internal bleeding) infection smoking placement of implant above muscle (when placed bellow the muscle capsular contracture occurs with less frequency) depending upon the severity the breast can feel firm or hard become distorted and begin to cause pain. to cure or treat capsular contracture there are both surgical and non-surgical options. non-surgical prescribed antibiotics and vitamin e. while this is not always effective as a cure many surgeons will suggest that patients take a regular dose of vitamin e for the first year after augmentation as it helps to keep tissue soft. closed capsulotomy. the breast is forcefully squeezed in the hopes that the capsule pops or tears. this is not often done because it could cause the implant to rupture and may void the manufacturer's warranty. external ultrasound. may help reduce swelling and inflammation and does not involve any major risks. accolate. this anti-inflammatory used in the treatment of asthma has shown in minor studies to help regress capsular contracture. this is a relatively new and experimental treatment with no long-term statistical data. surgical open capsulotomy. the capsule surrounding the implant is surgically cut open in order to release the implant. after this is done however there is a chance of contracture occurring again. open capsulectomy. this is generally the most successful as well as the most intensive form of treatment. the entire capsule is removed allowing new tissue to form around the implant. in some cases surgeons will change the implant placement: for example if the implant is placed above the muscle the surgeon may place it underneath the muscle during capsulectomy in the hopes of better results.
what is lymphedema?
lymphedema is simply fluid accumulating in some part of the body quicker than the body can drain it off. it can be due to impaired drainage or too much fluid accumulation and should be checked out with your doc.
what is lymphedema?
there are 2 circulation systems in the body the vascular arteries and veins and the lymphatic. fluid leaks out of the veins slowly all day long and it should be picked up by the lymph circulation and returned to the vascular system. the immune system also uses the lymphatic circulation to move infection fighting cells. damage causes the fluid to back up and causes swelling.
what is lymphedema?
lymph fluid build up in the extremity
what is lymphedema?
lymphedema is swelling due to an abnormal collection of lymph fluid in the interstitial tissue. lymph fluid is similar to blood plasma or serum but not exactly the same. interstitial tissue is body tissue outside of blood vessels. as drs. miller nguyen and point said lymphedema occurs when the body isn't able to drain all the lymph fluid it makes bad into the blood stream.
what kind of complications might happen from a breast implant removal?
removal of breast implants is a well-tolerated procedure with less recovery than is associated with initial breast augmentation surgery. complications include infection bleeding fluid accumulation unsatisfactory skin redraping or aesthetic result. although not a complication some patients (depending on the specifics) may benefit from additional surgery such as breast lifting.
what are the symptoms of a breast cyst? i'm a 21 year old female.
breast cysts arise from fluid accumulation within a blocked milk duct. these appear to be estrogen-dependent and very common occurring in 35-50% of women aged 35-50. when small they usually are "silent"; but when large they can be quite painful. aspiration is reserved for those that are causing pain or those that are atypical in appearance by ultrasound.
what kind of complications might happen from a breast augmentation or enlargement?
breast augmentation complications can be classified into early land late complications: early: 1) bleeding 2) infection 3) seroma (fluid accumulation around implant) 4) implant exposure 5) pneumothorax (lung collapse) very rare. late: 1) capsular contracture 2) implant malposition 3) implant rupture 4) alterered nipple sensation 5) inability to breast feed.
ca you reverse or repair liver damage or liver disease?
liver disease is not only one problem. there are several causes and several stages of each. the treatments depend on the cause and the stage. there are preventions and treatments for some viral causes flukes and metabolic and alcoholic causes. ask the doctor for a discussion. you may need a liver biopsy or an ct/mri first.
can you take valium with duromine 30mg?
if u meant dalmane (flurazepam) caution regarding excess sedation & dependency if continued use.
chronic contipation. i changed to a better diet. i am little overweight. dr says everything wrong w/ me is cause im fat. what are? s i need 2 ask dr.
you should definitely consider seeing a gi doctor to help you get a normal bowel regimen. make sure you get enough fluids. you being overweight may indicate that the foods that you eat may contribute to the constipation but that is certainly not the simplistic answer.
can a constant headach everyday be a sign of fluid in head? i wake up with tension headachs on right side and i hear a swooshing sound in my ear. help
nightime clenching can cause jaw muscle imbalance where the small stabilized muscles pull on the ear canal area causing the "swooshing" sensation. better to seek a dentist that has experience with jaw muscle function.
can a constant headach everyday be a sign of fluid in head? i wake up with tension headachs on right side and i hear a swooshing sound in my ear. help
these symptoms require a thorough evaluation to find out what's going on and what can be done for you.
can weight loss cause orthostatic hypotension? lost roughly 30lbs over last 6 months unintentionally. was on celexa (citalopram) for 7 months but been off 5 mnths
the most common cause of orthostatic hypotension is dehydration. you can check the color of your urine to see if it's very concentrated -- and if it is consciously increase fluids to see if that helps. but if you've lost 30 pounds "unintentionally " this really needs investigating because it can go along with more complex causes of orthostatic hypotension. see your doctor for an exam soon.
how long after vaso liposuction will i see final results?
under normal circumstances at three months you should have a pretty good idea of what your final results are. some results are easily seen in a few weeks and more subtle changes will continue to occur for 12 months or even longer. maintaining proper diet and exercise is critically important as fluctuations in weight will affect your results.
how can a male teen lose weight as fast as possible and safely.
drink plenty of fluids/ water avoid sugary stuff. cut down on sweets starches. more proteins veges and fibers. need to be regulated with bowel habits too. you can accumulate 5 pounds of weight not having bowels for just a day! need plenty of sleep too- eight hours is very important. reach your goal and be motivated!
hiatal hernia: other than gerd (gastroesophageal reflux disease)/heartburn what other effects might it cause? is it dangerous if left untreated?
large hiatal hernias (or paraesophageal) hernias can cause chest pain difficulty swallowing and severe anemia from chronic bleeding. only rarely do they cause life threatening problems such as gangrene. they are however frequently misunderstood as the cause of symptoms so if a large hiatal or paraesophageal hernia is the diagnosis see a general or thoracic surgeon with experience in lap repair.
hiatal hernia: other than gerd (gastroesophageal reflux disease)/heartburn what other effects might it cause? is it dangerous if left untreated?
read===><link> webmd. com/digestive-disorders/hiatal-hernia. as you see the answer depends on the type of hernia you have. you gastroenterologist can follow up with you interns of what needs to be done. i assume you have some symptoms or else you wouldn't have undergone the studies.
hiatal hernia and pains in the chest arm and neck. reasons?
hiatal hernias cause gastro-esophageal reflux not neck and arm pain. rarely hiatal hernias can get big enough that they can cause pain or other symptoms but that is very rare.
will aspirating breast cyst show cancer cells or i'm just being paranoid?
breast cysts are benign fluid-filled lumps that develop due to blockage within the milk ducts. a mammogram cannot differentiate between a tumor or cyst but an ultrasound can. rarely a cyst can look atypical on ultrasound leading to the recommendation for aspiration. unless the cyst fluid is bloody it is recommended to simply discard this fluid rather than test it.
why do i need mammogram and a breast ultrasound?
mammograms use x-ray technique and are better at detecting tiny calcium deposits that may signal an early breast cancer than ultrasound. mammograms can also detect tumors. ultrasound uses soundwaves like sonar and will help determine if a lump is solid (requiring biopsy) or a cyst (fluid filled & usually not cancer). both tests work together to find breast cancer.
what exactly does a breast reconstruction tissue expander do? it's been almost a year since my mastectomy. during my breast reconstruction consultation my surgeon mentioned using a tissue expander to make room for my new breast. how does this work? .
tissue expanders are essentially balloons that can be inflated after they are inserted. for breast reconstruction this is often used when the skin is tight to make room for a breast implant. the expander is inserted with some volume inside. over the weeks to months after insertion additional fluid is injected causing expansion which stretches the overlying tissues and causing more skin to grow. it helps to over expand the skin before placing the final implant to allow a more natural appearing fold beneath the breast.
what does a lump in breast mean besides cancer? i can't focus or work or anythign today.
majority of the lumps in breast are not cancers. a "lump" can be a cyst i. e. a fluid filled sac fibrodenoma a benign mass and fibrotic breast tissue your concern is understandable however it is important to follow your doctor's advice to address this issue.
can raw potato juice really induce weight loss? if so how? what about mangoes & almonds?
weight is a matter of calories in vs. calories out. many factors influence how quickly your individual body burns calories such as exercise level time of day hormones source of calories etc. ; but the bottom line is still calories in vs. calories out. there is no magic medicine herb or supplement although some of these help a little.
can anxiety disorder and associated meds aggravate sleep apnea?
in general narcotics or any sedating medications (benzos for anxiety) will worsen sleep apnea as it suppresses breathing. anxiety in general may cause insomnia but should not necessarily influence sleep apnea itself. talk with your physician and sleep specialist if you're having trouble.
can having fluid in my ear cause long term problems if untreated?
it usually resolves by itself occasionally you can develop hearing problems.
can having fluid in my ear cause long term problems if untreated?
long term middle ear effusions can cause permanent damage. see an ent doctor for an evaluation and treatment.
can a hiatal hernia cause charlie horse like cramping under and behind right ribs?
the most common pain related to a hiatal hernia is the "heartburn" pain of gastro-esophageal reflux of stomach acid. the pain you're having although possibly from the hernia may be originating from musculoskeletal structures in the chest wall but other causes related to lungs or even heart must be considered.
can a low-carb diet give me bad breath?
high or low carb diet can result in bad breath if you have poor oral hygiene or acid reflux. brush and rinse with hydrogen peroxide.
having anxiety reading posts on net about effects of gallbladder removal. will it cause weight gain change my metabolism vitamin deficiencies ibs?
you are right to be concerned about the effects of removing gallbladders; i believe this should be the last resort rather than initial treatment. i've had many patients have great success with natural therapies to dissolve gallstones & flush them out of the liver/gallbladder. see <link> & the amazing liver and gallbladder flush by andreas moritz.
have you had the gastric bypass done after having the lapband?
we are seeing quite a few band patients who develop some intolerance (usually heartburn). almost 1/3 seem to need the band removed. the next options would be either a sleeve or a gastric bypass. both seem to work fairly well. most will lose about 60-70% of excess weight after this revision surgery. the bypass is better for those with persistent bad reflux after the band comes out.
how long should you wait to drink alcohol after hiatial hernia repair?
if you had clear reflux before i would be very cautious with heavy drinking. social drinking in moderation too. you are very young and do not do damage to your esophagus it is a precious organ!
what are the tests for breast abscess?
the best way to diagnose a breast abscess is by physical examination supplemented by ultrasound. if a fluid-filled lump is present in the right setting for an abscess (redness tenderness swelling etc) a needle can be inserted under local anesthesia with ultrasound guidance: drawing pus out is diagnostic (and combined with antibiotics may be all that's needed for rx).
what makes milky discharge from nipples?
your breasts naturally produce milk. this is normal. hormonal changes can sometimes make you produce more or less fluid from your nipples.
what do sore breasts and sore protruding nipples mean?
your breast is engorged with milk or fluid from inflammation.
what's the outlook for lymphedema from breast cancer?
there are now new surgical treatments for lymphedema. these was recently discussed at the first international symposium on surgery for lymphedema. patients who have have mastectomy and no reconstruction can be treated with a diep flap and vascular oozed lymph mode transfer at the same time. in addition a fluorescent lymphatic mapping can be done to identify lymphatic obstruction. contact us.
will i need to keep getting mammograms after breast reconstruction? is there enough of my own breast tissue left after mastectomy and breast reconstruction to make imaging worthwhile? .
hello the customary answer is no you won't need further mammograms. but there are many patient unique factors which may influence this very smart question. things like how thick the remaining mastectomy "flaps" are your original breast size tumor size proximity to the remnant skin flaps node status. in short this is probably better asked of the surgeon or oncologist who treats you. dan downey md facs downey plastic surgery.
whats intron a (interferon alfa 2b)?
is a treatment for chronic hepatitis c and is also occasionally used in certain types of lymphoma and leukemia. it is a manufactured protein that is derived from a real human protein. there are some very significant side effects that include severe flu-like symptoms depression nausea diarrhea headaches.
what is the difference between an ultrasound of breast and a mammogram?
breast ultrasound use sound waves (i. e. sonar) and are used to determine if a lump is solid (usually require biopsy) or a cyst (a fluid containing lesion usually not requiring biopsy). mammograms also detect tumors in the breast and have the advantage of detecting tiny calcification deposits that my be due to cancer. both tests work together to find breast cancer. no test replaces the other.
what must i eat if lymphedema?
lymphedema fluid is high in protein and so the fluid that creates the swelling pulls a lot of protein out of your circulation. as a result a higher protein diet is a good idea. avoiding salt is also smart. a fluid restriction is not thought to be helpful. otherwise a healthy general diet with lots of fruits and vegetables is a good thing. if you are overweight weight loss helps the swelling.
what kind of exercises are ok if i have lymphedema?
lymph -unlike our blood lymphatic fluid does not use the heart as a pump. lymph transport (or drainage) primarily depends upon the contraction of skeletal musclesâ€”thus the importance of exercise. a body which is not moving will begin to stagnate in more ways than one! - begin streching the opposite side from affected side first - only after to open other side the drainage will work on affected.
can i take fluoxitine and duromine (fentermien) togeter?
there are no drug-drug interactions listed for fluoxetine & phentermine; however phentermine can elevate bp exacerbate glaucoma cause agitation & should be used with caution if use caffeine or allergy meds w/ decongestant. fluoxetine also tends to stimulate after one has been using it a while. so added potential for aggitation. ask doc if have further questions.
can hiatus hernia or gerd give you chest-pain arm neck as well as jaw pains?
it is possible to get these symptoms with gerd nd reflux especially if esophageal spasm coexists. it pays to be checked out however to be sure a cardiac cause isn't present.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
more likely come from ulcers & hiatal hernia than from diverticulosis. ejection fraction on hida scan varies according to source: some give 30-35%; others give 35-75%. r u being treated for the ulcers & probable reflux from hiatal hernia? if not see doc for rx: h2 blockers like zantac (ranitidine) or better proton pump inhibitors like prilosec/prevacid/protonix; dos may also rx 1 of those + 2 antibiotics.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
these symptoms are more likely related to your gallbladder. most docs would tell you to remove your gallbladder but this can create problems too. i've had many patients have great success with natural therapies to dissolve gallstones & flush them out of the liver/gallbladder. see <link> & the amazing liver and gallbladder flush by andreas moritz.
could the ear pain be caused by the fluid i have in my ear and how do i get rid of the fluid?
the fluid in your ear can cause pressure and pain. it is more likely to cause pain if it is infected. to remove the fluid your physician would first identify and treat any potential causes such as infection before trying medications and finally potential drainage. partner with your physician to work on solving this problem.
could the ear pain be caused by the fluid i have in my ear and how do i get rid of the fluid?
yes pain can be caused by fluid. it is sometime difficult to get rid of the fluid. you may need antibiotics antihistamines and possibly steroids. when all else fails you may need to get tubes for your eara. all these procedures should be in consultation with an ent physician.
what can mammograms show besides tumor?
a mammogram can show normal breast tissue for most people. it can show many benign changes such as fluid filled cysts calcifications fibroadenomas. dilated ducts and dense tissue. these benign changes are far more common than breast cancer.
what is a lymphedema pump?
lymphedema pumps compress and relax air to facilitate fluid movement from periphery to center of body.
what is a lymphedema pump?
lymphedema pumps use wave like compression and relaxation to move fluid from periphery towards heart which is called pneumatic sequential compression.
what is a lymphedema pump?
a lymphedema pump looks like a big plastic boot that you put on an it inflates sequentially to move the lymph [ fluid in your leg tissues] toward the heart. the wave like compression and relaxation to moves fluid from periphery towards heart which is called pneumatic sequential compression. it feels good too.
what is a lymphedema pump?
it's a pump that recirculate the lymph fluid more rapidly it's a great help to help lymphedema
will yoga help people with lymphedema?
exercise including yoga is of benefit with lymphedema as it improves fluid return back towards heart
what kind of exercises will help with lymphedema in my legs?
as drs. brown and westfried said low impact exercise is better. stretching exercises are particularly good especially ones that involve the arms and chest. chest expansion and arm movement help to encourage fluid movement out of the legs. talk to your lymphedema therapist (if you have one) for recommendations. if you don't have a therapist try to find one.
what kind of exercises will help with lymphedema in my legs?
walking or the use of stairs as well as as a. stationary bike will move lower legs to help fluid or lymph to move. extensive long sanding lymphedema is less responsive to exercise.
what is the difference between a breast ultrasound and a mammogram?
mammograms use xrays to image the breast tissue. screening mmgs involve 2 views (mlo cc) of each whole breast. ultrasound uses sound waves to produce images of the breast tissue. the area visualized is dependent upon where the probe is placed on the breast and is influenced by how it is angled how fast it is moved around and how much attention is being paid to the screen during the exam.
what are the psych effects of having a mastectomy?
women say that losing a breast (or both) affects how they feel about themselves as a woman and a person. for some this feeling is very intense for others less so. it can be profoundly influenced by the people we love and how they react. fortunately there are many wise and wonderful support groups you may access on line. in the end we all lose everything: so perhaps we are not just our bodies.
what is the difference between mastitis and a cyst?
mastitis is an infection in the breast due to blockage of the ducts. a cyst is a fluid filled area that is very common. cysts occur monthly due to mentrual changes in younger women. both mastitis and cysts can cause breast pain which is not usually a symptom of cancer.
why do they treat some woman with breast cancer with herceptin (trastuzumab)?
expressed; some do not. it only works on those who express sufficient her-2-neu copies by fish (fluoroescent in-sit hybrization) a test done on the cancer tissue at the pathology lab.
what are herbs for breast enlargement?
herbs aren't magic and can have side effects. herbs used for this purpose may contain phytoestrogens (estrogen increases fluid retention may effect breast tissue} and include black cohosh fenugreek saw palmetto wild yam have been used. imho there is no evidence they work for this although there are many herbal products available. better i think to love your body as it is.
what's it like to get a double mastectomy at once?
its not so different than a unilateral procedure - more but not necessarily double the discomfort. this may be influenced by reconstruction options chosen or not. one caveat - a tram recon can only be done once (can reconstruct both breasts this way at the same time but not each side at different times).
what's the difference between mammogram and ultrasound for breast cancer detection?
mammograms use x-rays to evaluate the breast. they look for abnormal deposits of calcium that can be a sign of breast cancer. ultrasound is used for lumps for which the significance is uncertain. ultrasound can tell the difference between fluid filled cysts (that are benign) and solid masses that should be biopsied. this is especially useful in younger women where cysts are common.
can going to the bathroom a lot help you lose weight?
not in any real sense. you may lose a few hundred gram with a bm or stool but you still have the same amount of fat and don't look a bit different. drinking fluids to force urination or laxatives to cause defecation is a sure way to get into trouble. real weight loss is achieved with diet and exercise. make a durable lifestyle change.
certain meals upset my tummy i don't know why and how it happens. i need answers because it makes me loose weight most atimes what should i do?
most people think their whole abdomen is their stomach but the stomach is in the upper middle or upper left of the abdomen. if your lower abdomen hurts that could be your skin muscles bladder uterus or intestines. if the upper part of your abdomen hurts it could be acid reflux pancreatitis or other problems. see a doctor for an assessment.
how do i reduce swelling after liposuction of the stomach?
1. avoid the pitfall of many patients-only drink as much as your thirst directs and avoid salt intake. you make antidiuretic hormone after surgery and retain fluids maximally for 48 hrs. 2. wear a compressive garment as directed by your surgeon. 3. don't sit for long periods. 4. don't wear pants that create a tight band like a tourniquet around your waist. this includes underwear.
hyper acidity and overweight?
reflux disease as well as reflux symptoms increase with weight. weight loss can improve some symptoms.
what breast enhancement pills actually works?
the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
what are the side effects of using breast enlargment cream?
the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
what are the side effects of breast enlargement pills?
the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
what are some effects of breast enlargment pills?
the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
what is the best material for breast implant?
plastic surgeons use saline and silicone gel implants. both are fda approved and very safe. saline is a "salt water" filled silicone elastomer shell (like a balloon). silicone gel is a cohesive medical grade silicone that is not a fluid - it is cohesive. it looks and feels the best and most natural. silicone gel is truly "the cadillac " breast implant but is lasts the longest too.
what are the chances that my breast cancer can come back? ( i went into remission 5 years ago)?
breast cancer can return after 5 years. there are a number of factors that influence this. the stage type of cancer hormone receptor and her-2 status and treatments all help decide the chances.
can you suggest how to get constipation relief when on a low calorie diet?
has little to do with constipation. your fluid intake is critical. drink 80-100 oz of caffeine free/alcohol free fluid daily more if you exercise or fly in planes.
can you lose 1 pound a day on the atkins diet if you are doing cardio for 2 hours and light exercise for 4 hours a day?
im sorry to tell you losing a pound a day is not healthy. losing 7 pounds a week is not healthy either. you body and fluids need to be in balance. you need to be well hydrated and allow your body to adjust to certain changes. what youre describing sounds too drastic. please reconsider or consult with your physician.
can a hiatus hernia lead to bad breath and how should one control it?
hiatus hernia may lead to reflux and bad breath typically comes from substances in the bloodstream which enter the lungs to be breathed out (exhaled) or from bacteria on the tongue - these are the two most common causes. you should discuss management of the hernia with your internist or gastroenterologisr.
can diabetes mellitus cause regular headaches in kids?
high blood sugar levels are responsible for a variety of immediate symptoms and long-term complications. including headaches symptoms in type 1 diabetes usually over 2 to 3 weeks or less. high blood sugar levels cause the child to urinate excessively. this fluid loss causes an increase in thirst and the consumption of fluids. some children become dehydrated see your md asap.
can taking fruits and fluids only be helpful in weight loss?
although any fad like grapefruit only for two weeks would lead to temporary weight loss it is usually best to plan a more balanced diet with veggies proteins and some fruit. focus on small portions and avoid sugars and fats. best to change your mindset for the long term. a short sprint for sudden weight loss is not sustainable.
can a hiatal hernia cause constant shortness of breath?
yes it can if it is large enough. should be evaluated with a ct-scan and surgery is indicated. but in a 28 y/o unlikely to be that big to cause such symptoms. reflux is also associated with a hiatal hernia and that can cause irritation of the airways if bad enough that can manifest as a chronic cough.
can weight loss improve a hiatal hernia?
yes. theoretically weight loss decreases intraabdominal fat and reduces pressure and reflux symptoms and may modify the hiatal hernia. improvement in muscle tone in the abdomen is also a factor.
have a hiatal hernia almost every day i'm getting attacks that radiate under my ribcage and up into my throat ears jaw and head. why is it doing this?
for sure but it sounds like you are suffering from gastroesophageal reflux or gerd. ask your doctor for medicines to control your symptoms but if you have significant damage to your esophagus you might need to have surgical correction. also this could be heart symptoms so see you doctor asap.
what are the symptoms of fibrocystic breast disease?
fibrocystic symptoms can range from mild breast discomfort and swelling around the time of the menstrual period to more firm hard breast lumps and cysts that may be very tender or painful. often the symptoms are worse during the menstrual cycle. sometimes the breast lumps can be fluid cysts that come and go around the menstrual period too.
what's the difference between a breast nodule and a breast cyst?
a "nodule" is a generic term for a breast lump. common causes include "lumpy-bumpy" breast tissue ("fibrocystic changes") tumors (benign or malignant) and cysts (fluid-filled;benign). a thorough history and physical examination supplemented by ultrasound+/-mammography+/-biopsy will help sort this out.
why doesn't lymphedema pit?
lymphedema occurs when the lymphatic load exceeds the transport capacity of the lymphatic system which causes filtered fluid to accumulate in the interstitium. as opposed to generalized edematous states the rate of capillary filtration is normal in patients with lymphedema. pitting reflects movement of the excess interstitial water in response to pressure. hi tissue pressure prevents shift.
why does lymphedema occur in some women after breast cancer?
after the lynph channels are injured causes this problem. it is a byproduct of the node removal. the lymph channels carry fluid that leaks from blood vessels back to the heart. when injured by surgery or radiation they don't grow back. the fluid has more difficult path to return and swelling can occur. the more of them are injured the more the chance of swelling.
what is a common cause of breast pain in women going through menopause?
estrogen dominance and hormonal fluctuations contribute to breast tenderness at any age especially perimenopausal. high and low swings and surges stimulate glandular tissues. certain foods such as caffeine beverages and chocolate also increase breast tenderness.
why do i have a pain under my left breast going toward the middle?
worse with deep breath? worse with movement? worse with exercise? affected by meals? it can be anything from costochondritis (rheumatism) to acid reflux to serious issues like pleurisy blood clots or your heart. your age and risk factors would help narrow it down. you should see your doctor.
can you take duromine 30 prozac (fluoxetine) and valium?
this is a question best answered by the prescribing physician. anxiety insomnia and depression can all be adversely affected by the combination. habit formation due to underlying depression as well as due to the re-enforcing effects of valium and phenermine may set in. better options are probably available.
crohns disease gastroesophageal reflux disease barrett's esophagus esophagitis. 2010 had a fundoplication. why isn't it working anymore?
see your surgeon and your gastroenterologist. the surgery may have failed or your symptoms are not related to reflux. if you had barrett's esophagus all the more reason to be seen by your physicians.
can type 2 diabetes cause unexplained weight gain and yellow toenails?
the short answer is yes. diabetes can cause fluid retention due to kidney function and add to weight. yellow toenail may be a fungus in the nail which can be verified by podiatrist.
can gastric sleeve patients take anima?
yes enema can be given fluid goes to colon not stomach.
can i continue my passion of weightlifting despite having a gerd and hiatal hernia.
symptoms of gerd can be aggravated by heavy straining and if this the case surgical consultation should be considered as anti-reflux surgery can be very effective if diminishing these symptoms. behavior and diet modification is imperative as well. see your physician.
can a nissen fundaplication be reversed or taken down?
some times nissen's fundal plication needs revision for various reasons if if reversed with no reason reflux will return.
can there be any relation between sleep apnea and apple cider vinegar or a normal vinegar?
osa is neither caused nor cured by the use of any vinegar. your teeth can suffer permanent damage/decay from reflux associated with sleep apnea or from the excessive use of dietary acid like vinegar and lemon juice.
help! exactly what is reflux and what are the symptoms?
reflux causes heartburn a burning discomfort in the chest immediately after eating and at night while laying flat to sleep. it's caused usually by a hiatal hernia a structural anomaly where the esophagus meets the stomach.
help! exactly what is reflux and what are the symptoms?
most convincing were the low risks of diabetes in asia eskimos until they adopted western diets reduced exercise direct correlation to rates/ quantity of obesity direct correlation to density of macdonald's eateries in us: ie dm risk and macdonalds most common in southeast usa.
what are the symptoms of mastocytosis?
mastocytosis in the skin (called urticaria pigmentosa) are reddish-brown "freckles" on the skin that will hive (think of an itchy red mosquito bite) when scratched or irritated. mastocytosis throughout the body can present with flushing of the skin mental "fogginess " recurrent (often explosive) diarrhea or even recurrent episodes of anaphylaxis. see a specialist for more information.
when i squeeze my breast i have a blue or black fluid that comes out and my breast do get sore at times what could it be?
you need to see a physician for all discharge from your breast. the soreness can be hormonal breast cyst or related to the discharge. get further testing now.
what causes cysts in the breasts?
many women have fibrocystic changes in their breast tissue. fluid retention during the cycle can result in the fibrocystic tissue becoming more prominent - manifesting as cysts. caffeine is known to promote fluid retention and cyst formation in the breast tissue.
why i have breast pain before 10 days the period starts? did this effect fertility?
there are receptors in the breast that are affected by hormonal fluctuations during menses. but this does not affect fertility. otc meds such as ibuprofen may help with the discomfort.
what should be done for a breast abscess 1 year post nursing?
treatment of a breast abscess would be antibiotics and surgical drainage if there is a fluid collection causing the infection.
can having a hiatal hernia prevent one from getting a lap-band?
hiatal hernias do not preclude placement of the lap-band. the band itself can help relieve the symptoms of gerd (reflux). rarely a large hiatal hernia will be repaired at the same time as band placement.
can having a hiatal hernia prevent one from getting a lap-band?
no. however it is important that it be fixed at the time of lap band surgery. if your hiatal hernia is huge or you have severe heartburn and reflux a gastric bypass would be a better operation.
could i have got a hiatal hernia from the stomach flu? threw up harder than ever then a week after ended up in er with breathing trouble+chest pains.
that is a possibility. it is also possible that you already had a small hiatal hernia and that the vomiting has increased the size of the hernia and/or caused your stomach to slide up into your chest. it would be best to get evaluated by a gastroenterologist for an egd and ugi.
could i have got a hiatal hernia from the stomach flu? threw up harder than ever then a week after ended up in er with breathing trouble+chest pains.
stranger things have happened. but i guess it could develop if you were coughing so hard. usually it is a chronic problem that is associated with reflux and if breathing problems occur that means it is very big and needs surgery to be fixed.
can there be such thing as a fat transfer breast augmentation?
fat can be transferred to the breasts to increase size without implants. the benefit is not having a prosthetic device implanted. however patient selection is important as not all breasts can be enhanced this way. risks of surgery include fat reabsorption asymmetry small size increase fluctuations with weight and microcalcifications that can make mammogram interpretation more difficult.
hiatial hernia surgery 3 months ago but am still feeling the same pain i was before. i've already had ct scan came back normal. what could it be?
talk to your doctor of other possible problem. i presume your acid reflux is cure? is your symptoms of pain with swallow? pain in the pit of your stomach in gen? nausea? vomiting?
hi i have a small hiatus hernia and don't know what kind of exercise can i do. can someone please help me. i want to exercise.
the more common or sliding hiatal hernia means the opening in the diaphragm for the esophagus is enlarged and some of the stomach slide up into the chest. extreme straining or tightening of the abdominal muscles may increase reflux symptoms but is unlikely to cause any significant problems.
how long after gastric sleeve surgery can you drink alcohol?
you should stay away from alcohol at least 6 months after weight loss surgery for several reasons. alcohol irritates the stomach whih may be detrimental in a recent gastric surgery. it promotes reflux which is more common after a sleeve. it has significant ammount of calories which will interfere with your weight loss. you can not predict how tou will react to alcohol after surgery. recs may vary.
hi is there any way of fixing the hiatus hernia without operation done?
most of hiatus hernias are sliding type only rarer para esophageal hernias needs surgery as they can incarcerate surgery is for gerd not for hernia ( or the acid reflux) most of the time possible to control with by diet early supper not over filling the stomach elevation of head while sleeping and protan inhibitors to reduce acid out put try this first
how do i find out why can i hear my pulse in my ear?
pulsatile tinnitus can be caused by lots of things such as: wax impaction ear infection fluid in middle ear or mastoid a mass in the middle ear space such as a "glomus" tumor aneurysm hydrocephalus (increased pressure in head) increased blood flow through the vessels from conditions such as hyperthyroidism or anemia if it troubles you get it checked out.
what's lymphedema and what are the potential causes?
its a disorder of the lymph system so that the fluid doesn't empty out of the leg as quickly as it should. as a result fluid builds up in the leg causing swelling and potential skin breakdown. see a vascular specialist for formal evaluation. most occur without an underlying cause.
what's lymphedema and what are the potential causes?
lymphedema or swelling caused by an unusual amount of lymphatic fluid in a part of the body results from either too much production of lymph or too slow drainage of it by the body or both. although the most common cause of lyphemdema in the us is surgery and/or radiation it can can be congenital or have no identifiable cause. in the latter case it is usually in the left leg of women over 35.
why do my breast sag not plump anymore at 41
weight fluctuations child bearing and hormonal changes along with breast feeding all impact breast sag. so too does aging with loss of collagen and elastin in the skin.
went to er for my shoulder pain thats not getting better they said a nerve pinched they think now my left side under breast hurts and im achy everywhere can lack of sleep make you achy?
without a question it can. other things can as well including colds or flu. your "pinched nerve" needs to be better evaluated. i would see an orthopedic surgeon.
can obstructive sleep apnea be caused by complications from psychiatric medications or dentist grinding of teeth which may change jaw face or tonguesi?
obstructive sleep apnea is not influenced by minor dental adjustments. it can be affected by medications that are sedative like in nature. if you have sleep apnea you should ask your doctor if your medications will affect your underlying condition. most docs would be very receptive to your concerns and will help you with your questions. good luck!
can i use peroxide in my ear when i have a pimple inside of it?
before putting any fluid into your ear a proper diagnosis should be made. a pimple in the ear can be caused by a number of reasons such as acne ingrown hair skin cyst or trauma. it's nearly impossible to examine your own ear canal. peroxide could damage your ear if you have a perforation in your eardrum from prior infections surgery as a child or trauma. best to have it checked out.
does tumescent liposuction give the best results as compared to other liposuction techniques? i've been reading a lot about the different types of liposuction and it's all quite confusing! i really want to find a procedure that can help me with my flabby
tumescence refers to the amount of fluid injected before starting liposuction in relation to the amount taken out. all kinds of liposuction techniques use tumescence to minimize blood loss. it has nothing to do with it being traditional lipo ultrasonic vaser power assisted or laser. most well trained plastic surgeons use tumescence.
does diet affect vasculitis?
vasculitis is an inflammatory condition caused by an overactve immune system in most cases. diet has a huge influence on inflammation in your body. the short version is: avoid sugars gluten dairy processed foods fried foods. eat lots of: fruits vegetables fish oils. for more detail i recommend a book titled "inflammation nation. ".
does my hiatal hernia increases my chances of dangerous bacterial infections?
hiatal hernia can cause you to have frequent acid reflux. frequent acid reflux can back up into the lungs sometimes and put you at risk for developing certain kinds of bacterial and viral infections. so the answer is hiatal hernia can *indirectly* increase your risk of dangerous bacterial infections.
does my hiatal hernia increases my chances of dangerous viral infections?
hiatal hernia can cause you to have frequent acid reflux. frequent acid reflux can back up into the lungs sometimes and put you at risk for developing certain kinds of bacterial and viral infections. so the answer is hiatal hernia can *indirectly* increase your risk of dangerous viral infections.
does my hiatal hernia increases my chances of dangerous fungal infections?
hiatal hernias are generally only of consequence when very large. these large hiatal hernias are called paraesophageal hernias. they can cause symptoms like chest pain difficulty swallowing reflux and anemia to name a few. not sure why you are linking these to fungal infections but there is no obvious connection. if vomiting is a problem recurrent pneumonia could have a fungal element.
does my hiatal hernia increases my chances of dangerous sepsis?
a hiatal hernia is an enlargement of the normal opening in the diaphragm muscle that separates the chest cavity from the abdominal cavity through which the esophagus passes. this hernia allows the stomach to slide up into the chest cavity often leading to heartburn. this is sometimes used synonymously with the term gerd but it is but one casue of reflux. it is not associated with sepsis.
does endermologie get rid of fat? i want to get rid of the cellulite on my thighs and it would be nice to lose some inches as well. endermologie sounds like a good option because it's noninvasive. can it get rid of the actual fat in my thighs or will it
endermologie does not reduce fatty deposits. it is essentially a method of lymphatic massage to reduce lymphatic fluid swelling in an extremity that may contribute to the apprearance of cellulite. it does not eliminate fat collections and provides only temporary relief.
does hiatal hernia cause shortness of breath?
some people with hiatal hernias may develop gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) which usually causes heartburn. with severe gerd stomach acid can reflux all the way up the esophagus and then down the trachea causing asthma-like symptoms.
does hiatal hernia cause shortness of breath?
hiatal hernias are usually without any symptoms. when they do cause symptoms it is usually heartburn or gerd gastroesophageal reflux disease. sometimes nausea accompanies heartburn. occasionally people with severe heartburn may have a sensation of being out of breath but it is not caused by an impairment of lung function.
do interferon and ribavirin cause weight changes?
most people lose weight while on combination therapy for chronic hepatitis c because of flu-like or gi-related side effects. interferon can interfere with thyroid function which can be associated with weight gain.
does being over weight cause heart flutter?
overweight don't cause heart flutter!
does being over weight cause heart flutter?
not typically.
do changes in diet stop pregnancy heartburn?
gastroesophageal reflux (gerd) or heartburn often develops during pregnancy. for anyone with gerd it is recommended to not consume acidic foods spicy foods avoid alcohol and caffeine and avoid eating late at night. so yes dietary changes can reduce heartburn. if that doesn't help you can take a proton pump inhibitor (ie prilosec prevacid nexium protonix dexilant (dexlansoprazole) etc).
does having a prolactinoma (pituitary tumor) cause weight gain?
prolactin should have no direct effect on weight although fluctuation in estrogen due to the prolactinoma can cause some changes.
does exercise help with a hiatal hernia?
exercise cannot improve the anatomical defect of a hiatal hernia. however losing weight if overweight or obese may lessen reflux though the hiatal hernia through lesser external presssure.
does salt intake have an effect on weight management?
there are some people that are very salt sensitive. . and too much salt can cause fluid retention/ water weight gain- as well as effect blood pressure. the other issue is what foods are associated with salty. fries chips etc. these do effect weight! happy new year!
does salt intake have an effect on weight management?
common table salt is actually the chemical compound sodium chloride. excess sodium in your diet can lead to fluid retention which will increase weight and can lead to elevated blood pressure in some individuals. this is usually a transient event and shoud not be confused with the weight gain that results from consuming excessive calories. after bariatric surgery extra salt is actually beneficial.
does gastroparesis cause weight loss?
gastroparesis is a condition in which food does not progress down the gi tract. it remains undigested in the stomach where it can cause symptoms like gas bloating nausea and reflux among others. gastroparesis can happen after surgery for a short period of time or this can be a chronic condition from having diabetes for a long time. gastroparesis does not cause weight loss.
how can you stay on a diet and not crave food all day long?
key to any lifestyle change is support. you might want to check out peer based support such as weight watchers or tops- taking pounds off sensibly. sometimes food cravings can be resolved with drinking more fluids. if you are in peer support weight loss you will learn about foods that you can have if craving. key to diet success- exercise portion control and peer support. good luck!
how can you stay motivated on a diet?
i think it's important to not expect to lose weight too rapidly. shoot for 1 pound a week. weigh yourself every morning when you get up before you eat or drink anything to keep tract of normal fluctuations in weight. liberate your diet now and then when you start to see some progress as a reward but know that you are in control.
what is surgery like for gynecomastia?
gynecomastia surgery usually involves a combination of liposuction and direct tissue excision through a small incision at the lower edge of the areola (the pigmented area surrounding the nipple). rarely when the skin is very loose it may be necessary to also remove skin. recovery is rapid a compression vest helps prevent fluid build up and a drain may be used for a few days.
what causes lymphedema and is it reversible?
lymphedema is cause by poor circulation of lymph which is the protein filled fluid that circulates and bathes cells. usually it is caused from injury by cancer surgery or infection. it can be caused by obesity or pregnancy with the weight of the belly impairing circulation. in these last two cases if or when the weight is removed the lymphedema may resolve.
what are some of the hormonal influences on breast cancer?
breast cancer is a hormone sensitive cancer. anyone diagnosed with breast cancer should avoid taking any estrogens or progestins as this may cause the tumor to grow. that includes natural products that claim to contain estrogens (like soy derivatives).
what are some of the hormonal influences on breast cancer?
certain hormones especially longer use of estrogens can increase a person's risk of breast cancer. estrogen is listed as a known carcinogen on the fda web site & there is a class action lawsuit ongoing against premarin (conjugated estrogens). see site: <link>
what causes fluids to build up in sites that have had surgery such as lumpectomy?
when the body is injured or operated on with surgery fluid is sent to the area as part of the healing process. in the breast this is called a seroma. the seroma fills the lumpectomy space. these days we close the space down to decrease the rate of seroma formation. a drain can be placed at the time of surgery to keep the fluid from building up or the fluid can be drained with a needle.
could it be bad to be addicted to salad?
salad is usually good for you-- make sure you are getting a balanced diet and plenty of nutrients in your daily meals. drink plenty of non-sugary fluids as well and get plenty of sleep.
can amlodipine besylate cause weight gain?
amlodipine can cause formation of edema which is a common side effect. the edema can cause a person to gain weight as a pound of water weights the same as a pound of muscle or fat. patients that gain edema fluid do not feel tightness of their clothes at their waists. ask the physician if this is the case in the person you are asking about.
can overweight effects sexual activities and fertility of a man and also can it effect the ability to satisfy his partner sexually?
overweight can have a negative effect on the sperm as well as on the sex drive and other sexual activity. it should not however influence your ability to satisfy your partner.
does chromium help you lose weight?
although chromium influences insulin and glucose metabolism it has not been shown to produce sustained weight loss.
does benflourex contribute to losing of weight?
it is also related to valvular heart issues. it is a fenfluramine derivative similar to the fen-fen taken off the market. remember there is no quick and easy way to lose weight. it takes persistence and a healthy lifestyle. good luck.
does the stomach pain caused by my gerd go away after having a nissen fundoplication?
prior to performing a fundoplication i always have my patients undergo a 24-hr ph test. this will objectively measure the severity of your gerd and allow us to correlate your pain episodes with your reflux; this will help predict your response to surgery. keep in mind that most people with gerd do not need surgery; this disease is usually best managed non-surgically.
does being obese make it harder for surgeons to go in and fix my gerd?
gerd is reflux of stomach material back up into the esophagus. the esophagus is tighter at the spot where it connects to the stomach but there is no actual valve preventing stomach material from being pushed up into the esophagus when heavy pressure is applied to the stomach. a big obese tummy squishes up on the stomach especially when one is lying down making it harder to prevent reflux.
does being obese make it harder for surgeons to go in and fix my gerd?
the typical obese patient will experience reflux. reflux is a complicated symptom related to acid output of the stomach esophageal clearance of the acid gastric emptying and the function of a special valve between the esophagus and the stomach called the lower esophageal sphincter. but obese patients have another issue increased intra-abdominal pressure. often just loosing weight will help.
how healthy is coconut water?
coconut water comes from the interior of young coconuts. due to it’s osmolarity coconut water is used in some tropical areas to replace fluid losses due to diarrhea. it contains potassium calcium iron magnesium zinc manganese vitamin c niacin thiamin riboflavin pyridoxine & folate (folic acid). research suggests that it’s cytokins may have some level of anti-carcinogenic & anti-aging effect.
how can i remove stretch marks or cellulite?
cellulite & stretch marks remain anathema to the plastic surgeon. cellulite & stretch marks may occur in very thin patients as well. cellulite is attributable to the way the skin connects to the underlying structures namely muscle by fibrous septa causing the stereotypical dimpling & made worse by localized swelling due to lymphatic fluid skin laxity localized fatty deposits & genetic factors.
how can you tell if your lap band has a leak?
your band would get loose and you wouldn't feel any restriction anymore. then you get a fill to make it tight and it gets loose again. your surgeon can check to see how much fluid is in the band. if they put in 10cc and there is only 5cc when they check it is leaking.
had lap band 4or 5 years ago had a fill and know its to full a lot of indegistion but if they let some flouid out i stop lousing weight?
that is one dilemma you can get into with bands. if you develop reflux some fluid usually needs to be removed which can affect your ability to lose weight. now if you have a hiatal hernia having surgery to fix that can solve the reflux problem and allow the band to be kept tight. you'll need an ugi and/or egd to see if you have a hiatal hernia.
what are the facts of sagging breasts?
breasts sag because the weight of the breast stretches the skin. weight fluctuations and pregnancy are the majar causes of sagging. sometimes weight losss of shrinking of the breast after breast feeding deflates the breast and this can be corrected with a breast implant. if the nipple and areola are pointing down then a lift will also be needed.
what is done for systemic mastocytosis?
after diagnosis treatment is mostly focused on controlling symptoms. flushing itching and (to some extent) gi symptoms are helped by antihistamines +/- leukotriene antagonsists (e. g. monteleukast). more severe gi symptoms are treated with cromolyn. cromolyn mixed with lotion can sometimes help severe itching. epipen (epinephrine) is used for anaphylactic episodes. see a specialist in masto for more info.
can 5mg lisinopril cause weight gain?
unless one has renal artery stenosis that is aggravated by lisinopril (or other ace inhibitor) leading to fluid retention eg edema i have not read or heard about lisinopril causing weight gain. check out <link> for some side effects associated w/lisinopril.
can a hiatal hernia cause pains or discomfort? my dr says i have one but it isn't causeing my intestinal issues. that is unknown still.
a large hiatal hernia can cause pain and discomfort in your upper stomach. it also can make symptoms of reflux worse. if your pain is lower or more diffuse then likely not caused by your hiatal hernia.
can u get gastric sleeve with acid reflux?
there is a 15% incidence if de novo reflux symptoms after sleeve. it may be that repairing hernia at the diaphragm where esophagus come through may prevent these symptoms. gastric bypass cures reflux 100%. if there is a history of sever reflux causing esophagitis or barrett's esophagus go with bypass.
can u get gastric sleeve with acid reflux?
this is not the best procedure for weight loss if there is gerd. a gastric bypass would be preferred.
can u get gastric sleeve with acid reflux?
there are different causes of acid reflux. most commonly it is caused by a hiatal hernia (a weakness in the diaphragm muscle) which can be repaired. other causes include obesity bacterial infection and esophageal muscle weakness (low les pressure). as long as no permanent damage a sleeve can be done safely.
can a hiatus hernia be detected using just a scan?
cr scan can be utilized to detect a hiatal hernia. a gastroscopy can also detect it and tell you how far down and the condition of the stomach and esophagus. a ph probe will tell you if the reflux is causing harm. eat well and exercise.
can you have severe diarhia with hiatal hernia?
hiatal hernia does not cause diarrhea. however medicines used to treat the reflux associated with it can. you need to see your physician about this.
can being obese cause stomach pain?
obesity usually doesn't cause stomach pain. however it does predispose you to having abdominal wall hernias and also heartburn and reflux. both of these can cause you o have some abdominal pain. you should see a gastroenterologist for an evaluation.
can i take prozac (fluoxetine) with a. c. e. diet pills?
there is no problem taking any ssri antidepressant with the diet pills. these appear to contain caffeine and cocoa which can increase anxiety. but they do not react with medicines like prozac (fluoxetine). if you take prozac (fluoxetine) for anxiety though be aware of the amount of caffeine you use.
can hiatal hernia cause shortness of breath on stairs?
small hiatal hernias usually cause problems related to reflux disease if they cause anything at all. large hiatal hernias also known as paraesophageal hernias can cause shortness of breath. they can also cause intermittent chest pain early satiety weight-loss and anemia. hope this helps!
can hiatal hernia cause shortness of breath on stairs?
hiatal hernia usually causes acid reflux and indigestion. it may be associated with asthma like symptoms in the mornings sore throat and inability to lie flat. however shortness of breath on mild exercise is usually a sign of heart or lung disease and should be evaluated by your doctor. it may simply be a sign of poor fitness but should still be checked out.
does eating high fat but low carb foods make you lose weight but higher cholesterol levels or is ingested fats also stored as fat in our bodies?
cholesterol: a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to survival every animal cell poorly absorbed food. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl =700 nmol/l hdl =45 µmol/l). chol? $ but misleading.
do i have an ear infection or something else i have been having these pains in my ear and the pain goes down to my throat and it feels like water is in them. it goes in and out as if i am 35 000 feet in the air on a plane. when i blow my nose i get this
hello you may have congestion that is closing down on the eustacian tubes (they drain the ears internally). sinus congestion & upper respiratory infections are possible causes. there could be fluid in your middle ears. however can not tell you if you have an ear infection. you may wish to try decongestants. afrin nasal spray can help reduce swelling but can only be used for a few days at most. if these are not helpful see your doctor who can look at the ear drum and structures in your ear to ensure that you do not have an infection.
do i need a caretaker after fat transfer? do i need to arrange for someone to take care of me while recovering from fat transfer? if so for how long? .
mostly just for a day or two while the effects of the aneathesia wear off and your weight and fluid balance.
does tumescent liposuction cause a lot of swelling? does tumescent liposuction cause as much swelling as regular liposuction or is it less? .
liposuction causes swelling. tumescence will keep blood loss lower when it is done prior to liposuction. most of the fluid is removed when the fat is suctioned.
do you think family is to blame for childs obesity?
a family has control when a child is young of what food they buy what they offer and how much. in addition exercise routines can be established. also a family models healthy eating habits. there may be other factors out of parents control but there is much we influence. so yes parents share some responsibility.
does obesity cause other digestive problems?
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis gallstones and gastroesophageal reflux are all caused by obesity just to name a few things. if the obese patient develops diabetes then you can add gastroparesis into the mix too.
does xylitol gum really help reduce cavities in children? a friend of mine swears by the use of xylitol gum as the reason her children have not had cavities. is there any data that backs this up? i can't imagine that it would make that much of a differenc
gum chewing can help clean certain easy to get to surfaces on some teeth. it can't get between the teeth like floss to cause the required plaque disruption that reduces cavities by reducing localizes acid formation. fluoride application is the single best additional adjunct to proper brushing and flossing it strengthens enamel and kills bacteria. benefits from chewing xylitol gum are minimal.
does sugar-intake really cause hyperactivity in children or it's myth?
adhd attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is often caused or worsened by fluctuating blood sugars as a result of sweet drinks. reactive hypoglycemia leads to inability to concentrate as the brain is temporarily starved for glucose. then the low sugar levels stimulate the release of adrenaline leading to the hyperactivity.
had nissen 7 months ago all went well. the last few weeks i belch a lot after meals/drinks i wasn't expecting this is it ok? it does ache sometimes afte
sometimes after the initial post op swelling of a surgical antireflux repair goes away patients can develop belching and even some mild reflux. 15% of nissens can "slip" and about 7% of patients do develop some recurrent symptoms. discuss with your surgeon on your next follow up visit or with your primary md on your next visit.
how to cure bad breath from hiatus hernia? reflux is barely there oral hygiene is perfect.
tell you that your hiatal hernia is causing your bad breath or is this your conclusion? did a dentist tell you that your oral hygiene is perfect or is this how you feel? the reason i ask is because patients like to self diagnose. the internet is fabulous for information but without a clinical exam and more details it is impossible to diagnose you in this forum. see your dentist for more answers.
how to cure bad breath from hiatus hernia? reflux is barely there oral hygiene is perfect.
treat the reflux and the hernia. these are you best options and glad the hygiene is excellent.
has anyone tried the slimfast diet and what were the results?
while in general i don't recommend meal replacement diets because they are very restrictive and hard to stay with there are few that are really harmful. these like slimfast work by restricting calorie intake. this can be done with anything but slimfast etc tries to balance vitamins/proteins/calories to help with hunger and sugar fluctuations. hard to do for extended period and maintain weight.
heart disease doesn't run in my fam norm wt bmi of 21. bp 100/60 labs good many normal ekgs normal xrays. still get chest and back pain anxiety?
or could be from reflux or musculoskeletal source or respiratory symptoms (--why are you smoking up to 2 packs a day? ). if your dr. has ruled out heart or endocrine source for symptoms then ask about these other options. once serious and specific-treatment sources eliminated then can relax if / when it shows up.
heart disease doesn't run in my fam norm wt bmi of 21. bp 100/60 labs good many normal ekgs normal xrays. still get chest and back pain anxiety?
you should look into reflux as a cause for chest pain. you doctor can help w that. anxiety can also be a cause of chest pain but there is no specific test to show that.
hi doc i have diagnosed hiatus hernia with gerd esophgitis la grade b and duodanitis. is it curable by lifestyle modification? or surgery is rqrd?
duodenitis will not be affected by your hiatal hernia and you should start a acid-reducing medication and rule-out h. pylori. the esophagitis will not be cured by lifestyle modification as this is an anatomical problem with the stomach sliding or fixed in the chest space which causes the reflux. surgery is the only way to fix this.
hi doc i have diagnosed hiatus hernia with gerd esophgitis la grade b and duodanitis. is it curable by lifestyle modification? or surgery is rqrd?
hiatal hernia is very common. there are different types: sliding and paraesophageal hiatal hernia. most common one is sliding. they come in different sizes. the majority of patients will not have any complication related to this condition. most common symptom is acid reflux. with la grade b esophagitis this can be treated with medications. discuss and ask more questions with your gi for tx.
what are the risks involved with breast enlargement?
risks of surgery include bleeding infection scars fluid collections and asymmetry. implant related complications include implant failure or rupture implant exposure malposition and capsular contracture. capsular contracture is the formation of firm scar tissue around the implant resulting in asymmetry implant deformation visibility of the implant and pain in very severe cases.
what is the definition or description of: breast implants?
a medical device that is used to augment the size of the breast by increasing the volume of the breast mound. implants come in a variety of shapes sizes and textures and are surgically inserted either under the breast tissue or in a deeper plane under the muscle. the shell of the implant is made of a flexible silicone elastomer. the inside is filled with either silicone gel or saline fluid.
what is the definition or description of: breast implants?
a prosthesis consisting of a gellike or fluid material in a flexible sac implanted behind or in place of a female breast in reconstructive or cosmetic surgery.
what cause breast soreness and heaviness?
breast soreness can occur due to stretching from increased fluid retention. breast pain can occur in conjunction w premenstrual syndrome ovulation your period pregnancy hormone imbalance or use of oral contraceptives.
what is the definition or description of: breast cyst needle drainage?
a breast cyst is a sac of fluid within the breast tissue. needle aspiration is the drainage of that fluid usually guided by ultrasound. the majority of cysts are benign and many will recur even after drainage.
what is the definition or description of: breast cyst needle drainage?
breast cysts are quite common some can be felt on exam and most can be identified by breast ultrasound. removal of the fluid with a needle is usually curative.
what are some inherent risks of a breast biopsy?
although infection and bleeding are the most common risks of a core needle biopsy or fine needle aspiration larger breast biopsies can be associated with seroma formation (large pockets of fluid that do not resolve). other risks are less common.
what are the drawbacks and benefits of breast augmentation?
breast augmentation with implants can help you enlarge your breasts and improve their shape. candidates are those with minimal breasts those who have lost volume from pregnancy breastfeeding and aging and those who have asymmetric breasts. risks include bleeding infection wound separation scar fluid collections rupture capsular contracture and malposition.
what is the likely cause of a young woman to have a breast lump?
the most common breast tumor is a fibroadenoma. this is a benign tumor which may be present as early as the teen years. as women age breast cysts may develop which are benign fluid-filled lumps (peak incidence ages 35-50). it is often very difficult to distinguish a lump from normal "lumpy-bumpy" tissue. when in doubt it is best to see your primary care physician or gynecologist.
can i get pregnant. whilst having hiatus hernia?
hiatal hernia is when a portion of the stomach slides into the chest cavity and usually results in increased acid reflux symptoms. this hernia (and others) should not relate to your ability to get pregnant and so take appropriate precautions regarding contraception.
can you get constipated from eating too much fruit?
most fruit has lots of sugar and fiber each of which generally act against constipation. however some fruits like bananas constipate some patients especially if eaten with inadequate fluids.
can hiatal hernia cause heart flutter?
while i suppose its possible of there was a very large hiatal hernia (paraesophageal type) it is still unlikely.
can a small hiatal hernia give u a gagging/vomit feeling and acid in throat feeling or not?
hiatal hernia and more likely from acid reflux. take care! <link>
can a hiatal hernia be fatal?
unless the hernia is so large that nearly all the stomach is in the chest and a gastric volvulous occurs (rare) needing emergency surgery. heartburn ; reflux symptoms are usually treated medically. elective surgery for some situations. be sure you see a doctor for the proper testing.
can i hiatal hernia give you sternum tightness left chest tightness and shortness of breath?
if you have gastroesophageal reflux disease. but your symptoms could be caused by something else like heart disease. so it is best to see a doctor for correct diagnosis and proper treatment.
does gaining weight after chin liposuction affect the results? my weight tends to fluctuate by up to 15 pounds during the year. if i have chin liposuction at my lightest will gaining weight undo the results? .
unfortunately gaining and losing weight will affect plastic surgery results. it is best to try and stay at your ideal weight.
does gaining weight after chin liposuction affect the results? my weight tends to fluctuate by up to 15 pounds during the year. if i have chin liposuction at my lightest will gaining weight undo the results? .
yes it could affect the area. however since liposuction permanently removes the excess fat cells in the area you may notice less tendency to gain fat back in those areas. depends on how many fat cells are still present and where you body prefers to store gained fat.
does gaining weight after chin liposuction affect the results? my weight tends to fluctuate by up to 15 pounds during the year. if i have chin liposuction at my lightest will gaining weight undo the results? .
if you gain weight again your neck will enlarge but to a lesser degree.
does gaining weight after chin liposuction affect the results? my weight tends to fluctuate by up to 15 pounds during the year. if i have chin liposuction at my lightest will gaining weight undo the results? .
hi yes. in general if you gain weight in the affected region it will change the contour and appearance. . how much it changes depends on your unique pattern of weight gain. if you tend to put on weight in your chin region first. you may see some contour change. if on the other hand you tend to put weight on in your midsection then you won't have to worry much with 15 pounds.
do stomach acid problems cause weight loss?
if one were to have excessive acid to the point of reflux gastritis ulcer disease an other issues related to acid one may not be able to eat due to nausea vomiting pain and decreased appetite thus weight loss would occur. it you are concerned see your pcp or a gastroenterologist and get an evaluation. some serious things could be present that would need attention.
does rett syndrome make girls overweight?
this is a very rare disorder: 1 in 10 000 due to an x-chromosome linked genetic disorder. feeding is a problem esophageal reflux is common and death is sometimes due to malnutrition. here is a national institute of health link: <link> i've never seen a case and few doctors have. i sympathize with your child's condition. good luck.
driving under the influence of phentermine dangerous?
but be careful the first time you use it.
does prozac (fluoxetine) cause excessive hunger or weight gain in your child?
prozac or fluoxetine is an antidepressant that can also be used to treat anxiety some eating disorders and other illnesseses. it can cause increased or decreased appetite. also the underlying illnesses can increase or decrease appetite. if an appetite change does occur it may change over time.
does stress cause my hiatal hernia to act up?
stress can increase gastric acid production. if you have a hiatal hernia this can lead to an increase in your reflux symptoms.
does lithium or nefazodone cause weight gain?
increase appetite plus fluid retention.
describe tumescent liposuction?
tumescent literally means swollen or engorged. it describes a method of preparing for liposuction and by itself does not remove any fat. it's intended purpose is to add large volumes of fluid ( physicians use different formulas) to achieve some degree of anesthesia as well as to facilitate the extraction of fat by limiting blood loss or improving the conduction of energy such as ultrasound.
describe tumescent liposuction?
tumescent liposuction refers to the infiltration of fluid into the area prior to performing liposuction. all liposuction is performed with the tumescent technique. <link>
describe tumescent liposuction?
the "tumescent" in tumescent liposuction simply describes the numbing process that is used. small incisions are made and a long very thin cannula is passed under the skin spraying out numbing fluid as it goes. a large volume of fluid is used making the tissues feel tight which is where the name comes from. any type of liposuction can be done with tumescence. www. omahacosmeticsurgery. com
does endermologie help with cellulite reduction?
by stretching the fibers that cause dimpling and squeezing out excess fluid from the fat cells endermology can temporarily reduce the appearance of cellulite. 10 - 20 sessions with regular maintenance is needed to maintain the results.
help please! could carafate (sucralfate) help a hiatal hernia?
a sliding type hiatal hernia is associated with reflux of gastric contents into the esophagus. the acid causes burning sensation described as "heartburn" sometimes an intense pressure sensation like angina. carafate (sucralfate) coats the stomach lining to help shield the mucosa from acid. itwould not effectively protect the esophagus. you need a proton pump inhibitor or h2 blocker to reduce acid.
hello. i ve been diagnosed with gallbladder sludge. iam on a diet and i also want to start taking garcinia cambodia to shed some weight off. is it safe?
<link> org/ this is a blog which explains the benefits having sludge in your gall bladder is a meaningless term. i suppose they could be really tiny stones. but at that size they should pass easily if they were microscopic stones. on mri we can often see fluid levels in the gall bladder - it is normal.
had nissen fundoplication surgery 10/10 solved issue with reflux of acid into esophagus now i suffer with excessive gas. what to try to stop gas?
you had a nissen and now notice gas. try recording what you eat and avoid the food that gives you gas like fried foods or legumes. with your nissen you may have received antibiotics. it will take a while to return your gut flora to normal. you may find that yogurt often can help so give that a try.
had nissen fundoplication surgery 10/10 solved issue with reflux of acid into esophagus now i suffer with excessive gas. what to try to stop gas?
anti-gas medications like simethicone can be very helpful. avoid carbonated beverages and gas producing foods.
have hep c just had my liver checked in october by ultra soundsaid it was fine also have acid reflux why do i stay so bloated also over weight?
be a big help1 see pcp about med for reflux.
what should i do if i suspect breast cancer?
the signs and symptoms of breast cancer include: a lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the underarm that persists through the menstrual cycle; change in the size shape or contour of the breast; blood-stained or clear fluid discharge from the nipple; change in the feel or appearance of the skin on the breast or nipple (dimpled puckered scaly or inflamed). if concerned see your doc.
what are signs that a lump could be breast cancer?
the signs and symptoms of breast cancer include: a lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the underarm that persists through the menstrual cycle; change in the size shape or contour of the breast; blood-stained or clear fluid discharge from the nipple; change in the feel or appearance of the skin on the breast or nipple (dimpled puckered scaly or inflamed). new lump - see your doc.
what are some early indicators of breast cancer?
the signs and symptoms of breast cancer include: a lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the underarm that persists through the menstrual cycle; change in the size shape or contour of the breast; blood-stained or clear fluid discharge from the nipple; change in the feel or appearance of the skin on the breast or nipple (dimpled puckered scaly or inflamed).
what is the success rate of taking breast enlargement pills?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
what are the possible reasons to why my breasts hurt on the sides to the touch?
mastodynia or breast pain can have variety of causes. most commonly hormone fluctuations can cause pain. fibrocystic disease can also be painful and related to hormonal levels. less common reasons include infections or inflammatory conditions. in older patients (ie. in the fourth decade of life or greater) an advanced cancer can be painful. see your physician for a good history and physical.
why do i get hot flushes when i use tamoxifen?
tamoxifen negates the effect of estrogen in most organs. hot flashes are a common side effect.
when estrogen is deficient hot flushes might occur. so why does using tamoxifen which is an estrogen derivative also lead to hot flushes?
although tamoxifen is chemically related to estrogen it is an anti-estrogen in most organs. that is it blocks the effect of estrogen except in the skeleton. hot flashes are a common side effect.
what is the cause of my vaginal cramps and sore breast?
among other things due to hormonal fluctuations that would probably both improve with a birth control pill. that is unless they are not related but coincidental. it could be breast pain and a bladder infection or another type of issue but let's assume hormonal. try some short term aleve (naproxen) or ibuprofin until u get in.
with mastitis how long does a fever last when prescribed flucloxacillin?
2-3 days after starting antibiotic. if it persists after that please call your doctor.
with mastitis how long does a fever last when prescribed flucloxacillin?
once you start the antibiotic your fevers should be lower and then resolve within 24-36 hours. if you do not begin to feel better the antibiotic may not be covering the correct bacteria. let your physician know.
why r my boobs sore i'm not pregnant and i have pain behind my nipple?
you said "pain behind my nipple. " i think any one-sided breast symptom should be checked. see your doctor about this. tender breasts can be due to hormonal fluctuations both in regular cycles and in pregnancy. some women find that caffeine consumption is related to tender breasts as well. lgromkomd.
can you tell me about laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for heartburn/hiatal hernia?
for hiatal hernia the stomach is brought back into the abdomen and the defect of the crus muscles around the esophagus are brought together and possible mesh reinforcement. for just reflux without the hernia the stomach is wrapped around itself called a fundoplication. best part is the symptoms are gone almost immediately.
can you tell me about laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for heartburn/hiatal hernia?
there are several options and they should be performed when the reflux is truly a disease manifest by organ damage or unacceptable lifestyle modifications. there are also some endoscopic procedures. see a general or thoracic surgeon experienced in anti-reflux procedures for a thorough consultation. hope this helps!
could a hiatal hernia really kill you?
hiatal hernia is more likely the older you get ; can exist without symptoms. hiatal hernia can have symptoms associated with reflux--hearburn chest pain difficulty swallowing. long history of reflux can result in changes in the esophagus leading to bleeding scarring or cancer. rarely hiatal hernia becomes paraesophageal hernia (part of stomach alongside esophagus in chest) ; is life threatening.
can you tell me about laparoscopic anti reflux surgery for heartburn and or hiatal hernia?
in general terms the operation uses 5 small incisions takes 2-4 hours depending on a variety if factors is associated with a 1-2 night stay in the hospital and a 1-2 week recovery period regarding postop pain. there is usually difficulty swallowing for 3-6 weeks afterward as well. preop tests will determine if its right for you and there will be occasional reflux afterward but markedly improved.
can you tell me about laparoscopic anti reflux surgery for heartburn and or hiatal hernia?
a nissen fundoplication is a surgery for gerd or acid reflux. the main components of the surgery are repair of a hiatal hernia if present followed by wrapping of the upper part of the stomach (the fundus) around the esophagus. this repairs the valve between the esophagus and stomach and prevents reflux. other options are available such as tif or linx.
can you tell me about roux-en-y gastric bypass surgery?
the the bypass is the gold standard for weight loss operations. it's been around for over 50 yrs and is a proven operation. it is the best in terms of overall weight loss. it is also the best operation for patients with diabetes heartburn/reflux large hiatal hernias or are very obese (bmi over 50). it should only be done by an experienced gastric bypass surgeon. the sleeve is a close second.
do gastric sleeve or gastric bypass work better for losing weight?
weight loss with both operations is in the range of 60-80% excessive weight loss. the risk profile for both operations is the same too. the only thing that leans me toward recommending a gastric bypass more than a sleeve would be severe reflux or long standing type ii diabetes. these two medical conditions seem to be better managed after gastric bypass.
drs have done 4 endoscopies i don't have hiatal hernia if i don't take nexium (esomeprazole) daily i feel horrible i diet what's wrong? are there any surgerys to fix acid reflux?
your condition if confirm as acid reflux can be treated with anti reflux procedure (nissen fundoplication) or less invasive and less effective procedure esophyx. talk to your doctor.
drs have done 4 endoscopies i don't have hiatal hernia if i don't take nexium (esomeprazole) daily i feel horrible i diet what's wrong? are there any surgerys to fix acid reflux?
part of preventing reflux is maintaining weight elevating head of bed not lying down for at least 1 hr after eating avoiding trigger foods like fried/fatty/greasy foods spicy foods onions caffeine soft drinks acidic foods (tomato/lemon/lime). have doc test for helicobacter pylori which is associated with ulcers possibly reflux. treat if positive. a different ppi may work better for you.
drs have done 4 endoscopies i don't have hiatal hernia if i don't take nexium (esomeprazole) daily i feel horrible i diet what's wrong? are there any surgerys to fix acid reflux?
there are several techniques and laparoscopic approaches (minimally invasive surgery) are available. the laparoscopic nissen fundoplication wraps a portion of your upper stomach around the end of the esophagus effectively creating a high pressure area that restores the functions you are missing of preventing reflux of stomach acid to the esophagus. it is very effective.
does the medication celexa cause weight gain? i was on it for three years and now i'm prozac (fluoxetine). could these two medications cause weight gain?
although celexa is labeled as weight neutral and prozac (fluoxetine) is weight negative. i have actually seen weight gain as well sometimes with these meds. a lot depends on the patient their own personal reaction to medicines. check with your doctor to see if another medicine would be better and less likely to cause weight gain for you.
does the medication celexa cause weight gain? i was on it for three years and now i'm prozac (fluoxetine). could these two medications cause weight gain?
many antidepressants are associated with weight gain; whether the drugs actually cause it or whether one's improved mood is still being debated. ssri's (celexa/prozac/ paxil/et al) tricyclics (elavil et al) mao inhibitors have all been implicated. experts suggest first changing within a class e. g. from paxil (most likely) to zoloft (least likely) or change to effexor (venlafaxine) serzone or wellbutrin.
does exlax or senna "flush" your system before it can turn into fat if taken right after eating?
it's not what you eat but how much that matters cutting calories not necessarily fat or carbs is the key to long-term weight loss a new study found. <link>
how do i know if i need nissen fundoplication laparoscopic surgery?
basically if you have documented reflux disease either by history or testing such as egd or ph probe test then fundoplication can be considered. medications can help with reflux however if you are young or the risk of surgery is minimal the fundoplication can keep you from needing to take medications for your lifetime. if medications don't work then surgery can be considered.
have hiatal hernia. had pain below ribcage (front) & in my back & burping after heavy lifting last night. feeling fine now. anything to watch for?
hiatal hernias are very common. most often are asymptomatic. most common symptom is heartburn. as a test take some tums (calcium carbonate). if symptoms get better these would represent reflux. if they don't you may be having issues with your gallbladder.
how can you relieve fluid retention that is caused by the anti depressant mirtazapine? i'm on a diet but scales not changing due to all the fluid.
intake ; follow a prescribed diet. the pill does not take the weight off you ; keep it off. dieting with caloric counting does>.
what risks should i be aware of doing breast reduction surgery?
breast reduction is a very common surgery and people who have it are some if the happiest patients in plastic surgery. that said there are risks. first there is the risks of bleeding or fluid build-up in the breast. theses are know as a hematoma (blood) or seroma (fluid). second is the concern of infection. lastly on this short list is wound healing of the incisions or the the nipple.
what does it mean when your breasts are sore and sensitive?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cause the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
when your right breast hurts and a constant pain she is 14; years old what could this be?
the most common causes of lumps in a girl this age are a fluid filled cyst or a noncancerous mass called a fibroadenoma. i recommend you contact her family physician. they should send her for an ultrasound and evaluation by a breast specialist. if she needs surgical removal of the lumps make sure it is a surgeon who will be concerned with the cosmetic outcome. it may require a plastic surgeon.
want to stay on herceptin (trastuzumab) and switch from taxol to gemzar. what is the difference?
unlike taxol (paclitaxel) gemcitabine does not cause neuropathy. it can cause low platelets. it can also cause fluid retention. also it is usually given 2 weeks on and 1 week off. unlike taxol (paclitaxel) which typically is given weekly. that is about it in regards to the difference. hope this helps.
what is the reason of breast pain in men?
hormone fluctuations; dry skin; local irritation (from clothing etc. ); tumor is possible so males should do breast self-exam periodically as well--if lump or specifically tender area should see dr for confirmatory exam.
what are the chances of a malignant breast lump decreasing?
have you had a biopsy and been diagnosed with cancer? cancerous lumps do not decrease as my collegue replied in his answer. you could have a fluid filled cyst in the breast that can decrease in size and often times disappear altogether. i recommend you get evaluated by a physician to get a correct answer and diagnose your problem. good luck!
what's the difference between a breast lump and a cyst?
a lump can be anything - solid or fluid filled scar tissue just a prominent area. it is a very non-specific term. a cyst means a fluid filled structure.
what's the difference between a breast lump and a cyst?
a cyst is full of fluid a lump is generally solid. both need to be investigated carefully and probably biopsied.
what's the difference between a breast lump and a cyst?
the most common causes of breast lumps include "lumpy-bumpy" breast tissue ("fibrocystic changes") tumors (benign or malignant) and cysts (fluid-filled;benign). a thorough history and physical examination supplemented by ultrasound+/-mammography+/-biopsy will help sort this out. your gynecologist or primary care doctor can help you sort this out. good luck.
what causes breast lumps and microcalcifications?
breast lumps may be cysts (small bags of fluid) or tumor or normal breast tissues. microcalcifications can be benign or malignant. benign calcifications may be from fibrocystic changes. malignant calcifications typically come from tissues produced cancerous breast ducts.
can type 2 diabetes cause nausea a lot if so why? thanks
blood sugar fluctuation sometims cause nausea. nausea can be a symptom of uncontrolled diabetes. the nausea can also go along with something called diabetic gastroparesis. it means the stomach is not working right. as a diabetic you are also more prone to vascular disease. go see your doctor.
can a hiatal hernia worsen from gastroparisis? or the other way around?
gsstroparesis is an uncommon condition where the stomach does not empty food well or empties more slowly. esophageal reflux symptoms can become worse with gastroparesis.
can you tell me is gastric sleeve safer or gastric bypass surgery is safer?
that's a common misconception by patients. the gastric bypass is a more complicated operation than a sleeve but the risk of a leak is the same for either operation. in addition if a leak occurs it is much harder to control in a sleeve than in a bypass. there are many other pros/cons for each but the bottom line is that the risk is about equal. for diabetes and heartburn/reflux bypass is best.
can a hiatal hernia causes lung pain and pain below the breast bone?
a truly sizable hiatal hernia may be contributory to your symptoms. is it fixed sliding para-esophageal? before you consider surgery for the hiatal hernia and its manifestations of gerd have you tried and failed appropriately-dosed acid blocker agents and anti-reflux diet modification? has a ph study and manometry been considered? does your stomach empty normally?
can you tell me about fundoplication surgery on infants?
all young infants have some gastroesophageal reflux; that's why they spit-up. at 4-6 months' age the lower esophageal sphincter becomes more competent and reflux usually subsides. if it continues and causes severe problems with the respiratory system (stopping breathing recurrent pneumonia) poor nutrition or direct esophageal complications (inflammation stricture) surgery is considered.
can you tell me about fundoplication surgery for gastroesophageal reflux disease?
to keep stomach acid in stomach. the most common operation for gastroesophageal reflux (ger) performed in the us is a fundoplication in which the top of the stomach (fundus) is plicated or wrapped around the bottom of the swallowing tube (esophagus) to make a better valve there. it can either be a full- or partial-wrap. the operation can be done openly or laparoscopically.
currently on bupropion 200mg twice a day and i am on 10mg of prozac (fluoxetine). i want 2 start garcinia cambogia and wanted 2 know if it's safe taken separately?
there are many negative reviews of this product with respect to its effectiveness. it may not have dangerous side effects or interactions w/ your other drugs - but it might not be worth the risk - never mind to cost. it must be troubling that weight gain is a side effect of your meds but more meds don't seem like the best solution. consider a combo of diet/exercise and planned reduction of meds.
currently on bupropion 200mg twice a day and i am on 10mg of prozac (fluoxetine). i want 2 start garcinia cambogia and wanted 2 know if it's safe taken separately?
garcinia may not be safe considering you are on two powerful medications. i highly recommend that you stop smoking as this is a major risk factor for your health.
can a very mild sore throat and post nasal drip throat be caused by gerd? myegd showed gastritis but nothing else-can i fix gerd thru diet and exercise
you can control gerd by small frequent meals low fat foods avoid caffeine beverages such as coffee and tea. do not eat or drink within three hours of bedtime. these are the initial treatments of reflux- if they don't help- consult your physician for further advice.
do flush the fat diet pills cause your metabolism to stop working?
no.
does drinking water help with weight loss much?
our bodies are mostly water and need water to function. water can help to flush out the system to keep you hydrated and can be used as a first choice when experiencing "hunger" to help learn the difference between physical and psychological hunger. try to drink a minimum of 8 - 8 oz glasses per day. drink a glass of water and wait 10 minutes before you eat to see if that does the trick.
how common is nissen fundplication surgery? is it true that one in three surgery in western country is the nissen?
nissen fundoplication is an anti-reflux procedure for symptomatic and poorly responsive gastroesophageal reflux (gerd). with the use of more potent antacids such as proton pump inhibitors the incidence of anti-reflux procedures is actually declining. the peak use was about 32 000 in the us done in 1999 but down to 24 000 by 2003. in contrast over 600 000 cholecystectomies are done each year.
how to know if i have a hiatal hernia attack last night?
hiatal hernias can be silent about half the time and have reflux symptoms the other half. those symptoms include heartburn pressure or pain below your breastbone regurgitation of stomach contents into your mouth and nausea. it happens more often at night since you are reclining and gravity is working against keeping gastric contents in your stomach.
how to know if i have sleep apnea or something else?
if you snore have excessive daytime sleepiness trouble falling or staying asleep morning headaches fatigue trouble concentrating periodically stop breathing at night have a dry mouth night time acid reflux sleep paralysis and/or hypnic jerks you could have sleep apnea. if you have sleep concerns please see a sleep medicine specialist.
what are the first signs and symptoms of leg lymphedema?
in the legs the swelling is in the ankles feet and toes. the difference between lymphedema and fluid retention is the location of the swelling. with fluid retention the feet and toes are generally not involved. toe swelling (called stemmer's sign) is felt by many to be diagnostic of lymphedema. fortunately pain is uncommon.
why slight milk color discharge from nipples? can not be pregnancy i got my periods on time.
there are a few common medical conditions that can cause breast fluid leakage. as long as you are not pregnant or haven't been pregnant recently then please go in to see your trusted medical advisor. some of the conditions can be serious. please do not ignore this symptom.
why are prolia and raloxifene considered by some to be better alternatives to the other treatments for osteoporosis and are the side effects common?
they are bisphosophonate alternatives. these (boniva fosamax) are the most common medications prescribed for osteoporosis data. fracture data is excellent but they are difficult to monitor in the sense that they do not actually increase the density of bone. bisphosophates bind to bone matrix and strengthen it. the side effects (atypical fracture reflux kidney issues) can create concern
would the arm be edematousf the patient has breast cancer and their axillary lymphy nodes are removed?
the removal of lymph nodes is the main cause of lymphedema. the nodes drain fluid from the arm. this is a treatable problem but not curable. i highly recommend going to a lymphedema clinic in order to get evaluated and treated. treatment includes manual massage exercises arm sleeve and other types of manipulation.
could lifting (eg babies and young children) affect an hiatus hernia?
many people with reflux have a hiatal hernia. not all people with hiatal hernias have reflux. the symptoms of hiatal hernia may be subtle or none at all. lifting babies and/or children can cause an increase in intrabdominal pressure. this could affect reflux and increase pressure on a hiatal hernia. but so too would sneezing coughing or any straining. it is safe to do so no need to worry.
can somebody tell me how can prozac (fluoxetine) cause weight gain?
usually medications dont cause weight gain they cause increased appetite. sometimes with antidepressants depression causes appetite loss so when you take antidepressants and start feeling better you start eating more and then blame it on the medicine.
can sleep apnea over time cause my symptoms of low t level low sperm count hyperhydrosis sleepiness constipation anxiety depression.?
obstructive sleep apnea or osa causes less oxygen to your brain. the body tries to make up for the lack of oxygen with hypertension diabetes kidney problems acid reflux etc. daytime fatigue causes yo to overeat gain weight and the weight gain makes osa worse. which adds to depression and anxiety. simply sleeping on your side and avoiding gerd may work. see www. grossaninstitute. com.
does acid reflux cause problems with weight gain?
actually obesity often causes gastric reflux due to higher pressures in the belly. gastric reflux does lead to more air swallowing and belching an flatus.
do you recommend spry toothpaste with xylitol and fluoride?
spry toothpaste is not yet approved by the american dental association (ada) so i can't endorse it. the ada tests all the ingredients and attributes of products to make sure they are safe and effective for you and your family. please use an ada approved fluoride toothpaste 3 times per day.
do you recommend spry toothpaste with xylitol and fluoride?
yes the use of xylitol is very effective in fighting decay the bacteria that cause decay are unable to use this sugar as food. so they die .
do you recommend spry toothpaste with xylitol and fluoride?
any toothpaste with fluoride is beneficial xylitol is also good. know that the toothpaste you use is always secondary to the actual brushing so as long as the toothpaste has fluoride it is sufficient.
does my hiatal hernia increases my chances of dangerous viral infections?
no. it does increase your risk of reflux.
does gum make you fat or does is make you lose weight?
gum can be unhealthy because of artificial dyes sweetners or sugar. some xylitol gums are healthy. the behavior of the person chewing the gum will influence whether there is weight gain or loss.
have been losing approx 1lb per day. yesterday ate 530 calories less than daily amount plus burned 240 calories but gained. 6lbs. what am i doing wrong? ate no junk food low fat cals carbs.
weigh yourself once a week at the same time of day- preferably in the am. preferably without any clothes. there are too many fluctuations and reasons for them to expect a weight loss after one day of activity. by the way- one pound weight loss per day is not healthy- too much too soon is not good. consult a nutrition expert for help.
have been losing approx 1lb per day. yesterday ate 530 calories less than daily amount plus burned 240 calories but gained. 6lbs. what am i doing wrong? ate no junk food low fat cals carbs.
everybody can fluctuate depending on the calories they need and the water content. you may want to get fully examined so that the doctor can provide some proper nutritional advice and also check your blood work for possible thyroid issues electrolyte issues etc. good luck.
hi i know it's risk but my question is. i want to know what will happen if i go to fundoplication? . i have gerd 3mmhg and dysmotility of esophagus
surgery for gerd certainly can help symptoms but as with any surgery there can be complications and long-term side effects. currently surgery is recommended for gerd only if the patient is refractory to medical therapy. have you had a good trial of anti-reflux medications? did they work? these are questions that you will need to answer with your physician before considering any sort of surgery.
hiatus hernia repair operation what to expect?
this surgery is usually done with laparoscope and involves a one day stay. you will start with thin liquids and advance slowly. this should help your symptoms of reflux. good luck
had gastric bypass. always been a slow loser. on prozac (fluoxetine). can prozac (fluoxetine) cause me to lose weight slower than those not on it who had weight loss surgery?
prozac (fluoxetine) could cause weight gain all by itself. perhaps it's thwarting your efforts. contrave is a weight loss pill that contains an anti depressant (wellbutrin) - might be a good choice to switch to from prozac (fluoxetine).
had gastric bypass. always been a slow loser. on prozac (fluoxetine). can prozac (fluoxetine) cause me to lose weight slower than those not on it who had weight loss surgery?
all living creatures are open systems: i. e. all atoms we are made of keep changing some rapid/some slow. thus if we eat & store less than loose daily wt. will go down. calories: zero wt. ; thus counting largely pointless. track wt. daily to 0. 1 lb. after up&toilet & review what eaten previous day to learn what works. carbs/sugar most prone to store as fat. fats (of natural origin) least stored!
had heartburn and headache since sleeve gastrectomy 4 days ago. tried liquid tylenol (acetaminophen) for headache and gasx strips and zantac for heartburn. plz help!
in the early post-op period if you are continuing to have heartburn or abdominal pain you should are your surgeon. some patients after gastrstrectomy are started on antireflux meds such as protonix (pantoprazole) or omeprazole. in regards to the ha it can sometimes be related to caffeine withdrawal if u r are coffee or tea drinker. other possibilities could be related to medication or anesthesia. see surgeon
how come bananas make you gain weight yet when i eat like 8 bananas since i have low potassium i lose my belly fat while i usually gain weight easily?
each banana depending on size is roughly 100 calories. if you eat 8 you're eating 800 calories. for a 19 year old that's only a fraction of your daily requirement. gaining weight (fat not fluid) is all about how much you eat vs how much you burn up.
when will my breasts hit their peak of growth? why haven't mine grown? i'm only an a-cup & i'm 17 yrs old. most girls my age have c or d cups.
good and important question. girls like you are curious why your breast did not develop to size c or d. size of breast depends on hormonal influence grouth of muscle and fatty tissues. others exercise to grow it.
why do my breasts hurt?
the most common cause is hormones related to flucutations around your period or if you have changed or added hormone pills. if it's getting worse or not getting better need to have it checked by doctor.
what foods rich in estrogen that helps to increase breast size?
breast size is genically controlled. generally breasts develop under the influence of estrogen to a certain point then stop. further estrogen doesn't help unless the dosage is massive and potentially harmful to the clotting mechanism.
why am i having sore breasts 10 days after my periods? had sex 7 months ago. took pregnancy tests at 2nd 3rd & 7th month. all negative. i m 26 yrs.
the next step will be to schedule an exam to make sure your breasts are normal. hormonal changes weight fluctuations dietary changes and stress are common causes of sore breasts. if your pregnancy tests are negative you are not pregnant.
what causes pms-like breast pain after a period?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. breasts feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cause the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer.
with women over 50 with menopause what can cause breast pain?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common after menopause. breasts feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cause the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer.
woud you please discuss the cuases of hypertension in postop patient especially in mastectomy?
fluid overload missing regular meds. if she is still in the hospital nurses should have specific orders for pain meds and bp meds issued by the medical doctor. it is important to control bp to avoid surgical and medical complications post op.
are fruit juices with high fructose corn syrup unhealthy for my child?
milk and water are the only fluids kids need to drink. juice soda sugared drinks of any type only introduce empty calories. "no sugar added" fruit juice is a food industry trick because all juices have their own sugars. 8 oz of orange juice has the equivalent of nearly 8 tsp of sugar! a 12 oz soda has nearly 10 tsp of sugar. high fructose corn syrup is particularly unhealthy.
are severe acid reflux and hiatal hernia related to snoring and excessive hiccupping?
gerd certainly may be related to hiccups but probably not snoring. a large hiatal hernia can certainly cause hiccups but again would not be related to snoring. being overweight is a common cause of gerd and snoring.
are severe acid reflux and hiatal hernia related to snoring and excessive hiccupping?
yes. snoring can be a sign of sleep apnea which means that an individual is stopping breathing for at least 10 seconds. this causes pressure on the abdomen causing stomach acids to go back up the throat.
are severe acid reflux and hiatal hernia related to snoring and excessive hiccupping?
acid in your throat from reflux will create small patches of irritated tissue which triggers coughs and hiccupping. one commonly found problem adding to symptoms of reflux is sleep apnea so be sure you get that checked out.
are there anti-depressants that cause weight loss?
prozac (fluoxetine) can cause weight loss and some serotonin reuptake inhibitors can cause weight loss.
are there big risks to liposuction?
extremley rarely from a procedure that is done very commonly with excellent safety margin there can be life threateining infections fluid status issues heart issues anesthesia complications fat emboli and clots and other serious problems. no surgery is without a risk. discuss this thoroughly with your surgeon if you're considering to have liposuction and if you are deemed to be a candidate.
can eating too few calories cause weight gain or not allow weight loss? i'm not loosing weight at 1 000-1 200c in fact i gained 3 pounds! <negative_smiley>
weight loss depends on many factors. depends on what type of calories your eating carbs vs fats vs protein. also can depend on salt content. in woman premenstrual hormone changes can cause weight flux of 3 lbs. sometime low calorie diets result in lowering of basal metabolic rate which could also effect weight loss. and finally medications can play a role. see a nutritionist for healthy diet.
can phentermine cause problems with your gallbladder?
using phetermine can result in weight loss. drink plenty of fluids to reduce risk of gall stone. phetermine part of fen phen dose not cause pulmonary hypertension. it could under supervision weight loss doctor be a good aid to weight loss.
can you tell me about successful treatment for lipoedema?
this is swelling caused by backup of protein rich clear fluid in lower leg. treated with compression stockings leg elevation and a type of massage therapy called mld (manual lymphatic drainage) -- often initiated by physical therapists.
cholesterol high over weight what do you advise?
in today's world 2/3 of the us population is overweight or obese. approximelty 20 different medical conditions have been directly linked to obesity. including hypertension reflux cardiac disease sleep apnea diabetes arthritis and elevated cholesterol. if you are 49 and overweight with elevated cholesterol you likely should be evaluated by a md and started on a diet and exercise plan.
can a hiatal hernia cause nausea?
hiatal hernias do not usually cause symptoms. in some cases though hiatal hernias cause stomach acid to leak into the esophagus. this is called acid reflux or gastroesophageal reflux and it can cause symptoms including:? burning in the chest known as heartburn? burning in the throat or an acid taste in the throat? stomach or chest pain? trouble swallowing? a raspy voice or a sore throat.
could obesity itself cause constant tachycardia(fast heart rate even resting) heart flutters and palpitations?
other things cause increase in heart rate. obesity alone does not. food that contain caffeine diet supplements stress anxiety all can cause increase in heart rate. hormonal imbalance can also be a cause.
does hydrocephalus cause major weight loss?
hydrocephalus is a neurologic condition that refers to a collection of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) that accumulates in the cavities (ventricles) in the brain. it can cause weight loss if it is associated with the known symptoms of nausea with or without vomiting. also having headaches and being fatigues tend to diminish ones caloric intake which can affect weight. i hope this helps.
does a gastroentrologist do the surgery nissen fundoliplication?
the nissen fundoplication is a surgery done to correct the reflux of fluid from the stomach into the esophagus. these days it's often done by laparoscopy i. e. "keyhole" surgery. this is done by a surgeon not a gastroenterologist. but your gastroenterologist can recommend their most trusted surgeon for you. lgromkomd.
do people with purging disorder lose weight and fat off their body? because they don't binge they just purge average portions of food
they also lose enamel from teeth vitamins electrolytes and fluids and their health in general. purge is not the answer. purge is binging with a smaller amount of food and very dangerous.
do protein shakes and energy drinks have side effects.
protein shakes are concentrated sources of protein usually whey. we usually are not allergic. concentrated protein ingestion can strain kidneys and can promote kidney stones. drink a lot of fluid. energy drinks contain caffeine or caffeine like substances as well as sugars. these are not healthy for us. can make you jittery nervous angry agitated or have palpitations.
dieting /exercising since nov. have lost 18lbs. last 2. 5 weeks haven't worked out or eatin as healthy. still lost 2lbs. is this ok? recent cbc was ok
a 2 pound weight lost is very minimal as weight can fluctuate up to 4 pounds of day based on water content food and activity level do not worry.
have hiatal hernia. lately i'm having soft pale-colored stools that float diarrhea stomach pain gas nausea. are these symptoms related to hernias?
these are not typical symptoms of having hiatal hernia. most patient with hiatal hernia have problems with heartburn and symptoms related to reflux. your symptoms sound more like they are related to irritable bowel disease except the pale colored stools. hopefully you are not jaundiced because that would indicate a more serious condition requiring examination by a physician.
have hiatal hernia. lately i'm having soft pale-colored stools that float diarrhea stomach pain gas nausea. are these symptoms related to hernias?
these symptoms sound more like a gallbladder problem. usually hiatal hernias give you heartburn or acid reflux type symptoms. you should see a doctor and have this checked. good luck!
have hiatal hernia. lately i'm having soft pale-colored stools that float diarrhea stomach pain gas nausea. are these symptoms related to hernias?
stomach pain gas nausea could relate to hiatal hernia and coexist ant conditions(e. g. reflux). unlikely that diarrhea would be related to hiatus hernia.
how to loose belly fat. plz also mention tips for knee joint pain. knee fluid has decreased due to age found during test.
diet is the key to losing weight. if you need i would suggest getting in touch with a good dietician to get a plan. also pool therapy can help with exercise while keeping pressure off your knee joints.
how to loose belly fat. plz also mention tips for knee joint pain. knee fluid has decreased due to age found during test.
don't waste your money on 'fat burners' laxatives 'cleansers' or anything else that promises an easy way to lose belly fat. short of surgery drop & keep fat off by regular exercise & making healthy food choices (avoid junk food & sugary drinks watch portion size moderate alcohol). you can do it! healthtap allows only 400 characters per answer--not enough to address your joint issues here
how can fiber carry out the bulk of fat from the belly fat location?
hi. your question isn't exactly clear. however under normal physiological conditions essentially no fat is lost in the stool. fiber has no influence on that. dietary fat is 100% absorbed unless there are problems with pancreatic enzymes bile gi anatomy (various surgeries) etc. so fiber cannot "carry out the bulk of fat from the belly fat location" (whatever that even means).
wanted to know where can i get breast enlargement pills?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc. i am not aware of any good science.
went to the dr and had mammo and ultrasound done and dr says cyst with a little blood in it in my left breast is this normal?
hard to diagnose a bloody breast cyst by mammogram or ultrasound. if it was aspirated a bloody fluid can be sent for cytology. consider obtaining a second opinion from a general surgeon or surgical oncologist with expertise in breast disorders. it may need to be excised.
what could be the cause of my sore breasts if i'm not on my period?
reasons for painful breasts (bilateral) can include: cyclic pain before the period stress medication changes. fluctuating hormone levels & pregnancy. pain in one breast could be related to a cyst or a fibroadenoma. breast cancer would not be a frequent reason for breast pain. exercise with a bra that is lacking in support is also a possible cause.
what to do if i have a reoccuring breast cyst should i be legitimately concerned?
not necessarily concerning. breast cysts can normally vary in size with time. also following aspiration there is probably about a 20% chance that a benign cyst will re-accumulate fluid. so re-occurrence in and of itself is not concerning.
when after breast surgery can i go back to work?
is it just lump removal or mastectomy with or without node dissection. all can influence the time back to work. in general beat surgery is not painful and quicker recovery. if it plastic surgery it can be quicker.
are laxatives good for weight loss?
healthtap physicians have repeatedly addressed this subject with a clear "no" answer to your question. there is virtually no value to colon flushes cleansers enemas irrigation machines when the technique is accomplished to "detox" to eliminate "accumulated waste" or to lose weight. there are few real health benefits but sigificant unjustified risk for weight loss achieved that's so temporary.
are laxatives good for weight loss?
laxatives will only help in short term perceived weight loss and will be detrimental to your health. you may take fiber which will be helpful in general health and promote weight loss. also drink plenty of water or fluids with it. taking a glass of water with fiber (as metamucil) before a large meal may decrease your appetite and create the sense of fullness.
at night my right hand wakes me with numbness and tingling and a lot of pain lasts for about an hour help me please. i am 47 on metformin for type 2 diabetes hctz for my high blood pressure and welbuterin to try to help with quitting cigarettes i also
nocturnal ( nighttime) numbness and tingling and pain in the hand can be associated with carpal tunnel syndrome. while diabetes can give peripheral neuropathy typically the tingling associated with diabetic neuropathy will affect both hands equally as well as the feet. however with diabetes or any other systemic problem that can affect nerves and circulation the presence of the underlying disorder can worsen the symptoms of carpal tunnel when it gets worse. this also means that diabetes sometimes prevents the pain form occurring early on and when it does occur may feel worse suddenly. nonetheless the reason carpal tunnel seems to be worse at night when sleeping is several fold. 1 the pressure on the nerve is increased by the increased tissue pressure form lying down the fluid that sits outside the cells redistributes itself to the face and upper extremity when someone lies down ( its why feet are swollen at the end of the day and the face feels puffy and fingers stiff in the am). this extra fluid increases the pressure on the nerve. a second thing that often occurs when one sleeps unsplnted is that the wrists flexed or extended also putting more pressure on the nerve. the pressure builds the fingers go numb pain follows and finally the pain build enough to awaken the sufferer. to start a simple wrist splint may suffice to help with the night time symptoms. not too tight as that can cause pressure on the nerve too defeating the purpose. next antiinflammatories otc non steroidal antiinflammatories but if someone is a diabetic taking other medications then they should always check with their pcp/family doctor/internist or endocrinologist before taking nsaid' s as the y can have a deleterious effect upon renal ( kidney) function. a pcp may prescribe antiinflammatories as well. injections of corticosteroids are often used acutely by hand surgeons for non operative care. a nerve conduction study and emg can help define/delineate the role of carpal tunnel v neuropathy start with a pcp and consider seeing a hand surgeon once the work up is initiated .
about to start lexapro (escitalopram) for anxiety but worried about weight gain. is the gain typically due to increased appetite or chemical component in lexapro (escitalopram)?
weight gain is associated with almost all antidepressants except bupropion (wellbutrin). the drug company likes to say lexapro (escitalopram) is different in my clinical experience it's not. gain is usually mild (under 10lbs). the mechanisms involved are not well established fluid retention may play a role. solution: stay active watch the carbs and be accepting of a cpl lbs in order to be depression free.
are there any recommended weight loss pills? i am a fairly active 20 year old female with a bmi of about 24. i have been doing a workout regime for a couple of months now combining weight lifting and cardio. i eat a well balanced diet mostly vegetarian
given you age and bmi i suggest that you can better manage your weight through careful diet and activity. currently there are only limited options for an oral weight loss medication and all have their limitations and side-effects. phentermine is an amphetamine has been approved by the fda and has been used for many years as a weight loss formula. it is used for a limited period of time to speed weight loss in overweight people who are exercising and eating a low-calorie diet and belongs to a class of medications called anorectics. a combination of phentermine and topiramate (brand name topamaxâ®) or also known as qnexa is under consideration by the fda for approval in 2012. bontril is another amphetamine-related weight-loss drug but like any amphetamine are potentially addictive. empatic is a combination drug consisting of two already fda approved medications zonisamide and bupropion for seizures and antidepressant respectively - the combination is being tested for weight loss. some appetite suppressant drugs such as fenfluramine (also known as fen phen) chlorphentermine and aminorex induced a heart valve abnormalities as well as pulmonary hypertension. these drugs were eventually withdrawn from the market. lorcaserin a selective 5-ht(2c) receptor agonist produced modest weight loss but was not initially approved by the fda - resubmission is being consider in 2012. the monoaminergic re-uptake inhibitor tesofensine has also been shown to produce impressive weight loss in smaller-scale clinical studies and future tests are planned. the ads you see on the internet are for non-proven weight loss treatments.
am not pregnant but am nauseous every morning and can't lose weight. what's up?
the most common cause of morning nausea among patients who are not pregnant in my experience has been noctural acid reflux. it is simple to see if this is your problem. try some over-the-counter prilosec--2 capsules before bedtime for a week. if it helps then that is the problem.
are all diagnostic tests for hiatal hernia done locally? what are they?
do you mean "the community you live in" or "under local anesthesia"? hiatal hernia is often used to describe gastroesophageal reflux disease(gerd); while there is overlap they are two distinct diseases. tests for gerd include endoscopy (egd) pressure recordings of the esophagus and a 24-ph study. a hiatal hernia is best seen on ct although indirect info will be obtained by egd.
abdominal discomfort and bad acid reflux what diet changes to help it go away?
avoiding the things that incite the reflux such as caffeine and greasy foods will immediately change how a person feels. the important thing to note is that abdominal discomfort and bad reflux imply that the situation is worse than just reflux and can be acid-related stomach disease such as gastritis or a brewing ulcer. diet changes and otc medications are the first step!
am i better off going on diet before or after facelift?
if you are going to lose weight it would be more desirable to do so prior to surgery. significant weight loss may result in a loss of facial fat and volume that could influence the decision to perform ancillary procedures such as fat injections or cheek augmentation. it is never a good idea to diet soon after a surgical procedure when you body needs protein and fuel for healing.
completed h. pylori treatment. but now i am having excessive gas getting chest pressure/pain. my gi said its cause of overeating. but i dont. any ideas
you may have gastroesophageal reflux that is causing your chest pain.
can tylenol (acetaminophen) make you gain weight? i've lost since i quit taking it or was it cause it was making me retain fluids?
unfortunately doctors often do not address this when prescribing medicine despite weight gain being very troubling for the many patients. all drugs have side effects and weight gain is common to many drugs. however there is no literature to support that tylenol (acetaminophen) has any significant influence on weight.
can i take garcinia cambogia with my hydroclodone and ibreprophen and i have high blood pressure and high chloestrale and take other meds?
go hflc study dietdoctor. com. cholesterol=fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l large-hdl? 9 µmol/l).
can any doc tell me what's the best food to keep my kidneys in good condition?
the kidney diet also known as the renal diet is a set of guidelines for people with kidney disease. foods prescribed depend on the level of kidney failure the patient is experiencing but generally the diet involves controlling the amount of sodium potassium phosphorus protein and fluid that a person ingests. people with kidney disease should be in consultation with a renal dietitian.
can any doc tell me what's the best food to keep my kidneys in good condition?
optimal nutrtion for kidneys includes 2000 mg sodium 2000 mg potassium 800 mg phosphate 50 gram protein no saturated fats high polyunsaturated fats 2-3 liters fluid per day 30 kcal per kg per day low simple carb and very high antioxidant.
can anyone tell me what can i do to avoid constipation on a diet?
one must consume adequate amounts of fluids consume fruits and vegetables high in fiber content limit "white" carbohydrates (white bread rice potatoes etc. ) limit alcohol and exercise regularly to avoid constipation. bulk laxatives (citrocel metamucil etc. ) may sometimes be helpful. if you continue to experience constipation you should contact your physician who may suggest colonoscopy
does lipo6 for her contains orlistat?
lipo 6 her by nutrex is not a non-stimulating harmless fat burner. it does not contain orlistat. it contains many others 2 b used w caution. citrus aurantium 50% synephrine caffeine phenylethylamines yohimbine all can b stimualting to the heart. the major ingred in lipo6 in general is guggulsterones which r marketed to support the thyroid by "influencing" t3 (liothyronine) which directly effects the heart.
does trileptal cause weight gain or fluid retention?
weight gain and fluid retention are not usual side effects of trileptal.
does hiatal hernia cause diarrhea and weight loss?
a hiatal hernia is just a loosening of the diaphragm allowing part of the stomach to slip up into the chest thereby allowing easier acid reflux to occur into the esophagus.
does it ever happen that a hiatal hernia make passing gas difficult?
no not really. a hiatal hernia can give you heartburn or reflux or make it hard to get food down but really wouldn't affect your ability to pass gas.
does gallbladder adenomycsis cause weight gain?
is no. but how do you know you have gallbladder adenomyosis? if you have problems with sudden excessive weight gain it could be from excessive fluid in your abdomen or congestive heart failure with fluid retention. i think you should have your doctor check you out.
how can prozac (fluoxetine) cause weight gain?
of the medication. in most cases the weight gain is minimal.
how can prozac (fluoxetine) cause weight gain?
some patients do gain weight. a lot of patients with depression have significant anxiety and fidget all day long. this can burn 100 -200 calories daily. when they are well treated no longer experiencing anxiety and stop fidgeting they may slowly put on 1 or 2 pounds a month because they are burning fewer calories. it's like no longer walking a mile daily while eating the same amount.
hi can i take orlistat with juice plus?
orlistat is a lipase inhibitor that reduces caloric intake by preventing the absorption of fats. juice has little fat in it so will not be particularly affected by the medication. however juice does have calories in it and if one is trying to lose weight there are likely better options for fluid intake.
heart rate up 20-30 beats when standing up. then normal. cardiac? neuro? normal? ecg cardiac echo ct angio w contrast all ok. am obese and non athletic
it is normal orthostasis. as the blood pressure decreases pulse inversely increases. try to increase fluid intake as dehydration has a tendency to increase likelihood of orthostatic hypotension.
how many times a day should i urinate? i wee twice a day that is after i get up in the morning and at 16:30. i'm also obese is it water retention?
you will urinate in direct proportion to how much you're taking in as food and drink minus what you lose from sweat. if you retain fluid you'll see a steady rise in your weight and get puffy ankles that leave a "pit" after you pinch them with your thumb and forefinger. if it's warm where you live and if you don't drink much you'll not need to urinate very often.
have any doctors prescribed the med belviq (lorcaserin) for weight loss? i just saw an ad for it on tv & and the side effects sound awful. it doesn't even describe what the drug even is! what is it?
it is a serotonin receptor drug (similar to the old flenfluramine which was taken off the market in 1997 because of heart valve issues associated with it). the new drug is at a lower dose but still some concern for heart valve issues. 50% of users lost 12 pounds over 1 year vs 23% on placebo. cannot be used with certain anti-depressants (ssri or maoi's) nor with tramadol (ultram).
how to know if i risk having a nissen fundoplication?
a nissen fundoplication is a surgical intervention generally performed very successfully for patients with severe esophageal reflux that does not get better with more conservative medical treatments (anti-acids and proton pump inhibitors) and life-style modifications( weight loss smoking cessation decreased alcohol intake smaller more frequent meals). it is performed by a general surgeon.
how can you lose weight on your face? i'm not overweight but my face is chubby. i've got a double chin and i feel extremely self conscious about it.
one jaw posture greatly influences face shape. retrognathic jaws are mandibles that grew and developed behind the upper jaw. the more retrognathic the jaw the more rounded the face looks and the more prominent a double chin appears. clenching and grinding at night will also greatly affect the jaw muscles especially the masseter muscles and cause face shape change.
hello what will happen if my gastric balloon not fully filled by its fluid?
presuming your talking about the weight loss balloon it should be ok if under filled but it depends how much. best to see the doctor that put it in to find out for sure. you could also check the manufacturers website. if no symptoms ok to wait until they are open to sort it out. hope this helps!
what are the risk factors involved with breast implant removal?
no surgical procedure the matter how “minor” is complication free. complications such as infection bleeding fluid accumulation (seroma) unsatisfactory skin redraping contour irregularities (such as inversion of the nipple/areola complex) dissatisfaction with breast size or position may all arise. sometimes additional surgeries such as breast lift and may also be necessary.
what is the frequency of breast cyst at 20?
they are more common in women aged 35-50 but can be found at any age. most breast cysts are benign. the might require drainage if they are painful large or just simply if you want to make them go away for piece of mind. cyst fluid that is bloody is of concern but almost any other color would be of no concern.
which birth control best promotes breast growth?
no hormonal contraceptive has much influence on breast size. pregnancy will make your breasts bigger (temporarily) as will breastfeeding. surgical augmentation is the answer to wanting larger breasts. save your money and see a plastic surgeon.
where can i get breast enlargement pills? and do they really work?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
was told that wearing a cup bra to be and actually 24/7 can give you breast cancer is this true?
the only way this could influence your risk of breast cancer is if wearing it 24/7 prevents you from performing self breast exams.
what does it mean if i have blue clear liquid discharging from my nipples?
any fluid discharging from the nipples needs to be evaluated by your gyn or family physician. this can sometimes be an infection or a hormonal issue but either way needs to be checked.
anyone done laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for hiatal hernia?
the most common anti-reflux procedure is called a fundoplication which involves closure of the hernia and re-creating a new valve by wrapping a portion of the stomach around the esophagus. while very effective this procedure is reserved for the rare patient who cannot manage their symptoms with lifestyle and dietary modifications supplemented by anti-acid medication.
anyone done laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for hiatal hernia?
gerd is very often associated with a hiatal hernia because this distorts the shape of the anti-reflux valve at the top of the stomach and actually causes reflux or gerd. the repair is done laparoscopically usually as an overnight procedure and patients take pain medicine for several days only. lap hiatal hernia repair and nissen fundoplication are up to 95% effective at curing gerd.
anyone done laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for hiatal hernia?
laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery such as a nissen fundoplication involves reducing the stomach from the hiatal hernia repairing the hernia and wrapping the stomach around the gastro-esophageal junction to help prevent reflux. it works well in normal-weight patients but is more likely to fail in obese patients.
anyone done laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery for hiatal hernia?
yes. it works very well as long as it is done well andvforcthe right reason. www. drlugo. com.
after my 2nd child was born have stayed a size 16 so i look pregnant again. how do i get rid of the fat?
sorry but losing weight is really about diet and exercise regardless of the cause. you do gain weight when pregnant from the baby the amniotic fluid water retention but also from a greater appetite. the basics should be effective but changing habits is always difficult whether getting back into shape or changing your eating patterns. it is about calories. good luck you can lose.
are there long-term effects of weight loss surgery?
the long term effects from weight loss surgery depend greatly on which procedure you have. for example reflux after a sleeve or possible vitamin deficiencies after a bypass. follow up with your surgeon is essential.
are there long-term effects of weight loss surgery?
most effects are good: resolve diabetes hypertension cholesterol sleep apnea. prolong survival. some potential negative effects of sleeve: heartburn and reflux. some potential negative effects of bypass: ulcer bowel obstruction low blood sugar. with the band: reflux slip erosion and removal. you need a good program with good outcomes and followup.
are there any diet recommendations that aid telogen effluvium recovery?
because telogen effluvium is a reactive process which resolves spontaneously treatment usually is limited to reassurance. any reversible cause of hair shedding such as poor diet iron deficiency hypothyroidism or medication use should be corrected. in our clinic we use b12 shots once a month which helps.
anyone had surgery to fix acid reflux/hiatus hernia problems? how successful?
reflux of stomach contents (acid) is usually due to incompetent valve or hiatal hernia. it is aggravated by position (lying down) spicy foods and obesity. treatment includes mediating above factors. then is meds like ppi which shut off acid. if meds fail then surgery including fundoplication can help - usually has very good outcomes. speak to your physician.
could protein shakes cause thirst?
thirst is a complex response that the brain processes usually used to communicate to the person on the needs of fluids. if you are not drinking enough fluids your body will let you know. this thirst response is decreased in elderly patients.
could i use phentermine without any health problems?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
can you tell me is adipex a bad option?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
does saffron extract help reduce cravings for sweets?
craving indicates your mind or body is unsatisfied. finding the link to your overall health is important. be sure to eat and drink fluids on a regular basis (every 4 hours) while keeping your weight normal. multivitamins with or without minerals and 2000u of vitamin d a day will help you "cover the basics" and reduce cravings. good luck.
do people ever get ripped with liposuction?
this is generally not an appropriate indication for liposuction. it is intended for control of localized fatty deposits. having said that there are practitioners who perform "lipo etching" which is the techniques of creating exaggerated or cutaneous depressions that enhance or simulate the appearance of being ripped. although appealing weight fluctuations can result in a distorted appearance.
hi i have been having hot flushes for a few months now mostly after having some sweets( got a sweet tooth) 3-4 times a day. could this diabetes?
your symptoms are not typical of diabetes
hi i have been having hot flushes for a few months now mostly after having some sweets( got a sweet tooth) 3-4 times a day. could this diabetes?
diabetes does not really do this. actually the rapid metabolism of carbohydrates (which diabetics don't do well) will generate some heat. as such that response is normal and benign. if these are really flushes (face turns red) there are a variety of other disorders that may require studies such as a variety of neuroendocrine tumors. suggest you see your doctor.
have severe sleep apnea treated with cpap. i wonder if i have hiatal hernia;. could being full of gas when waking be a symptom? could hh cause dizzynes
it's possible. with capp you are likely swallowing a great deal of forced air which can make you gassy and bloated but also force the stochastic up through the diaphragm and create hiatal hernia and reflux. may want to discuss with doctor pressure adjustment bipap hob elevation and anti-relic meds as well as weight loss.
have a belching problem doctor wants me on a non wheat and no foods with milk help its a delma don't know what product i can eat migh be hiatal hernia?
there are many causes for belching. a no wheat no milk diet can be an unnecessary inconvenience unless you are intolerant of gluten and lactose. have tests been done to rule out other causes? if you have reflux esophagitis sometimes called a hiatal hernia there are more effective eats to solve your problem. discuss this with your doctor please and good luck!
why does post surgical breast reduction swelling go up and down so much?
surgery may interfere with normal processes of fluid drainage and may cause restrictions or limitations in the ways the body's normally treats swelling. inflammation in the initial post operative period causes marked swelling which can be followed by scar tissue formation that produces swelling lasting 6-9 months. abnormal or one sided swelling should be evaluated by your surgeon.
why does post surgical breast reduction swelling go up and down so much?
this is totally normal. increased activity hormonal fluctuation even bending over more (gravity) can alter swelling. it takes months for this process to resolve as the normal pathways of lymphatic fluid drainage reestablish themselves through normal healing.
what can i expect from a breast biopsy and getting my breast drained? cyst on breast with nasty symptoms worried it could e cancerous!
if this is a fluid filled cyst it can be drained in the office after injecting xylocaine (lidocaine) and then putting a needle in the cyst to draw out (aspirate) the fluid. it takes just a couple minutes and will relieve the pain you are experiencing from the cyst. good luck!
anyone want to explain water weight fluctuation? why would someone's body hold water?
first see your doctor to make sure there is no significant underlying disease. if there isn't any he/she may give you a gentle diuretic to help manage the extra water. the body holds onto water based on messages given by the kidneys.
anyone who is afflicted with congestive heart failure & edema that has it go away with diet change?
diet can certainly make congestive heart failure worse. salt needs to be closely watched as it will precipitate fluid retention making the congestive failure even worse. although diet can improve symptoms of congestive heart failure the problem still exist so continued care needs to be applied. with time the heart can improve with regards to its function so make sure medications are continued.
a doctor in mexico told me that i have a epigastric hernia but my doctor in usa told me that it was a hiatus hernia what is the diffferences and how to determine which one i have thanks?
a hiatal hernia is an enlargement of the (normal) hole in the diaphragm thru which the esophagus passes. this may be associated with gastroesophageal reflux causing heartburn. it can only be seen by ct or endoscopy. an epigastric hernia is a hole in the upper-midline abdominal wall thru which the inner lining of the abdominal cavity can protrude. this can usually be easily seen/felt as a bulge.
a doctor in mexico told me that i have a epigastric hernia but my doctor in usa told me that it was a hiatus hernia what is the diffferences and how to determine which one i have thanks?
a hiatal hernia is when a part of the stomach herniated thru the hiatus (tight opening thru the diaphragm. this type of hernia can cause avid reflux feeling of pressure in the mod lower chest indigestion and increased burping. epigastric hernia may have been used to mean the same thing. a hiatal hernia is different from abdominal wall hernia which can be felt as a protruding bulge.
are there ways to tighten excessive abdominal skin after considerable weight loss?
decreasing excess fluid salt may help appearance. may need surgery to remove the excess skin if weight loss was enough.
are regular bouts of severe gastro common after lap band surgery? (op 12 months ago)
don't know what you mean by gastro. gastroenteritis? no. gastritis? no. diarrhea? no. gerd? yes. the band can cause heartburn and reflux.
anal fissure diet?
the goal is to avoid straining. this is only one option but its inexpensive and easy. just be careful to drink enough fluids otherwise the fiber can cause constipation an make things worse.
after sport my vision become blur as if i am going to collapse anytime is it a common thing for a fat(not obese) 27 yo guy?
you may be dehydrated. drink some fluids and wait half an hour. if your eyes are still blurry then call your primary doctor.
after having fundoplication i have a lot of gas. does it go away?
gas bloat is common after fundoplication. most people with reflux are aerophagic (they swallow air) and this behavior persists after surgery. the operation often prevents belching so people may experience bloating and increased flatus. this often improves with time.
can turbinate hypertrophy cause neck muscle twitching due to lack of oxygen and sleep apnea? is nasonex (mometasone) effective?
1. see ent for turbinate problem evaluation and treatment. you also should ask for the overnight sleep study (psg) to diagnose osa. nasonex (mometasone) is not effective for obstructive sleep apnea. 2. muscle twitching is a potential side effects of fluoxetine. good luck.
could a caffeine induced day long heart arrhythmia be the cause of a stroke added to having very high colesteron and being overwight?
sometimes it is hard to know what the cause of a stroke was. but a day long arrhythmmia at least if it was atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter could be a cause of stroke. high cholesterol could increase the risk of stroke. being overweight may affect the risk of stroke at least indirectly. for people with elevated cholesterol there may be atherosclerosis this is a common cause of stroke
could a caffeine induced day long heart arrhythmia be the cause of a stroke added to having very high colesteron and being overwight?
there are many loose ends in your question. unusual for caffeine to actually cause serious heart arrhythmia but if so typical arrhythmia would be frequent premature ventricular beats which usually don't contribute to stroke. if arrhythmia was atrial fibrillation or flutter then a clot in the heart could have formed leading to stroke. focus now on controlling all risks: cholesterol weight etc.
do i have water in my ear or an ear infection? how to tell?
do you have a fever? pain? tenderness? warmth? swelling? enlarged lymph nodes? these are more common symptoms associated with an ear infection whereas fluid alone tends to just feel like dampened hearing or fullness .
doctor diagnosed me with hiatus hernia. is it curable or treatable? some advice on what to do and what will be done with me?
many people have a hiatal hernia (the opening in the diaphragm for the esophagus is too big) but no symptoms. these people need no treatment. the most common problem is reflux which is effectively treated with acid blocking medications in most patients. if the reflux is severe and not helped with medciations then the hernia should be repaired with an antireflux operation.
do people get gerd after gasteric sleeve surgery?
they can develop gerd after sleeve gastrectomy. both sleeve and lap bands can cause gerd or make it worse if you already have gerd. if a patient has severe gerd prior to surgery the gastric bypass is the preferred operation as it is an anti-reflux procedure that cures gerd.
had gallbladder surgery recently now having bad burning chest pain. is it caused by excess of acids or bile? taking lansoprazole and low fat diet.
acid reflux is a separate problem and unfortunately in many cases patients suffering from gallbladder disease suffer from gerd as well and symptoms may be more noticeable now because they might have been attributed to gallbladder problem previously. see your gastroenterologist or surgeon to discuss further. thank you.
how to get rid of acne around my face and body?
if you are overweight (bmi over 30) snore loudly wake up tired fall asleep easily during the day have reflux or morning headaches then you could have sleep apnea. unless you are obese it is less common in your age group - risk is increased after the age of 50
hi when u lose wgt. will 1 lose a lot of belly fat. i'm 45 & need 2 lose fat all over esp belly. i take boxing classes 3 x week & eating 2000 ca. tx?
any way to influence from where your body will draw the fat as you lose weight but generally it's most recently gained becoming the first to be lost.
hi what is the best food to cure acne and hair loss? thanks
for your acne topical benzoyl peroxide and/or retinoic acid. if you're not clear in two weeks phone your physician. all guys lose the hair on our temples at age 20 or so. if you're naturally hairy-chested you're likely to have more hair loss; ask your physicain about meds. other hair loss calls for a thyroid blood test and check for telogen effluvium etc.
why don't cysts show up on a mammogram?
cysts very commonly get detected by mammography. these are benign fluid-filled masses that can appear in breast tissue. on mammogram cyst appears as a round oval or lobulated mass with circumscribed margins. however cyst margins may be obscured on and can't be reliably diagnosed with mammogram alone and further evaluation with spot-compression mammographic views and ultrasound is necessary.
why don't cysts show up on a mammogram?
sometimes they do but since the density of cyst fluid is close(in the world of x-rays) to the density of soft tissue a cyst and a solid nodule may look exactly the same on mammo. due to the sonographic properties of fluid ultrasound on the other hand can easily distinguish simple cysts from solid nodules. so although you might see a cyst on mammo you don't know it's a cyst until the ultrasound
what causes hematoma after mastectomy with reconstruction surgery?
of blood that occurs after surgery of this type. with surgery tissues and tissue plains are interrupted causing some bleeding. typically most of the bleeding is stopped. drains are general placed to remove the fluid that accumulates. sometimes a hematoma or seroma occurs requiring drainage. see your surgeon routinely postoply until the problem is resolved.
what to do if i'm having a breast reduction next week and i'm wondering when i wake up from the surgery what will i be wearing?
breast reduction surgery will likely leave you with some drains and a bulky sterile dressing and a compression bra to keep the swelling down to absorb drainage from the incision and the drains to reduce the risk of hematoma or fluid collection.
why is it that a radical mastectomy could produce axillary edematous(edema)?
during a radial mastectomy lymph node dissection is excessive and nodes work to drain the arm of lymph fluid. the less nodes you have more chance of lymph edema.
what are the risks of removal of ruptured breast implants?
apart from possible anesthesia complications the surgical complications include but not limited to the following > infection thick scars collections of fluid and or blood leftover pieces of the implant need for repeat or corrective surgeries deformities of the breast on rare occasions etc. also if the capsule is being removed > there can be left over pieces of the capsule.
acid reflux chronic sinusitis sleep apnea and lack of sleep. are they responsible for my dizziness and nausea?
lack of oxygen can be a factor in all of your symptoms. is the chronic sinusitis due to obstructions ( polyps) or a deviated septum? has your sleep apnea been diagnosed by a witnessed overnight sleep centered study? if so have you been advised to wear a cpap? if so are you? if not in mild to moderate cases a dental device can be custom made to reduce the obstruction.
acid reflux chronic sinusitis sleep apnea and lack of sleep. are they responsible for my dizziness and nausea?
several medical problems can cause symptoms. acid reflux can contribute to sinusitis. acid reflux can be a cause of nausea loss of sleep due to sleep apnea can cause dizziness and high blood pressure losing weight often helps acid reflux and sleep apnea appointment to see an md is always needed with significant medical illnesses.
ate fast food and have acid reflux how can i prevent the flare up?
avoid fast foods and other foods which trigger acid reflux and if you get it take over the counter meds like omeprazole or ranitidine etc. to control it dont go to bed immidiately after eating and prevent obesity.
a lot of people have been saying if you drink arizona/green tea you will lose weight. is this true?
no it's not. you don't lose weight by drinking fluids. you lose weight by exercising.
almost every morning since i've started trying to eat healthier i have severe pains in my lower back. after it's expelled all is well until next mor?
bowel can increase intra-abdominal pressure & put pressure on back/spinal column/nerves. perhaps increasing fiber & fluid in diet will promote more frequent bm's & thus prevent build-up of pressure. if no improvement see fp for exam (possible rectocele).
are they sure i will loss weight if i breast feed.
if you eat a well balanced diet based on your pre-pregnant weight ( calorie wise) & simply breast feed you can lose a pound every week or two. make sure you are taking prenatal vitamins & plenty of fluids. the loss will be slow but natural. the books that say to up your calorie intake to bf are assuring that you won't lose weight.
am 26yrs old 5 ft2&145lbs. am not sure if am over weight but my knee hurts when bending. i''ve been checked 4 urine acid &it was-'ve what can i do?
yes you are overweight but that is not likely cause of knee problem. you need to see an orthopedist and get this worked out. if you have fluid in the joint space it needs to be tapped and examined. normal uric acid levels have little place in the diagnosis of acute synovitis. can have acute gouty arthropathy with normal uric acid.
after gastric bypass can a person start to lose weight within the same week?
yes and no. some people do lose a little weight in the first week others don't and some people are actually heavier at one week. why? some people end up getting a lot of iv fluid while in the hospital which adds weight and can make you heavier. the bottom line is that at one week after surgery your weight really isn't that important. i look to see what they have lost at 1 3 6 9 12 months.
can gi doctors do test for hiatal hernia and how do i tell them i would like that checked. heart burn with nausea right upper abdo. pain dizziness
if you are having reflux symptoms hiatal hernia is a common finding. it can sometimes be detected on an ugi or can be seen if an egd/upper endoscopy is deemed necessary. how do you tell them - just tell them your concerns your symptoms and that you think you have a hiatal hernia and would like to be checked for that. very simple. just be honest.
clear throat often especially with bra on 3 docs said acid reflux. been scoped should i get a 3rd opinion? have a hiatal hernia also.
yes but i would seek consultation from a specialist outside the gi tract such as an ent specialist.
can you have a hiatial hernia without abdominal swelling?
sliding hiatal hernias are the most common of the hernias that occur around the lower esophagus and are commonly associated with reflux. clinically significant reflux can occur with or without a hiatal hernia and is usually the cause of the symptoms mistakingly attributed to the hernia. gastro-esophageal reflux disease(gerd) can also co-exist with other digestive diseases. gerd medications work.
constant acidity dry cough burning in throat+chest when exercising breathing trouble. is my sleep apnea causing this or is it acidity causing apnea?
there is an association between acid reflux and sleep apnea. there is no proof that reflux leads to sleep apnea (or vice-versa) but the association between the two has been shown repeatedly. you need optimal treatment of both conditions to feel well again so ttyd about a sleep study with a cpap mask and prilosec or other acid blocker. hope this helps. thanks 4 trusting healthtap w/ your question.
constant acidity dry cough burning in throat+chest when exercising breathing trouble. is my sleep apnea causing this or is it acidity causing apnea?
your symptoms may be due gastroesophageal reflux
does whey have carbs?
lactose is that carb. but worse is that it is a milk protein related to prostate and breast cancer & and is hard on the kidneys and highly allergenic predisposing to atstma the flu bronchitis and hayfever as well as heavy menstrual periods. www. thepmc. org.
does sleeping immediately after eating cause weight gain? some tell me this is just a myth. im not eating an extra meal just eating my dinner late
research suggests it's not sleeping after eating but eating late that causes weight gain- those who eat late ; stay up for several hours after gain more weight. i don't advise sleeping immediately after eating- stay sitting or standing at least an hour to avoid reflux. see <link> ; my comment for another link.
have small hiatal hernia and burning mouth syndrome. take 40mg protonix (pantoprazole) daily. is it possible to reduce dosage and should i?
take protonoix. it is not a standard treatment for bms. acid reflux problem can be due to hiatal hernia however dose of medicine depends on severity and duration of acid reflux symptoms please discuss it with the doc who knows your history and can give you more informed advice.
how can low-carb diets be harmful to your body?
when on low carbs your body might not have enough glucose to run the metabolism of your brain your heart your kidneys other organs. it might rely on the breakdown of fats for energy- called ketoacidosis. it is not the best way to get energy and it can lead to problems in organs mentioned esp the kidney if you dont have enough fluids to flush out the ketones.
when the women has the fibro adenosis is there any link between the menstrual cycle and fibro adenosis?
i am unclear what you are referring to as fibro adenosis. if you're talking about fibroadenomas these are fibrous benign tumors of the breasts that have no relation to the menstrual cycle. if you're talking about fibrocystic disease it is characterized by noncancerous breast lumps in the breast which can sometimes cause discomfort often periodically related to hormonal influences from the menstrual cycle. if this does not answer your question please check with your physician.
anyone know anything about the lungs and how obesity can cause asthma?
there is a lot of research going on about this topic actually. one of the things that is very common is that as abdominal and chest girth become more of an issue stomach contents can get pushed up into the esophagus and cause reflux. that reflux material and gas can actually wash down into the lungs creating bad reaction and asthma attack.
any diet program 4 me? im overweight about 10 kg
mediterranean diet and lots of aerobic and a some weight exercise. no snacking don't drink fluids other than water no soda no alcohol.
any non-retinol based creams that might work for underarm acanthosis nigricans? (related to weight fluctuations and pcos)
treating the underlying cause of acanthosis nigricans (an) often helps decrease the discoloration and thickening of the skin like weight loss control of diabetes adrenal problems etc. alpha hydroxy acid based creams are helpful for treating an on the neck and hands. they may be too irritating for underarms and lead to more discoloration. also making an in underarms mushy may increase odor.
any non-retinol based creams that might work for underarm acanthosis nigricans? (related to weight fluctuations and pcos)
lactic acid containing moisturizers may help to smooth the skin and reduce the appearance of the darkened areas.
can a high carb - low fat diet cause water retention even though on a caloric deficit? its weird i gained 6 pounds in the first 3 days!
too much salt in the diet will result in increased thirst and fluid retention and fluid retention can lead to weight gain despite a calorie deficit. some medications are also associated with weight gain. high carb low fat diet without with calorie deficit and without excess sodium should not cause weight gain or fluid retention.
can i take adipex and tamiflu (oseltamivir) together?
as long as they have been prescribed by your doctor you can take them together. no interactions between the two found.
cardiac ct stres tst holter cardiac echo all normal. feel tired w air hunger when walk pain left blade hand. mild reflux clear lungs. obese. reason?
it appears that all of your cardiac tests are normal and that is very good. i do not see that you listed any lung evaluations such as pulmonary function tests. this is a suggestion if you continue to have air hunger as pft can diagnose asthma or other lung conditions. this may be a matter of being out of shape because of your being overweight. see your doctor for an individualized exercise rx
cardiac ct stres tst holter cardiac echo all normal. feel tired w air hunger when walk pain left blade hand. mild reflux clear lungs. obese. reason?
even completely normal folks who are out of shape can feel those symptoms. only solution is physical fitness to improve muscle strength and cardiac performance. enroll in a regimented exercise program and watch slow and steady improvement.
cardiac ct stres tst holter cardiac echo all normal. feel tired w air hunger when walk pain left blade hand. mild reflux clear lungs. obese. reason?
you need to lose weight. all your tests indicated that your heart in good condition. when you gained weight the fat inside your stomach need more room. so it will push the lung via the diaphragme and reduced the air volume in the lung that why you feel you are out of breath see a diet specialist nutrionist and follow a diet and exercise and you will see a difference
cardiac ct stres tst holter cardiac echo all normal. feel tired w air hunger when walk pain left blade hand. mild reflux clear lungs. obese. reason?
if the cardiac and pulmonary work up is negative (if not evaluated should do so) then the likely cause is deconditioning from lack of exercise and obesity. check with your physician if you may begin a walking program and slowly increase your level of activity. you will notice as your functional level increases your shortness of breath increases.
do you recommend roux-en-y gastric bypass surgery?
yes. it may not be the best choice for everyone the the bypass is the gold standard for weight loss operations. it's been around for over 50 yrs and is a proven operation. it is the best in terms of overall weight loss. it is also the best operation for patients with diabetes heartburn/reflux large hiatal hernias or are very obese (bmi over 50). it should only be done by an experienced surgeon.
does weight lifting with a moderate hiatal hernia only cause more reflux or actually pushes the stomach permanently more up? my esophagus is ok. stop?
the stomach slides up and down usually. workout on empty stomach. be upright as much as reasonable. lose weight treat symptoms.
does fruit do anything when looking to gain muscle? i drink a lot of those nakéd smoothies but fruit doesn't help to build muscle does it?
you need a balanced diet to build muscle. fruit supplies carbs (which you need) vit c fluids and fiber at a minimum. yes you need protein which body builders often do to excess (your body can only use so much). a normal balanced diet is probably all you need but if you want to use supplements why not alternate between smoothies and protein supplements.
does prednisone itself cause weight gain or the increase in appitite only if you over eat?
prednisone causes fluid retention and some redistibution of fat tissue. i believe the weight gain is due to fluid retention and the increase in appetite which is a side effect of prednisone. if you watch your calories you shouldn't gain new fat tissue.
dr says my gallbladder is workn only at 29% my question is if l eat healthy & less greasy foods can it get better without surgery?
the good news is your gallbladder can get better without surgery (it can never get better with surgery only removed which is not better) but it needs more than eating healthy. it would be wise to work with an acupuncturist ; holistic md. consider doing a liver flush. but any treatment should be with professional guidance: see <link> ; <link> ; <link>
does garcinia cambogia cause acid reflux?
according to webmd this can cause gi upset headaches and nausea. i did not find specific mention of gerd but gerd is one type of gi upset. best wishes.
hi doc! my has hypertension & diabetes she's taking her meds for hypertension&diabetes. can she take a slimming tea that contains senna leaves &pods?
senna sometimes used as a laxative but when it is used on a chronic basis can cause a condition called melanosis coli. if constipation is an issue it is better to increase the amount of fiber in the diet and even consider a fiber supplement. you should increase fluid intake if you increase fiber intake. this would be better than chronic senna usage. good luck.
what are the lumps supposed to go away after a fine needle breast biopsy?
the most likely lesion to "go away" after a fine needle aspiration (fna) would be a cyst. a cyst is a fluid filled lesion. once the fluid is removed (aspirated) the cyst collapses and disappears on imaging and exam.
what are the pros and cons of waist training?
waist training may help to improve your waistline appearance acid reflux symptoms and help to strengthen your low back give your body better stamina and reduce the risk of accidental falling. it also helps to improve your obstructive sleep apnea hypertension and depression. if it is done correctly i can't see any bad side effect.
what is the normal post-op nursing wound and drain management in mastectomy patient?
some persons have very good tissue and others may not. if fluid is expected drains of closed system variety are placed and removed when volume of drainage decreases or stops. the incision(s) may be sutured stapled or glued and have needs of management or removal at 10- 14 days based on surgeon preference and tissue appearance.
after sleeve surgery does the cannula have to stay in ur arm? i honestly hate it iv had bad experiences with it
while you are in the hospital usually 1-2 nights then you will most likely need to have an iv to give you fluids and pain medications.
are protein shakes good for you? if so what protein shake is best?
yes. of course. that is also as long as you are ingesting plenty of fluids and getting regular exercise. but medicine has no opinion on specific products to choose for this purpose.
are ketogenic diets safe & healthy?
ketogenic diets are used to lose weight and is basically 1 portion of fat to protein and also used to treat epilepsy. to be safe anyone on this diet has to drinks a lot of fluids due to the resulting ketoacidosis. make sure you are physically healthy and see your pcp first before you launch on this diet. many people swear that it is effective for weight loss especially with people with diabetes.
any remedies for hiatus hernia? symptoms include some burping bad breath some reflux.
first line therapy would be acid blocking medications such as h2 blockers or proton pump inhibitors. if those do not work surgery to correct the hernia may be needed. given that you are young i'd consider surgery sooner than later as we are just learning some of the long term issues with chronic anti acid medication. one example is increased osteoporosis due to decreased calcium absorption.
any remedies for hiatus hernia? symptoms include some burping bad breath some reflux.
reflux is definitely related to your hernia which usually can be controlled with medication (many choices). in resistant cases surgery is required. definitely ask your doctor what medicine is best for your symptom relief.
any remedies for hiatus hernia? symptoms include some burping bad breath some reflux.
you basically treat the symptoms of reflux with h-2 blockers like pepcid (famotidine) or proton-pump inhibitors like prilosec. try those first. if the hiatal hernia is severe then in some cases surgery is done but this is not common.
can i get advice? i've got a mini belly an a bit of flubber around my hips. would duromine get rid of this?
in my experience it does not work.
can i take a diuretic if im on phentermine? i feel extremely bloated in my abdomen. thank you
being bloated in the abdomen is not a valid reason for using a diuretic. it's not likely to help and there are risks of dehydrating all your organs (particularly your kidneys) because of your perceived excess fluid in the abdomen which if present would be an indication of a very serious disease.
did a barium swallow; results: spontaneour regurg. md suggests nissen. is there anything else i could do to strengthen les without surgery?
gerd is a tough problem. eat small meals. don't eat before bed time. antacid medication and watch what you eat. hot spicy foods may worsen reflux. tomatoes also will cause symptoms. my humble opinion is to hold off surgery until you tried everything else and when that fails surgery. a very very common problem. good luck
does 'super ketone plus' with 'aloe ferox cleanse' actually increase weight loss?
there are no studies showing that raspberry ketones lead to weight loss. the aloe ferox cleanse might cause a temporary weight loss but it would simply be fluid loss as opposed to fat loss.
hello i have been experiencing constipation for the past two years. symptoms started after dieting and weight loss. stool is sticky and fatty w/mucus?
best way to combat constipation is plenty of fiber fluids & exercise. avoid iron & other constipating meds. if that's not enough time to go see your family doc for evaluation. you may need stool studies possibly referral to gastroenterologist. if you lost weight unlikely that you would have hypothyroidism which can cause constipation. we don't typically start worrying about colon cancer til 50
how does a hiatal hernia relate to acid reflux?
many people with large hiatal hernias have no reflux and many with reflux have no hiatal hernia. reflux is probably mostly a functional problem related to excessive random openings of the valve between the stomach and esophagus called transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxations. hope this helps!
how does a hiatal hernia relate to acid reflux?
hiatal hernia may un-duely lax the sphincter between esophagus and stomach in turn leading to unwanted backflow of gastric content into the esophagus. more? ask doc timely.
hi i've had at least 3 blackouts in the past 3 wks and now i've been getting this flushing of heat down my leg and right foot. i'm not over weight.
and immediate evaluation for sync opal episodes. work may include ruling out arrhythmia ct scan or mri of the brain carotid us echo and eeg and blood work
hi i've had at least 3 blackouts in the past 3 wks and now i've been getting this flushing of heat down my leg and right foot. i'm not over weight.
i don't think the avengers can help you with this one although lord knows they can survive all of this and more! you need to be checked out for a few things including thyroid adrenal blood pressure medication seizure types of problems. if you'd like to talk about it: www. healthtap. com/drsaghafi
help with sibo. constipation horrible breath.! and reflux( has improved since hiatal hernia surgery). my breath is so foul no one can talk to me.
in addition to focusing on the care for sibo don't forget working on oral hygiene with regular visit to dentist to mak sure of no tooth-related disorders daily toothbrush flossing all the spaces among teeth and rinsing the month with oral antiseptic solution especially after sweet consumption. these are primary and essential for breath improvement besides systemic care for possible sibo.
hello i took a diet pill now im feeln vry anxious n head is hot my body is cold whats d best way to get rid of this feelin or flush out d medication?
many diet pills are full of stimulants like caffeine (in an attempt to increase your metabolism) such that you end up feeling anxious. others are full of laxatives to make you poop more than usual. however none of the diet pills that are dietary supplements really work (you'll see fda warning label). this is different from otc medications which are approved for weight loss eg alli
hi. what are the symptoms of small sliding hiatus hernia? thanks
a small sliding hiatal hernia cannot be attributed to any symptoms. not even reflux as many people without a hernia have reflux and many people with hernias do not have reflux. if the hernia enlarges it could cause difficulty eating intermittent chest pain and pressure and ulcers with/without anemia. hope this helps!
hi i was diagnosed with small sliding hiatus hernia. no reflux symptoms at all. wondering if this can enlarge in future and cause me probs? 23yo male
a small hh can increase overtime. while many to most maybe asymptomatic many present with mild reflux causing "heartburn". if this becomes chronic or uncomfortable see your dr. for medical treatment. please do not try to treat with over the counter substances before talking to your dr. as there may be more serious problems than were anticipated.
hi i was diagnosed with small sliding hiatus hernia. no reflux symptoms at all. wondering if this can enlarge in future and cause me probs? 23yo male
sliding hiatal hernias are very common and often cause no problems. if you should ever develop symptoms of reflux which is also a common disorder affecting nearly everyone sometimes at least temporarily you can always treat it with one of many medicines that are available. meanwhile not to worry.
how long can pre diabetes turn into type 2 diabetes?
depending upon genes but also upon weight and lifestyle. 45 minutes of exercise every day has been shown to delay to development of prediabetes into type 2 diabetes. learning dietary changes that prevent fluctuations in blood sugar can also make a big difference such as eating small amounts frequently throughout the day especially small amounts of proteins which helps stabilize blood sugars.
how much excess water weight can a 5 foot 10 male carry before losing it through diet and exercise. please give answer in pounds?
each liter of water is worth 2. 2 pounds (1 kg) and thus an excess salt intake and fluid retention can lead to considerable fluctuation in weight.
should i go to urgent care or er? i had reconstructive surgery on my left knee in 2005 last sat. i went up an down a lot of stairs. now the area just below the knee cap where they screwed on the acl is swollen n very painful knee cap seems loose now
you may have accumulated fluid in your knee therefore the feeling of looseness to the knee cap. your joint should be aspirated and fluid sent for analysis to rule out the possibilty of an infection. if your nearest urgent care has a lab next to it and can do the readings real time you may go there. otherwise you are better off going to the er where an orthopedist may be called in if needed.
should i be concerned about breast cancer when i have milky draininge from my breasts (its not mastitis)? multiple family members had breast cancer
if the drainage is milky (and not bloody or looking like fluid in a blister) it is probably ok especially if you are pre-menopausal. you should probably see a breast speciialist to be sure. if your family history puts you at high enough risk an mri may be a better screening than mammography. look up the gail model on the net to calculate your risk.
should a person with 3 breast cysts non painful get a bioposy done to make sure thers no cancer? i recently had a mammogram then was told i needed a ultra sound i got my results but they say its not cancer how can they know this if a bioposy wasnt done
hi that is a great question. first off breast cysts are very common (especially in middle aged women â€” 40â€™s 50â€™s & 60â€™s). the milk glands in the breast can enlarge over time and develop into a cyst. there can be one cyst or a number of cysts. the cyst can be tiny or large. usually the major source of concern would be if there was a large cyst that was causing the woman physical discomfort. masses that are seen on a mammogram that are suggestive of breast cancer often are calcified and usually are solid. the ultrasound is done to ensure that the cyst only contains fluid and no other materials. unless the cysts contained materials other than fluids a biopsy is normally not necessary. if the cyst is causing discomfort there is an option for aspiration.
should a person with 3 breast cysts non painful get a bioposy done to make sure thers no cancer? i recently had a mammogram then was told i needed a ultra sound i got my results but they say its not cancer how can they know this if a bioposy wasnt done
breast cysts are a very common benign condition. the combination of a mammogram and breast ultrasound is usually able to tell if there is anything suspicious. have you had breast cysts seen before on radiology studies? breast cysts will often come and go and be more prominent around the menstrual cycle. some cysts can be very small. usually the radiologist can tell and will describe if their finding is a "simple cyst" whcih is a very common benign ultrasound finding. if the cyst is large or looks "complicated" to the radiologist then sometimes a repeat ultrasound is recommended in a few months. sometimes the radiologist will recommend a needle biopsy if there are concerning or suspicious findings that they see. needle biopsies just to remove breast fluid often do not yield any helpful information and pathology of that fluid often offers no information. if the lesion seen was solid (not a water cyst) then a biopsy may be indicated. i hope that helps. you.
so what are the symptoms of metastatic breast cancer?
i would depend on where the metastasis are located and how advanced. initially metastasis to different areas may produce no symptoms. then as they progress problems can develope. in bone you can get pain collapse of a part of the spine if that is involved fractures. in the lung you can become short of breath or develop fluid. in the liver you can develope liver problems. etc.
what is a multi septic cyst in the breast? it was found in an ultrasound following a 3d mammo. was told to come back in 6 mo for re-check.
you may mean a multi septated cyst. that is a cyst with several fluid filled chambers as opposed to a single chamber. monitoring it with repeat studies every six months is appropriate.
what do you suggest if my mom has her2 breast cancer stage 1 grade 3 how good is her chance of living?
all stage i breast cancers have a good prognosis when curative treatment is given. her2+ status influences the choice of chemotherapy which would include a drug called herceptin (trastuzumab) that basically acts to 'block' her2 receptors on the tumor.
will taking the mini pill effect me while i'm taking flucloxacillin for mastitis and i'm still breast feeding?
sometimes taking a contraceptive with an oral contraceptive may decrease the effectiveness of the pill. however since you are still breast feeding thisay also provide some additive contraceptive effect
what is lymphedema?
lymphedema is extremity swelling due to obstruction of channels which drain lymph fluid from the intercellular spaces back to the heart. causes are mechanical or surgical interruption or parasitic infections. one or both legs or arms can be affected.
are there any side effects to the 'flu' jab? i have a double stented ischaemic heart disease + type 2 diabetes.
you need a flu shot more than other people. doctors in canada find that heart attacks drop in half after a flu shot. mechanism unknown.
as a bariatric patient is it ok to get flu shots?
no problem with that at all.
as a bariatric patient is it ok to get flu shots?
should be no problem.
as a bariatric patient is it ok to get flu shots?
yes. of course.
as a bariatric patient is it ok to get flu shots?
should be fine as long as you don't have any other reason not to get the flu shot. bariatric surgery only is not a contraindication as long as you have recovered well and are not having complications from your operation. if in doubt consult your surgeon or primary medical doctor.
alcoholic: some symptoms: puffy face beer gut (or ascites) snoring heartburn rapid short breaths while sleeping dehydration on tues after weekend?
alcoholics can develop cirrhosis which can impede blood flow back to the heart cause fluid to accumulate in the lower part of the body including the abdomen can cause malnutrition can cause insult to the kidney and can impede lung function and steroid metabolism causing rapid breathing and alkalosis. all these have to be evaluated by a physician.
amlodipine (ccb) or bystolic (nebivolol) (bb) which one known to cause weight gain or acid reflux as side effects?
there is no evidence either of these drugs cause any significant weight weight gain.
am 42 year old female just diagnosed with diminutive hiatus hernia. my q is is life threatening & can it be completely cured with medications?
a hiatal hernia is a condition where the stomach is protruding up into the chest cavity. this is rarely life threatening and only when the hernia is quite large so shouldn't be an issue for you unless it gets larger which typically takes years. this anatomical condition can only be repaired with a surgical procedure. medications may help reflux symptoms but will not fix the hernia.
am i able to do ab exercises if i have a hiatal hernia?
hiatal hernias are internal hernias of the diaphragm within the abdominal cavity and at times extending into the chest. they are not related to the muscles of the abdominal wall. while most patients can do abdominal exercises without adversely affecting there hiatal hernia some patients do experience increased reflux symptoms either during or after strenuous physical activity.
can you tell me how to keep dieting and working out when i want to quit?
there are certain triggers/cues/thoughts which occur automatically that secondarily influence actions/eating. typically they have been called internal (emotions) and external (learned cues; conditioning). i like sloth wrath lust envy habit/pride greed etc. avoiding susbsituting. and transcending <link>
continuing reflux with ppi use and barrett's short segment possible after scope. waiting on biopsy results. is nissen recommended?
of things such as severity of barrett's severity of reflux and motility of esophagus. your gi specialist and surgeon can give you proper advice.
can you die from chf i have it real bad my chest stays hurting and i'm swollen all over i have type 2 diabetes and my father he done had 5 heart attacks he got the same thing and he had open heart surgery and they had to put stints in his heart valves and
unfortunately heart failure is very serious and progression is life threatening. there have been great strides in improving outcomes but any effective treatment relies on patients learning about the disease and knowing how to respond to symptoms how to effectively manage fluids and how to make heart healthy lifestyle decisions. if the chest pain is new head to the ed tonight.
can minocycline damage kidneys? have on and off back pain. i drink plenty of fluids & eat healthy. few members of my family have hbp & kidney issues.
with most common problems being bacterial resistance selecting for antibiotic resistant bacteria. study: <link> & <link> real cranberries daily (trial & error best individual dosage) have a much better track record of helping prevent bladder infections long term than any of the rx antibiotics.
can i drink alcohol with a small hiatus hernia. i have no gerd or heartburn. thank you. ?
you may drink alcohol with a small hiatal hernia but in small amounts so you don't get reflux. also long-term safe alcohol consumption in males is best kept to less than 4-6 drinks a week and not all at once!
can masterbation make a hiatal hernia worse?
there should be no connection. very rarely reflux can get worse after a vigorous exercise but i doubt that that would happen after masturbation. if your reflux remain severe despite trying antacids see your doctor. good luck.
can a hiatal hernia just disappear? upper gi by one doc twice 2005 & 2012 he said i have it twice recently upper gi new doc she said i don't have it
if a person lose weight and end up with less abdominal pressure that will push the stomach up in the chest the sliding part of the fiatal hernia will be gone but the actual hernia which is a widening in the opening of the hiatus will always be there but will not be visualize by x ray or endoscopy specially with the lack of reflux. your hernia unless repaired suurgically will always be there.
diagnosed with hiatus hernia. have taken all otc meds protonix and nexium (esomeprazole). none were helpful. what other options are there?
there is always the option of surgical repair of a hiatal hernia but usually these are small and not the cause of the problem. it also depends on what the problem is - reflux symptoms or difficulty swallowing or anemia or chest pain and weight loss. latter symptoms are usually due to large hernias known as paraesophageal hernias. hope this helps!
difference between hiatus hernia and ulsar pain?
ulcers tend to cause pain in the upper stomach and is often described as burning gnawing or hunger-like and sometimes can be crampy or vague. you can also have discomfort after eating with increased belching early satiety upper abdominal fullness nausea and sometimes vomiting. type i hiatal hernia pain feels like reflux/heartburn. larger hernias can cause nausea retching and fullness after eating
difference between hiatus hernia and ulsar pain?
the hiatal hernia & the ulcer pain are in 2 different places altogether for starters. the hiatal hernia involves the uppermost part of the stomach and is associated with a lot of acid reflux in the esophagus. ulcer pains are either in the body of the stomach (usually lower down) or in the duodenum. pain associated there is usually sharp intense no associated too much with reflux but with meal
difference between hiatus hernia and ulsar pain?
a hiatal hernia is an anatomic scenario where part of the stomach(usually just the upper part) protrudes through a weak part in the diaphragm(breathing muscle). this doesn't have to cause any symptoms or issues but can predispose people to acid reflux. ulcer pain is quite variable from burning to aching in the epigastrium(stomach area) sometimes with nausea bloating.
diagnosed small hiatal hernia and reflux. no ulcers or masses. will celebrex (celecoxib) agravate reflux symptoms?
it probably will. ibuprofen and aspirin can cause it as well
diagnosed small hiatal hernia and reflux. no ulcers or masses. will celebrex (celecoxib) agravate reflux symptoms?
dr. howe's right. you could tray taking mylanta or maalox (generic forms are disgusting! ) 30 minutes before the meal you take the celebrex (celecoxib) with and one hour after. it might help. also high fat high protein low fiber diets increase reflux and so does the excess weight those diets cause. eat more fruits & veggies in smaller portions more often & less fat & less protein (in a low fat form).
dx with h. hernia and erosive esophagitis. told to f/u in 4 wks take omeprazole. which type of pill dr or regular? btw i am not overweight.
minimize alcohol intake. do not smoke. don't lie down after eating avoid large meals avoid carbonation and don't eat before bedtime. antacid liquid or chewables can also relieve some symptoms. usually reflux can be managed non-surgically. keep in touch w your doctor. you may need repeat egd in 6-12 months for follow up. good luck.
dx with h. hernia and erosive esophagitis. told to f/u in 4 wks take omeprazole. which type of pill dr or regular? btw i am not overweight.
hi erosive esophagitis happens due to uncontrolled acid reflux the treatment is ppi 4-8 weeks the dose is usually 20mg per day before meal dr form is usually 40mg and lasts 24 hours and usually used to treat ulcer having said that if you take 40mg dr for 4-8 wks u should be fine just consider decreasing it afterward. hope u feel better.
diagonzied with hiatal hernia ( 3cm) grade a with reflux. do not want to go for surgery.
you may not like the idea but examination by a surgeon is very likely to result in a recommendation for surgical correction. if you don't follow through with this you are likely to get worse not better. sure nobody likes surgery if not necessary but at the very least you should see a surgeon.
hiatal hernia repair without fundoplication possible? i don't have acid reflux problems. but constant shoulder tightness sob andchestpain when relax
if you do not have reflux you may noted surgery most of the hiatus hernias are sliding type no fear of strangulation except paraoesophagheal type where surgery is indicated. speak to your doctor.
hiatal hernia repair without fundoplication? no reflux issues just constant shoulder/chest tight ness and sob- due to hernia interrupting diagram?
if you do not have reflux you may noted surgery most of the hiatus hernias are sliding type no fear of strangulation except paraoesophagheal type where surgery is indicated. speak to your doctor.
have made my self periodically throw up from binge eating. have pain when pressing in the middle right between rib cage n some acid reflux?
you are right to think there may be a connection the the bad eating behaviors. the good part is that your response now may save you from even worse damage. get a good exam to see the damage done and seek referral for ed therapy. it is not an easy issue to treat but w/ expert help it is very possible. don't wait - make life better!
should i be worried about breast pain? i've had the pain in my left breast for 2 days now. its like a sharp burning pain and only in the nippe and areola area but if i try to pinpoint it i can't. if my shirt brushes on it its painful or if i'm just sitt
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain.
stage iv metastatic breast cancer and pleural effusion. what is treatment?
pleural effusion is fluid that collects in the cavity that holds the lungs. when fluid builds up it can prevent the lung from expanding fully so you can breathe. worst case scenario is the lung can collapse. a special tube can be placed in the chest to drain this fluid. you should be working closely with your oncologist and a thoracic surgeon.
what can be done for venous stasis disease with lymphedema?
venous stasis with lymphedema is due to venous insufficiency which is a result of the valves in the venous system malfunctioning. this can be due to the valves in the deep system superficial system or connecting system. see a vein specialist for a full venous evaluation with a venous reflux exam. initial treatment consists of support hose lymphedema massage and compression pumps.
what is done for a teenager with a breast lump/cyst?
if it is a cyst which is fluid-filled usually nothing. if it is causing pain then an aspiration can be performed. if it is a solid mass it is most likely a fibroadenoma (i have several posts on this topic). unless it is large we don't do anything with them. if it is a large fibroadenoma then it is usually removed surgically. find a breast surgeon in your area for evaluation
what are breast implants made out of?
good afternoon! in the united states there are two types of breast implants. there are saline implants which are implants filled with saline or salt water- the same fluid you see in an iv bag. there are also silicone gel implants which are implants filled with silicone gel of differ for a more natural feel. both types of implant have an outer shell made of a silicone polymer.
what tests are used for screening for breast cancer?
the best screening procedure for breast cancer is breast palpation. to pick up the earliest lesions mammography is the best procedure with improved digital and 3d formats. this is followed by sonography to define a localized site in thickened breast tissue and tell whether a lesion has fluid. for a more detailed study mri of the breast can detect many lesions not seen on mammo.
what are the risks of mastopexy surgery?
breast lift risks include: anesthesia risks bleeding or hematoma formation infection poor healing of incisions changes in nipple or breast sensation which may be temporary or permanent breast contour and shape irregularities breast asymmetry fatty tissue found deep in the skin might die (fat necrosis) fluid accumulation potential partial or total loss of nipple and areola deep vein thrombosis
what are some ways to reduce estrogen in males because i have gynocomastia and i've read estrogen influences male breast tissue. ?
true gynecomastia with breast tissue in males is rare. it can be a side effect of taking certain drugs or having a hormonal imbalance. i would see your doctor to make sure this is breast tissue and to check the chemical and hormonal balance in your body. you may also want to check your weight as that is a more common cause of gynecomastia in males.
what is lymphedema? what are the potential causes?
this condition is common after lymphatic dysfunction causing build up of lymphatic fluid in the space between tissues that don't drain normally into venous channels. this most commonly happens due to trauma (surgery removing nodes) scarring (radiation) or physical blockage (pregnancy) of the lymphatics. regular lymphatic massage is found useful in improving this condition.
what is lymphedema? what are the potential causes?
this is fluid build up in the extremity this could be congenital which most often occurs in teenagers or young adults other causes are result of an infection trauma cancer related in patients who had surgery also it may occur as part of the aging process also known as lymphedema tarda
what happens after a lumpectomy without a drainage tube when the breast is filled with liquid?
seroma is a collection of watery fluid in a space created by surgery or trauma. seroma formation is a natural process that normally occurs after lumpectomy or mastectomy. most seromas are small (under 2 ounces) cause minimal symptoms and are absorbed by the body over weeks or months. larger seromas may cause swelling and pain and are best managed with aspiration using a needle or drain
what do polypropylene breast implants feel like? are they safe?
by the fda. unsafe. they tend to have a natural feel but when they overgrow with fluid they feel too tense.
what is the life expectancy of a 54yr woman with stage 4 breast cancer metastasized to bones brain and spinal fluid? brca2 positive
it depends on treatment so far. . this is not a good prognosis. it is all about managing quality of life and options. no one knows of course life expectancy but in my opinion quality of life is most important
what should be done when stomach reflux causes mam to gasp for air and is bent over with heartburn even after sipping water?
patient should see physician for proper exam and therapy for problem. many medications (antiacid) are available to aid in control of symptoms of refux. some medications are over the counter like nexium (esomeprazole). sometimes need to be examined intitially by fluoroscopy and/or endoscopy for proper diagnosis and therapy.
when i got off of effexor (venlafaxine) i developed fibrocystic breasts and have patches of rough bumpy skin on my thighs could birth control help?
skin disorders can go either way under the environment of oral contraceptives. acne is an example. although what you describe does not sound like acne it might easily be influenced one way or the other by the radical change in hormonal milieu induced by oral contraceptives.
why do doctors ask for both mammogram and ultra sound for the breast?
the mammogram and ultrasound can see different things. a mammogram may see a density or nodularity. an ultrasound can see if there are small solid or fluid (cyst) nodues in the breast. often these two tests can be complimentary in their findings.
what causes recurring hemorrhagic/proteinaceous breast cysts and do they increase the risk of breast cancer? my mom and material aunt have breast ca
at 49 y. o. cyst are not uncommon but most are clear with serous fluid just enough to keep ducts open. hemorrhagic cysts not that common and one must ascertain they are not developing into cytst lesions. cytology of bloody fluid might be valuable along with mri of breast if mammo neg. braca should also be tested to see if genetic changes familial.
age 35 female 50 pds overweight non-smoker rarely drink all cholesterol normal except ldl 131. pain in center of chest when stressed. angina?
pain in your chest is a serious medical condition. it is always a red flag and appointment with your pcp is warranted. it might be only a seasonal flu but better safe than sorry. take care.
after dieting for 3 months i have been so hungry lately? why is this the case?
and losing weight you're burning off more calories than your taking in. the natural response if to become hungry -- but hunger can't hurt you. no one has ever diet of hunger. exercise eat lo calorie food like veggies and drink fluids. fine a hobby to take your mind off your appetite. good luck w/your diet. no body said it would be easy and your body will fight you all the way.
after getting the flu shot on the next day can i continue taking diet pills or do i need to wait?
if you are talking about medication prescribed by your physician yes. if your pills are over the counter these may contain large amounts of caffeine - i'd advise holding off for at least one week. you need to eat a balanced diet not fast after immunizations so if you are skipping meals on any type of diet pill this will not help you have a healthy immune system.
after getting the flu shot on the next day can i continue taking diet pills or do i need to wait?
there shouldn't be an interaction between the various flu shots and "diet pills". but the bigger issue stems around diet pills. if they are not prescription pills being monitored by a doctor i would urge you to consider avoiding over the counter "diet" pills. for many there is more potential for harm than good. best of luck.
body fat and testosterone related?
the amount of body fat can influence the ratio between testosterone and estrogen in your body. adipose tissue (fat) has the ability to convert testosterone to estrogen. www. peedoc. com @drhtay.
best way to lose belly fat after have triplets?
i do these all the time and love them. planks work the core and are simple and great exercises. also try flutter kicks. most importantly diet is very important and hydration. make sure your nutrition is up to par or you'll have a hard time losing the belly weight. best of luck and congrats!
been taking verapamil for 3 weeks now earlier in the day i was doing some weight training. afterwards my head started feeling really warm i felt very shaky and have frequent heart pulpatations! they have felt almost flu like symptoms or could this be a r
please talk to your physician as perhaps your bp or hr are getting too low.
can i take a fat burner with apidex?
adipex is an appetite suppressant. helpful in right case but can have some potential side effects. all of us fluffy people actively seek the magic bullet to help lose weight. if fat burners really worked we'd all be skinny - don't waste your money. stick to balanced diet lots of water 8 hours sleep and exercise. weight watchers is an excellent resource. good luck! <link>
can losing 3-4lbs help your les i'm overweight & i have constant chest pains from acid reflux had a habit of eating & laying down & chocolate etc.
it's better than not losing any weight. however in the grand scheme of things 4 pounds won't change any symptoms. but it's a good start. one can continue eating "less than needed to live on" and her excessive weight will continue to decrease. it's plain physics: if she takes in fewer calories than her body requires then her body will start burning stored fat to use for calories.
can exercising help acid reflux if you are overweight & you eat and lay down i have chest pain for a month now. don't have heart problems had checked?
although some patients have reflux after having exercise in the long run exercise will make your reflux better if you are able to use it to help get your weight under control. obesity certainly matters in gerd. if you're having frequent symptoms you may need to be on medication and anti-reflux measures to help control it until you can get your weight down. see your doctor for advice. good luck
can adipex be taken with prozac (fluoxetine)? if taken together can it lead to death? heart attack etc?
no risk of taking them at same time. taken in prescribed dose is generally regarded as safe. they work differently but both can be dangerous in excess. take them as directed and you'll be fine.
can adipex be taken with prozac (fluoxetine)? if taken together can it lead to death? heart attack etc?
no significant interactions found or know between prozac (fluoxetine) and adipex-p (phentermine hydrochloride). however caution always advised if taking multiple medications.
can a endoscopy determine if some has a hiatal hernia?
an upper endoscopy or egd is one of two ways to find a hiatal hernia. the other way is a xray with swallowed contrast fluid a barium swallow or upper gi study. the xray is easier to do but the endoscopy gives a very detailed look at the stomach and is less likely to miss a hiatal hernia--when performed by an experienced physician. the procedure usually takes about 10 minutes to perform.
can obesity cause bilateral pitting edema? and how to get rid of it?
because of the increase in intra-abdominal pressure due to obesity venous return of blood from the legs to the heart is impaired leading to fluid accumulation in the legs. granted other things could cause this edema but obesity is one possible cause. losing weight will obviously help.
despite two endoscopies telling me i only have acid reflux it's felt more severe from quite some time and it really impacts my life negatively. i vomit most of my meals involuntarily despite trying to eat healthy. it always feels like i have mass in my
it's good that the results are not bad. a health psychologist may help you understand your symptoms and perhaps use hypnosis to modify the vomit reflex. in ny ny i'm confident that you can find a good one even if it takes time. you can re-learn your body's responses to eating and find relief.
drank mcdonalds frappe on empty stomach. its heightened my anxiety and gave me slight nausea. is this normal?
on the flavor of mcdonald's frappe it may contain a significant amount of caffeine. if you've already taken caffeine in your diet prior to drinking it it can heighten your sense of jitteriness and hence anxiety as well as worsened reflux and nausea. water is healthier.
does fluoxetine cause weight gain or weight loss?
it originally was introduced as being weight neutral but there are exceptional cases where we see weight changes either up or down.
diagnosed with small sliding hiatus hernia no heartburns but sharp chest pain which radiates to back sometimes. is this condition serious? ty
if small no. could have resultant reflux pain which stems from stomach acid going back up the esophagus. you are at risk for this because of the hiatal hernia & usually is present after eating something spicy fatty or really heavy. avoid foods like above as well as smoking alcohol & medications like aleve/advil/motrin. see a gi specialist or surgeon for possible repair if the pain continues.
diagnosed with small hiatal hernia. no gerd at all. what are the chances it grows and gives me gerd in future. 23yo 145lbs. it hapnd frm hevy lifting?
heavy lifting doesn't always have too much to do with hiatal hernia as opposed to a groin hernia. a small hiatal hernia can certainly get bigger. the gerd or the reflux can be prevented or minimized by paying attention to your lifestyle in avoiding the late or the large meals and also in using an extra pillow when needed. watch your weight.
do eating fast food cause you to have no energy?
fast food is notorious for being low in fiber & generally high in calories from concentrated sweets & fat. fats delay stomach emptying & promote reflux. dietary fats also promote release of cck & substance y which alters gut sensitivity contracts the gallbladder & prompts the "ileal brake" which in predisposed patients causes bloating & fullness. choose instead salads fruits & whole grains.
for what kind of person would lap-band surgery by appropriate? #nqlu are there any specific weight limits/bmi that it is ideal for?
that's tough to answer because we haven't figured it out exactly and failure rates are still high for lap bands. it is thought that bands are good for people with bmi under 50 volume eaters active people who exercise younger people (under 60). not good for sweet eaters super obese (bmi over 50) people with severe diabetes heartburn/reflux. bypass is better for these people.
fundoplication operation @ start of year. severe bloating+discomfort worse afternoons gurgling lower down had endo+colo. suggestions on tests to do?
you may have a broader diagnosis that includes your reflux disorder such as dysmotility of upper gi tract celiac disease or some others. at this point your team of docs should consider gallbladder tests. a nuclear scan/tech hida will evaluate your gb for function. an ulttrasound will evaluate gb for stones and wall thickness. good luck.
food passes though my colon very slowly strenuous to eliminate. high fiber diet stool softeners make no difference. how can i speed it up?
it is not abnormal to have bms only 2-3x/wk if this has been your thing. not everyone goes daily while others do couple times/day. make sure u drink pelnty of fluid exercise daily and occasional use of senokot-s may help--a gentle stimulant. flax seeds help some people. many meds cause this as well. if this new for you check with doc to make sure no thyroid trouble etc. good luck.
for many years ast 13 alt 11 all phos 58 last year went ast 20 alt 24 alk 71 this year went back to ast 14 alt 11 alk 68 do i have liver disease?
all lab results listed are/were within normal range. minor fluctuations may occur for a lot of reasons unrelated to liver disease. no worries!
have a 8mm nodule in distal esophagus am i fine? i do have acid reflux from. my hiatal hernia. going for ultrasound 6 months later. i'm 23. cancer?
your q can not be answered with yes or no and it would be most logical and beneficial to refer this q to your treating doc for specific individual details. besides following instruction in articles listed in <link> <link> <link> etc. can be very helpful to handle many daily health-related issues.
having reflux still 5 weeks post nissen. surgeon stated it would take longer to heal because my esophagus was in spasms causing high pressures prior. ?
sometimes there can be a separate esophageal muscle issue that will not be helped by the nissen and may need different anti-spasm medicines.
have small hiatal hernia been on protonix (pantoprazole) for past 2 months still reflux. can i get linx procedure. and would they be able to repair hernia w linx?
i recommend seeing a general surgeon who is both board certified and fellowship trained in mis/foregut and has experience implanting the linx device. this consultation visit should give you a better idea for whether you would be a good candidate for this procedure
hi! i have had a missed period with no other symptoms other than a rapid weight loss and no appetite. i haven't had sex at all and i am wondering if there is a serious issue?
the biggest concern would be unexplained rapid weight loss! your cycle can be influenced by a number of things including the weight loss. a few things that can influence both; thyroid disease diabetes ovarian disease. i would encourage you to be evaluated as soon as possible.
hi just got home from a night out. ive drank 4 jager bombs (1shot of jager with half glass red bull) and my heart wont stop racing? im female 23 and 118kg. what can i do and how long will it take to subside?
you need to have a frank talk with your primary care provider about your use of alcohol since binge drinking is not ok! unfortunately there is not a lot you can do to hasten recovery from that binge! coffee (the old "movie" standbye) will make your heart beat faster and "hair of the dog that bit yah" is very jack nicholson but is defintely a no! ) try increasing fluids and some dry cereal!
sharp acute pain under left breast. lasts at most 3 seconds. today felt almost like bubble passing thru. chest xrays done recently results=good. ?
in addition to thinking about the heart we also think about the gastrointestinal tract - like reflux gastritis or ulcer. probably more common than heart problems in someone young and otherwise healthy. not sure what your docs were looking for with the chest xrays but glad the results were good!
swollen painful breast 2 weeks after lumpectomy. fever and chills (102). called surgeon today and was dismissed as having the flu.
could be infection of the glands/ducts or complication of the surgery itself. if not feeling well still go to pcp/urgent care if your surgeon is not taking things seriously. may need antibiotics. can turn into serious infection if it is due to blockage.
swollen painful breast 2 weeks after lumpectomy. fever and chills (102). called surgeon today and was dismissed as having the flu.
breast infection if there is heat & redness with swelling of the breast. also could be a viral illness as it would be uncommon to get a surgical site infection 2 weeks after surgery. agree you should see your family doctor asap or go back to surgeon or er if there is concern for breast wound infection.
what are symptoms of breast cancer?
the usual first symptom is a painless lump in the breast. most breast lumps are fluid-filled cysts or fibroadenomas (a clumping of glandular tissue) which are non-cancerous (benign). however you should always see a doctor if a lump develops as the breast lump may be cancerous. dimpling or thickening of some of the skin on a part of a breast. changes in the size or shape of a breast. rarely a discharge occurring from a nipple
what are possible complications after a radical mastectomy?
1. infection 2. bleeding 3. recurrence of cancer 4. swelling of the arm or hand 5. limitation of movement of the arm or shoulder 6. pain or numbness of the upper inner aspect of the arm. 7. fluid collection on the chest wall (seroma)
what can cause l-side chest pain around and under the nipple for 1week in 40s males? normal breast-underarm ultrasound and no change after 1wk flumox.
have further work up like ekg and chest x-ray
what are the other options for removal of fibroadenoma other than surgery?
fibroadenoma are mostly benign. sometimes fluid filled become cystic and painful. can be aspirated with needle by a breast surgeon or invasive radiologist. avoid chocolate coffee. add vitamin e and some times bcp also help prevent recurrent exacerbation of painful fibroadenoma
a few days ago the left side of my chest was hurting i thought it was something associated with the heart. i don't smoke drink nor am i obese.
that you don't drink or smoke and you are not obese. oftentimes we forget other causes of " chest pains " eg reflux ( very common cause ) postnatal drainage muscle related conditions respiratory causes etc. best to get evaluated by your pcp.
are you more prone to having esophagus polyps after having one with severe gerd and common hiatal hernia?
esophageal polyps are called pseudopolyp mean not real polyp caused by the inflammation driven by the reflux there are not a true polyp that can turn to cancer and they diseapear with treatment so try to take care of your reflux follow the diet no late meal or snack sleep with head elevated take medication as rx avoid caffeine and spicy food and eat multiple small meal avoid tight cloth.
a very fouly smrll whitish yellow small thing came into my mouth from oesophagus i guess. this happens mostly after overeating. is this food reflux?
you cold have an esophageal diverticula in which food gets trapped starts to digest (decompose- can be foul smelling almost fecal) and coughing could bring it out. i would think a barium swallow or upper endoscopy could clarify pretty quickly.
blood vomitng fever dizziness upset stomach weight loss cough flu feeling cold not feeling hungry. dez r symptoms. got 4 wounds in stomch 1 near liver?
dont mess around on the computer gk to the er asap or urgent care!
blood vomitng fever dizziness upset stomach weight loss cough flu feeling cold not feeling hungry. dez r symptoms. got 4 wounds in stomch 1 near liver?
given these symptoms best to be seen and evaluated as soon as possible.
best treatment plan for gastroparisis barretts nighttime gasbloat and hiatal hernia ibs? i see a gi just for looking options as im newly diagnosed.
complex but not rare constellation of problems. barrett esophagus most important - severe esophageal damage due to reflux. if no dysplasia on biopsies can be treated by hernia repair and fundoplication. repeat surveillance endoscopy may be advised first. gastroparesis concerning but fundo. can sometimes improve gastric emptying. by lbs do you mean morbid obesity? running out of space.
best treatment plan for gastroparisis barretts nighttime gasbloat and hiatal hernia ibs? i see a gi just for looking options as im newly diagnosed.
sometimes gas bloat and "gastroparesis" could be secondary to dysfunctional gallbladder. fixing the hiatal hernia would definitely improve the reflux. losing weight would improve lots of symptoms.
barium swallow prior to fundoplication (anti-reflux) surgery why is this?
this test can give anatomical information the surgeon about the size and shape of a hiatal hernia if there is one. when done "properly" it can also give physiologic information about how well the esophagus can push solids and liquids into the stomach. this info can help determine if your are a good candidate for an anti-reflux procedure be it endoscopic or laparoscopic. hope this helps!
breathlessness is worse in morning on exertion is it due to lpr reflux cxr pft echo ecg tsh cbp normal m not overweight?
this could be some emotional reaction also could be something idiosyncratic i. e. a symptom you have which can't be explained in terms of conventional medical understanding. some complementary approach like homeopathy acupuncture or something similar might provide help even if conventionally everything seems perfectly normal. we are much more complicated than what we can measure with tools.
breathlessness is worse in morning on exertion is it due to lpr reflux cxr pft echo ecg tsh cbp normal m not overweight?
could be. also can be allergies or sleep apnea. do you have scoliosis?
can low amniotic fluid if i am losing weight during pregnancy? i am 26 weeks and lost 20 pounds already.
weight loss during pregnancy needs to be taken seriously and you should see your doctor asap.
curious: i drink a med ice latte 1 pump of syrup no whip from coffee chain. no health issue normal weight. can water flush the sugar intake after?
water will not have an affect on the sugar you've consumed or how it is metabolized by your body. your body will still process the sugar as it would without any additional water consumed and it will use the energy (the calories) from the sugar. despite that though it is a good idea to drink water in addition to lattes or other sweetened beverages!
can relora and prozac (fluoxetine) be taken together?
i don't think relora would be a wise thing to take while being treated with prozac (fluoxetine).
can beta blockers cause weight gain?
weight gain can occur as a side effect of some beta blockers especially the older ones such as atenolol (tenormin) and metoprolol (lopressor toprol-xl). the average weight gain is no more than 4 pounds (about 2 kilograms). newer beta blockers such as carvedilol (coreg) don't usually cause weight gain as a side effect. weight may rise in the first weeks of taking the beta blocker and then generally stabilizes. however the beta blockers that can cause weight gain usually aren't prescribed unless other medications haven't worked or if you have a specific heart condition that requires taking those medications. beta blockers are used to treat a host of conditions including high blood pressure heart failure migraines glaucoma and anxiety. doctors aren't sure exactly why some beta blockers cause weight gain. it could be that beta blockers slow your metabolism. also if you switch from taking a water pill (diuretic) to a beta blocker as a treatment for high blood pressure you may gain a few pounds of weight that the diuretic kept off. if you're taking a beta blocker for heart failure tell your doctor immediately if you begin to gain more than 3 to 4 pounds (about 1. 5 to 2 kilograms) particularly if the weight gain continues beyond your first week of taking the drug. this could mean that fluid is building up in your legs abdomen or chest which may signal that your heart failure is worsening.
can pocs causes both high androgen and estrogen levels if not overweight? can eating pyhytoestrogens increase breast cancer in women with pocs?
pcos can increase androgens in patients regardless of their weight. the effects on estrogen are less clear as these levels fluctuate and typically would not be tested in pcos. the lh and fsh levels are checked but not estrogen. the effects of phytoestrogens such as soy on the risk of breast cancer are debatable. there is not specific recommendation for pcos patients to avoid them
diagnosed with small hiatus hernia. no reflux or heartburn. will playing sports like cricket football make it bigger. i don't lift heavy weights. ty?
it may get larger with time but most likely not until your 70. furthermore activity won't influence that. i would forget about that diagnosis and love your life normally and without restriction. hope this helps!
does baby toothpaste with xylitol n no fluoride safe to swallow everyday? i brush her teeth everyday and she still cant rinse her mouth (20mos old).
ffluoride is essential to the health of your child's teeth. decision as to what type of toothpaste to use should be discussed with a pediatric dental specialist. this is just one of the many reasons that the american dental assn recommends 1st dental examination at 1st b'day. whatever toothpaste you choose remember to use only a pea-sized portion not the big ribbon they show in advertisements
does baby toothpaste with xylitol n no fluoride safe to swallow everyday? i brush her teeth everyday and she still cant rinse her mouth (20mos old).
use a thin smear of toothpaste or a dot the size of a grain of rice. after her third birthday you can use a pea-size amount. if you already haven't done so have her seen by a pedodontist and follow his\her recommendations. ask about fluoride and xylitol. i would also be more concerned about what foods and liquids to avoid that might contribute to decay than which type of baby toothpaste used.
drink around 8-16 units of alcohol weeky within guildline. have small hiatus hernia never had any symptoms with it. will alcohol affect hernia? ty.
not directly. alcohol will decrease the pressure at lower esophageal sphincter so it might worsen any gastroesophageal reflux that you might have already.
diagnosed hiatal hernia. experience chest/back pain everyday medicine/lifestyle change not working. do i need surgery? i dont know what to do
you apparently are having symptomatic gastoesophageal reflux despite medical/lifestyle changes. the next step may indeed be surgical. i would have you return to your doctor and discuss with him/her your options. you likely need to be referred for a ph study and or a egd to document the severity for insurance reasons before surgical intervention.
doctor said bilateral peripheral edema is caused by my obesity? should i get another opinion? recently had umbilical hernia surgery haven't been active.
because of the increase in intra-abdominal pressure due to obesity venous return of blood from the legs to the heart is impaired leading to fluid accumulation in the legs. granted other things could cause this edema but obesity is one possible cause. losing weight will obviously help.
ever since i have been on a diet i have had problems with bowel movements. is it safe to take laxatives once a week? also my husband has kidney failure. he is doing peritoneal dialysis at home. how long can he live on dialysis before he has to have a
make sure you are getting enough fiber and drinking enough fluids. he should get on transplant list at the earliest. if he can get kidney from a living donor even better.
epigastric discomfort and constant belching weight loss blood test came back negative for h. pylori? . what else could be? *young patient.
probably warrants a visit to a gastroenterologist. the discomfort and belching may just be reflux that might respond to a trial of an over the counter medication like otc prilosec or similar. the weight loss is worrisome and along with the other symptoms needs to be further evaluated.
feels like something is in my ear sometimes it goes away but then i wake up in the middle of the night with that same feeling what could this be
at a pharmacy you can get an ear flush kit. only use as directed. never stick anything in your ear. or it may be hard wax. wax removers are also sold in pharmacies. if that doesn't fix it to see an md.
feels like something is in my ear?
may simply be normal ear wax (cerumen) or impacted cerumen or fluid behind the ear drum (tympanic membrane) or inflammation of ear canal (outer: otitis externa or infection of middle ear (otitis media) or may have foreign body or insect in ear canal. see fp to have it checked.
feels like there is thumping in my ear what could be causimg that. my wisdom teeth are growing in could that be it?
the thumping my be due one of several causes. first you could be having referred pain from your teeth. second you might have fluid in your ears and third you could be feeling the pulsation of blood vessels located near your ear.
female 67 good health no smoking or alcohol can a small hiatal hernia grown or enlarge? thank you
hiatal hernias can come and go get better (especially with weight loss) and can get worse (with time and age weight gain increased abdominal pressure). they can cause acid reflux feeling full early chest pain and even feeling short of breath). good luck.
for 2months i've be doing protein shakes for breakfast and lunch then eat a sensible supper run on treadmill for 45 min everyday and can't lose weight?
you may not be losing weight because you are gaining muscle mass. remember a pound of muscle weights the same as a pound of fat and that you are gaining muscle mass due to your exercise. other factors that would keep you from losing weight is fluid retention and a dose of eltroxin that is not high enough to make you euthyroid. speak to you doctor about you case for more information.
fat intolerant after inflamed gallbladder. on low fat/high fibre diet. lost 20lb. could this be the reason i've had constant bouts of colds/virus/flu for 2mths? (i hydrate/rest/exercise/eat healthy? )
any gallbladder issues from gallstones to gallbladder infections are said to bring about flu like symptoms. your best response to make sure your treatment is working and the gallbladder issues are correctly diagnosed. if you have a doubt about treatment or diagnosis then call the treating doctor or get a second opinion. congratulations on the weight loss and healthier lifestyle!
fat intolerant after inflamed gallbladder. on low fat/high fibre diet. lost 20lb. could this be the reason i've had constant bouts of colds/virus/flu for 2mths? (i hydrate/rest/exercise/eat healthy? )
but this is very improbable. you have simply been exposed to more illnesses and caught different viruses. dieting of this nature is not likely to affect your immunity adversely. by the way just because no stones were seen on the scan does not mean that there are not some there. you might want to chat with a general surgeon. that gallbladder may need to come out.
gluten free diet. is this a fad? is there any point if you don't have celiac disease?
some with gi distress feel better if they eliminate foods from their diet. recently the low-fodmaps diet is gaining traction for decreasing food hypersensitivity symptoms (these are not allergies! ). wheat based foods may be harder to digest pull water into the gut get fermented by bacteria and therefore increase gas in the gut. stretch of the gut wall by fluids and gas cause gi symptoms.
gestational diabetes mellitus--what are risk factors or causes?
the baby can have macrosomia (large birth weight) increased amniotic fluid fetal death neonatal hypoglycemia jaundice shoulder dystocia brachial plexus injury cesarean section cardiomyopathy. the mother is also at risk for diabetes after pregnancy especially if she is overweight older than 35 physically inactive hispanic or has a family history of diabetes.
gastro esophageal reflux disease diet recommedations?
if this is chronic and not a new problem may need to consider your diet such as things like coffee smoking spicy foods and alcohol intake. also there can be a chronic infection of the stomach that can cause this called h. pylori which can be tested for by blood and stool tests. this is treatable with antibiotics. also try otc meds like zantac (ranitidine) and prilosec with maalox. try changing diet as well.
gastro esophageal reflux disease diet recommedations?
there are plenty of "reflux diets" on the web. in general avoid things that make it worse typically citrus drinks caffeine alcohol tomato sauce spicy foods and chocolate are among those commonly on the list. if its too much you may need other lifestyle changes medication or an endoscopic or surgical procedure to actually fix the problem. hope this helps!
good day i just want to know what antibiotic treatment will be the best for staphylococcus aureus and sever cellulites in lower legs? greetings tasch
your definition of severe is difficult to evaluate which will influence oral or iv routes. furthermore a penicillin allergy may effect the choice as well as community patterns and hospital based organisms. a culture is the gold standard for determining treatment but most cliicians would begin with cephalexin or dicloxacillin or amoxicilin/clavulonate and then clindamycin in pcn allergic patients.
good day. please i need information on obesity. 30 hazards of obesity syndrome. 25 therapeutic measures for obesity syndrome?
is caused by overeating the wrong foods. it turns on a gene that influences the hypothalamus (brain). if you cease all forms of sugar you will lose weight but it has to be "cold turkey" and maintained. the gene also initiates inflammation in some obese people so the hazards come from inflammatory diseases such as arthritis.
have acid reflux and hiatus hernia i have been prescribed rabeprazole 20mg omeprazole 20mg and lansoprazole 30mg which would you say was best?
all of the ppi's (proton pump inhibitors) are very effective at reducing acid. some keep the gastric ph <4 longer than others but the bottom line is which one works for you at the lowest dosage and the cheapest price. check with your insurance company and find out which is their preferred drug.
had laproscopic nissen fundoplication done yesterday. home recovering. will reflux still exist or feeling of liquids coming up in the throat still as surgery is recent and can i expect it to settle down as i heal thus making the surgery a success?
after nissen it is common to have a sensation that there is reflux or irritation at distal esophagus. you may have difficulty swallowing and this may get worse as the area of surgery will likely swell over 1st 48hrs. this will all settle down over the next few weeks and you should not experience reflux symptoms and should come off your heartburn meds.
had laproscopic nissen fundoplication done yesterday. home recovering. will reflux still exist or feeling of liquids coming up in the throat still as surgery is recent and can i expect it to settle down as i heal thus making the surgery a success?
down as you heal making it a success
questions about breast reduction? what happens if i gain weight later?
generally best to have breast reduction surgery performed as close as possible to your long-term stable weight to help avoid fluctuation of breast size afterwards.
right breast hurting did a self and didn't feel anything beside maybe by my arm pit. mastitis breast cancer or something else?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cause the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer.
stinging pain in one spot on left breast. no injury or reason for the pain. could this be a sign of a problem in the breast tissue?
pain in breast tissue not common under 35 years of age. all benign activity secondary to influence of hormone on breast tissue. under 30 hormones effect mammary tissue and produce fibroadenomas. over 30 there is a shift to affecting the mammary ducts which tend to block near nipple. resulting backup of fluid in duct produces cysts with a site of tenderness. dx sonogram may help.
the oncologist keeps insisting on chemo but i would rather have surgery only for breast cancer i would like another opinion is it always necessary?
my influence "risks". has your oncologist explained the benefit what you "risk" by not taking the recommended treatment? if i were you i'd seek two other opinions. on the other hand if the oncotype test and 3 doctors would *not* influence your decision don't waste your money and their time. but remember the adage about "one treating themselves has a fool for a patient. ".
tingling flu like symptoms fevers from zerona laser but extreme fat loss. still ill + chronic lymphedema in flanks & abdomen 1. 5 yrs. what now? !
low level zerona laser is unlikely to cause the symptoms you describe even if they seemed to coincide with zerona treatments. at least you had good fat loss but your other symptoms are probably from something else going on with your medical health. it's "easy" to "blame" zerona but low level laser is truly not the cause of these issues. see you doctor for work-up and proper diagnosis/treatment.
tingling flu like symptoms fevers from zerona laser but extreme fat loss. still ill + chronic lymphedema in flanks & abdomen 1. 5 yrs. what now? !
first you need to be evaluated by a doctor to rule out other causes than the zerona laser for your symptoms. please see a good internal medicine possibly infectious disease specialist. for chronic lymphedema lymphatic massage gentle ultrasound hivmat treatments compression and gentle exercise can be of help. good luck!
the radiologist said that the breast cyst i have is nothing bad or to worry about that is just fluid or milk is still the same size don't hurt its ok?
as long as the radiologist believes the lesion is fluid filled there is a low likelihood of breast cancer. also if the lesion has remained stable after several ultrasounds it is even more encouraging. we usually only aspirate (remove the fluid) if the fluid filled lesion is palpable and/or causing discomfort or if the fluid filled lesion has evidence of debris or solid tissue inside.
the radiologist said that the breast cyst i have is nothing bad or to worry about that is just fluid or milk is still the same size don't hurt its ok?
if the ultrasound finds a cyst then this not something to be concerned about unless it becomes painful or keeps getting larger.
to all doc. if your patient had brst. cancer twice. mastectomy of both was a past smoker and now has pain r. side short. of breath fatigue. xray? ct? orother
pleurisy fluid metastasis rib metastasis ct most likely to define.
the bottom of my left breast hurts and it been going on for a week. i was wondering what it could be. the right one doesn't hur at all. ?
pain in breast is essentially never associated with cancer. the latter which is related to a mass in the breast does not initiate any symptom when palpated other than for diagnosing its presence. pain is due to a somewhat distended milk duct which has not emptied the typical fluid produced and is part of what is called cystic mastopathy which is benign unless defined otherwise by a mammo
think i got breast cyst original one gone but another appeared i'm 19?
most benign pathology of breast is related to hormone activity on breast tissue. in early years activity is on breast tissue resulting in fibroadenomas. over 30 the effect begins on the ductal system producting partial blockage with fluid accumulation leading to cysts. when spontaneous opening in duct occurs the cyst disappears. most of the time with age fibrocytic disease is commonplace
upper rgt chest swellng & dull ache-sinusitis-reoccurring heartburn-was just sick w lupus fl bronchitis & flu-xray/us & mammo clear-wbc18 er senthome?
a wbc of 18 is high. this could mean bacterial or viral infection or inflammation or maybe you are taking prednisone for your lupus. prednisone or other steroids cause a high wbc. it sounds like you should check in with your rheumatologist as soon as possible. the swelling you describe needs to be examined by a doctor who knows you and your chronic health history. i hope you feel better soon!
usually i squeeze my breasts to feel any strange lumps or bumps but lately when i squeeze milk comes out and water.
hello mary when a lady can express a watery milky fluid from her nipples this is called galactorrhea. this type of fluid does not cause me to think of anything dangerous but i do have concerns that the pituitary gland may be producing too much of one of it's hormones. consult your physician for additional hormonal testing.
viral flu for 10 days. still have fever of 37. 8 and now face pain on right side. cough. tight throat. why am i still sick? breast cancer? sore lump.
sounds like a sinus infection. see md who will likely obtain xrays and prescribe antibiotics.
viral flu for 10 days. still have fever of 37. 8 and now face pain on right side. cough. tight throat. why am i still sick? breast cancer? sore lump.
we're having a serious flu season. do you have a cool mist humidifier? fill it with one bottle of hydrogen peroxide and two bottles of water. that will give you a 1% aerosolized mist of hydrogen peroxide. the peroxide kills the bugs on contact (virus or bacteria) as you breath in the mist and breaks down into water and oxygen. you should feel better in a day or two.
wat are intraaxillary lymph nodes? what are the side effects of radiation for breast cancer. & how long its given for earlier stage of cancer
the nodes in the armpit are often involved in patients with breast cancer and are generally treated with radiation to kill tumor cells. radiation also damages other tissues needed for drainage of fluid from the arm. due to that damage some patients develop swelling of the arm on the involved side. you should discuss these issues with your doctor who knows your health status better.
worried could have breast cancer. some clear liquid sometimes when nipple squeezed. no lumps or pain. am 34. could it be sign of cancer?
-best thing 2 do is 2 c ur gyn & b examined. a swab of the fluid can b looked @ the lab 4 abnormal cells. also a hands on exam will help.
yearly mammogram showed stable right breast nodule consistent with benign etiology (br-rads 2 benign) stayed the same for 2 yrs should i be concern?
the mammo defines a malignant lesion as a stellate one usually with associated microcalcifications. a sono can suggest the nodule is a fibroadenoma or has fluid in it which is benign. an mri can further elucidate the nature of the lesion. a malignancy does not remain stable in the breast but is noted to enlarge and invade surrounding tissue over a period of months.
are there harmful effects of your body fat fluctuating a lot? ive never been "overweight" but i gain and lose weight (+/-15) often. (bc i binge a lot)
but no one really knows. carbs especially simple carbs the most harmful to health saturated & monounsaturated generally the least minimizing drive for binge urges over time; study: <link> <link> for some insights. from current knowledge optimize nmr lipoproteins (ldl? 700 nmol/l & large-hdl? 9. 0 µmol/l) hba1c? 5. 0% systolic bp? 120 mmghg & study my answers.
are there any migraine preventatives that don't interact with prozac (fluoxetine) or cause weight gain?
behavioral approaches to treatment do not interact w/medication or cause weight gain. treatments such as biofeedback clinical hypnosis guided imagery etc. can provide tools you can use effectively. a clinical psychologist who treats headaches would be most skilled in these things. peace and good health.
am i eating too much phytoestrogens i have beans nuts and avocados which i've heard are high in phytoestrogens. i don't eat soy but drink almond milk?
with low carb diet fish chicken multivitamins : fish foul fruit and fiber with 8-10 glasses of fluid daily.
almost 4 weeks post nissen at night i can swallow and hear it gurgle back up. i had this issue much worse and 24/7 refractory reflux prior to nissen. i'm hoping this resolves as i heal but how can they verify the full wrap worked?
likely ok but if persists talk with your surgeon and consider imaging
almost 4 weeks post nissen at night i can swallow and hear it gurgle back up. i had this issue much worse and 24/7 refractory reflux prior to nissen. i'm hoping this resolves as i heal but how can they verify the full wrap worked?
not all nissen procedure turns out to be successful. if the problem of reflux has been completely gone the nissen has worked. oftentimes the relief is only partial the best person to ask is the surgeon who did the surgery.
after having gastric bypass surgery in december of 2016 i now have a hiatal hernia. could this be the cause of slow weight loss?
many gastric bypass patients experience alteration in gi emptying due to their new surgical connections. when ingested food then regurgitates or refluxes burning or chest discomfort may result. talk to your physicians about whether an acid blocker medicine should be tried or further investigation is warranted. typically uncomplicated hiatal hernias do not alter efforts at weight loss however.
been on low carb diet for 6mo lost 50 lbs. occasionally i'd treat myself to whatever carb i want. now if i eat carbs i get horrible chest pains. why?
don't discount guilt as a factor but alternatively you may be having acid reflux with esophagitis. try not to eat or drink anything within 3 hours of bedtime elevated the head of your bed with bricks/blocks and consider an otc med like ranitidine or omeprazole. ps ibuprofen which you list can make your symptoms worse.
been diagnosed with hiatus hernia. on meds. but keep getting bad bouts sickness severe headaches major acid reflux and insomnia. wat else can i do?
elevate the head of the bed and abound eating at least two hours before going to bed. also make sure nothing else is wrong and causing your symptoms. not sure why the headache. is the hernia very large?
breathlessness on exertion hrct pft tmt echo cbp thyroid normal not overweight wt to do now can reflux cause breathlessness on activities i have lpr?
two things: 1: slow down the exertion. 2: have your doctor refer you to a lung (pulmonary) doctor and see if there is anything else causing breathlessness.
brown discharge one week before period due. low back ache nausea cramps constipation headaches tired/weak strong food cravings sore throat?
check urine /blood hcg. or may be variation in period or vaginal infection / pid. consider ultrasound to rule out ectopic/. fibroids/ovarian issue. the sore throat may be incidental or can be from reflux due to abdominal/pelvic dysfunction( try maalox or ranitidine or prevecid). .
burning sen. across chest. er said tests were normal and cardio dr said not to worry. 21/f. overweight. angio showed nothing wrong.
could be related to reflux disease and/or a spasm of your esophagus. may need a gi consultation and some testing. these are rarely dangerous but getting a diagnosis will at least give you peace of mind. treatment is possible with medication and even endoscopic or surgical procedures depending on the case. hope this helps!
been dx hiatus hernia with inflammation. every day my upper abdomen is swollen hard and hard to breathe lost appetite. ?
hiatal hernia with inflammation is usually due to reflux of gastric contents. a hard swelling with difficulty breathing may represent an incarcerated hernia. contact your surgeon right away.
big muscley men who weigh similar 2 that of an obese man are they technically obese also and are they likely to develop medical issues like fat people?
measure of weight status is body mass index or bmi. overweight is bmi between 25. 0 and 29. 9; bmi of 30 or higher is considered obese. excess weight is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes mellitus hypertension stroke and osteoarthritis. per your information of anxiety depression and use of fluoxetine see a psychiatrist for therapy for stresses
bilateral pitting edema. and veins showing on feet causing this? had for about a month now. causes? i am over weight. i just had umbilical surgery 6week
call your doctor or go to er today. may be due to clots(after surgery) scarring venous stasis increased abdominal pressure. ( abdominal htn). elevate feet do not wear tight socks. may need diuretic to remove fluid would also check ef and heart echocardiogram. check bp. f/u w/doc er today
bile reflux 7 months post nissen still think i may be refluxing at night and possibly during day. if i am what medications in a. m. and p. m. should i discuss with my physician. a little upset as i had this surgery to alleviate reflux. ?
be either recurrent acid reflux or alkaline reflux or even something else. treatment would depend on accurate diagnosis. you should discuss this with your gi specialist or your surgeon. but you should know that fundoplication is not always successful in relieving symptoms.
bile reflux 7 months post nissen still think i may be refluxing at night and possibly during day. if i am what medications in a. m. and p. m. should i discuss with my physician. a little upset as i had this surgery to alleviate reflux. ?
could be. or it could be due to other issues. an upper gi( x-ray) should help any reflux if still there.
bloated stomach gaining belly fat no weight gain stomach feels constantly tight flutter feeling twitching and pulsing. what could be the cause?
these could potentially be irritable bowel symptoms but this diagnosis cannot be made without a further workup is completed first so i encourage you to get this checked out in person to make sure no other cause.
check one day the weight is less and then check the next day its a kg or a bit more why is that and its sometime different in different times of d day?
your weight will fluctuate throughout the day based on a number of things: the amount of water in your body (blood volume food water in your stomach and intestines fluid in your tissues urine in your bladder) solid waste in your body (stool in your intestines food in your stomach) as well as fluctuations in your body fat and other food stores. small changes are not concerning.
can a groin injury add fat to the inner thighs? after having a groin injury i've noticed that i have more fat in that area
you may be interpreting swollen tissue as fatty tissue? when trauma or injury occurs inflammation develops. and one of the inflammatory processes is the production of fluid in and around the injured tissues. this extra fluid expands tissues; the tissue feels softer more fleshy. while not exactly the same consistency as fat it is similar. allow to heal (don't over exert) have patience<positive_smiley>
could hiatal hernia cause trouble breathing when lying flat on back? my husband's heart is healthy-went to cardiologist but dr had no idea why
hiatal hernia can cause esophageal reflux worsens with lying on back which can feel like burning chest pain and difficulty catching breath.
can eating unhealthy (junk food) every day cause vomiting dizziness tiredness and headaches? is this my body warning me?
has a lot of additives preservatives transfats and sugar in the various products. thus you can get symptoms such as gi distress fluctuating blood sugar etc. talk to your doctor about shifting to a low carb and higher protein diet so you will have energy from good fat rather than from sugar. your cravings will gradually diminish. peace and good health.
doctor asked me for a lipo profile test? what's it for? is it for ectopic beats? also he asked for kidney f which came back normal
i am assuming you mean lipid profile. medical tests are for the most part generated based on your complaints. other factors such as age and gender also influence which tests to order. i am hesitant to say more since you mention ectopic beats and therefore would have to assume that your doctor is trying to find a cause for your physical complaints that would be difficult to know in this forum.
do estrogen levels get back to normal after you get your postpartum periods? curious since i know estrogen is a fat burning hormone.
provided your cycles have returned to what was your normal rhythm prior to pregnancy. there may be some variations fluctuations inconsistencies if you are breast feeding
does blood in stool cause weight loss in 5 year old boy?
blood in stool should be evaluated unless it is scant and follows after a large constipated stool which is likely to give a small tear or fissure. short term weight loss in a 5 year old can occur with acute illness like the flu but if accompanied by blood in the stool it implies some type of colitis and this should be evaluated.
do healthy gut bacteria help body absorb more calories from food or they burn the calories?
gut bacteria do not influence how many calories you absorb or burn. they can influence many other processes in the body. the way to encourage healthy gut bacteria is to eat healthy with an emphasis on vegetables fruits and whole grains.
does nissen fundoplication reduce risk of barrett's? does the surgery have any long term risks?
nissen fundoplication creates loop preventing acid reflux. acid no longer get to esophagus level. this is major cause if barrets - chemical burn with gastric acid for long time- changing epitheluum in junction of esophagus and stomach. succes also depends on patients conpliance with dietary regimen( small servings). long term risk may be some vitamins deficiency ( b12 ) iron
does lpr silent reflux cause sleep apnea eventually? i have lpr and i'm scared of devolving it in the future
usually lpr / gerd are associated obesity. and obesity is also associated with sleep apnea. in fact it is likely that sleep apnea itself lead to lpr and silent reflux. so if you have any symptoms of sleep apnea even independent of lpr you may want to have yourself checked out for sleep apnea.
does air conditioning make you gain a few pounds? i've heard some people gain weight from ac during the summer.
ac can't cause weight gain. some people retain fluids during hot or humid weather. that's a more likely cause of summer weigh gain than ac is.
does fundiplication surgery to fix gerd looses its effectiveness as time goes by. i. e. reflux slowly cones back again.
hello and welcome to healthtap yes the gerd can reoccur. it is recommended to try non-surgical options first. thank you
do the below products have any sideeffects on sperm count and erection? 3g extreme fat burners on 100% gold standard whey orange triad on fish oil
supplements like the ones listed may have a variety of effects and unintended side effects. and there are a great many factors that influence erectile function and spermatogenesis; though that's not a simple answer if you want to go through things in more detail consider an inbox consult with a physician here on healthtap.
egd 2 yrs ago: small hiatal hernia. nexium (esomeprazole) & prilosec no help. more and worse symptoms now. possible strangulation of hernia?
a small hernia does not have the room to twist and cut off its blood supply which is the definition of strangulation. antireflux meds frequently lose efficacy and either the dose has to be increased or switched to another one. a change in symptoms like this usually warrants a follow up egd. consult with your doctor.
estrolgel 0. 06%. one pump/day. can it cause weight gain?
estrogel can be associated with fluid retention and other weight changes.
everytime i eat no matter the portion size is bloats me and always come back up. i also have pains above my belly button what's this? ! i can't eat.
go and check with your dr do certain foods bother you? you may have reflux and need endoscopy. see your pcp.
eating fast food like pizzas burgers kfc etc once in a week or two can make fertility problems? like forming of cysts or something?
while not the most nutritious food to eat fast foods should not increase the risk of fertility problems or uterine cysts. however established fertility issues or uterine disease can be hormonally influenced by some foods including ingredients such as caffeine. living a lifestyle of moderation in all you do including fast foods exercise etc. is the best option to limit bad consequences.
extreme daily upper abdo pressure-centre&to right just below ribs. pressure between shoulder blades. daily nausea and burps. partial nissen fundo may 13?
an effective nissen fundoplication provides a barrier to gastroesophageal reflux but also a barrier to vomiting and effective burping since the lower esophageal sphincter no longer relaxes to let air (or other stomach contents) escape upward from your stomach. the air then accumulates in the stomach resulting in gas and bloating until it can be evacuated into the small bowel.
everytime i stand up i feel lightheaded & everything goes black. i have high cholesterol & i eat alot but i dont nessesarily eat healthy?
could bee low blood pressure when standing. need evaluation for laying/sitting and standing blood pressure. drink plenty of fluids in case of dehydration. so should get evaluation right away as you are close to passing out.
extreme upper abdo/lower chest tightness on empty stomach. slightly eased by eating. upper gi series jan14 showed slight reflux. nissen fundo may13.
your symptoms suggest that you might having an ulcer or gastritis it could a side effect to the surgery that you had some of the side effect of the reflux surgery of course are bloating delayed gastric emptying that could lead to ulcer or gastritis i am assuming you had your motility study and esophageal ph and gastric emptying study before your surgery you need to see your gi doctor
everything i eat (healthy or unhealthy) makes my intestines go bonkers. sounds like i'm about to have diarrhea but i don't. is this bacterial related?
you list crohn's colon cancer mri colonoscopy. i doubt you've had all of these but even one of these would influence the answer. otherwise general info: overactive gut would be irritable bowel. <link> the bowel is overly senstive. food would affect it in less time that it takes to get to bowel.
excess burping occasional chest pain no heartburn. gastroscopy show 1cm sliding hiatial hernia. is laryngopharyngeal reflux likely? or gerd?
given the sliding hernia gerd is a likely cause. did the gi doc not give you any guidance?
even though i am not over weight (121 pounds and 5 ft 1 inch) can overeating irritate my asthma? i am a compulsive overeater.
a full stomach may exert pressure on your chest compressing the already tight airways another mechanism is through acid reflux but you might not suffer from so long you are not overweight moderation is the key frequent small meals better than less frequent big meals and you can gage yourself accordingly but watch out you can easily become overweight if you don't watch your calories
everything i eat = nausea. have hiatal hernia. had diarrhea dehydrated got iv fluids. stomach hurts after eating. took 1000mg tums. still pain. <negative_smiley>?
following a viral intestinal tract infection with nausea vomiting and diarrhea it isn't unusual to develop a type of irritable bowel pattern with cramping and abdominal bloating. post eating abdominal distress may indicate some residual gastritis. avoid harsh roughage caffeine and spicy foods. take mylanta after meals. see your md if significant abdominal discomfort persists.
friend has extreme edena in legs for a month long term anorexia with quick w/g to a normal bmi. no purging. bloods came back okay. what could it be?
and also albumin? if anorexia was long term the sudden improvement in diet might have caused some fluid shifts.
feel like there is a hair ball in my throat for a week now. on an endoscopy they saw a small hiatal hernia. could that be causing this? thyroid? help!
a hiatial hernia can cause reflux and esophageal discomfort so yes. see your gi doc if it persists.
for weight loss is it ok to eat unhealthy and sugary foods but stay under your calorie sugar and fat goals?
if you have less calories in than calories out you will eventually lose weight. the problem with the sugary foods is that it causes wide fluctuations in your insulin which will inhibit weight loss. that's why foods higher in protein and fiber which keeps the blood sugar more even are better choices for weight loss.
further w/u for 20 yo obese female on fluoxetine 40 mg. am respiridol 1. 5 mg hs cogentin (benztropine) 1 mg. with amenorrhea x 9 months?
what the work up has consisted of so far -so it would be hard to make a recommendation. take care.
further w/u for 20 yo obese female on fluoxetine 40 mg. am respiridol 1. 5 mg hs cogentin (benztropine) 1 mg. with amenorrhea x 9 months?
metabolic workup monitoring cholesterol blood sugar prolactin cbc & differential and liver profile & cardiovascular.
further w/u for 20 yo obese female on fluoxetine 40 mg. am respiridol 1. 5 mg hs cogentin (benztropine) 1 mg. with amenorrhea x 9 months?
start with pregnancy test tsh prolactin. if negative pregnancy -- give provera (medroxyprogesterone) 10 mg q d x 10 days and expect a very heavy withdrawal bleed
further w/u for 20 yo obese female on fluoxetine 40 mg. am respiridol 1. 5 mg hs cogentin (benztropine) 1 mg. with amenorrhea x 9 months?
i guess you may have some anxiety and depression for which you are taking fluoxetin resperidol and cogent in as your psychiatrist prescribed but for your obesity and amenorrhea you better consult gyn doctor and get investigated to get proper treatment.
further w/u for 20 yo obese female on fluoxetine 40 mg. am respiridol 1. 5 mg hs cogentin (benztropine) 1 mg. with amenorrhea x 9 months?
you need to have a physical examination (i. e. go see your ob/gyn asap) however risperdal-induced hyperprolactinemia (or pituitary adenoma) would be the most straightforward explanation
further w/u for 20 yo obese female on fluoxetine 40 mg. am respiridol 1. 5 mg hs cogentin (benztropine) 1 mg. with amenorrhea x 9 months?
she has had a negative pregnancy test. (? )
for male<40 with good echo stress in december 2014 tc 181 hdl 41 tri 130 bmi 22. 3 no fam his non smoker acid refluxprob of heart attack?
based on your lipid profile lack of family history for early cad and the fact that you are a non smoker your chances are very low. on top of that you had a relatively recent stress echo that was normal which should further reassure you.
for male<40 with good echo stress in december 2014 tc 181 hdl 41 tri 130 bmi 22. 3 no fam his non smoker acid refluxprob of heart attack?
for heart attack with the info given. any drug use or diabetes?
for 57+ f is hot flush in the body along with some amount of gastritis & weight loss normal in summer? or could there be serious illness?
gastritis and weight loss is not normal at any time. hot flushes is of concern. i doubt there is a serious illness but to be sure you should see your primary doctor for examination and lab studies. hope all goes well.
gnawing left upper/center quad pain that's more constant lately. goes away when eating a meal. had gastric bypass 2 yrs ago?
epigastric and left sided pain can be a marginal ulcer reflux esophagitis a gastro-gastric fistula (which can cause the ulcer too) an ulcer in your gastric remnant and an internal hernia. you should see your surgeon get started on a proton pump inhibitor to see if it helps. other tests to get would be an endoscopy to look at your pouch and if that us neg a ct scan to r/o internal hernia.
globulin nml but is decreasing urinalysis nml and grf remains between 80-97 depending on my diet for 10 years. could low carb diet cause this or what
these values are essentially normal. a low carbohydrate diet should have no influence.
gastric bypass with hiatal hernia repair done wed-off painkillers-vomiting (no nausea) a fecal like material-more coming out then going in-cause?
the cause could be something normal during the post-op healing from a bypass but it could also represent a problem. if you are not able to keep yourself hydrated then you need iv fluids and medical attention. i definitely recommend contacting your bariatric surgeon for further evaluation.
gastric bypass 6 months ago. is 2500 mcg b12/daily too much? will my kidneys jus flush out the excess essentially wasting it?
daily requirement of b12 is less than 3 microg even with gastric by gastric bypass you produce intrinsic and can absorb it in the distal ileum any excess beyond liver storage capacity will be eliminated by the body. vegans also need supplementation. speak to your doctor if you want your b12 levels could be checked.
gastroesophageal reflux occasional difficulty swallowing & heavy chest with short breaths. then came insomnia -early mornings. is this hiatal hernia?
is the insomnia and early morning awakenings coming from sharp earaches by any chance? you will need a good examination by your physician who will decide whether or not an endoscopy or other procedure are merited to find out what's up.
garcina cambogia & 250 mg fluoxetine. recommendation?
25 mg of fluoxetine? that would be an overdose. not sure why you would be taking the garcinia cambogia.
garcina cambogia & 250 mg fluoxetine. recommendation?
prozac (fluoxetine) is one of the brand names for fluoxetine. it is an antidepressant which is often given in doses around 20mg not 250mg. it tends to cause weight gain and garcinia cambogia is used for weight loss so the combination doesn't make much sense. gc does not have strong human data for weight loss beyond placebo effect and may interact with other medicines so i do not recommend it.
hiatial hernia 4 cm. dr. prescribed antiacid 2wks but still upper stomach pain sometimes really bad and nauseas. reasons for concern?
persisitent gerd (gastroesophageal reflux disease) despite medical therapy should prompt a visit to a general surgeon with interest in anti-reflux surgery. consultation and history-taking will focus on how your reflux affects your activities sleeping patterns quality of life etc. upper endoscopy will be part of workup and then the myriad of surgical options may be discussed.
hello ive been feeling on my left abdomen like muscle spasms or fluttering sensa under my belly button on the left side. no pain just it hasn't stop?
it's common for the abdominal muscles to develop spasms. this isn't anything dangerous but it can happen either from being too sedentary or even from excess exercise. i recommend doing some ab crunches and some core exercises. this should help it subside. if it doesn't change after a week contact one of us to discuss in more detail and to figure out the next step.
has acid reflux bin havin trouble swallowing food feels stuck bev's come back up had tests cancer ruled out lost appetite hiatal hernia?
you need to have endoscopy - a tube put down your throat to see if you have a narrowing. see an endoscopist. when they look they can usually fix it too.
had nissen in july of 16. still hear gurgling up after swallowing at night in bed. symptoms during day 0. take zantac only at night (effective enough) or a poi during day as well? is zantac alone effective. i suffer from bile reflux.
bile reflux unfortunately often doesn't respond to standard gerd treatment however it's worth trying ppi's like nexium or prilosec or the h2 blockers like zantac or pepcid. your gastroenterologist may have further advice for you.
had nissen in july of 16. still hear gurgling up after swallowing at night in bed. symptoms during day 0. take zantac only at night (effective enough) or a poi during day as well? is zantac alone effective. i suffer from bile reflux.
i usually recommend more than just zantac for bile acid reflux. other meds such as carafate and cholestyramine can be effective.
help please? how long does it take sorbitol xylitol and aspartame to leave your system?
are types of sugar that don't promote tooth decay. aspartame is a sweet tasting food protein that is used as a sugar substitute. all three are normal food substances and your body metabolizes (burns) them just as it does all other foods. they are not dangerous and don't need to be flushed away. you're ok and don't need to worry about them.
hi i am a mother of 11 children bmi 38 161cm on cpap fluoxetine 20mg daily oa. codeine phos walking on a hilly track i was so sobe? i am worried
you are overweight and already have breathing issues. are you concerned that you were more sob than you would expect? if so see your gp and have a discussion about what happened and the surrounding issues of the symptoms.
hi i am a mother of 11 children bmi 38 161cm on cpap fluoxetine 20mg daily oa. codeine phos walking on a hilly track i was so sobe? i am worried
not clear what your question is - please resubmit.
hi i am a mother of 11 children bmi 38 161cm on cpap fluoxetine 20mg daily oa. codeine phos walking on a hilly track i was so sobe? i am worried
it is difficult to assess such a problem with such minimal information. you could be just out of shape or in real trouble. contact your doc & arrange for an evaluation. if your difficulties have persisted after you rested for a few minutes go in now.
hi i am a mother of 11 children bmi 38 161cm on cpap fluoxetine 20mg daily oa. codeine phos walking on a hilly track i was so sobe? i am worried
i would recommend a pulmonology appointment to better understand the cause. a virtual appointment is available and the record copied for use by your specialist.
hi i've frequent severe acidity problem so did endoscopy doctor said it's small hiatus hernia acidity keep coming back is there any permanent solution?
have hiatal hernias. most are sliding type & appear intermittently requiring no intervention especially when small. however as to your question of a permanent "fix" for gerd there are a number of endoscopic and minimally invasive techniques that bolster the lower esophageal sphincter reflux barrier--but even these can break down over time or become complicated in some people.
anyone diagnosed mastocytosis? how?
cutaneous mastocytosis is confined to the skin and may present with brownish spots that itch or hive when scratched. it can be confirmed by a biopsy of the lesion. systemic masto involves the bone marrow and presents with whole-body symptoms like flushing or anaphylaxis. high tryptase in the blood can be a clue but it must be diagnosed by bone marrow biopsy. see a specialist in masto for info.
are lumps behind the nipples a symptom of gynecomastia or just normal hormone fluctuations?
lumps or masses beneath nipples may be concerning and should be examined by a breast surgeon. gynecomastia is typified by enlargement of the entire breast not only certain nodules beneath the nipples.
are lumps behind the nipples a symptom of gynecomastia or just normal hormone fluctuations?
a mass behind the nipple/areola complexes should be evaluated. this could be gynecomastia or breast cancer.
are lumps behind the nipples a symptom of gynecomastia or just normal hormone fluctuations?
could be either. would have a surgeon incheck it especially if any history of breast cancer in your family.
milky discharge from nipples. is that from my bf sucking?
frequent squeezing of the breasts can stimulate milk secretion. other causes are variety of drugs and xs prolactin secretion from the pituitary gland. advise checking prolactin level. non-milk secretion is normal ductal fluid.
how long after breast reconstruction implants placed after 4 months of tissue expanders does the swelling go completely down?
in most cases swelling after breast reconstruction may persist to some degree for at least three months after surgery and may last for several months. be sure to follow up with your surgeon as fluid collections around the implants may mimic swelling.
how long after breast reconstruction implants placed after 4 months of tissue expanders does the swelling go completely down?
as long as you are not having any complications such as fluid collection delayed healing or infection then the swelling should improve spontaneously but it can take months. check with your surgeon to be sure that you are healing on schedule. it is best to resume all activities and exercise as soon as tolerated to help with your recovery.
can the doctor tell the difference between a breast cyst and a tumor? how?
it is very easy to distinguish being a cyst which is fluid-filled and a tumor which is almost-always solid by performing an ultrasound. alternatively a needle aspiration can be done. this sounds worse then it is--it hurts about as much as having your blood drawn. bottom line: if you find a lump in your breast see your primary care doctor or gynecologist.
can sertraline tablets cause gynecomastia or any other type of breast enlargement in men?
gynecomastia is usually idiopathic (no known cause) associated with normal hormonal fluctuations of puberty and often resolves spontaneously after a few years. known causes can be endogenous (rare hormonal tumors) or exogenous (anabolic steroids).
can it hurt to get a breast cyst drained?
the breast is given a local anesthetic a small needle is inserted and the fluid is aspirated. the fluid is sent to the lab for evaluation. the whole procedure can be performed in the office.
could you tell me what are chances of suspicious lump in mammogram being cancer?
the details are a bit too broad to give you a good answer. often an ultrasound is done for a suspicious lump to further characterize the lump as solid or filled with fluid (cyst). if the lump has very irregular edges and/or associated suspicious calcifications a biopsy may be advised without an ultrasound. this may give you some help in talking about your findings with your doctor.
having bloddy aspirate from a breast cyst tested. can you tell me more about this and what the chances of cancer are from this? i'm 36.
90% of palpable breast lesions are benign; breast cysts are very likely to be benign. it is not unusual that an aspirated cyst will have some blood in it. i assume that the fluid and/or the tissue from the aspirate is being evaluated by the pathology team and they and your surgeon will have a more definitive answer for you.
having bloddy aspirate from a breast cyst tested. can you tell me more about this and what the chances of cancer are from this? i'm 36.
benign processes which develop when a duct becomes obstructed. with rare exception breast cancers grow solid; therefore if a breast lump is fluid-filled no further evaluation is needed. cysts require no rx although when painful aspiration can resolve the cyst. if bloody fluid is found it is common to test this fluid for cancer cells on the very small chance the cyst is cancerous.
could i use prozac (fluoxetine) together with the breast cancer drug tamoxifen?
there may be an interaction between tamoxifen and prozac (fluoxetine). there are other effective medications for depression that should be considered.
can you tell me about fibrocystic breast disease and its causes?
cause is the normal fluctuation of monthly hormones and about 70% of women have it. it is the cystic dilatation of the milk ducts prior to menses after ovulation that produces the cysts and tenderness mostly. goes away usually after menopause if no hormones are taken.
can you get breast abscess from having sucking on your breast?
it is possible. the milk ducts are an open system and bacteria form the skin or mouth can enter the ductal system and cause infection. mostly seen with nipple piercings or ductal ectasia and stasis meaning there is fluid in the milk ducts and the ducts are a little swollen [which is normal]. if nursing continue or pump to get milk out and keep dusts empty.
how to detect lymphedema?
lymphedema occurs when a clear fluid known as lymphatic fluid builds up in the soft tissues of your body usually in an arm or leg. diagnois is best made clinically in at risk patients. for example swelling on the legs and esp. the top of the feet is a classic sign. tests that may be ordered include ultrasound ct scans and mri but they are done to rule other other diagnosis's.
can you tell me what is in the liquid of lymphedema?
the word is derived from the name of the roman deity of fresh water lympha. the lymph is formed when the interstitial fluid (the fluid which lies in the interstices of all body tissues) is collected through lymph capillaries. lymph returns protein and excess interstitial fluid to the circulation. lymph may pick up bacteria cancer cells and bring them to lymph nodes where they are destroyed.
can you tell me what is in the liquid of lymphedema?
lymphedema is a build-up of lymph which is a yellowish to milky fluid thatcomes from your blood. if you took a tube of blood and let it sit the cells would settle to the bottom and a yellow fluid would float to the top called plasma. lymph is very similar to plasma. as blood flows through capillaries that get smaller and smaller lymph is squeezed out into your tissue.
can an ultrasound determine if a lump is cancerous? can a dr look at the results of a breast ultrasound and tell whether a lump is benign or malignant? or can only a biopsy really reveal this diagnosis?
sometimes a breast ultrasound can determine whether a lump is definitely benign. if the lesion is a cyst (an encapsulated fluid collection) then it is definitely benign. some lumps are normal lymph nodes; these have a very unique appearance on ultrasound and can be considered benign. otherwise a solid mass can have an appearance which is suggestive of a benign lesion such as a fibroadenoma; or they can appear suspicious for malignancy. these solid lesions are often biopsied in order to get a definitive tissue-based diagnosis from the pathologist.
can my breast implants leak fluid into my milk?
this is highly unlikely. the implant would first have to rupture then leak and the contents then would have to enter the milk ducts.
can my breast implants leak fluid into my milk?
implants are "walled off" by scar tissue naturally when they are placed. even with rupture this is not likely.
can my breast implants leak fluid into my milk?
the amount of silicone released into breast milk is generally negligible.
can my breast implants leak fluid into my milk?
if saline implants fluid will be resorbed from the pocket without sequelae. if silicone implants new gels are called 'cohesive' because they stick together even when outside the shell. an extensive study of implants by the nih showed no higher levels of silicone in the milk of mothers with implants than in those without.
can my breast implants leak fluid into my milk?
it has been proven to be safe to breast feed after having implants.
can my breast implants leak fluid into my milk?
does not occur.
can my breast implants leak fluid into my milk?
the implant is isolated from the breast tissue whether it is placed under the gland or under the muscle by the capsule. the capsule is simply scar tissue that your body uses to isolate any foreign object- so there is no way any material could get into milk.
can my breast implants leak fluid into my milk?
breast implants do not have a connection to the milk glands or milk ducts. if the implants leak the material would be outside of the glands or ducts.
how long after male breast reduction surgery can i start running again? i run marathons regularly so i try not to take too much time off my usual running schedule. how long do i have to wait after male breast reduction surgery before i can run? .
typically you will be able to resume most routine activities within 1 week. running may be uncomfortable and could lead to swelling or fluid accumulation early on therefore you probably will need to wait about 3-6 weeks especially for long distance running.
how long does the pain after breast enhancement last?
pain is varies from patient to patient. some factors that may influence the postoperative discomfort may include the location of the implant the size of the implant and surgical technique. in general placement under the muscle and larger implants probably hurt more. patients are pretty sore for the first few days but gradually improve. most are feeling fine within 2 to 4 weeks.
how long does the pain after breast enhancement last?
the location of the pocket may influence this as does the technique size of the breast and size of the implant to name a few factors not to mention individual pain tolerance. pain meds are usually utilized for the first few days on a regular basis followed. y intermittently for another week.
how do i tell between breast cancer and cysts in the breast?
but i can. it is very easy to distinguish being a cyst which is fluid-filled and a cancer which is almost-always solid by performing an ultrasound. alternatively a needle aspiration can be done. this sounds worse then it is--it hurts about as much as having your blood drawn. bottom line: if you find a lump in your breast see your primary care doctor or gynecologist.
how can i cure mastitis?
treatment usually requires a 10-14 day course of antibiotics. be sure to take it all even if you feel better before the medication is gone. it is also important to rest get plenty of fluids and nurse frequently. if your baby won't nurse on that side then empty your breast manually.
how can i treat and cure my mastitis?
the mainstays of treatment for mastitis are rest frequent warm compresses increase in fluid intake (at least 8 glasses of water per day) frequent breastfeeding on affected side and completing a course of antibiotic therapy. in addition be vigilant about hand washing prior to nursing. expressing milk frequently on the affected side is extremely important and always complete antibiotic course.
how long should i expect swelling to occur post-breast reduction surgery? i am 2 months post breast reduction surgery and am hesitant to sleep without wearing a sports bra because after trying it without one at one month post-op i swelled significantly o
swelling after surgery or an injury is really just your body bringing in extra supplies and fluid vital for healing. after breast reduction it is the longest lasting of the post-operative changes. having swelling that comes and goes at night or with less compression (not wearing a sports bra) will usually gradually go away over the first 6 months. it is quite different in each patient so it is impossible to know when it will completely stop happening for you. the good news is sooner or later it does stop so don't let it get you down. i also find the breasts get about 30% smaller over the first 6 months as this swelling completely resolves. important points: 1. the swelling is usually completely gone by 6 months after surgery and seems to last longer in breast reduction patients than other types of surgery 2. you do not have to wear compression 2 months after surgery. the swelling you are experiencing now is not harmful and will not change your final result or size 3. the swelling which occurs at night will usually resolve during the day and is not harmful 4. intermittent swelling from 2 -6 months after surgery is common and normal especially with breast reduction surgery 5. it is ok to switch to a non-underwire regular bra at 2 months. if you notice soreness underneath then switch back to a bra you know works for you for another month then try again. i hope this helps. remember there is no such thing as permanent swelling and it is a vital part of the healing process. believe it or not without the swelling we would not heal. -dr. mobley.
i'm really hot should i go to er? i don't have a thermometer but i just had breast augmentation exactly 6 days ago and i went to work again today
flushing after surgery is normal. however fever is not. it might be more cost effective to get you temperature taken that to rush to the er. call your surgeon i am sure you can stop by to get your temperature taken and possibley be seen by the nurse of docto.
i went for mammogram today and while she did this x-ray my breast discharged fluid. is this normal? what is it?
this is very likely normal - breast tissue is glandular and usually can produce secretions.
i went for mammogram today and while she did this x-ray my breast discharged fluid. is this normal? what is it?
likely normal. if you have persistent discharge however you should see your doctor to get evaluated.
is it common to have an ultrasound after spot breast mammogram?
the mammogram finds a "density" the ultrasound is very useful for determining if that density is solid (a tumor) or fluid-filled (a cyst). if solid and suspicious for cancer ultrasound-guided needle biopsy can then be done for definitive diagnosis. in general mammography & ultrasound are complementary to one another.
i know that some women have arm swelling after breast cancer surgery. why?
lymph is the fluid in tissues. after surgical procedure some people have a tendency to develop swelling because lymph nodes are removed - the collection system for lymph. emotionally deep skin is the layer we bury sadness - literally we are weeping inside. it is easier to bury emotions makes this bearable. read my book called meridian medicine available on itunes to learn more.
i had an ultrasound because my mammogram found cysts. what that overtesting?
the mammogram is valuable in detecting things that cannot be felt on exam. if there is a lump or a finding on the mammogram the ultrasound is valuable in determining if the lump is solid or cystic (filled with fluid). the tests work well together. solid and cystic lumps may be managed differently. this is an important distinction to make.
i had a breast augmentation a week ago. i think the left side is sagging down. the doctor says he is unsure. i had a ba a week ago and two days later another procedure to clean out blood clots on the right side. after the 2nd procedure he wrapped me in
there are several issues to consider here. it is very early after surgery and other than the evacuation of the hematoma (blood clots) there are very few indications to operate for at least 3-4 months. you should give this some time and allow for normal setttling of both breast implants. perhaps the right is too high and after some time it may descend down to the level of the left and the right appears higher due to the swelling whereas the left is in a "normal position". the bruising is normal. as the swelling subsides on the right he/she may place you in a series of different garments to help influence the final result. give it some time.
i am 10 days status post breast reduction; and i have noticed symmetry differences is this normal? the right breast is hard/swollen and bruised. the left breast is smaller not very swollen not as hard and certainly not as bruised. i'm concerned the rig
after breast reduction swelling is very common and some degree of bruising is usually present the first week. a size asymmetry can be associated with large reductions or significant prexisting asymmetries. extensive bruising with or without a resolving underlying hematoma could explain the listed symptoms; an ultrasound could determine if there is something that should be drained. final results will take longer but should not be significantly altered with only bruising or minor fluid collection. close follow-up with the surgeon is the best management until the symptoms resolve. don j peterson md.
im 33 & i never had a mammogram done and i recently noticed i have a blackish liquid coming out my breast when i apply pressure. what could that mean?
when evaluating a woman with nipple fluid our first priority is to differentiate secretion from discharge. the former is a physiologic process often emanating from multiple ducts in both breasts &usually elicited; discharge is spontaneous unilateral and often clear-to-bloody. while your situation does not sound worrisome it would be best to see a breast surgeon to sort this out.
im 33 & i never had a mammogram done and i recently noticed i have a blackish liquid coming out my breast when i apply pressure. what could that mean?
this is often cyst fluid but needs to be checked make an appt with your doctor or ob/gyn. often breast cyst discharge is described a "machinery oil". it is most often nothing to worry about but the only way to tell is to make that appointment! don't worry make sure!
is my girlfriend pregnant? she has had her period but being constantly hungry and having mood swings. she doesn't have sore breast or nausea. she had her "period" slightly late. though she said it was heavy. she has also been through a lot of stress late
you are right stress can cause hormone fluctuations and changes in periods as can weight changes (too high or too low of a weight). as she had her period now it is unlikely she is pregnant but if the period is very light she should still consider taking a pregnancy test to be sure as some pregnancies can cause "spotting" or light bleeding. but if it is her normal period then it is obviously very unlikely that she is pregnant.
i know that some women have arm swelling and pain after breast cancer surgery. why does it happen?
if a person has had surgery in the axilla to check for lymph nodes they can be at risk for lymphedema or arm swelling. this surgery disrupts the passage way for fluid to drain from the arm which then causes swelling. thankfully lymphedema from breast surgery is not a profound as it once was since less lymph nodes are removed.
i know that some women have arm swelling and pain after breast cancer surgery. why does it happen?
doing breast cancer surgery the lymph nodes are removed. this causes the lymphatic fluid to back up in the arm.
i had a mastectomy one year ago and now i am noticing swelling and pain in my arm. what could be wrong and what do i do?
swelling now maybe a sign of lymphedema due to the previous surgery blocking efflux of fluid out of your arm( previous lymph node removal or radiation to your armpit and breast). pain now without previous discomfort or burning is unusual therefore you need to be checked out first by the surgeon for infection or recurrence. once cleared - lymphatic massage treatments.
if i got a painful breast lump at the age of 15 could this be breast cancer?
a breast mass at this young age is usually a fluid filled cyst or a noncancerous mass called a fibroadenoma. i recommend seeing a physician or gynecologist for a physical examination.
i've developed a second breast lump in a matter of days. is it likely to be cancer?
i guess my first question is what was the first lump? in general a new lump that appears to develop "overnight" is often a breast cyst a fluid filled lump that develops after a duct becomes blocked. it is almost impossible to distinguish a cyst from a cancer by exam alone; an ultrasound can determine this easily. regardless any new lump in the breast warrants physician evaluation.
is it a problem if i soak through multiple nipple pads per day?
we are assuming that you are lactating and the fluid is milk. if the fluid is brown or bloody please contact your physician for evaluation.
is lymphedema common?
it can occur after surgery which affects the lymph nodes in a arm or leg. it is more common bilaterally in older women. it is seen in overweight inscribe people. movement is important to cause the muscles to move the fluid out of the legs.
is lymphedema common?
with chronic venous insufficiency. in cvi there is failure of the calf-pump system in which the calf doesn't compress the deep veins in the lower leg causing swelling. in lymphedema there is actual failure of the lymphatic vessels to appropriately drain fluid off the system causing pitting edema. in most cases patients sometimes have both.
is breast pain normal during menopause?
in the months/yrs leading up to menopause (the end of menstrual periods) our hormones fluctuate to higher highs and lower lows than they did when we were younger. these surges of estrogen can cause breast fullness and tenderness. seek medical care if pain persists past a few days each month or if pain is one sided. get mammograms as recommended (yearly after age 40).
is breast pain normal during menopause?
during the menopausal transition hormone levels fluctuate--both higher than previously (associated sometimes with breast tenderness) and lower than previously (associated with hot flashes). your physician should do a breast exam and if you are older than 40 ask your doctor about a mammogram.
i have post-mastectomy lymphedema. is there an operation to fix this?
there is no surgery to treat lymphedema. it is caused by your breast surgery that disrupted the lymph vessels which drain fluid from your arm. physical therapists who specialize in lymphedema treatment can improve your symptoms with massage special sleeves that compress your arm and hand and other techniques.
i have post-mastectomy lymphedema. is there an operation to fix this?
there are some thoughts about how to treat post mastectomy lymphedema that need to be updated. lymphatic channels can be mapped using a fluorescent dye. this can identify where lymph channels can be bypassed if you to adjacent veins. axillary scar contracture can be release during post mastectomy reconstruction. my preferred technique is to perform a diep flap lymph node transfer at the same time.
is lymphedema considered reversible?
movement exercise of the legs and compression can help remove the fluid from the legs. if the skin and underlying tissue is not sclerotic i have found oral enzymes such as bromelain helpful in reducing lymphedema if used chronically.
is there a genetic test to see how long someone will survive with breast cancer?
many factors influence how long someone with breast cancer will survive but there is no genetic test that can predict this.
if i have a mastectomy could that mean i won't need other treatment after surgery?
a mastectomy might reduce the need for radiation treatment but if the cancer is very close to the edges of the removed breast or if there are many lymph nodes involved with cancer then radiation would still be recommended. the decision to use chemotherapy or hormonal therapy after mastectomy is strongly influenced by the type of breast cancer so can be complicated.
is it possible for a 50 year old to get a facelift & breast lift and look again like 30?
the aim of surgery is to make you the best you can be. the clock can be turned back however a breast lift can only be done with some scarring. many factors that are out of your surgeons control influence your results. good genes are a must no smoking eat well and maintain a stable weight avoid excess weight and exercise regularly.
i had lymph nodes taken out after i had breast cancer in my left breast. why can't my blood pressure be taken on that side?
sometimes after surgery it's harder for lymph fluid to drain out of your arm. if the fluid builds up your arm swells ["lymphedema"]. measuring blood pressure on your right arm can help prevent this swelling. here's to your healing! other ways to prevent lymphedema can be found here: <link>
i had lymph nodes taken out after i had breast cancer in my left breast. why can't my blood pressure be taken on that side?
the risk of clinically significant lymphedema after full axillary node dissection is 20-25%. with the more common sentinel node biopsy procedure less surgery and fewer nodes removed = significantly less risk but not 0. nodal surgery and scarring may affect lymph channels draining fluid from the arm. the bp cuff increases pressure in the lymph channels causing stress to the system increasing le risk.
i had lymph nodes taken out after i had breast cancer in my left breast. why can't my blood pressure be taken on that side?
you are at increased chance of developing lymphedema ( arm swelling since your lymphatics are not draining well). taking blood pressure increases the pressure in adjacent vessels that can cause fluid built up in tissue. take good care of your skin to avoid infections. avoid getting iv or injections in that arm as well.
i had lymph nodes taken out after i had breast cancer in my left breast. why can't my blood pressure be taken on that side?
image the lymph system as a lacy network of canals that help drain fluid out of the arm. lymph node biopsy interferes with the drainage system. anything that causes swelling in your arm including 'back pressure' of a blood pressure cuff can cause swelling in the lymph system in the armpit- and increase chance of chronic-permanent swelling in entire arm. doesn't always happen but it is possible.
is there a generally recommended age for a post menopausal woman with no family history of breast cancer to stop hrt?
there is no recommended age. the american colllege of ob-gyn recommends using hrt as short of a time as needed to control symptoms. this will be different for every woman. a recent study came out showing that the average length if time from menopause onset to the end of hot flushes is about 10 years but again there is much variance between people.
i am having breast pain a lot im not pregnant or on my period?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
i have been having breast pain i have been having breast pain on and off for the last month or so
you need to have a complete physical examination to determine the cause of your breast pain. if you are of the age that you need mammograms then please be sure that your mammograms are up to date. if there is any chance you could be pregnant then please take a pregnancy test to be sure as pregnancy causes breast tenderness. hormone fluctuations caused by stress on the body can cause breast tenderness but you need a complete medical evaluation for your ongoing symptoms. if you have any breast redness lumps or fever then you must be seen immediately.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
combination surgical procedures are done regularly. however it is best to evaluate each patient on an individualized basis. during this consultation process after a complete history and physical the safety of combining these surgical procedures becomes of paramount importance. best to achieve long-term stable weight prior to proceeding with surgery; make sure you have realistic expectations.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
as long as your healthy this combination of procedures is frequently performed.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
by losing weight you'll lose some breast volume. if you have large breast despite a normal weight then yes breast reduction will help you. tummy tuck may have some effect on your back but you need to tone your rectus muscles to help your back.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
insurances may cover some breast reductions if specific size and symptoms are present (check with your provider); i have not heard of any insurance that would cover a tummy tuck for back pain.
is it possible to get a breast reduction and tummy tuck to reduce back pain? my back kills me most of the time mainly my lower my weight has fluctuated a bit. i was 160 in high school and when i graduated and by the time i was 20 i was 211 pounds. whe
to give a very qualified answer: if your back pain is related to having large breasts and extra weight then breast reduction and abdominoplasty can help. if it is not related then it will not help. that said it sounds like you have been doing many of the "right" things to try to manage your weight. even with weight loss though you'll never be a "b" cup! many women with large breast have upper back and shoulder pain often associated with large bras that pull the shoulders forward under the weight of the breasts. find a reputable plastic surgeon to evaluate you and see if this type of surgery may help. then get a second (and maybe third! ) opinion. this is not something to undertake lightly. also back pain is frequently associated with smoking. if you are a smoker i would recommend quitting.
i have body aches headache and my right breast hurts a lot especially when breadt feeding. what could it be?
this could be a mastitis or infection in your breast and it may require antibiotics. other possibilities are a cold or flu associated with breast congestion. see your ob/gyn or pcp to examine your breast or at least a breasfeeding specialist.
i have a boob job. what will happen in 30 years?
breast implants are designed to last a long time but like all man made devices they are not perfect. depending on their size the quality of your skin & tissues fluctuations in your weight and other factors like pregnancy & breastfeeding they may require some "touching up" after that many years. other problems like capsular contracture or rupture may also require them to be replaced.
i am a single mom. i felt a big mass in my breast. i got a mammogram done which showed a cyst. i wanted it drained for cancer cell evaluation? should i go for it?
a surgical or radiology directed procedure cures neither the tendency to form cysts or the scared feeling that causes the question. giving reasons will not allay your concern. age family history medication physical finding and other history could influence but cyst spiration and cytology each time you get a cyst is wasteful use of resources. you need help but not cytology.
i am a single mom. i felt a big mass in my breast. i got a mammogram done which showed a cyst. i wanted it drained for cancer cell evaluation? should i go for it?
not for cancer evaluation. breast cysts are benign fluid-filled lumps that can appear "overnight" and when large can cause quite a bit of pain. while it is not necessary to biopsy these many women prefer to have these aspirated due to the pain that they can cause. ironically we do not routinely send this fluid for evaluation (unless bloody) since they are by definition benign.
i am a single mom. i felt a big mass in my breast. i got a mammogram done which showed a cyst. i wanted it drained for cancer cell evaluation? should i go for it?
it is likely a good idea to have the cyst drained and fluid examined by a pathologist. since the question alone does not provide sufficient information you should follow the advice of your doctor.
i have just a little nipple discharge when squeezed. could it be dangerous?
what color is the discharge. bloody or rust colored nipple discharge could represent cancer. the nipple can leak fluid of many different colors and could be benign. see your doctor!
i have just a little nipple discharge when squeezed. could it be dangerous?
it is normal for a woman to be able to express small quantities of clear or white fluid from the breast. that would be normal. a discolored or bloody discharge should be evaluated by your physician.
i had dreams that more lumps developed in my breasts. what should i do? mammogram?
dreams can be disturbing on a number of levels but they are just dreams and do not influence reality. if you feel new lumps you should see your doctor. if not hope for better dreams!
im 31. changes n period severe breast tenderness hot flashes/really cold fatigue headaches what could cause this? mom is post menapausal at 47
your symptoms are nonspecific to a particular condition. start with the basics : sleep nutrition and stress management. hot flushes may result from hypoglycemia and low thyroid (hypothyroidism). fatigue may be from both of these and poor sleeping (time and quality). see a caregiver who is willing to tackle the whole patient and not someone who will only test your hormones. good luck!
i was diaganosed with invasive in situ breast cancer. what is the in situ about?
it is not uncommon to have in situ cancer next to invasive breast cancer. we stage the cancer based upon the size of the invasive component. however the extent of in situ disease may impact our ability to do a lumpectomy vs. mastectomy and may influence the type of radiation therapy that can be offered. i suggest you meet with your surgeon to review these details.
is it hard or impossible for a woman to breastfeed her child if she had a breast implant or breast reduction?
any type of surgery on the breasts may influence a woman's ability to breast-feed; each procedure performed has its own potential risk associated with it. therefore this answer will differ depending on exactly what procedure is performed. for example certain techniques of breast reduction surgery may altogether eliminate a patient's ability to breast-feed whereas most techniques used do not.
if my period causes my breasts to swell and become sore am i still a candidate for breast augmentation? my breasts are weird. every month they are able to swell an entire cup size right before my period. would this make me a bad candidate for breast aug
it is completely normal to experience breast swelling and soreness with your period. some women may fluctuate an entire cup size as well. as long as you are committed to the size of the implant you choose you should have a great outcome. be certain to try on the implants several times before surgery. it would be best to do this at various times of the month to be sure.
is there any successful treatment for life long lymphedema in the legs?
serial compression wraps to the legs are an effective way to push the fluid slowly out of the legs in cases of lymphedema. this can be a slow process and wearing the wraps 24 hrs a day can be difficult to tolerate.
is there any successful treatment for life long lymphedema in the legs?
complex decongestive therapy - at home use a old sock filled with popcorn foam - package foam tie the end of sock use one on top of leg another one in calf area and use ace wrap to keep this in place - will help breakdown fluid and improve edema.
is surgery necessary ever if a fibrocystic breast disease?
our methods for imaging the breast (digital mammogram ultrasound mri) have improved greatly. we can distinguish a fluid filled cyst from a solid mass. if a solid mass needs to be biopsies then a core needle biopsy can be done to provide a diagnosis. if there is a fluid filled cyst that is painful a needle aspiration is done. surgery should not be the first option.
if you have breast implants and start taking birth control will your breast get bigger from fluid?
breasts may respond to the use of oral contraceptives by increasing in size; this increase in size is related to tissue response to hormones ( estrogen) not necessarily accumulation of fluid.
if you have breast implants and start taking birth control will your breast get bigger from fluid?
if your breasts increase in size it's not due to increases in fluid.
if you have breast implants and start taking birth control will your breast get bigger from fluid?
birth control pills will not cause any breasts to enlarge whether or not you have implants.
if you have breast implants and start taking birth control will your breast get bigger from fluid?
yes it is possible for your breasts to become significantly larger when taking oral contgraceptives after breast implant surgery. while part of this may be due to edema (fluid) other components of the breast such as the gland or fat may also contribute to the overall size increase and willbe a function of your specific sensitivity to estrogen breast receptors and the estrogen content of bcp.
if you have a family history of breast cancer can you still avoid it?
1st-a family history does not mean its a predetermined fact for you but influences risk. options include 1)increased screening incl. bmri 2)chemo prevention such as tamoxifen/raloxifene which reduce the risk of er+ tumors by 40-50% 3)prophylactic ic surgery which is usually reserved for known brcamutation carriers where the lifetime risk may approach 70-90%.
is fibrocystic disease more common in case of breast implants?
fibrocystic breast disease is not influenced one way or the other by the presence of breast implants.
is there an otc breast enlargment supplement?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
is it normal to not feel breast tenderness before your period?
how mobile or active the sperm is swimming in the seminal fluid.
i had a port with herceptin (trastuzumab) that leaked. what damage did that do?
herceptin (trastuzumab) is a biologic therapy which is not really chemotherapy. it is formulated to be safe inside your veins and tissues so the only side effect of it leaking out of your port is some extra fluid in the skin and tissues around your port. your body will absorb this easily so no harm done!
i had a hysterectomy 5 years ago and my breast hurt very bad?
i would need more information depending on your age and associated history and physical the diagnosis may be dinner. it can be as simple as hormone fluctuations or as serious as breast cancer. please see your doctor if your symptoms do not improve.
i had a baby about 4 weeks ago i am breastfeeding him. in the last 3 weeks i've had mastitis 2 times. what are ways to prevent it?
increase the frequency and duration of your baby's feedings. also if you can avoid lying on your breast or sleeping on your stomach as this restricts flow to through the milk ducts. drink plenty of fluids rest and see your doctor for help if you experience more feeding problems.
i get breast pain the 2 weeks before my period worse pain in the right one plus it itches sometimes. does that mean breast cancer?
the menstrual period represents the effect of hormone activity and changes on the uterus. thus two weeks before period when estrogen secretion is highest and before progesterone appears the hormone has effects on many tissues including breast. at that point maximum secretion of fluid and dilatation of milk ducts occur to cause your symptoms. no ca involved.
i had breast cancer a year ago and had a right mastecnomy. now they have found pleural nodules in right and left lower lobes 5mm 4 8mm 2 4mm 4. 5mm should i be worried about lung cancer.?
quite tiny this appears ominous. it would help to know the facts at dx: tumor size nodal status; er pr her-2-neu status. these would influence probabilities. some treatment particularly taxanes can cause pulmonary findings. go over this with you team primarily medical oncologist.
i get very random sharp pains right under my left breast that seem to pop when i breath in deep and push out hard. this can happen even when i'm sitting down not doing any physical labor. should i be worried its something serious?
given your age it is unlikely to be something other then benign musculoskeletal issues however you might benefit from a quick exam just to make sure. if you have a family doctor who sees you for routine exams it could be mentioned during one of these. if things change worsen then doing it sooner would be advised. other factors could influence urgency too.
i have breast cancer tumor. went from 3cm to 5 cm after biopsy but stable since. if outer part is liquid can it be drained by needle prior to surgery?
the size of the tumor does not include any bleeding from the biopsy. therefore if it was 3 cm before the biopsy (&the biopsy was recent) the tumor is still 3cm. you need not worry about this fluid and may proceed with your definitive surgery. i hope all goes well.
i have a squishy lump in my breast. ultrasound showed normal breast tissue. i am also pregnant. should i still be worried?
under the i nfluence of hormones especially female horm. produced in more quantity cause enlargement of breast tissue called hypertrophy and as such the breasts become big in size. also if ultrasound is okay no need to worry. your obstertrician also will be doing breast exam -brief when you go for antenatal visits. if there is any undue pain redness lymphnodes in underarm need to be concerned.
is it normal for my breast tenderness and swelling to fluctuate during early pregnancy?
the hormonal changes of pregnancy are massive and can cause unpredictable effects on the individual woman. fluctuating breast tenderness and water retention are certainly anticipated in early pregnancy and beyond. take folic acid 1-5 mg daily and best of luck!
i had a lumpectomy. what are the symptoms of seroma?
a seroma is a fluid collection that (always) develops in open cavities after surgery. in time your body will replace this fluid with scar tissue. rarely the fluid will persist and require needle aspiration sometimes repeatedly. after a lumpectomy a seroma will feel like a persistent breast lump. if this persists months later and is causing discomfort aspiration is indicated.
is having breathing problems while on herceptin (trastuzumab) due to breast cancer a normal side effect?
breathing problem is not a normal side effect from herceptin (trastuzumab). go to see your oncologist as soon as possible. herceptin (trastuzumab) can affect your heart function and shortness of breath can be related to your heart condition. other things like allergic reaction can happen-eventhough not common with herceptin (trastuzumab) also the cancer itself can give you the problem if it's causing fluid accumulation in the lung etc.
i just want to know how pregnancy will effect my lymphedema?
where is your lymphedema? without knowing this i can only speculate but there is increased fluid volume in the body when you are pregnant. if you use compression garment for your arm for instance this may need to be changed to a different size to accommodate if there is an increase.
i just want to know how pregnancy will effect my lymphedema?
pregnancy leads to increased fluid throughout the body and a gravid uterus also puts some pressure on the circulation of lymph [ the proteinaceous fluid that leaks from circulating blood into tissues]. so if your lymphedema is in your legs pregnancy may make it worse. you should consult a specialist and in addition to compression stockings/hose consider a lymphatic pump. good luck.
i have regular attacks of severe right chest and upper back pain. worsen with deep breaths eased temporarily by anti acid. breast cancer history r.
this sounds like reflux. i would seek attention from a gastrointestinal doctor.
i have regular attacks of severe right chest and upper back pain. worsen with deep breaths eased temporarily by anti acid. breast cancer history r.
lots of causes of right sided chest pain and back pain. with antacid relief gastric reflux - where stomach acids move backwards up the esophagus - moves up the list. but this could be pneumonia pleurisy gall bladder liver kidney stone and others. you should get it checked out by your doctor.
i want to have a breast augmentation and i want to know the risks inherent in this treatment?
breast augmentation complications can be classified into early land late complications: early: 1) bleeding 2) infection 3) seroma (fluid accumulation around implant) 4) implant exposure 5) pneumothorax (lung collapse) very rare. late: 1) capsular contracture 2) implant malposition 3) implant rupture 4) alterered nipple sensation 5) inability to breast feed.
i am on zoladex (goserelin) treatment for breast cancer. i suffer from severe hot flushes swollen ankles and pain in joints. is it normal?
yes these symptoms are often observed as side effects alone or in combination with zoladex (goserelin). as always it is wise to notify your oncologist so he can monitor your progress and consider these potential side effects in the context of your entire treatment protocol.
i am on zoladex (goserelin) treatment for breast cancer. i suffer from severe hot flushes swollen ankles and pain in joints. is it normal?
zoladex (goserelin) can cause hot flashes but not painful ankles or swelling of feet. you nee dto inform your doctor and ask for help with your symptoms.
is it true that breast lift can be reversed overtime?
a breast lift can lose its shape with time. things that cause the breasts to sag are pregnancies breast feeding and weight fluctuations. that is why you should wait until you are done with kids to have one. maintain your weight stable and always wear a good supporting bra to get the most out of your lift.
i had mastectomy in feb and had spacers removed and implants placed dec 5th now i am retaining fluid in both breast?
after having breast implant surgery fluid can build up around your implant. this is known as a seroma and is fairly common. in severe cases further procedures may be needed to drain away the fluid. however seromas usually resolve without needing to be drained.
i had mastectomy in feb and had spacers removed and implants placed dec 5th now i am retaining fluid in both breast?
if you feel there are abnormal fluid collections around the implants be sure to see your plastic surgeon. these may need to be drained but if they are not infected usually will resolve on their own.
if one of my saline breast implants popped could it cause my period to not start?
a leaking implant should not influence your menstrual cycle.
i have had a dull ache off and on in my left breast near my armpit but i don't feel any lumps. any idea what could cause this?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
i have had a dull ache off and on in my left breast near my armpit but i don't feel any lumps. any idea what could cause this?
sometimes our beast tissue can swell & get sore due to hormone fluctuations without there being a lump. if you're concerned please call your doc.
i wear compression socks for lymphedema. i stand for 8 hours per day. my leg hurts. what can i use to help prevent the hurt?
you can see if there is a lymphedema clinic someplace near you. they deal with all of the issues involved with it. sometimes getting regular massages can help. also they do make nighttime compression sleeves that can 'milk' or massage the fluid out better. finally can you have you job modified or even get a new one that does not involve standing so much?
i got a pain on my left breast since a month. it's really painful. i am worried if its a breast cancer.
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain.
i did breast implant operation one year ago but they are still have hard touch will they be smoth in future?
breast augmentation is healed at one year. best to follow up with your plastic surgeon. some implants are firmer than others and of course the amount of breast tissue available before surgery can influence breast softness. if they were softer at three months and have become hard you may have capsular contrature - tightening of the capsule around the implants. this can be treated.
i did breast augmentation one year ago they are away from each other is there a special bra that help to makr them closer or i need to redone?
at this point and strapping or special bras that could of influenced breast shape or implant position after a aug is done. if you have implant meal position then hopefully a simple surgery will correct it for you.
i had reconstructive surgery with silocone breast implants 20 years ago. should they be replaced?
you had your implants with the older generation of implants which had a more fluid gel in them. when they rupture it is difficult to remove them because the gel sticks everywhere. it is preferable to replace them before they rupture and get new generation of silicone implants with more cohesive gel. surgery would be much easier. remember implants are not lifetime devices.
i have constant heart burn & tender sore breast. should i see a doctor?
you have two different issues. : one is your reflux ( gerd) and another is pain may be due to the size of your breast. see gastroenterologist and plastic surgeon for discussion and evaluation.
is the number of people in the us with breast cancer increasing or decreasing?
the numbers are fluctuating between slight decline to flat numbers. overall the numbers have leveled off from rising numbers 10-15 years back.
is it normal to feel a tiny lump after a breast biopsy where they put the metal clip in? biopsy came back benign.
this is the body's normal reaction to the procedure. it is a buildup of fluid and sometimes blood. it may cause tenderness too. this "lump" can last up to 6 weeks but usually less (depends on how big the blood clot). congrats on having a benign biopsy!
i have had sore breasts and nipples for two weeks before my period. is this normal? i have been under tons of stress. period is irregular.
breast tenderness is hormone related and influenced by many other things as well such as caffeine (energy drinks cola coffee and nicotine). tenderness improves with onset of menses in many but vit e can help as well.
i have had right breast pain for 1 month. right breast swollen and under right arm as well. clear fluid slightly discharging. what could it be?
a local diagnosis rather than guess work.
i have breast implants (from2005) and one breast is suddenly much larger. it may be because it got compressed by a tight top and strong onesided hug? they were semmetrical and now one is bigger!
breast swelling that long after your surgery should be investigated by your surgeon. sometimes the scar tissue around it can thicken and make the breast look more swollen or you may have fluid around your implant. in either case your surgeon should examine you and determine the cause.
i have breast implants (from2005) and one breast is suddenly much larger. it may be because it got compressed by a tight top and strong onesided hug? they were semmetrical and now one is bigger!
given your history best to be seen in person by your plastic surgeon. often the cause of the sudden onset of breast asymmetry is fluid accumulation around the breast implant. your plastic surgeon after physical examination and/or imaging ( such as ultrasound) is will be able to provide you with a diagnosis and treatment recommendations.
i am 9 days past my period low open cervix sore breasts vaginal egg white fluid can u ovulate twice in one month? . as i have already ovulated.
you might ovulate twice in one calendar month but not twice in one cycle. sore breasts and mucus can be from other things 'low cervix' doesn't mean anything.
i did fine needle aspiration for cyst in left breast & was fibrocystic changes but after two months the area around this cyst i feel it solid. why?
cysts can refill with fluid or it could be inflammation. you should call your doctor to have it rechecked for complications.
i am six weeks pregnant with sore breasts and nausea pregnancy symptoms dissappeared after having a stomach flu is it normal or am i having a miscarri?
some women will lose their pregnancy symptoms as early as 6 weeks so this may be normal. if you arent bleeding then this would be good. if you start bleeding contact your ob. otherwise you may have to wait until the baby is big enough to hear a heartbeat.
how is breast cancer diagnosed? what are the types of breast lumps?
a breast lump is usually not cancer. lumps can be cysts (fluid pockets) fibroadenomas (benign lumps) normal breast glandular tissue or cancer. sometimes lumps show up on mammograms or ultrasounds but not always. the only way to diagnose a lump as breast cancer is to get a sample usually with a needle. a doctor looks at this carefully under a microscope to diagnose cancer.
how safe is the alloderm procedure? i was advised by a doctor to have alloderm when i consulted him for a breast reconstruction surgery following breast cancer. what are the possible side effects of the procedure?
alloderm is often used to add additional support to the inferior portion of the implant. think of it like a hammock to hold the implant. the side effects are similar to other implant based reconstructions. bleeding infection fluid collections are the most common side effects.
how should i prepare myself for day surgery to remove breast lump?
drink adequate fluids until cutoff time specified to help iv start. take your meds as directed by pre-op staff esp beta blockers and heartburn meds. make last meal easily digestable so will clear stomach. gum counts as liquids during fast. lumpectomy can be done under local with sedation or general. if you follow the instructions given you can relax knowing we will take good care of you.
how can i know if a breast lump is a gland or node or not?
you would need to see your doctor. depending on your age mammogram and/or breast ultrasound may be indicated. breast nodules can be solid like a lymph node or fibroadenoma and some can be cystic or full of fluid.
how do physicians treat lymphedema?
of which work very well: compression garments elevation massage & if those alone don't help sequential compression device that milks fluid towards the heart. various surgeries have had limited success. a radical procedure procedure-sistrunk- removes 50% of the circumference of subcu fat where the excess fluid "lives" in 2 stages.
how is breast cancer transmitted?
breast cancer cells travel through the body via the lymphatic system. the lymphatic system is a series of vessels that drain lymphatic fluid throughout the body. lymph nodes are lima bean sized organs that filter the fluid for foreign particles and cancer cells. a sentinel lymph node is the first lymph node to which a cancer spreads.
how can i tell if a breast lump is cancerous?
mammogram and ultrasound are first steps. majority of lumps are cysts non cancerous glandular tissue or fibrocystic change. mammogram may or may not reveal lump but ultrasound can distinguish a cyst (fluid pocket) from a solid mass. the majority of solid masses especially in a woman less than 40 years old are not cancerous.
is 'flushing' symptom heat felt all over the body suddenly? for mastocytosis?
flushing is the sudden occurrence of redness and heat on the face and upper trunk. when due to mastocytosis it is often accompanied by palpitations low blood pressure dizziness chest pain explosive diarrhea nausea or fatigue. other things such as rosacea medicines and food additives can also start a flushing attack.
i have a very painful breast lump under my nipple. i'm 16 so what could it be?
there could be an abscess pus collection or a cyst or fluid collection or mastitis or an infection of your breast gland get this checked out with your primary file need an ultrasound to determine if you need something to be drained or biopsied. do not ignore this. you may also need antibiotics. good luck.
i can't keep my weight steady i fluctuate 40 pounds up and down does it matter if i get breast implants removed at high or low weight?
generally best to undergo elective breast surgery when you have achieved a long-term stable weight. doing so will potentially increase the safety of the operation and allow you and your plastic surgeon to determine whether any additional surgery (for example breast lifting) will be beneficial at the time of breast implant removal. avoidance of weight fluctuation will eliminate one variable.
i can't keep my weight steady i fluctuate 40 pounds up and down does it matter if i get breast implants removed at high or low weight?
what did your breasts do before implants and weight variations? whereas some women's breasts change dramatically with weight alterations others note little if any change. i would suggest that your breasts will experience similar changes with the implants and this may have implications for breast reduction breast lift or other interventions.
i can't keep my weight steady i fluctuate 40 pounds up and down does it matter if i get breast implants removed at high or low weight?
but i would suggest that you do it at the low weight range.
i can't keep my weight steady i fluctuate 40 pounds up and down does it matter if i get breast implants removed at high or low weight?
will notice breast size fluctuations with that amount of weight change. if you remove them at your lowest weight you will have the best idea of what your breasts will look like at their smallest and most "deflated".
is there a good way to prevent saggy boobs?
breasts change with time weight fluctuations pregnancy sun damage and skin elasticity issues. there's no great way to prevent this. just see a plastic surgeon to fix it when the time is right!
i got breast lift and breast implants 3 years ago d cup. i now notice significant sagging in only 3 years is this typical?
1. quality of your skin 2. size (&weight) of the implant placed 3. type of lift that was done (short-scar lift or full lift) 4. weight fluctuation by you. go back and discuss with your surgeon. see if you can benefit from further skin tightening.
i have pain & swelling in my left armpit. no injury & nothing visible on skin. should i see my breast surgeon or wait until my next f/u appt in sept?
pain and swelling you may have an infection. it could also b reactive breast tissue changing do 2 hormone fluctuations. if its not subsiding i would get seen sooner but it's likely not a cancer due to ur age and the presentation. good luck.
i had a mammogram and ultrasound recently the outcome was negative but dense (cyst) breast. should i be concern?
dense breasts make finding cancer on a mammogram more difficult. this is why ultrasound may be done in addition to mammogram in the setting of dense breasts. you mention cyst which is different then a dense breast. cysts are small collections of fluid and can be seen in both dense and non-dense breasts.
has a doctor ever said you have fibrocystic breast disease? was he just kidding with you?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
how can i avoid infection if lymphedema?
the first step in avoiding infection is to get rid of the fluid. this is called decongestive therapy and includes wearing elastic compression stockings using non-elastic circ-aid garments sequential compression devices lymphatic drainage/massage diet and exercise (as dr. brown said). this improves blood flow to the skin and decreases infection risk. protect your skin as dr. wagner said.
how can i avoid infection if lymphedema?
learn how to do manual lymph drainage - lymphatic fluid does not use the heart as a pump. lymph transport (or drainage) primarily depends upon the contraction of skeletal musclesâ€”thus the importance of exercise. a body which is not moving will begin to stagnate in more ways than one! - begin streching the opposite side from affected side first - stagnation will cause infection.
how long after a breast reduction is it okay to drink again?
patients are able to drink fluids once fully awake after breast reduction surgery. alcohol on the other hand should wait until patients are off of all perioperative medications used for pain control.
if you get a lump aspirated will this tell if you have breast cancer?
the fluid will be sent to be looked at by a pathologist for signs of cancer cells--if there are none and the lump goes away after being aspirated it was likely a benign cyst.
is boron a synthetic estrogen? and is it to be avoided if you have had estrogen positive breast cancer but suffer from osteoporosis?
a cysts is simply a fluid filled structure within the ovary usually from ovulation. there are many different types of cysts most being benign. most will come and go on their own;however a few will grow large and cause symptoms.
im 39 not pregnt. no family history of breast cancer. mammogram in june '13 - normal. now have small amount clear fluid rt. breast only. no pain/lump?
i would recommend an office visit to fully evaluate. it is not too worrisome but should not be occurring.
im 39 not pregnt. no family history of breast cancer. mammogram in june '13 - normal. now have small amount clear fluid rt. breast only. no pain/lump?
any new discharge from the nipple should be evaluated with 'cytology' basically a pap smear of the fluid. please see your hcp for a careful breast exam possible breast ultrasound and further evaluation. don't ignore this.
is it normal for an ultrasound be done immediately after a mammogram if a mass shows up.
it is common to followup a mammogram that shows some sort of mass with an ultrasound to further characterize that mass. a fluid-filled cyst for example has very different potential than a solid mass and this is the kind of info you can get from an ultrasound.
can you get lymphedema from burns?
burns cause a break in the skin which leads to massive fluid losses. unless lymphedema was present before the burn it is unlikely to have occured due to the burn. studies which have looked for an association have failed to find one.
can a person massage the lymphedema out of his arm?
the best treatment for this is manual lymphatic drainage and complete decongestive therapy. this is essentially a massage technique that stimulates the lymphatics and encourages the fluid to move towards the central venous system. combined with compression this massage then controls the swelling. please see a physician with special interest in lymph edema and seek this treatment.
can a person massage the lymphedema out of his arm?
there is also a pneumatic machine that sequentially puts pressure that is pre set to drain the fluid out. it is more effective than the lymphatic massage. our county health department has one for rent either for in home or in office use.
how different does saline feel vs silicone breast implants?
silicone gel implants integrate better with breast tissue and feel more natural and softer. saline implants are filled with salt water and are not as soft. this is more noticeable in patients with thinner tissues. occasionally patients with saline implants also can feel a "slosh" from fluid "movement" within the implant shell; however this is rare.
i notice the weight came on right after i got a breast augmentation. could the augmentation have anything to do with it?
the weight of the implants depending on volume plus the immediate post-op fluid retention as well as the localized edema should account for at least 2+ pounds.
i got a mass in my right breast i made mammogram & dr. told me that it's mass of water coming from stress she removed it by injection. is it sth serious.
cysts in breast are common; they subside with a needle aspiration of the fluid. so keep an eye on this area and be looking for any new lumps when you check your breast which you should do once monthly(right aftewr your menses are over/stopped by 5-6 day of your cycle. any breast mass requires careful evaluation by your doctor.
i need to know what is a healthy weight to have breast enlargment surgery?
there is no exact weight cut off this would vary somewhat surgeon to surgeon. ideally a person would have a bmi (ratio of height to weight) of 25 or less. as important as overall weight is the stability of a person's weight. if your weight is fluctuating or if a person is significantly overweight this makes it more difficult to get predictable long lasting results.
can you tell me what fibrocystic breast changes are?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breasts feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cause the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer.
can someone who has had a mastectomy with lymph node removal end up with unusual itching in the arms?
this may be a sign of lymphedema which can sometimes result from lymph node removal especially if you had radiation of the armpit area. a compression garment which gently squeezes the fluid out of your arm might help. these are custom made see your oncologist or surgeon to get started.
how much do your breasts hurt while pregnant?
i t is normal for breasts to grow in size and are tender to touch how tender these are depends from person to person. the pain or discomfort is due to increase in size increase vascularity and fluctuating hormones it is not that much pain but tenderness which is felt on touch and clothes so war a supporting bra and do not unneccessary touch or press the breasts and let your patner know that.
how can a ultrasound miss breast cancer?
mammogram is the gold standard for breast cancer screening ultrasonds are used to differenciate solid/fluid filled cysts and serve that purpose. ultrasond can miss cancers more often. mammogams can also miss some early cancers and has well recognised limitations. so ultrasond and magnetic resonance imaging is used along with mammograms in high risk patients.
how can i get rid of hardened fluid in pocket where gynecomastia was removed surgically?
best to see your surgeon to see your options. do you know if it is a fluid collection hematoma bruising or is it healing firm scar tissue? how long ago was your surgery? your surgeon could aspirate fluid with a needle if indicated. if it is a hematoma or scarring it will resolve with time.
how can i get rid of hardened fluid in pocket where gynecomastia was removed surgically?
you need to be examined by your gynecomastia surgeon.
how can i get rid of hardened fluid in pocket where gynecomastia was removed surgically?
needle fluid aspiration.
how do you take care of a blocked duct for a brest feeding mother?
it usually occurs in moms that have a lot of milk. have the baby nurse at least every 2 hours apply moist heat dont lie on your breast sleep on your back wear a support bra. drink plenty of fluids. as long as the milk keeps flowing chances are it will not become infected. if you develop fever the area becomes more painful or red call your doctor.
i was wondering what are the side effects of having a mastectomy?
the chest wall numbness is a common long term side effect. most patients in time get used to it. pain in the side of the chest under the arm and also in the upper arm along with unusual sensation like numbness or burning are also common. the scarring varries from one patient to another. often there is more protrusion of the fatty tissue below the arm pit. fluid collection may occur afte suegery.
i have no family history of breast cancer. im 19 i can feel a lump in my breast but i've had it for so long. no pain. please help. i have pcos.
most breast lumps in someone of your age are not malignant. many are fluid containing cysts and are easily cured by fluid removal but. to be sure you need an exam and possibly some form of imaging.
can capsular contracture after breast reconstruction be fixed without more surgery? i'm worried about this possible side effect of breast reconstruction. my procedure will be two stages so between that and my original mastectomy three surgeries is plent
thei first goal is to prevent capsular contracture this is done by making sure the breast pockets are free of blood and infection. placing the expanders and subsequent implants under the muscle helps to reduce capsular contracture. early evaluation suggest that the use of accular dermal matrix may help reduce capsular contracture. appropriate drainage will help divert blood and other fluids that can lead to inflammation. i personally believe that early massage with a castor oil based serum is very helpful in maintaining soft pockets. this massage should be done for 4-6 weeks after each surgery. once a capsular contracture occurs it may successfully be managed early with massage castor oil based serum and the use of an asthma medicine such as singular or accolate (zafirlukast). surgery may be required in those patients who do not respond to non-invasive measures.
can i take breast enlargment pills while on seasonique?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
can you have sore enlarged breasts and not be pregnant or gaining weight?
hormonal changes cause an increase in the glandular portions of the breast with fluid retention.
can the pill cause breast enhancement?
most birth control pills are synthetic female hormones estrogen and progesterone like the female body makes in a normal menstrual cycle. just like during a menstrual cycle breasts can fluctuate in size with changing hormone levels but the result is not as predictable or sustained as with an augmentation. also keep in mind the increased risk of blood clots with birth control pill use?
how does one decide which type of breast augmentation is best?
breast augmentation is commonly done with implants (saline or gel). depending on the desired outcome may influence the type of implant you choose. the shape of your chest and size of your breasts in relationship to your torso also are important factors. your surgeon should measure your chest and allow you to try on implants to help you visualize the anticipated size you would be after surgery.
i have lymphedema and my doctors told me it was treatable. where can i go to find more info. on lymphedema?
there are well trained and medically supervised lymphedema therapists who can help. they wrap the area(s) and use machines to pump the fluid. please ask your doctor about this and only do it under medical supervision. peace and good health.
i had a lumpectomy. can i ask what the symptoms of seroma are?
seromas are fairly common after lumpectomy should be distinguished from a hematoma (blood clot). both can present with fullness (and discomfort) in the area of the surgery and drainage although hematomas tend to drain bloody fluid and present earlier than serums. treatment generally includes repeated aspirations in the office until the seroma resolves. if it is red abscess if possible also.
i have a 1 cm breast cyst. i'm in surgery menopause and i take hrt. can hrt get the cyst bigger in few months?
all breast masses regardless of how old you are should be promptly seen and evaluated by a doctor. some can be influenced by hormones others no. you will need to find out what kind of cyst you have.
can you get mastitis even if you aren't lactating?
mastitie in non nursing women is commonly associated with a condition called ductectasia which means dilated milk ducts. the fluid within the ducts can seep thru and cause an inflammatory reaction in the breast tissue causing mastitis. in addition any breast infection can cause mastitis and possible abscess formation. nipple rings are common causes among other causes for causing breast infection.
could a breast lump be caused by a nearby shoulder surgery incision?
breast lumps come from breast tissue or from cyst fluid. there could be scar tissue that causes it from another incision but they would have to be close. best to see a general surgeon to have an exam by a professional.
can jogging affect your breast growth?
breast size is determined mainly by genetics but can also be influenced by other factors including body weight nutritional status pregnancy but not by jogging as long as this is in moderation and with adequate support.
could gynecomastia cause nipple discharge?
nipple discharge in a male is not normal. if its fluid or milky it could be galactorrhea which can be caused by medications hormone imbalances and even tumors. you should definitely go get checked out. seek a plastic surgeon for your gynecomastia after you find out what the cause is first for the discharge.
can florinef (fludrocortisone) cause water retention in the breasts and tender breasts?
i would expect fluid retention to manifest in other areas as opposed to only the breasts but this is certainly possible.
help just had breast augmentation and i have crepitus! does this require medical attention?
when doing a breast augmentation surgery a pocket is made. some air and fluid are in the pocket with the implant. this usually will resolve without an issue. rarely crepitus can be a sign of a pneumothorax. best to contact your plastic surgeon and let him/her know what is going on.
how effective are mammorex breast enlargement pills?
the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
if a woman is flat chested have fluffy inverted nipples can she breastfeed? what caused this besides genetics? women in the family have usual breasts.
despite having small beasts the glandular elements to produce milk should still function normally and allow you to breast-feed. inverted nipples sometimes cause a problem with the infant being able to suckle but breast-feeding is still possible. i would recommend seeing a lactation nurse for some tricks and advice.
could a mammogram cause hormonal fluctuations? is it possible that a mammogram could trigger any kind of hormonal fluctuations? .
no that is not possible.
could a mammogram cause hormonal fluctuations? is it possible that a mammogram could trigger any kind of hormonal fluctuations? .
it is very unlikely that a mammogram will alter hormones or other blood levels.
how can a benign breast tumor be removed?
easily felt tumors can be surgically excised using local or general anesthetic. if too small or too deep to be felt ultrasound or mammogram localization with needle or dye is used to guide removal. some benign "tumors" may be cysts- and are collapsed by sucking out the fluid through a needle and syringe. after removal benign tumors should be confirmed with pathology to rule out cancer.
had a breast ultrasound they said i had tissue then muscle then more tissue said he could understand why it's painful how does this make it painful?
the breast is largely glands and fatty tissue. the glands can sometimes swell (usually due to hormone fluctuations during the cycle) and can cause tenderness. these fibrocystic changes are common and the pain is usually intermittant.
had a pet scan for breast cancer showed fluid on the lung?
pet scan also will have superimposed very high resolution ct scan images will show now need additional test to find out the nature of fluid.
had a pet scan for breast cancer showed fluid on the lung?
you had both a pet scan and a ct scan as they are used together. sometime a small amount of fluid on the lung that is not "hot" on pet scan can be normal. depending on how much fluid and whether or not there tumors notes anywhere else and whether or not the fluid is metabolically active your oncologist may decide to sample the fluid or just watch it. need to discuss your scan with oncologist.
had a pet scan for breast cancer showed fluid on the lung?
fluid between the pleural and visceral lining of the lung. it is usually caused by a fluid inbalance. do you have a bad heart? second most common cause. infection.
hi i did breast implant one year ago but the scar still obvious like i did month ago! my doctor told me that my skin is the reason. what shoud i do?
everyone heals differently and genetics play a role in wound healing and scarring. at one year a scar is considered mature. options include a revision 1540 nm laser treatment and steroid injections with or without 5fu (fluorouracil). it would be helpful to see an image of your scars. treatment depends on their appearance. are the dark raised red and/or itchy? are both sides unsightly or just one?
had a baby 9 months ago been getting severe breast pain in my left breast and armpit i'm leaking white sticky fluid and upper back and chest pain?
recommend talking to your physician.
i had a breast ultrasound and the results say "there is a well defined 4 by 3 by 4 mm nodule with posterior acoustic enhancement but with internal echoes" what does that mean? what's next?
hi! i suspect that the next step will be to try to drain the cyst that appears on the ultrasound. if clear fluid drains from the cyst and does not re-accumulate that may be the end of it! be absolutely certain to follow your doctors recommendations! good luck! dr brown.
i just read on the web that multiple sclerosis can cause lymphadema. neuro says i have ms. could this b y my feet and legs swell. no answers yet?
are loads of comments online regarding many subjects and all sorts of self-styled experts. ms in no way causes lymphedema but some of the drugs used in ms can promote foot swelling. am more concerned about your kidney function and wonder if you actually have lupus or another collagen vascular disease not ms and if so kidney issues could be causing your fluid retention. get second opinion.
i recently had mammagram done. greater than 75% density on may 20 i had planned on having breast implants up from size b to c recomendations pls?
the density of the breast tissue usually is not what influences a woman to have implants. the density of the breasts can impact the ability to detect cancers. depending on where the surgeon plans on placing the implant and what kind is the important things to consider.
i have a 1. 5cm lump in breast ultrasound didn't show anything but sending me to a surgeon? what could it be?
ultrasound and even mammo unless re examined by mri can miss up to 20% of lesions. when a surgeon feels a solitary well defined lump if it is ballotable meaning possible fluid present then an aspiration is performed. if questionable an fna follows. if signs of malignancy present such as skin retraction then an excisional biopsy should be performed in an ambulatory facility.
i went to my doctor for breast pain he said he felt something there i have to get a mammogram it's in both breast change in meds have anything to do?
were changed. also do you have a high caffeine intake? caffeine can cause fluid retention in the breast causing tenderness and can cause cysts get mammogram done and in the meantime decrease caffeine.
i am a trans women and i have montgomery glands around my aerola just wondering if that means i am going through puberty as a woman?
glands of montgomery are sebaceous glands in the areola (of the nipple). the glands make oily secretions (lipoid fluid) to keep the areola and the nipple lubricated and protected.
is it possible for any type of breast cancer for the symptoms get better or do they continue to get worst?
symptoms of breast cancer vary by stage from localized to breast to generalized to body. some symptoms may fluctuate between better and worse over short intervals of days but they generally slowly progress unless treatment is started.
i developed gynecomastia 2 weeks ago from taking saw palmetto after a period of 4 days. how long will it take for my gynecomastia to fully disappear.
most of rapid onset gynecomastia due to accumulated tissue fluid which should be re-absorbed quite quickly after discontinuing saw palmetta. mild permanent enlargement may occur.
can montgomery glands appear after stopping birth control?
montgomery glands also referred to as areolar glands are glands located in the areola area of the nipple. these glands appear on both the areola and on the nipple itself. the number of these glands vary. there can be fewer than five or more than 20 montgomery glands present. these glands are responsible for secreting fluid in order to keep the nipple and areola lubricated.
can there be a relation between coronary artery disease(cad) and a breast cancer?
no direct relation of cancer with cad. there can be a slight increase in cad 10 or more years after radiation therapy associated with breast cancer treatment this is on negative side of radiation therapy however benefits of radiation therapy as part of treatment for breast cancer outweigh risks. so risk of develpoing cad should not influence a patient itno refusing recommended radiation therapy.
can there be any correlation between breast cancer and lung cancer?
both are malignancies can be in anyone both are high incidence smokers more prevalent with lung breast ca can metastasize to lung. lung metastasizes but not commonly to breast. one of the oncologists may respond with some genome influences but i am not aware.
can you tell me if there are breast enhancement pills out there that actually work?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc. i am not aware of any good science.
can you please define lymphedema and what are the potential causes?
lymphedema is cause by poor circulation of lymph which is the protein filled fluid that circulates and bathes cells. usually it is caused from injury by cancer surgery or infection. it can be caused by obesity or pregnancy with the weight of the belly impairing circulation. in these last two cases if or when the weight is removed the lymphedema may resolve.
how does lymphedema usually begin?
lymphedema or swelling caused by an unusual amount of lymphatic fluid in a part of the body results from either too much production of lymph or too slow drainage of it by the body or both. although the most common cause of lyphemdema in the us is surgery and/or radiation it can can be congenital or have no identifiable cause. in the latter case it is usually in the left leg of women over 35.
how does lymphedema usually begin?
lymphedema is due usually to obstruction of the lymph channels that drain this fluid from the extremities. . obstruction has different causes. in america the main cause is surgical procedure in the groin or armpit. in asian countries it is caused more often by parasites (filaria. there is no effective cure once lymphedema occurs. tratment is massage and compression garments.
hi i wana ask about the durg: prozac: did this drug can induce gynecomastia. and how mach in percent. with thanks?
it is not common but prozac (fluoxetine) is associated with gynecomastia.
how can i determine if my breast tumor is cancerous?
ask your doctor to refer to a breast center where an ultrasound can determine if the tumor is a cyst (fluid) or solid tumor. a cyst can be observed if not painful. most (over 95 percent) of tumors in your age group are benign (non cancerous). the breast center physician ( usually a radiologist) can perform a biopsy or determine if the tumor can be observed based on the appearance.
had a ultrasound 11/2012 for some breast pain results were cysts. it is now time for my mamogram since i just had a ultrasound should i wait?
these are completely different imaging techniques and are good for evaluating different types of breast issues. an ultrasound is used to specifically determine is a certain lesion is solid or fluid filled. it doesn't check for calcifications or other suspicious densities that are better seen with mammogram. if it's time for mammogram screening the recent ultrasound isn't a replacement.
i had a breast reduction around a month ago is it normal to have a blood blister looking thing on your scar?
after a breast reduction there can be many things that can affect the healing. sometimes small pockets of blood accumulate and if they are just undr the scar this will make the wound or scar appear if there is a bloob blister. usually this will break the fluid will come out and it will heal in just fine. it is certainly nothing to worry about but if you are concerned call your surgeon.
is a breast cyst that enlarges about every 6 months deadly.
breast cysts are almost always benign and not deadly at all. especially if painful a breast cyst should be aspirated with a needle (usually an office procedure). the fluid can be sent for pathologic analysis but that can be confusing as benign cyst fluid contains cells that can be confused with malignant cells. if cysts continue to recur after aspiration they should be excised.
i have scalp pain in different spots that comes & goes. derma dr gave me fluocinonide & i am also a 10 year breast cancer survivor. pain burns & itchy?
you saw the appropriate specialist a dermatologist for facial burning. it's very hard to diagnose dermatological disorders without seeing you in person. so until you have strong contradictory evidence trust your treating dermatologist and follow her/his treatment advice. good luck!
is it possible cyst in the breast turn into breast cancer? what causes cyst in the breast? is the breast cyst dangerous? thank you
there are many types of cysts. simple cysts rarely if ever are cancer. complex cysts can be more dangerous. if you have a cyst be sure to follow up with your doctor. they may want to do a needle aspiration and sample the fluid. hope this helps!
is it possible cyst in the breast turn into breast cancer? what causes cyst in the breast? is the breast cyst dangerous? thank you
when milk ducts become blocked then fill with fluid and dilate. simple cysts are benign and have no malignant potential.
can you have sore enlarged breasts and not be pregnant? if so what are the other possibilities?
your breasts will respond to hormone stimulation during your menstrual cycle. if you have irregular periods you are more likely to have swelling and tenderness in the breasts. the onset of pregnancy is a large hormone influence on the breasts. the best thing to do is to see your doctor and have all of these possibilities evaluated.
can you please tell me how mastitis and a breast cyst differ?
mastitis is an infection that needs treatment. breast cyst is a fluid filled area commonly seen in fibrocystic breasts/changes.
does a breast lump feel different from a cyst?
whether fluid-filled or solid it is often very difficult to tell if a lump is a tumor or a cyst by examination alone. in contrast an ultrasound will readily distinguish between the two.
halo test today - discharge looked like milk stopped nursing 2 1/2 years ago. is it likely milk or should i be concerned? no family history.
halo test has not been proven. . mammogram is still the standard. milkish nipple discharge with manipulation is normal finding. spontaneous nipple discharge fluid comes out on its own without stimulation massage or aspiration is of concern. if there is any question see a breast specialist.
had ultrasound and mammogram 4 bilteral male breast tenderness had for 6 mths. why do both? are either gynecomastia or cancer possible?
mammogram shows mass or calcium ultrasound helps with fluid-cystic asses.
is it normal to have fluid swooshing around in the top and side portion of my right breast 3days after lumpectomy? i feel my breast is 1/2 cup larger
surgery is common. i do not know how large an area was removed at your surgery too. fluid (seroma) after breast surgery is also common. if there is excess breast enlargement significant breast diffuse bruising or increasing breast redness contact your surgeon right away. and be sure to see your surgeon for an exam soon to be sure you are healing properly.
i have a lump rite at the dark spot on my nipple and i popped it and clear liquid came out? it hurts a lot. should i be worried about breast cancer?
cancer of the breast is detected as a firm lesion on palpation or clustered microca representing dcis on mammogram. a dark spot on the nipple probably represents a small clotted area from the nipple. the latter is the confluence of milk ducts of the breast terminating as the nipple. fluid evaporates every day from the nipple and if clotted and the latter then removed fluid will drain.
i had breast us in aug this year and found out i had fibrosis breast. pls i want to kw if i just develop it under a month or when did i actually hv it?
i assume you meant 'fibrocystic breasts'. this is a benign condition and may be a normal finding. the breast tissue in young women your age is usually dense and contain fluid filled sac (cysts). on exam the breasts feels lumpy or rope like in texture. it may cause breast pain especially prior to the menses. see you doctor if pain or any new area of lump persist after your period or size increase.
i was told my pain in my left breast could be fibroadenoma but that condition is supposed to be painless. and i feel no bump just thickness where pain?
pain in breast almost never associated with a beingn or malignant lesion. the most common cause is usually related to an area of thickness secondary to dilatation of milk ducts. stretching of ducts by fluid causes pain. while fibroadenoma most common cause of hormone stimulation in yourger patient cystic changes most common in mid to late 30's do to hormone effect on milk ducts.
i'm on an antibiotic for mastitis it feels like the pill got stuck. hurts to eat and drink. why is this? been going on for 16 hrs
it's not uncommon for pills to temporarily get hung-up in the throat but it usually goes away after drinking fluid or eating something with bulk but is easy to swallow within an hour or less (well chewed bread). if you are going on 16 hrs that tablet can be causing significant local irritation and needs to be removed. you need to see a physician and get it removed before the inflammation gets worse
my sister-in-law has been diagnosed with lymphedema in her right leg. what can i do to help?
compression with custom support can help reduce the fluid in the leg. it is worth trying oral enzymes which i have found helpful in early cases. bromelain 3-6 capsules 500 mg or mcu in divided doses one hour before or two hours after meals.
my friend who has forth stage breast cancer has fluid around her lungs tumers inside her lungs and is tired. could oxygen therapy help her at all?
oxygen level can be easily tested and so i would do that first. if it is low supplemental oxygen can be quite helpful. if too much fluid she may need to get treatment to remove the excess fluid otherwise oxygen may not get to the lungs to cross to the blood where she needs it.
my friend who has forth stage breast cancer has fluid around her lungs tumers inside her lungs and is tired. could oxygen therapy help her at all?
as dr. bessmer stated it can be checked to see if oxygen is low by use a pulse oximeter (you just place it on the finger at get a reading) it should be in the mid to high 90's. otherwise oxygen bottles or generators can be ordered by your doctor. sometimes the o2 level is good resting but walking it gets real low so it can be tested when walking as well.
my friends say i’m nuts but i really want perkier breasts. am i crazy to consider breast augmentation at 55. i just want them to sit up and take notice.?
what do you want? if your friend's approval is necessary then you may never achieve that. if they are really friends and know how important your decision is to you they will support you. as a plastic surgeon i have always marvelled at how jealousy often influenced the response friends have when they anticipate their friends eventually looking better than they do. run away from those types.
my wife is 10 weeks pregnant and complains constantly of heartburns abdominal pains waist pains sore breast . etc. is it normal?
heartburn is common during pregnancy because of the rapid rise in progesterone level causes some increase reflux. also enlarging uterus can push things up. stretching on the ligaments around the uterus can cause pain in lower abd/pelvic area. her breasts also enlarging/preparing to make milk for feeding after birth so soreness is common. consult doc if she needs treatments. congrats and good luck.
my mom had estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer should i be taking birth control or getting pregnant?
cancer weakly influences your choices. it may be that many cycles of estrogen (fewer pregnancies) correlates with breast cancer but pregnancy and children are comitments that last filled with joy and sometimes pain. er+ provides a route for therapy for mom not a directive to you. we think post menopausal estrogen increases risk but some need it!
can taking birth control pills increase breast size?
yes it is possible for your breasts to become significantly larger when taking oral contgraceptives. while part of this may be due to edema (fluid) other components of the breast such as the gland or fat may also contribute to the overall size increase and willbe a function of your specific sensitivity to estrogen breast receptors and the estrogen content of bcp.
can taking microgestin fe 1/20 birth control pill help with breast growth?
birth control pills progestin +/- estrogen will have no significant influence on breast size.
cyst in breast does that correlate with possibility of a tumor? my mom had breast cancer 1st person in the family to ever have it.
cysts in the breast are fluid balls that are not cancerous. they also do not increase your risk for cancer later. they are from fibrocystic changes (hormonal and glandular) in the breast that occur in some women. if the cyst is large or painful it can be drained otherwise typically nothing is done. your cancer risk is increased because of your mom so you may need to begin mammograms early.
can fibrocystic breast cyst occur in one breast with discharge?
fibrocystic breast changes and symptoms can often be felt more on one side than the other or only on one side. the discharge should be clear or yellowish. you should never see blood as this is definitely abnormal and needs to be checked out. if you feel a lump or think you have a cyst a sonogram should be performed to confirm that it is a fluid lump and nothing solid.
can i breastfeed my baby if i have fibroadenoma?
i answer from personal experience here. i have this type of breast disorder since in my early 20's and successfully breastfed all 4 of my children while attending medical school and during my residency. i had plenty of milk and then some. drink plenty of fluids and eat a well balanced diet!
does starting menstruation sooner increase my chances of getting anything except breast cancer?
decreases ovarian cancer risk [my area is breast and ovarian; don't know about other body types regarding this influence].
does eating salty foods make lymphedema worse?
a high salt diet can cause water retention and may increase lymphedema but the underlying problem is inadequate movement of the legs to cause the fluid ti pool in the legs.
does eating salty foods make lymphedema worse?
excessive salt intake can lead to fluid retention and may make conditions such as lymphedema and venous insufficiency more difficult to control.
does eating salty foods make lymphedema worse?
salty foods may cause fluid retention which is different than lymphedema which is a problem with lymph channels so when you stop eating the salty foods that swelling will improve.
does lasik medication help lymphedema?
i think you mean "lasix" which is a type of water pill or diuretic. these medicines cause you to urinate more and remove water from your body but they do not treat lymphedema. lymphedema is not caused by having too much water in your body. it is caused by faulty or damaged lymph vessels which can't drain the fluid from your arms and legs.
do you think arms sleeves for lymphedema are effective?
arm sleeves are partially effective. they are best at keeping lymphedema from getting worse. gentle lymphatic massage can help move the fluid out of the arm into larger lymph vessels. a physical therapist trained in lymphatic drainage can teach you how to do this on yourself.
do women sometimes gain weight after breast augmentation?
initially you will retain some fluid and swelling from the surgery. once this has subsided you should be close to your original weight unless your diet and exercise patterns change significantly.
does having radiation for my breast cancer make me more likely to get an infection?
radiation to the breast will have little to no effect on the immune system as very little bone marrow is exposed. you have little higher risk of getting the flu or other infection. that said in unusual and rare cases i have seen mastitis which is an infection treated by antibiotics.
describe the features of a breast abscess.?
a breast abscess will typically present as a firm possibly fluctuant mass in the affected breast. the breast will be red hot likely swollen and very tender. most women will run a fever and there may be bloody nipple discharge.
do you need antibiotics if blocked duct that is not pink or tender? is that still mastitis?
you do not usually need antibiotics if you just have a blocked duct. you can use heat and massage on the duct while also having your baby nurse on that side. with mastitis you usually will have fever and chills and feel like you have the flu in addition to having a red and tender area on your breast.
does breast cancer show up in blood tests?
apart from tests for genetic markers breast cancer is usually diagnosed from self exam or mammography where a mass is detected. if it persists throughout the cycle or is in postmenopausal women it should be aspirated. if the fluid is bloody or leaves a residual mass or the original mass is solid a mammogram and excisional biopsy are done.
do you have fibrocystic breast condition or disease?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
doctors does anyone treat fibrocystic breast disease?
these patients can be followed by a breast surgeon or a general surgeon with a large portion of their practice dedicated to breast disease. we perform a history look at your food and medication intake perform breast exam and review breast images. we provide extensive counseling follow up biopsy or aspiration of a fluid filled cyst when necessary.
how does a breast tumor look like?
the word tumor means a growth. there are benign tumors and cancerous tumors. benign breast tumors can be a fluid cyst or a firm solid rounded fibroadenoma. cancerous breast tumors are firm and irregular and look abnormal on mammogram and breast ultrasound.
how does a breast tumor look like in ultrasound?
breast nodule with irregular edges can be a sign of concern. benign cysts are fluid filled with well circumscribed edges. benign fibrocystic nodules are solid with smooth edges.
had breast ultrasound for breast lump and dr said it was a cyst. its been there almost 3 months but getting smaller. could this be cancerous?
benign processes which develop when a duct becomes obstructed. with rare exception breast cancers grow solid; therefore if a breast lump is fluid-filled no further evaluation is needed. cysts require no rx although if it is painful or causing anxiety aspiration can resolve the cyst. if the ultrasound was definitive no follow-up is necessary; if equivocal a 6 month follow-up is advised.
had breast ultrasound for breast lump and dr said it was a cyst. its been there almost 3 months but getting smaller. could this be cancerous?
the only way to find out it being a cancer is to do a biopsy. the cyst is fluid filled and not a solid mass. also it is getting smaller and not big. if you are worried that much then ultra sound guided fluid aspiration can be done and examined for cancer cells and you will have peace of mind when this is negative. thanks.
how many days does it take to get blood culture results of a breast abscess?
ideally the result of a culture would come back in a couple days. in reality the full culture and antibiotic sensitivity may take 5-7 days to come back. blood cultures results may take longer than direct abscess fluid culture from the breast itself too.
had a breast reduction 10-1-13. stomach very bloated. still on norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) tabs. had a bm today. is this normal? how long will bloating last?
following breast surgery there is a tremendous amount of swelling around the breasts. and where does it go? south! gravity causes the flow of edema fluid down into the tissues of the abdominal wall. this also occurs to a lesser extent with breast augmentation. walking and gentle movements of the arms will help decrease the buildup of swelling and minimize this "bloating". should be better soon!
had a breast reduction 10-1-13. stomach very bloated. still on norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) tabs. had a bm today. is this normal? how long will bloating last?
you have several things happening. the narcotics tend to slow the movement of your bowels and can cause some bloating. the second factor is water retention after a major procedure which can take over a week to resolve. usually it is better to keep up your fluid intake and let the body repair itself (about a week).
hi i want to ask which food have to take in 6. 5 uric acid i am breast cancer survivor. thanx?
tart cherry juice is effective; avoid organ meats; fatty meats and alcohol will elevate uric acid. avoid these. also drink at least 3 liters fluid per day - this may enhance uric acid excretion - and if you incline diet successfully to mostly whole grain fruit and veggies and nuts using white fish and egg white for protein then uric acid levels will come down.
is cystic fibrosis and fibrocystic breasts the same thing?
cysts can simply be thought of as fluid filled sacs which can be caused by a myriad of medical conditions. cystic fibrosis is a serious medical condition involving multiple organs and systems including the pancreas in which it causes fibrotic cystic changes hence the name. fibrocystic breast only involves the breasts and is considered a benign condition.
is breast cancer typically painful?
today the majority of breast canceres are defined by mammographic screening. as such there is no clinical evicence of disease and no lesion is palpable. even before mammo when patients were seen with 5-7 cm. lesions there was no associated pain. when patients present with a painful area in the breast it is due to fibrocystic disease where fluid expansion of the duct system results in pain.
i have to schedule a breast ultrasound for a lump i have found. what is the best time to schedule it before or after my period. or does it matter?
as your hormones fluctuate throughout your period you may get cystic changes in your breasts which is normal. if the lump you feel is constant than the time of your cycle will not matter. if the area does come and go or get bigger at different times of your cycle then go when it is most prominent-more to assure it is cystic and most likely benign best wishes.
i had a breast lump 2 month ago on a side of my left breast i checked my dr and he said it's not clear yet but now it's moved to above areola? ?
in young ladies the easiest and safest way to investigate this is with ultrasound. this will tell if it is a cyst filled with fluid or solid. then decision can be made to "cure it".
i am 33 i had a breast injury and had brown drainage. i had sonogram and mamogram done the sonogram showed fld mass. how long does it take to heal?
the cause of brown drainage from the breast is due to bleeding into the duct. excess fluid in the duct always leads to a cyst. if the cystic structure is easily palpable spontaneous resolution can take weeks. rather a simple aspiration could resolve the problem almost immediately
my beast is so sore but i had my period so what's wrong with me?
breasts can be sore with a woman's periods because of hormone fluctuations which may lead to changes in the amount of fluid in breast tissues the amount of blood flow in the breasts the sensitivity of nerve endings in the breasts etc. . if one's breast pains are more than mild especially if persisting after her usual menstrual periods her doctor can check things out.
my prophylactic bilateral mastectomy with immediate reconstruction. with implants has developed severe swelling on left side. could it be fluid?
yes it could be a possible seroma or hematoma. usually drains will help to minimize this but not completely prevent it. it amy require treatment with drainage and/or antibiotics. discuss with your reconstructive surgeon asap.
metastasized breast cancer can cause shortness of breath if to lung?
this is a symptom of lung metastasis. it is often due to the tumor in the lung and/or fluid that builds up around the lung. i recommend you contact your oncology team for evalauation. these symptoms can be managed. best of luck to you in your fight! <positive_smiley>.
my mam has cancer in her spinal fluid i just want to know what the chances of her surviving it is?
cancer if the spinal fluid is usually metastatic but it can be from hollow organs bone marrow or from the brain. usually cancer or lymphoma can be found in csf but brain tumors can also be seen there. without known the type of underlying cancer your mom has it is hard to predict outcome. maybe you would like to reply and describe the specific cancer type.
my left brest has been hurting for 6hours non stop an its getting worse. i've already taken two motrin an it has done nothing.?
fibrocystic disease/changes is the mos common cause of breast pain. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. i recommend contacting your doctor for complete evaluation.
are there important dietary concerns for people with lymphedema?
not much is really in the literature. i tell my patients to limit salt to decrease fluid retention in general. really it's the exercises and massage that will help the most.
are lymphedema pumps effective?
yes they are as they pump the lymphatic fluid out of the extremity at a more rapid pace prevention fluid build up in the extremity all would advise a compression garment stocking for lower extremity or sleeve for upper extremity during daily activity
are there steps i can take to prevent getting fibrocystic breast disease?
you can not control the amount of fibrocystic breast tissue that you develop. you can control to a great extent the symptoms you have from that tissue. it is well known that caffeine will cause the fibrocystic tissue to retain fluid which will increase breast pain and tenderness in many women. it is also well known that vitamin e will minimize that breast tenderness for the majority of women.
after breast reduction operation when is it okay to sleep on my side?
sleeping partially upright will help with the swelling reduction. it is ok to sleep some time on both sides following br after the first week. sleeping on one side often results in more swelling in the "down" side compared to the "up" side. it is better that the breasts have good drainage (gravity) of swelling fluids in the post-op period for the first month or more.
are compression vests effective for gynecomastia?
they help post surgically to prevent fluid accumulation but do nothing to suppress or remodel existing enlarged breast tissues.
are artificial limbs part of the discussion for reconstructive surgery?
if a limb has been lost all options should be considered. many factors influence the decision: for example whether the need is functional or cosmetic. many people who have lost hands or arms use a functional prosthesis (like a hook) for work but then change to a cosmetic prosthesis for social activities. prosthetics are an important option to consider in reconstruction.
can you tell me how i can lose weight and why do i still have gynecomastia?
if your gynecomastia is more due to excess glandular tissue it will have no relationship to your weight and is solely under the influence of hormones or hormone like substances. surgical excision is probably the best option in these cases and it is best done by a plastic surgeon
could a 12 year old get breast cancer?
i agree with my colleagues that this is very rare. she could have a fluid filled cyst or a fibroadenoma which are common noncancerous lumps in young girls. have her see her pediatrician.
could anybody tell me how edema/ lymphedema happens?
lymphedema and to some extent all edema occurs when the the ability of the lymphatics system to resorb fluid is overwhelmed. this occurs when there is an injury or compromise to the lymphatic system. this can occur from infection surgery trauma or cancer leading to scarring of the lymph system. it can also occur from obesity venous insufficiency or heart failure impairing the lymphatic return.
do breast implants expand then shrink when you get on an airplane?
the pressure differential might cause an insignificant change because the implants are fluid surrounded by fluid tissue. but you will probably not notice the difference.
do breast implants expand then shrink when you get on an airplane?
fluids do not expand / contract to the degree that gases do. on the tlc program mythbusters they simulated huge changes in atmospheric pressure and there was no change in implant size.
do breast implants expand then shrink when you get on an airplane?
breast implants are fluid filled or semisolid and do not expand or contract associated with atmospheric change.
do breast enhancement supplements work?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc.
does gas or reflux give a pricking sensation on the breast?
pain originating from your esophagus(food pipe) or from the lining in your lungs or heart may cause knife-like pain in your chest under your breast. if the pain is actually in your breast then this is not from gas but something in the breast itself like an infection like mastitis or an inflammatory mass or if you've had implants in your breast there may be related to healing if soon after.
do breast enlargement pills work?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc. i am not aware of any good science.
does fibroadenoma also cause nipple discharge during pregnancy?
a fibroadenoma is a solid benign mass. it can increase in size or become more sensitive/painful during pregnancy due to the increased hormone exposure. if the fibroadenoma is larger meaning over 2 cm it could be compressing/blocking a nearby duct but the mass itself does not produce fluid and result in nipple discharge.
how to know if the lumps are supposed to go away after a fine needle breast biopsy?
go away if they were cysts and the fna punctured the cyst and removed the fluid. if they were solid lumps fna would not change their size.
how to know if the lumps are supposed to go away after a fine needle breast biopsy?
fine-needle a cyst and it disappears -- it was all fluid and you removed the fluid. cysts and non-cysts will be sent to pathology for preliminary diagnosis that determines whether to excise.
help docs! i'm trying to find out what causes lymphedema and is it due to the lose of lymphnodes?
i suspect you have had axillary lymph node dissection. removal of the lymph nodes in the axilla (armpit) can sometimes result in blockage of the lymph channels and swelling of the upper extremity called lymphedema. any other condition that can cause blockage of the lymph fluid may cause lymphedema such as radiation treatment or tumors of the lymph nodes etc. there are treatments available.
had 2 babies over 40. is that considered high risk for breast cancer? breastfeed both. how much higher of a risk than average woman.
we don't truly understand what "causes" breast cancer outside certain mutations (brca1/2) ; in most cases its a combination of factors - gene switches ; lifetime experiences. many items associated w/ "risk" have been identified such as early menarche late 1st period mammo density. these are not causes but likely surrogates for other influencing factors. #1 risk: being female and having breast.
heard that after giving birth you're risk of breast cancer goes up in the following 10 years. is this true and is it very high risk?
there are factors which can influence breast cancers both ways. some factors can decrease the risk (e. g early age first term pregnancy) and others can increase the risk (e. g later age at first pregnancy). breast feeding age of your first period and more seem to have an effect. we don't know all the influences. we are learning. sometimes i get the feeling the more we learn the less we know.
hello! iam 22 years old woman. i have clear discharge from the nipple when i squeeze my breast. have 2 days before period. should i be worry?
nipple discharge refers to any fluid that seeps out of the nipple. it can occur either spontaneously or when you squeeze your nipples. the discharge may look milky yellow green brown or bloody. there are many causes most of them benign. but…even though nipple discharge in a woman who is not pregnant or breast-feeding isn't necessarily abnormal it should be evaluated by a doctor to be safe.
i have a solid hypoechoic nodule with microcalcifications. could it be cancer?
you don't say where it is but microcalcifications is not a good sign. what you need is a needle biopsy under fluoroscopic guidance to make sure they look closely at that tissue.
my daughter had a lumpectomy last feb. removing about 1/4 of her breast tissue. now her breast has filled in and looks like the other. is this normal?
if a lumpectomy was done for a fibroadenoma this kind of tumor usually squishes the normal breast tissue out of the way. once the fibroadenoma is gone the normal breast tissue fills in the space. if the lumpectomy was done for another reason (biopsy or for breast cancer for example) then the lumpectomy cavity will often fill up with clear serious fluid which is normal--nature's implant.
my right breast has been painful for a week why?
it could be a cyst hormone fluctuations! infection (very low chance if not breast feeding) bra too tight; the list is long. one thing to consider if breast pain is a persistent issue is the birth control pill. in the meantime try aleve (naproxen) 1-2 2 x per day if u can take those don't mix w/ other meds in same class (ibuprfin aspirin; the nsaid class). it should help but it's not gonna be cancer.
my breast cancer was painful at the lump site. do i need to be concerned?
if you have already had a lumpectomy pain at the biopsy site is not uncommon and is usually related to focal scarring or a residual seroma (a pocket of fluid that fills the lumpectomy site. ).
my right breast is leaking a cloudy fluid. it is also considerably larger than my left breast is this normal?
it's normal that one of your breast is bigger than the other but not if you notice a growth. also if you are having some leakage and you arw sure you are not pregnant then it could be some medications also a condition called galactorrhea which is an imbalance of hormones or even contraceptive medications. get checked if that continues! <positive_smiley>.
my grandma has metastatic breast cancer in her ribs & spine she keeps getting these hot flushes. causes?
ask her medical oncologist. some of the treatments she is getting could cause those symptoms. is she having fevers? the medical oncoligist would likely want her to watch for signs of fever infections or check for low white blood cell count (neutropenia).
my grandma has metastatic breast cancer in her ribs & spine she keeps getting these hot flushes. causes?
if her breast cancer type was sensitive to estrogen and/or progesterone the her oncologist likely is treating with antihormonal therapy. this is in the form of a pill taken daily. by blocking the receptors or creation of these hormones you effectively cause symptoms similar to what occurs during menopause when the ovaries greatly decrease their production of estrogen and progesterones.
my breast hurts on and off since my menstrual ended. what can i do?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
my wife had a mammogram over a year ago. had small calcification. now has grown through skin draining smelly fluid. she won't go to dr. what is it?
this sounds serious. maybe you can enlist another family member or close friend to help convince her to see a doctor or go to the emergency room.
my wife had a mammogram over a year ago. had small calcification. now has grown through skin draining smelly fluid. she won't go to dr. what is it?
this cannot be diagnosed via the internet. she must see a physician as soon as possible. it could be something easily treated like an infection but it could also be more serious. the sooner she gets care the more likely it will be diagnosed and treated effectively. please take her to her physician.
my wife had a mammogram over a year ago. had small calcification. now has grown through skin draining smelly fluid. she won't go to dr. what is it?
the calcification draining through the skin. infection or malignancy are possibilities. your wife needs to get examined by a physician.
anti-estrogen medications such as raloxifene. any other options?
some that use evista (raloxifene) note the increase menopausal side effects ie hot flushes evista (raloxifene) possible decrease risk of breast cancer.
about lymphedema thighs only after skin reduction surgery: medical graduated thigh-high stockings don't compress above the knee; they only cling. ?
should compress above the knee as long as the pressure gradient from the great saphenous vein is under compression. usually and typically excess fluid from the thigh is removed with remedial walking exercises and the normal motion of the quadriceps and hamstrings during walking.
at age 25 i developed a large ball in my right breast i couldn't barly walk. a week and a half later i went to get ultradoundi did and the doctor said inflammatory infection. days later it dissapeared. what was it?
this sounds like a fluid filled cyst or fibrocystic changes. this is common and noncancerous. it may happen again and if so get evaluated by a breast specialist. in many cases it can be drained with a small needle.
am taking arimidex (anastrozole) and having terrible hot flushes. is sage tablets safe to take with this?
hot flashes are common with taking this medication. i am not familiar with sage a nd it's indications or side effects. i recommend you contact your oncologist and let him/her know about the symptoms your experiencing. you can be switched to another medication which my have less side effects. effexor (venlafaxine) is a medication we use to help with hot flashes. i am sure your oncologist can help.
am taking arimidex (anastrozole) and having terrible hot flushes. is sage tablets safe to take with this?
but consult with your doctor about femara or tamoxifen. substitution of arimidex by femara or tamoxifen may well do the trick. this is my first recommendation to you. should you and your oncologist decide to keep arimidex there are drugs which combat hot flash e. g. effexor (venlafaxine) gabapentin etc. thank you.
are blood pressure and mastectomy related?
the two have no relation. many people who have had mastectomy may also have lymph nodes removed in the armpit. this may impede the flow of fluid from the arm back to the body. these people are often suggested to avoid trauma finger sticks for blood work and blood pressure cuffs as that can increase the problem and cause lymphedema. that is the only connection.
can they tell if a breast tumor is cancerous on a ultrsound? he said it may be a adenoma. im waiting on a biopsy. whats the likelyhood of cancer?
not tell histology -- what it looks like under the microscope. there are certain imaging findings such as filled with notvery complex fluid that points to benignancy.
do breast enlargement pills actually work? is there any evidence?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc. i am not aware of any good science.
had my "irregular hypoechoic heterogenous 2. 4cm breast lump" biopsied and it turned out to be a benign 'sclerosing adenosis'. what causes these?
sclerosing adenosis (sa) is a benign (non-cancerous) condition of the breast in which extra tissue develops within the breast lobules (the small portions of the glands that can produce milk). in women with sclerosing adenosis multiple small firm tender lumps (called nodules); fibrous tissue; and sometimes small cysts (i. e. sacs filled with fluid or semi-solid material) form in the breast
hysterectomy 4yrs ago nipple discharge lately. dr is sending me for a mammogram&blood work. they told me it will take 2hrs. only ever heard of 10 min?
nipple discharge unrelated to previous hysterectomy. there isalways fluid in the milk due and any serous drainage is of no consequence. evenanoccassional bloody discharge can reflect the presence of a benign intra ductal papilloma. any new change in the breast should have a follow up mammogram since the purpose is to detect the possible presence of early pathologic changes.
help can caffeine affect your breast growth?
caffeine doesn't cause breast growth but can increase fluid filled cysts and breast pain. search breast pain fibrocystic breasts for more details
i have a large lump in my breast it's been there for close to 3 weeks and is only getting worse i've had 3 rounds of antibiotics my skin is peeling.
since antibiotics have not help a mamograghy will reveal whether this is solid or cystic. if cystic it can be drained simply in the office under local anesthesia with fluid sent to pathology. if solid ultrasonically guided biopsy should be performed
is vertigo common in fibrocystic breast disease?
vertigo is a phenomenon of vestibular neuritis or labyrinthitis. an inner ear problem usually related to infection (usually viral). fibrocystic disease represents the effect of hormone activity on the ductal system of the breast causing some terminal duct blockage with backup of fluid to produce cysts in the duct and associated fibrotic changes.
i have pain in the same spot for two years now in my right breast. i have had two mammograms and one ulta sound and was told it was normal. ?
or breast pain may be due to multiple factors: hormonal fluctuations tight fitting or pushup bras inflammation irritation or manipulation just for starters. 2 years is quite a long time and i suggest hormone testing and a second opinion.
im 18. does having 2 white montgomery glands on aerola since 2 months without any inflammation/pain normal? while not being pregnant? is it normal?
montgomery's glands can change color with fluctuating hormone levels even when not pregnant or breast feeding. as long as there is no pain or evidence of infection i wouldn't worry. do go see your doctor for an exam just to be safe.
is fluid leakage common after lumpectomy? my lumpectomy was 3 weeks ago and today a large amount of fluid gushed out of incision.
yes of course the area of the lumpectomy get filled with fluid that the body eventually absorb. in your case it came through the incision. now you need to let your surgeon knows about the incident
is malignant breast tumor may decrease in size? i've had 2 breast ultrasounds with 19 days interval. the lesion decrease from 2. 78 x2. 3 to 1. 2 x. 9
the rule for any malignancy in the body is that if left alone it will grow on you. a tumor especially of breast origin can not decrease by almost 50% and still represent a malignant process unless under the influence of a chemotherapeutic or immunotherapeutic process. the lesion must for the most part be an inflammatory process. in this case a fibrocytic process.
i'm 50 year old female 9 year breast cancer survivor. i'm cancer free. my dr wants me on a good vitimen i bought alive it's b12 is 100 mcg.
without a family history of breast cancer the chance is high that you are cured of your cancer. this has not been due to the influence of any vitamin. cause is environmental with a high possibility due to mmtv with or without ebv. incidence of breast cancer recurring is 1% per year for 15 yrs yearly exam still important. any multi vitamin will do but have no effect on your disease.
my brother developed male breasts he is just 20 years old. he is also not having hair on his chest. what could be the reason?
this may occur naturally and related to genetic tendencies but is often associated within being overweight. if your brother is thin it may require surgery to treat. prior to that he should probably be evaluated by his physician to exclude possible hormonal irregularities. certain drugs and medicatons particularly marijuana may be contributing influences.
my sister is a breast cancer survivor. she has chest pain and her doctor told her she has fluid around her heart. what does this mean? is this real ba
please have your sister work with her doctors to find out why she has a pericardial effusion or fluid around her heart and chest pain. until the reason is figured out the significance is uncertain. it could be anything from benign fluid unrelated to her chest pain or possibly percarditis - an inflammation of the lining (pericardium) around the heart or something more concerning.
my sister is a breast cancer survivor. she has chest pain and her doctor told her she has fluid around her heart. what does this mean? is this real ba
technically it is called a plueral effusion and can be do several reasons including infection and cancer related. she should be checked for fluid in other areas including abdomen and around lungs. ultimately if the fluid increases in amount it should be removed to prevent inability of the heart to function do to the surrounding pressure of the effusion. should have close follow up with heart dr.
my left breast near my armpit is sore to touch with lumps. no fever redness or flu symptoms. is it mastitis? i breastfeed
it could be mastitis. i would continue breastfeeding and seek evaluation with a physician. if it is an early mastitis antibiotics will likely be needed.
any reconstructive surgery implants genetic treatments to treat male dry orgasm?
if you are hoping to conceive then it is possibl esometimes to recover sperm from the urine if you are suffering retrograde ejaculation and use this sperm for insemination. if not then you can consider retrieving sperm from the testicle for ivf. if you are just hoping to have fluid come out with orgasm then i suggest you discuss with a urologist as i am a fertility doc.
breast nodule or a cyst? i just had a breast ultrasound and was first told they saw a nodule but then later said is probably a cyst and that it may have even exploded. what does this all mean? what is the difference between a nodule and a cyst?
a cyst is a contained fluid collection; it usually has a thin outer capsule or rim. a nodule is entirely composed of soft tissue. a cyst can be drained; a nodule cannot be drained because it consists of solid tissue. on mammography cysts and nodules can have the exact same appearance. however ultrasound is excellent at differentiating between fluid and solid and cysts appear very different from nodules on ultrasound. cysts within the breasts are always benign. if a cyst ruptures the fluid within the cyst is released and leaks in this surrounding tissue; it is usually then reabsorbed by the body.
breast nodule or a cyst? i just had a breast ultrasound and was first told they saw a nodule but then later said is probably a cyst and that it may have even exploded. what does this all mean? what is the difference between a nodule and a cyst?
a nodule looks solid on ultrasound (us) and a cyst is fluid filled. depending on the machine quality and technician performing the exam they can be difficult to distinguish. in these cases the radiologist will often come in the room to take a look or perform the exam. a 3-6 month repeat us is usually advised or you can ask for a biopsy. if you are worried find a breast surgeon to evaluate you.
breast nodule or a cyst? i just had a breast ultrasound and was first told they saw a nodule but then later said is probably a cyst and that it may have even exploded. what does this all mean? what is the difference between a nodule and a cyst?
a breast ultrasound is used to distinguish whether a breast lump is fluid-filled or solid. if its fluid-filled its a breast cyst. a solid-appearing mass could be a noncancerous lump such as a fibroadenoma or cancer. based on what the doctor sees on the ultrasound he may recommend biopsy. discuss the findings further with your physician.
breast and arm pit pain hi i've been having pain in my left breat and underarm for quite some time. i've had a breast exam an ultrasound and a mammogram. they see nothing. sometimes its a stabbing feeling and sometimes a constant ache. i am large breas
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain.
breast implant surgery feb 7th starting to feel sick with headache and flu symptoms. can i take nyquil? i am suppose to only take tylenol (acetaminophen) for pain.
yes the use of this medication should not pose a problem. however be careful that you inform your surgeon if you remain ill immediately prior to the procedure; patients undergoing elective breast surgery should be free of any source of potential bacteremia and free of any pulmonary involvement… best wishes.
breast implant surgery feb 7th starting to feel sick with headache and flu symptoms. can i take nyquil? i am suppose to only take tylenol (acetaminophen) for pain.
this should not be a problem. within 3 weeks of surgery you should be able to take this medication without concern. however i would speak with your physician to confirm.
breast implant surgery feb 7th starting to feel sick with headache and flu symptoms. can i take nyquil? i am suppose to only take tylenol (acetaminophen) for pain.
the pain medicine in nyquil is tylenol (acetaminophen). depending in the type of nyquil the other medicine in it is a decongestant and/or a cough suppressant neither of which will interfere with subsequent surgery.
clear sticky spontaneous nipple discharge right breast. small lump on left normal in 2012. all labs normal incl. prolactin. cbe normal now what?
"galactorrhea" is the production of breast milk. sometimes women can have nipple discharge that is not milk. a doctor can tell the difference by looking at the fluid under a microscope. fibrocystic breast disease can cause nipple discharge. but i'd probably see a breast specialist and get a breast ultrasound to rule out some other reason. there's even a test called a "ductogram" that can be done.
can you have fibrocystic breast disease in just one breast? and white discharge with no foul odors? only comes out when squeezed hard
could be one side ( at a time ) is bilateral disease may not have symptoms in some fluid can drain through nipple usually clear discharge. just apply warm soaks and go for a check up with your doctor you are only 22 don't worry too much.
could fibrocystic breast disease go away over time?
fibrocystic disease is a termused when the breast as it ages develops lumps which is due to minizing of breast tissue with replacement by fat and the effect of estrogen on the terminal milk ducts which tend to plug the ducts near the nipple. the small amount of fluid in the ducts accumulates as cystic fluid spaces within the ducts further causing lumpiness or fibrocytic disease.
does breast augmentation surgery affect your hormones? i've been very nauseous and hormonal since my op 10 days ago.
breast surgery often results in post-operative nausea. it is not related to fluctuations in estrogen levels. <link>
does breast augmentation surgery effect hormones? i have been very hormonal and nauseous since my op 10 days ago. is there a connection?
breast surgery often results in post-operative nausea. it is not related to fluctuations in estrogen levels. <link>
diagnosed w/ lipedema and severe primary lymphedema from hips down. took over 15 yrs to be diagnosed correctly. new or experimental studies? treatments?
treatments are based on the exam. also what is fluid and what is not. options can include removal of tissue reduction of fatty component and lymph node transfer.
diagnostic mammo & ultrasound found mass of breast lumps containing fluid but 1 had fluid & debris. what does this mean?
it is important to know that all of the "lumps" were either simple or minimally complex cysts. please verify that with your doctor. assuming that is true the cyst containing fluid and debris is called a minimally complex cyst and these are often due to hemorrhage. clotted blood in the cyst is mostly water (the fluid part) and the clot (cells) are the debris.
diagnostic mammo & ultrasound found mass of breast lumps containing fluid but 1 had fluid & debris. what does this mean?
breast cysts arise from blocked milk ducts and are quite common--they are present in 35-50% of women between 30-50. they are of no concern except they can be mistaken for tumors on mammogram; the ultrasound tells us these "densities" are fluid-filled and therefore of no concern. once in a blue moon what we think is a complex cyst is solid--therefore we usually repeat an u/s in 6 months.
do push ups bras cause sagging breasts? i'm 18
it is important to support the breast to limit sagging. however many factors influence sagging. the larger the breast the more sagging even with support. the quality of the skin is important as are hereditary factors that are not in your control. it is always better to wear support.
do push ups bras cause sagging breasts? i'm 18
no there is no evidence that any type of bra causes “sagging”. on the contrary it makes sense that the use of a supportive bras may help prevent the effects of time and gravity. of course significant weight fluctuation and/or pregnancies may also cause breast ptosis (sagging). genetics may play a role as well. hope this helps.
difference between lymphadema and venous insufficiency?
when the veins don't return the blood and fluids back to the heart efficiently swelling occurs in the lower legs. as time passes the skin becomes darker and firmer. the most common treason for lymphedema is from surgery to remove cancer and the lymph nodes that drain that area. lymphedema surgery is performed by a plastic surgeon with experience in microsurgery.
does endometriosis cause breast inflammation?
breast tenderness may be due to poor bra fitting high impact exercising with poor support or fluid retention close to your menses. fibrocystic changes of the breast can also be aggravated by dietary caffeine intake. check with your physician if persistent
how do you tell the difference between a clogged milk duct and mastitis?
mastitis is another name for a breast infection and this happens when the plugged duct doesn't clear and gets infected. you will know that you have mastitis because in addition to the symptoms of a plugged duct you will also feel ill with a fever or flu-like symptoms. plugged milk duct - you may feel pain in your breast tenderness occasionally lump is noted.
how often should a power port be flushed once finished with herceptin (trastuzumab) and chemo? why does it need flushed?
standard protocol has been to flush ports at least monthly. maintaining ports is important to prevent clots and to keep ports usable for later chemo if needed.
how often should a power port be flushed once finished with herceptin (trastuzumab) and chemo? why does it need flushed?
the powerport implantable port is used for patient therapies that require repeated access to the vascular system. there are protocols in place depending on the lumen and catheter volume and reservoir volume. depending on the procedure varying amounts of sterile saline followed by heparinized saline are used to flush. this keeps the lumen open not obstructed. ask your nurse about protocol details.
how often should a power port be flushed once finished with herceptin (trastuzumab) and chemo? why does it need flushed?
it is important to flush the medication from the line ;so just after access and before to make sure it works. it is usually flushed with saline or a very dilute heparin solution both of which are just as effective. if it is not being used it needs to be removed. all the best.
i have had chest pain for the last year. i have had ekgs electrocardiogram holter monitor mammogram ultrasound. should mri? left side pain always.
have seen several cases with similar symptoms and neg cardiax work up. eound related to distal esophageal inflammation with some mediastinal extension causing symptoms as defined on esophagoscopy. partly due to reflux. omeprazole may help.
i had gynecomastia surgery 6 weeks ago and today i saw a puffy lump just behind aerola i removed the compression garment 2 days ago. what to do?
you are still at risk for acute swelling in that time frame can be isolated to a limited area. could also be small seroma [a fluid collection] reapply the compression garment if swelling does not resolve than could be seroma and see your surgeon.
i have a bump above my nipples and i have a fluid looking nipple tip at times i am a 16 year old male is this breast cancer? i am very worried
you need to be evaluated by your doctor must likely is infection so be treated.
i'm not pregnant but been having sore breasts and in an attempt to ease them a bit i was squeezing and when squeezing the nipple i noticed colostrum?
a small amount of fluid can be expressed from the breast when it is sometimes squeezed normally. however if the exudate(fluid) continues without breast manipulation or squeezing please see a md for a prolactin blood test.
my mom has had a distended stomach for months. she recently had radiation for breast cancer. docs have done several tests. nothing is showing up. help?
the cause of abdominal distention can be many. it is not hard to find the cause. a ct can of the abdomen can show all that is there. it could be fat fluid or growths in the abdomen all of which will show in the ct scan. so get one done. if ct scan does not show anything then there is nothing serious going on in the abdomen.
my fingers and feet have been slightly swollen for about a month. not too bad but my rings are pretty tight. on tamoxifen & celexa (citalopram). should i be concerned?
it may be due to some degree of fluid retention; this is harmless and not to be too concerned about. please monitor your weight once weekly and see how it does from here on. if there is increase in weight(> than one pound/ month) then i would ask you to check with your doctors who have prescribed you tamoxifen and celexa (citalopram) if a low dose diuretic might be helpful to relive you from this discomfort.
my fourteen year old daughter fears she might have breast cancer. my sister says she is too young to have it is she correct?
hormonal influence is most common cause of breast pain in a teen. an ultrasound can provide reassurance and check for cysts or other benign non cancerous growth
please please tell me everything about systemic mastocytosis.?
systemic mastocytosis (sm) is an overgrowth of mast cells (immune cells that release histamine and other chemicals upon activation) in the bone marrow and throughout the body. symptoms vary from flushing to hive-like reactions to recurrent anaphylaxis. sm can present in many different ways and have different treatments. see an allergist or immunologist with expertise in sm for more details.
price for breast lumpectomy vs a mastectomy?
influence your decision. treatment may require surgery+/-radiationrx+/-chemorx therefore looking at the cost of these operations alone are misleading. for example radiationrx is mandatory after lumpectomy so any price comparison would have to include this. most importantly if uninsured there are many people & hospitals in the healthcare community that will assist cancer patients.
possible reasons for random breast soreness?
breast soreness can occur due to stretching from increased fluid retention. breast pain can occur in conjunction w premenstrual syndrome ovulation your period pregnancy hormone imbalance or use of oral contraceptives.
are breast enlargement supplements safe? i. e. bountiful breasts
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc. i am not aware of any good science.
are breast cyst common for a 20 year old?
they are more common in women aged 35-50 but can be found at any age. most breast cysts are benign. the might require drainage if they are painful large or just simply if you want to make them go away for piece of mind. cyst fluid that is bloody is of concern but almost any other color would be of no concern.
are there any breast enhancement pills that actually work?
i am sure that there are many that make these claims however the effects will vary from virtually no side effects or results to more extensive effects particularly if they are hormonal analogues with similar effects to oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement with head aches weight or fluid gain tenderness masses increased clotting tendencies etc. i am not aware of any good science.
any ideas why the arm swell or become edematous after a radial mastectomy?
after a radical mastectomy many of the lymph nodes have been removed in the armpit or axilla. these same lymph nodes that drain the breast can also be involved with draining the arm. after removal of these lymph channels the fluid in the arm must find other paths(veins or other lymph channels) to return to the heart. this can lead to swelling. consult with your surgeon. they can help.
after breast surgery bloating is high. during abdominal & anterior rib palpation there's a gaseous/fluid feeling akin to gas bubbles.
hard to know without doing an exam. see your surgeon. call him or her today.
after breast surgery bloating is high. during abdominal & anterior rib palpation there's a gaseous/fluid feeling akin to gas bubbles.
if you know it's a gas build up drinking warm water and applying a hot water bottle to the abdomen helps break down the gas and enables you to pass it. taking simethicone 1/2 hour after meals helps to prevent the gas build up.
breast augmentation swelling. how long is this supposed to last?
the majority of swelling after breast all occasions surgery is gone within a month after the procedure is performed. however it may take 3 to 6 months ( sometimes longer) for patients to see the final results of the procedure performed. breast implants tend to “settle”; this process is called “dropping and fluffing” by some patients (the breasts may actually appear larger as this occurs).
breast cyst aspiration had no fluid and core biopsy performed. is it a cyst or a solud mass? more apt for cancer?
distinguishes solid from fluid filled cyst. a core biopsy isclearly solid but path discerns benign v. malignant.
breast cyst aspiration had no fluid and core biopsy performed. is it a cyst or a solud mass? more apt for cancer?
it was a solid mass. yes more apt for cancer but there is probably at least an 80% of it being benign.
breast cyst aspiration had no fluid and core biopsy performed. is it a cyst or a solud mass? more apt for cancer?
the scan along with the biopsy results will confirm or rule out. wish u well.
behind my nipples and when i push on them i get a sharp pain. is it possible that i have breast cancer? what should i do?
usually breast pain is cyclical pain changing with the menstrual period not cancer behind nipples do you have nipple discharge specifically fluid coming out of the nipples on its own without you squeezing? if yes you need to go see a doctor.
can you tell me if lymphedema makes you gain weight?
lymphedema is a condition where obstruction to venous outflow in an extremity usually post surgery can cause retrograde welling from fluid accumulation in the extremity that fails to drain properly. seen most often post axillary or groin surgery with and without radiation. minimal wt gain
can you have a lump with nipple discharge milky no foul odor on one breast only and not be cancer?
clear or serous fluid drainage from the nipple is not an indication of malignancy. in some instances bloody drainage may suggest presence of tumor. a lump with drainage probably is a cyst and if so should be aspirated. mammogram of course is also part of the evaluation.
could it be healthy for the area around a fibroadenoma be tender?
assuming the fibroadenoma is in the breast tenderness in adjacent areas is a reflection of fibrocystic disease. this refers to excess stimulation of the breast tissue by hormones secondarily affecting the milk ducts to fill with fluid which on palpation presents with tenderness. a mammo can resolve the issue.
can prednisone cause lymphadema in the lower legs?
prednisone can cause fluid retention but not lymphedema. lymphedema is due to obstruction of the lymphatic channels in the legs and is a hard "brawny" edema. the fluid retention from prednisone usually "pits" when you press your thumb into the swelling. you have a complicate medical history; edema needs to be evaluated by your physician.
could mastitis be cured without taking antibiotics?
mastitis means that the breast is inflamed. there can be swelling redness tenderness and pain. non-antibiotic treatment is rest alternate cold and hot compresses massage the affected area breastfeed frequently on the affected side extra fluid intake ibuprofen/tylenol for pain and do not quit breastfeeding at this point. if your fever rises or signs get worse you may need the antibiotics.
can breast cancer come back after surgery chemotherapy and radiation after 2 month?
after surgery and radiation it is common to be left with a mass at the site sometimes scar tissue sometimes fluid-filled area (seroma). however it is important for your oncologist to do an exam to evauate if there is cause for concern. whatever signs/symptoms you may have should be addressed by your medical oncologist in a timely manner. good luck! i hope all turns out well!
can you tell me if there is any good yoga poses for people with lymphedema?
many yoga poses that elevates the affected limb / limbs above the level of the heart are helpful with helping it drain the lymphatic fluid. yoga breathing is very helpful for lymphedema. the deep diaphragmatic breathing help empty lymph in the chest. all these exercises help lymphedema. . and they are relaxing too.
during us exam can a radiologist see if a breast cyst countains blood? how can i know if my breast cyst countains blood! thanks
the radiologist may see "complex" fluid within the cyst that could be blood but could also be other things. can only tell for sure if the cyst is aspirated with a needle or possibly by mri signal characteristics.
during us exam can a radiologist see if a breast cyst countains blood? how can i know if my breast cyst countains blood! thanks
us does not determine type of fluid. only aspiration with a needle can determine that.
docs could a 12 year old be diagnosed with breast cancer?
it is possible but very rare rare. there are other more common noncancerous conditions like a fluid filled cyst or a fibroadenoma (look at some of my other posts on these subjects). i recommend having this young lady see a breast specialist.
did self breast exam. feel several small lumps in armpit. it itches and pains. have fibrocystic breast disease. what is cause? is this normal
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
does a growing lump on a one-stage immediate breast reconstruction after mastectomy because of cancer followed by a tissue flap procedure meancancer?
it could be scar tissue a problem with the implant or a fluid collection but you do need to see your doctor asap. good luck
fibrocystic breast disease- can the cysts burst?
breast cysts may be firm or painful. many will resolve after the menstrual cycle. needs an exam and ultrasound to be sure it is a cyst. can have office needle aspiration to remove the fluid if the cyst persists or gets larger.
fibrocystic disease--- what causesn it?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cuase the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer. <link>
hi 4 week post gynecomastia and aerola reduction surgery over time will the nipple size reduce as it heals?
your body does not know the difference between an operation by a surgeon and trauma (i. e. getting a cut or other wound). like a bruise the operated area will swell and hurt for a while. regardless see your surgeon. he/she can make sure that there is no hematoma/serous (a fluid collection after operation).
hi i have an on and off pain behind my left nipple almost feels like a squeezing/burning sensation doctor found nothing unusual. 28 yo f?
may be reflux w/ or w/o h pylori. try ranitidine/prevecid . may be costochondritis an inflammation of chest muscle insertions responds to motrin/aleve if not allergic sometimes i find mycoplasma causes this-zithro. helps also in anyone with breast pain consider ultrasound or mammogram cancer is rare but does occur in the younger population. f/u with doctor /urgent care
i'm 16 and have gynecomastia. i experienced fluid discharge and pain in nipples when i was 11-13 not after that. will it get cured on its own?
but you should try to avoid irritating the area and avoid the offending agent if any such as marijuana. if it persists surgical excision or liposuction can be done.
i have had this nipple problem since about 2015 fall and it hasn't gotten better scaling dry nipple with discharge that doesn't heal.
most nipple problems are benign and due to inflammation. however depending on your age medical history and physical exam this may warrant further workup such as a mammogram or an ultrasound of the area. additionally testing the nipple fluid (nipple aspirate) or performing a special procedure called a ductoscopy may be recommended by your physician.
m 32 and half yr old. hav multiple cysts in both breasts. get my u/s done ev. 2 yrs. got it done 11/2 yr back. at this age can mammography be done on me?
yes it can but mammogram cannot distinguish between cysts (fluid filled) and something solid as well as ultrasound does. so you would likely be referred for ultrasound anyway. unless you have a family history of young breast cancers starting mammograms at 40 is the current recommendation.
mammo in march showed area of interest right breast. had an ultrasound that the radiologist said was" probably" a cyst and said had no suspicious features. she told me to come back in 6 months for a follow up. very nervous about breast cancer. 43f
on mammo an area of concern is either that of clustered microcalcificaion or the presence of a stellate lesion suspicious for ca. an area of interest suggests that while no lesion was seen an area of suspicion probably thickened breast tissue present but no discrete lesion for which you lmd would be notified. when a sono was performed one looks for fluid at the site to suggest cyst.
my mother in law just had a lumpectomy. she had her sentinal lymph node removed. does it grow back? if not how does the breast drain?
the body has multiple nodes that drain that area and if one is removed others usually take over and help the breast drain fluid
mammogram showed normal. ultrasound normal. fluctuating pain in breasts and right armpit. sporadic sharp nipple pain on right. advice please.
it is unlikely that your symptoms are due to breast cancer or significant breast disease. if the symptoms persist however you should see your doctor for evaluation.
mammogram showed normal. ultrasound normal. fluctuating pain in breasts and right armpit. sporadic sharp nipple pain on right. advice please.
could be hormone related pain causing breast engorgement. try vit e and avoid caffine.
mammogram showed normal. ultrasound normal. fluctuating pain in breasts and right armpit. sporadic sharp nipple pain on right. advice please.
pain in your right breast and armpit may be breast related but could also be related to a pinched nerve in your neck or shoulder region. if you are having any numbness or weakness on the right side of your shoulder/arm/neck it would make a pinched nerve problem more likely. if the breast pain persists and there was no obvious cause you can ask your doctor to get an mri of the breast too
my mammogram shows a benign lesion. why/how is this there? is it a precurser to cancer? i am 53 and my mom is a breast cancer survivor.
if breast us shows fluid aspiration has to be done under local anaesthesia if. repeat mammo shows anything biopsy must be done-preferably stereotaxic biopsy. any genetic studies done?
my nipples are very sore and fluid is coming from both. what could it be?
prolactin is released by the pituitary and causes breast to produce milk in women after childbirth. when its not normal to be lactating you need to have a prolactin level blood test. if elevated the nect step is an mri of your pituitary to make sure there is no mass causing the increased prolactin level.
pain upper left side under rib cage just below left breast. mammogram x-ray ct scan colonoscopy and urine all fine. help.
if you have a rib out you could have the pain you describe. seek out a d. o. (osteopathic physician) or a chiropractic physician to evaluate your ribs to see if that is the source. also your stomach and your esophagus are in that area. i didnt see that you had an egd. reflux and gastric or esophageal ulcers could cause the pain.
pain in my breast but no sign of breast cancer. what this pain should be?
there are many causes of breast pain. cancer is unlikely but a breast exam and mammogram are recommended particularly if you have a family history. the most common cause is fibrocystic disease especially if the pain fluctuates with the menstrual cycle. it is also important to rule out other causes as sometimes "breast pain" isn't coming from the breast.
persistent clear l nipple d/c 1 duct only. nipple sono and prolactin good. get a mammogram too or just prob hormonal?
a mammogram would be indicated. also analysis of the fluid itself may be revealing. please see your ob/gyn as soon as possible for further evaluation.
pregnancy symptoms weight gain breast enlargement no positive hpt what's going on?
unfortunately you did not include your ovulatory sexual or menstrual history in your question. so the validity of our answers will be limited. we no longer use ambiguous symptoms of hormone fluctuation to diagnose a pregnancy. the tests are that accurate. if you do not believe the results of your test please go see your ob for the blood test.
please explain why would it be a radical mastectomy instead of elephantiasis?
radical mastectomy for cancer where chest walk muscles also taken with breast and lymph nodes no longer being done. elephantiasis is condition seen in tropics filarial infection lymph vessels are completely blocked result in fluid accumulation leg looks like elephant leg. other disease when lymph is blocked will have similar appearance
yesterday urine output normal today only 200ml liquid input 900ml bp90/70 heart rate 120 feeling thirsty and little abdomen pain. advice?
it sounds like you have some underlying medical conditions if you are tracking all of these outputs. your urine output and heartrate sound like you may be getting dehydrated. increase your fluid intake and if abdominal pain or tachycardia do not improve rapidly go to er where you can be evaluated and treated without delay. don't sit on this too long.
yesterday i took a dosage of ibuprofen for a menstrual headache. afterwards i became so dizzy that i could barely walk my heart rate sped up and be?
sounds like a migraine but it could be a reaction to too much ibuprofen. make sure you're not taking more than 3200 mg per day and no more than 600 mg at a time. make sure you're drinking plenty of fluids.
burning feeling on outer side of breast. tender nipple. week after period.
given how recently you finished your period it is likely related to the hormone fluctuations that occur normally during your cycle. breast pain and tingling is almost never associated with breast cancer; the exception is when a woman has a tumor big enough to take over the breast. try ibuprofen to alleviate symptoms; the passage of time will probably also help
been prescribed anti depressants. is there an association between breast cancer & anti depressants (fluxatine)? my mother had breast cancer i have pocs
if your mother had breast cancer then you may qualify for brca genetic testing. also discuss with your doctor the mammogram screening guidelines which may depend on the age of your mothers diagnosis. antidepressants are not contraindicated in someone with a family history of breast cancer
been prescribed anti depressants. is there an association between breast cancer & anti depressants (fluxatine)? my mother had breast cancer i have pocs
cancer patients should be treated for depression on an individual basis. treatment may vary and include antidepressants such as fluoxetine along with therapy. lifting depression may increase the will to live. untreated depression may be more of a risk factor in someone with cancer. antidepressant meds such as fluoxetine have not been shown to cause cancer. see: <link> i hope this helps. best wishes.
been prescribed anti depressants. is there an association between breast cancer & anti depressants (fluxatine)? my mother had breast cancer i have pocs
if there was a real link we would know by now. there is much in our world to make folks sad -- my hope is that you will keep fighting doing things that help in the long run learning new ways of thinking and using these meds judiciously. i am glad to be able to give good news.
can fibrocystic breasts cause your lung to lung collapse?
fibrocystic changes in breast tissue are not related to lung disease - and cannot cause a collapse of any portion of lung. lung collapse occurs with pneumonia pneumothorax blood or fluid in chest cavity or growth of tumor in bronchial branches. cystic change in breast tissue cannot impose any of these. take best care - deep breathe don't smoke wear supportive breast underwear control wt.
can only 1 breast be fibrocystic? and could it cause the size of the breast to increase? us & mammo are normal besides dense tissue.
typically fibrocytic disease is found in both breasts but one breast can be affected more than the other and this is why possibly what is going on in your case. fibrocytic disease usually fluctuates during the menstruation cycle. typically mammography is normal and us shows cysts.
can sleeping with electric blanket on throughout the night cause childhood leukemia breast cancer or other cancers?
interesting question but no evidence that heat influences the origin of these disorders.
do i have to go back in 6 months if a cyst shows up on my mammogram?
if a cyst shows up on mammogram and nothing is suggested but repeat films the interpretation is benign. using a sonogram the cyst fluid should be defined and aspiration performed. if the fluid is then removed a repeat mammogram in 1 year is fine. if fluid cant be aspirated then a follow up should probably be performed and the cyst is found to be larger or has resolved.
dr said thickening and fluid buildup in the lower inner quadrant of both breasts due to sports bra being too tight & worn often. how common is this?
this seems like a very rare event. the symptoms could be symptoms of other things possibly missed by your doctor. why would a tight sports braw cause this problem? doesn't make sense to me.
extreme pain in breasts. could this be a sign of breast cancer or something else?
fibrocystic disease/changes is very common in women. this is most often seen during the menstrual cycle. breast feel lumpy and painful which is caused by cyst formation (fluid filled areas) due to hormonal changes. some women may have these changes without being on their menstrual cycle. caffeine may cause the cysts to be overactive resulting in pain. this is not related to cancer.
fluids in feet legs and abdomen. multiple tests for heart in emergency. etc they decided i have chronic lymphedema. what kind of doc should i see?
your situation is difficult to treat. a vascular surgeon maybe a good start
fluids in feet legs and abdomen. multiple tests for heart in emergency. etc they decided i have chronic lymphedema. what kind of doc should i see?
if that's the dx it's treated with compression hose. your fp should be able to handle for you.
for how long would it take to develop swelling from a flu shot if you had a mastectomy on that side?
if the mastectomy also took lymph nodes out of the armpit the arm will always have a tendency to swell. you should avoid shots blood drawing blood pressure on that arm to try to not have swelling. if your arm is swollen you can try elevating it over your head. sleep with it up on a pillow. if swelling continues your doctor can prescribe a fitted sleeve to help keep swelling under control.
feel a big bubble and bottom hurtonly on my left breast and it is also bigger then the right. i am 2 months post op of breast implants is this normal?
most women who have implants have some bruising and tenderness post operation. this usually improves over time. if one has continued pain swelling and a difference in size they need to follow up with their surgeon especially after 2 months. accumulations of blood and fluid can occur. good luck.
fluid accumlation in breast follwing breast ca and lumpectomy. shows up on cxr 4 months after lumpectom. size is 5 x 7 cm. why?
this is probably fluid collection or seroma in the resection cavity especially if you also received radiation therapy. however cxr is not the imaging modality of choice to diagnose this condition. i would suggest to see your breast surgeon get an ultrasound to confirm the diagnosis and if there are symptoms or other indications an aspiration may be considered.
fluid accumlation in breast follwing breast ca and lumpectomy. shows up on cxr 4 months after lumpectom. size is 5 x 7 cm. why?
when a lump ectomy is performed a good dissection goes along a radial incision from near nipple outward skin flaps are raised and a wedge of breast tissue extends from just below skin to pectoralis fascia. cloure is accomplished in layers (3) to close the defect created. if not closed tightly a hematoma can arise and partially solidify showing up on follow up mammo and crx.
fluid accumlation in breast follwing breast ca and lumpectomy. shows up on cxr 4 months after lumpectom. size is 5 x 7 cm. why?
what you are describing is probably a seroma - a pocket of fluid in the space where the tissue used to be prior to tumor removal. sometimes the tissue doesn't fill in the gap and fluid accumulates. it may decrease over time but if it bothers you you can see your surgeon to have the fluid aspirated.
feel a little lump in my areola had mammo and us and the findings are normal. i am on my period and the tech said she saw some small cysts but no lum?
tumor masses are rare right under the areola. if the us and mammo are neg there is a good chance that there is no tumor. rather the areola nipple represent the confluence of the mammary ducts and if the normal hormones effect the terminal duct fluid builds up in the ducts to present with cystic changes
for over 2 months now i have ever been having pain in my left breast. it is a stabbing fiery pain that wanes between an annoying ache and intense tear inducing pain. i have been treated with an antibiotic for mastitis and then a couple weeks later difluc
and get checked and diagnosed then it can be treated
for over 2 months now i have ever been having pain in my left breast. it is a stabbing fiery pain that wanes between an annoying ache and intense tear inducing pain. i have been treated with an antibiotic for mastitis and then a couple weeks later difluc
this is very unusual to be in your breast at your age. there has been no redness or rash drainage from the nipple or any other findings. if you pick up the breast by itself off the chest and squeeze is that sore? if you move the breast to the left further and press on the ribs and chest wall does that cause more pain then it could be in the chest wall. keep seeing your provider. hope this helps
good after'n docs. had a breast scan. result: a simple cyst with anechoic content is seen in d liq of the right breast diameter 7. 5mm. means what pls?
simple cyst is a fluid filled sac usually a good sign. anechoic means it is not echoic because it's filled with fluid and light goes through it and doesn't bounce back. (echoic means there is probably calcification and light bounces back and that could mean trouble. ) llq means left lower quadrant/part of your breast. you know what diameter means. (length from one edge of cyst to another)
hi i have right nipple discharge clear fluid with normal prolectin and thriod levels after 6 months of ectopic preg. with normal monthly cycles?
this may be nothing but it is possible that you have an intraductal papilloma. please refrain from squeezing the nipples for a while to try and let it go away. sometimes too much stimulation could cause this too. if it continues an ultrasound or galactogram may help determine if there is an intraductal papilloma which it usually a benign growth. see your doctor. www. drlugo. com
hi there for the past few months i've been experiencing on and off breast pain i have the implant and the pain fluctuates between both breasts?
do you have breast implants or a contraceptive implant? ask question again with clarification.
if a complicated breast cyst (no solid component inside cyst) is aspirated & confirmed cancerous. no nodes. what are the treatment options? surgery?
the next step is to excise the collapsed cyst wall and some surrounding breast tissue to confirm that the cancerous fluid is indeed from that source. moreover the pathologist will now have a "tissue" diagnosis to lend a microscopic analysis of the type of cancer and the best ways to treat it.
i've had breast pain in both breast for 12 days now with lumpiness and denseness. left breast hurts worse than other. fibrocystic possibly?
but also consider other hormonal influences and even pregnancy. this is something you can discuss with your physician.
i've been going through testing to see if i have breast cancer and i've been really stressed and just got over the flu. could this cause a late period?
menses can be delayed if you are going through an intense period of stress. but the delay is no more than a few days. so if you do not have menses over a period longer than 2-3 weeks you should seek consultation with a gynecologist to find the cause.
i am experiencing breast pain (quality: tenderness around areola area. left breast. normal mammo 7 m ago. 38 yo. comes and goes. thoughts?
anytime one notices a new mass lump bump or skin change in the breast it is very important to have this evaluated by a doctor who can help determine if any work up or testing is needed. benign causes of breast pain can be caused by weight gain diet changes changes in exercise patterns ill fitting bras caffeine intake hormonal fluctuations and others.
just diagnosed with asymmetrical breast tissue. mammogram looked different from last year breast is painful should i be worried? what can it be.?
asymmetrical changes in breast tissue are common. the pain is due to ductal dilatation from hormones causing ducts to partially close off and accumulate fluid. path on mammo that might be of concern is microcalcification or a stellate lesion. asymmetrical changes if at all suspiciaous can be resolved with an mri of the breast.
last year i had a breast cyst aspirated (benign). there is another cyst in that same area this year. do i need another aspiration?
recurrent cysts after aspiration should be carefully evaluated even if the original tissue or fluid was normal in evaluation. see your physician for guidance.
lump under nipple filled with liquid?
this is most likely a cyst but if it is being picked up for the first time will warrant an ultrasound guided aspiration to evaluate the fluid.
lump under nipple filled with liquid?
do you have nipple discharge? what color is the discharge? if no discharge & ultra sound shows fluid sac then its called a cyst. if there is nipple discharge then you might have a papilloma but that would show a solid not just fluid.
lymphedema in leg - how long does it last?
lymphedema of the leg may be a reaction to an underlying foot issue such as infection or it may be failure of your lymph channels to remove fluid from the lower extremity. it is unclear how long this will last and i would recommend evaluation to determine why he would have the lymphedema. use of support/compression stockings would be of great benefit to help with the situation.
lumps in breasts am that hurt when pushed on? . hx fibrocystic breasts.
breast lumps that are tender with a history of fibrocystic diseases are likely just that. typically they vary in size and degree of tenderness with hormone fluctuations caffeine intake etc. unusual lumps or persistent tender areas should be checked to be sure. also if family history of breast cancer always best to err on side of getting checked.
my 3week old breastfed baby has green poop. i have been taking antibiotics for mastitis could it be a reaction and should i stop taking them? thanks
the main agent adding color to the poo is the material made by the liver called bile. it starts out a dark green and goes thru the yellows to brown depending on the influences of various factors in the intestines. rapid transit thru the system as may occur with diarrhea or breast feeding may have a greenish yellow or yellow appearance. the slower more likely browner. i'd ignore it.
my lumpectomy incision started leaking a lot of fluid and now looks like it's opening on one end. the steri strips fell off. is this normal?
some times fluid collects inside the wound ( seroma ) then it will ooze through wound keep the area clean apply dry dressings and go for post o p visit to your surgeon don't worry will take couple of wks to heel.
male 56 for months i've had mild pain on left nipple. recently increased to sharp pain; mamm/u. s. both negative. pain still increasing. what 2 check?
1. paget's disease of the nipple - this occurs when externally invisible cancer inside the breast spreads to the nipple and areola area. the areolar area looks as if it has been infected. it looks red swollen and is painful but actually this is caused by blockage of small channels called lymphatics which drain the fluid from the areolar area. this blockage is caused by rapid proliferation of cancer cells within the breast tissue. sometimes the breast cancer may not be apparent even on a mammography. 2. it could also be caused by allergies or sensitivities to various detergents soaps weather fabric etc. some women are sensitive to the plastics in breast shells nipple shields and pump flanges. 3. repeated friction like say prolonged exercise or jogging. 4. vigorous sexual activity could be a cause. 5. infections of the breast has to be ruled out. infections could lodge on already traumatized nipples. diabetes is another risk factor for skin infections because micro-organisms love the sugary cells in people with diabetes. nipple pain with fever is once reason you should visit the doctor because of the concern for infections.
my mother had lobular breast cancer at 53. does this mean ill get it? is the lobular variety more likely genetic? i'm brca negative.
the lobular variety has similar genetic risk as other varieties. your mother having breast cancer does mean you have greater than average risk but it is still much more likely that you won't get it than you will. many genes besides brca affect risk but diet and lifestyle still has a greater influence on risk than genetics. see <link> and <link>
mom had lump in breast then arm then foot and now in her head. she had ultrasound and something is there. waiting for results. is it possibly cancer?
any lump in breast can be cancer. having said that all lumps in breast are not due to cancer. many times it is due to benign cysts which are not cancer. and other lumps in arm foot and head may also be cysts. cysts are non cancerous closed pockets that are filled with fluid. or other materials and can grow in any part of body. relax and wait for results patiently
nipple discharge: clear sometimes whitish help?
your breasts can always produce milk or fluid. this is normal.
now 4days. late still sore breast colostrum a little in them hungry more pee a lot sunday hpt negative light leg cramps light vaginal cramps whatcanbe?
bet it's your bladder; sometimes periods can be off but maybe check the upt to be sure. it may be an ovarian cyst as well as something else i'm not thinking of but the urination and pain point to bladder. don't worry about expressible fluid from the breast. if no period and milk shoots out then that's a different story.
nipple discharge happens around my period. what does this mean?
as long as the discharge is not bloody and comes out of both nipples it is likely physiologic a normal body process. before our menstrual cycle begins our bodies retain fluid which is why most women feel heavier their breasts hurt. in some women a small amount of nipple discharge also occurs because of excess fluid in the ducts.
negative pregnant tests but breast is leaking clear fluid i'm 25 with a family history of breast cancer any ideas not insurance right now working on that?
related to hormones / observe for now.
nursing and had breast ultrasound. tech saw either a small cyst or a duct but either way it was fine. does this increase my risk breast cancer?
doing a breast exam(ultrasound) on a lactating mother producing milk will usually show enlarged milk ducts some containing milk or fluid. this does not predispose a person to breast cancer.
ok my left boob has grown bigger this past couple months i have lopsided breasts now already got it checked doctor said it could be fluid in glands?
have a mammogram ultrasound and maybe even an mri. if negative and you do not have a lump you are ok.
persistant focal asymmetry in right breast on both view. ultrasound found fluid cyst but is smaller in size to focal asymmetry in mammogram. worry?
just follow directions from you dr but make sure you do go in for followup.
period ending but both breasts are sore especially on the outer sides. had mammo in nov. i'm 45 yrs old. is it a bad bra or shld i worry?
in menstruating patient the effect of hormones during period is on breast tissue in younger patients and ductal system over the age of 40. the effect is to close milk ducts near nipple so that ducts fill with fluid to produce cramping pain. when period ends ducts open near nipple and fluid evaporates so that symptoms disappear.
last day of period being iron deficient anemia will it cause lightheadedness lower body temp and slower heart rate?
your period could make you dehydrated if it was heavy and you didn't replace the lost fluid. this can make you lightheaded. neither that nor iron deficiency anemia will affect your temperature. if they had any effect on your heart rate they would increase it.
sudden heart flutters low bp tiny red dots on thighs upper abdomen & flank pain some swelling on roof of mouth temp 99°. what is this?
time to get to a physician for comprehensive examination and testing. call- now!
why do my cheeks turn purplish red and get hot? it happens even when i'm relaxed and can last for hours w/ tingling. i have pots. are the two related
episodes of flushing are commonly experienced by some patients with postural tachycardia syndrome (pots). it has been suggested that these patients may have a mast cell activation disorder. there are specific treatments which may be helpful. consulting with a medical or cardiovascular physician may be helpful as you learn to manage these conditions.
what causes a chest pain near the heart?
not sure what you are asking. there are many causes of chest pain aside from the heart. chest pain from lung disease / pneumonia acid reflux in the food tube (esophagus) rib fractures & muscle strain of the pectoralis muscle are but a few examples. pain is sensed by the nerves (vagus nerve especially) surrounding the heart but those nerves go to different organs too which can be confusing.
sometimes i feel a sort of flutter as a heart beat. is this a palpitation? should i be concerned also i'm 3mth pregnant if that changes anything.
or pcp and have an ekg done to check for irregular heart beat. it's the only way to check for arrythmia. take care! <link>#page=1.
sharp pain in chest. comes and goes. last only a minute. normal echo stress and ekgs. good blood work. waiting on results of monitor should i worry? !
it sounds like heart disease has been ruled out. other causes include: gastritis peptic ulcer disease gastroesophageal reflux disease esophagitis gall bladder disease pleurisy intercostal neuritis myofascial syndrome fibromyalgia and neurocirculatory asthenia: just to name a few possibilities.
had chest pain and vomiting. i went to er they did ekg cbc gave me fluids and sent me home. my hr is up around 120-150 standing. should i go back?
if you still feel bad then go back for a re-check. things change things evolve usually for the better but not always. and a pulse over 120 is no laughing matter if it persists or you also feel dizzy or you still feel like vomiting or have chest pain. at your age it will probably all turn out ok but you should at least be starting to feel better not worse. if you can't keep fluids down go back
since i was 11 i have fainting spells. my body gets real hot. heart beats fast. lose sight and hearing and finally ill fall over unconscious. i do not hav anxiety and it's gotten worse with pregnancy.
you have symptoms that suggest a problem called autonomic insufficiency. this is common in young women. essentially the brain can misread the signals being sent by the heart and blood vessels and cause the pulse to go fast (or slow) and the blood pressure to fall. pregnancy makes this a lot worse. for now drink lots of fluids and lie down at the first sign of symptoms. you should see a heart md.
somedays whenever i stand up my heart rate elevates and i get real weak and dizzy. doesnt last long but i hate it. i do have anxiety. could it be rela (carisoprodol)?
hypotension would explain your symptoms. increasing fluids significantly & liberalizing salt intake (provided you don't have htn) would be first steps. i'm assuming that you are not taking bp medication. if symptoms don't improve see your physician.
heart fluttering during sexual activity? i take metoprolol tartrate but still happens? many ekgs and chest xrays normal other than sinus tach?
an ecg monitor during sexual activity. i assume ur doc has checked u out and found nothing wrong. checking your heart rhythm during sex does not mean lugging an ecg machine with you. there r a number of small very unobtrusive devices that can be worn for many days. (holter monitor event recorder etc). see ur doc who will know what to do. this test will determine if ur heart causing sx or not.
should i worry if my heart flutters?
the sensation of feeling your heartbeat (heart flutters) is called palpitations and most of the time it is a completely benign symptom. however if it is accompanied by weakness dizziness shortness of breath passing out or chest pressure/pain. . or you have a history of heart problems it can be the sign of serious illness and should be evaluated by a physician.
should i worry if my heart flutters?
unless sustained or symptoms result.
what causes heart rate fluctuations?
heart rate normally varies depending on supply and demand for cardiac output. drugs conditioning and other things can also cause heart rate change up or down.
have severe back pain in the mid interscapular region of my back radiating to my right arm. analgesics causes tachycardia. please suggest?
follow up with doctor/urgent care today. maybe gallbladder reflux esophageal spasm pancreas rarely constipation or vascular/ cardiac issues. may consider maalox as the magnesium may relax spasm and it is an antacid. but follow up with doctor today.
why is the flu raising my heart rate and blood pressure when i'm not in pain or have a fever?
if you truly hve the flu be sure to not take aspirin due to risk of reye syndrome. it may not be the flu. you should see a primary care provider.
heart flutters or thumps once or twice daily. cardiologist says it's normal. this is new seems more after having a beer. can it be afib?
afib is unlikely in a 26 yo unless they either have a congenital heart conduction issue or they are doing drugs like cocaine or meth. its more likely you are having ectopic (extra) sinus beats sinus ventricular tachycardia and/or occasional premature ventricular beats. stress anxiety can cause the above. you could see a cardiologist and wear a halter monitor for 24 hours.
will atrial fibrillation have other symptoms other then fluttering? will your heart rate always be over 100 after a palpitation?
read this: <link>
my blood pressure fluncuates between extreamly low to extreamly high as does my pulse. what is a safe normal fluncuating number i know 120/80 is ideal?
older a person is and the more risk factors for stroke and heart disease the more dangerous fluctuations could be. normal to have large fluctuations during exercise extreme anxiety/stress. if at rest something may be wrong. heart rhythm testing checking for medical conditions that could cause this- hyperthyroidism adrenal problems- is needed. bp can feel like it is fluctuating and be normal.
why do i feel like my heart racing but its not actually fast? it's around 80bpm and regular but strong. only last for 30mins. cardio test fine.
even though you are counting the heart rate at 80 the rate may be fluctuating --this is called an arrythmia--you may need a monitor to check for an arrythmia
went to er 4 chest pain since yesterday said ekg was normal didn't do bloodwork gave zantac (ranitidine) for heartburn chest still hurting heart skipping 5 wk preg?
heart-attacks are uncommon in 25 year-old women. it looks like you have had an ekg an echo and an exercise stress test. if these were normal its unlikely to be your heart. however even in early pregnancy you can have gastric reflux heart-burn and indigestion. anxiety can also give you chest-pain. however if your symptoms are severe you should still go back to the er. best wishes!
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
atrial fib has increased risk secondary to irreg. firing of atria and valves causing damage to blood cells. in flutter there is a more regular rate and atrial contractile function offers some protection but there is still a slightly increased risk. in chronic flutter coagulation is necessary given the risk of stroke is the same as atrial fib. pts with chronic flutter often have a fib as well.
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
atrial fibrillation is completely uncoordinated electrical activity in the atria. this leads to virtually no atrial contraction. blood stagnates and you get clots. flutter is an electrical circuit so there is some contraction. several studies have shown less embolic events with flutter but it is still possible. hope this helps!
why the atrial fibrillation causing thromboembolic phenomena while atrial flutter don't cause it?
blood pools in the left atrial appendage (auricle) because the atrium does not contract. with flutter the atrium contracts (and empties) static blood tends to clot.
what does it mean when i put pressure on my chest by my heart and i lose my breath. i also have had moments of heart flutters?
you must beexamined and have an ekg taken. your question cannot be answered online.
what can cause resting heart rate to change. it usually is 50-60 but it's 90-122 when standing. er was not concerned but it has been going on 2 days?
usually postural changes in pulse (or blood pressure) like yours are related to dehydration. . in the er environment this change can be related to anxiety. yet if you do not have symptoms such as dizziness when you stand-up this is something that can be corrected by increasing your fluid intake
why is my heart rate sky high today? i stand up and my heart rate is 133 and up. but if laying down its 60-90. ekg blood work normal
heart can fluctuate. a normal ecg may not tell the whole story. do you drink stimulant drinks or excessive coffee? see a cardiologist to find out cause. heart rate in 130 is not normal. check thyroid function as well to rule out hyperthyroidism.
what causes the fluttery pause feeling of a pvc? cardiologist said i could take beta blockers if a nuisance. at what point are they dangerous?
after the extra beat there is a longer pause until the next beat which is what you feel. in general they aren't dangerous if you are otherwise normal.
what causes the fluttery pause feeling of a pvc? cardiologist said i could take beta blockers if a nuisance. at what point are they dangerous?
these fluttering are dangerous if they are persistent and they are called sustained and if you have any structural heart problems but non sustained without structural heart problem may be benign.
wt loss of 20lbs over 1 week diagnosis w/flu. history asthma & hypokalemia. s&s: palpitations cough weakness. concerns? what should i be asking my doctor?
weight loss from flu includes fluid weight loss. any significant shift in fluids can cause electrolyte issues for example hypokalemia. hypokalemia can present as weakness and palpitations. this can be a life threatening situation. you need evaluation now not later. in a weakened situation you should not drive. best call your doctor and 911.
wt loss of 20lbs over 1 week diagnosis w/flu. history asthma & hypokalemia. s&s: palpitations cough weakness. concerns? what should i be asking my doctor?
this weight loss is excessive. you need a chest xray ekg and nutritional advice. you may have a bacterial infection on top of flu and need antibiotics. should get some blood work and look for elevated white count. make sure you drink enough fluids and recheck your potassium.
wanna start exercising haven't in years just scared because i have chest pains i think from acid reflux ekgs fine so what exercise should i start doin?
exercise is best. you can try anything from brisk walking to swimming biking if you like sports like soccer or basketball they are also great. you should start slowly a few times a week and gradually build up to at least 30 minutes most days of the week. you can also add some weight training for muscle toning. you may want to get a few sessions with a trainer. take care!
why do i feel extreme headache vomiting weak shaky heavy eyes fast heart beat and hungry all of a sudden? i have migraine.
migraines rapid heartbeats stomach symptoms are often associated with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
what can i take for a cold? i am currently taking atenolol for my fast heart rate and paxil (paroxetine) for my anxiety and depression? please advise
there really is no cure for cold except to rest drink plenty of fluids and some supportive treatment like gargle with warm water with salt for sorethroat some people swear by vitamin c. decongestants may increase your heart rate so be careful. watch a funny movie and relax.
woke with dry mouth heart rate 120 upon waking up severely weak for 6 days. was in er for dehydration 4 days ago and diagnosed with virus. help?
make sure you stay hydrated. drink lots of water. follow the directions the doctors gave you in the er. the best way for you to fight the virus is to eat nutritious food and drink enough fluids.
why do i see floaters daily and feel hazy w. lack of concentration. i have history or low blood pressure 115/54 as of yesterday. and i get palpitation?
floaters are caused by just that: small pieces of tissue debris floating in the fluid-filled spaces in the eye in front of the retina. they have nothing to do with low blood pressure or lack of concentration or feeling "fuzzy". for your eyes see an ophthalmologist to make sure the floaters are just benign floaters and not a sign of something more serious & you regular doctor about the rest.
why is it that i wake up and can't breathe and when i try to go to sleep my heart beats fast and i'm always tired but can't sleep. what is it?
make sure you are suffering from increased stress and anxiety disorder. it is important for you to see a primary care physician to rule out asthma avid reflux sleep apnea etc and then focus on anxiety disorder.
wake up with rapid heartbeat in the middle of the night?
given your age this could be as simple as anxiety and depression or as serious as heart attack or even the response to breathing in too much acid if you have reflux disease. i would get to the doctor to make sure it is not a sign of a serious illness.
when in certain condos i experience rapid heartbeat flushed face tingling feet shallow breathing tight chest dizziness. why?
an allergic reaction is the body's way of responding to an "invader. " when the body senses a foreign substance called an antigen the immune system is triggered. the immune system normally protects the body from harmful agents such as bacteria and toxins. its overreaction to a harmless substance (an allergen) is called a hypersensitivity reaction or an allergic reaction.
when in certain condos i experience rapid heartbeat flushed face tingling feet shallow breathing tight chest dizziness. why?
know. maybe there is something in those situations or locations that you are sensitive to. try to figure out any associations or similarities with the episodes.
would a brain pacemaker alleviate pressure on the health system?
brain or spinal cord pacemakers are useful to help control involuntary nerve/muscle spasms in some people. they emit small electric impulses that help control abnormal nerve impulses just like how a heart pacemaker helps to regulate abnormal heart rhythms. pressure on the brain per se is usually the result of some obstruction to spinal fluid.
how do you cope with postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome?
this is often difficult to treat successfully. first you need a tilt table test to confirm the diagnosis. if confirmed volume expansion by eating a high salt diet and drinking plenty of fluids may help. beta blockers fludrocortisone (florinef) and midodrine (proamatine) are used with variable success. good luck.
what if your heart rate is 95 at rest? took gaviscon(antacid)and benedryl earlier for allergy watery eyes. usaully at 64 at rest and when anxiety is low
normal heart rate is between 60 and 100 and will fluctuate during the day and night for a variety of reasons. if your heart rate is 95 and you have no other symptoms i wouldn't be concerned but always check with your provider if you are not feeling normal.
what are some diseases/sicknesses that requires taking white potassium pills and causes weight loss?
the most common scenario is the use of a diuretic ("fluid" pill stimulating urine production) which both causes weight loss (from fluid loss) and wasting of potassium. a rare cause is cushing's disease but this usually causes weight gain. diuretics are typically given for heart kidney and liver disease and to treat high blood pressure.
why i m having a relatively high hr (86 with low hp106/70 normal ecg)? i m training professionaly (endurance) for decade-shouldnt i have like 55bpm?
could be external influences (caffeine stress other meds/supplements etc. ) or internal (fast metabolism body shape etc. ). also not everyone with hr=55 is a marathoner and not all marathoners have hr=55. should ask your dr at next regular visit for once-over and opinion though.
whay med can take for a bad flu and cold am taking flecainide atorvastatin losartan metformin levothy my cough is dry discharge mucous from lungs?
mucinex (guaifenesin) and chlorocedin -hbp are the i reccomend.
why does my heart beat fast and flushing after drinking alcohol?
there is a condition due to inability to metabolize alcohol call alcohol flush syndrome. around 30% of asian descend people have it. associated with flush erythema and tachycardia.
what is the treatment for high potassium?
first watch diet then see if you are taking medicines that cause high potassium and get rid of them then try to get rid of it in urine by diuretics or stool by lactulose. sometimes it can be from low aldosterone harmone and you have to give fludrocortisone. if kidneys are not working may need dialysis if levels are high.
i read they treat pots with both beta blocker and add meds for fatigue i have had severe fatigue for years and it greatly affects work family etc. ?
often treatment for pots symptoms is done with ssri medication adding salt florinef (fludrocortisone) midodrine or compression stockings. sometimes beta blockers may help. i have not heard anyone use add medicines. do you have pots? it is not an easy diagnosis to make although changes in your blood pressure from lying to standing might indicate it.
weird heart flutters after eating?
without going thru a long list of possibilities a holter moniter or event recorder to see your rythm after eating would be helpful. an eval of your diet labs echo etc may need to be done as well.
what does it mean when heart fluttering is strong and painful and i can't relax?
most importantly it means you should bring it to the attention of your physician who can arrange the testing you need to know if it is important or not.
what is the normal adult heart rate during sex?
i am pretty sure nobody has looked at this question in a scientific fashion heretofore. i would guesstimate it fluctuates between 90-150 beats per minute depending on age medications used phase of arousal etc.
went to hospital cause of heart attack symptoms. my xray and labs came back ok but when i left my bp was 100/49. it normally is 90s/60s. what does that mean then?
bp values usually fluctuate 10+ points throughout the day so your values are part of the normal variation.
what could cause heart palpitations when lying flat on my back?
some times simply changing your bodies postion will shift the hearts position closer the the chest and make the pulse more palpable. lying flat can cause reflux which that irritates the heart and causes palpitations. especially pts with a large hiatal hernia. simple diagnostic evalluations such as a n upper gi study and a holter.
what should i do if my heart flutters uncontrollably?
many people will have an occasional skipping or racing of their heart. however if your heart races and you feel lightheaded short of breath sick to your stomach or have chest pains these could be warning signs of a more serious heart problem and i would suggest you call you doctor right away.
what should i do if my heart flutters uncontrollably?
palpitations/fluuters can come any time and it can be scary for some folks. at times we don't know why but sometimes there are reasons--anxiety/panic attacks thyroid disease medication side effects drug/alcohol use/abuse heart-attacks fever/infections heart-conductions problem excessive caffeine/stimulants etc. if persistent/concerning to you consult doc for an eval. good luck.
what could be the cause of a fast heart rate in a term fetus?
if the fetal heart rate remains above 160 beats per minute for over 10 minutes then fetal tachycardia is diagnosed. this can be due to maternal fever or fetal hyperthyroidism cardiac defect circulatory compromise excessive fetal activity (benign transient) cardiac failure or fetal tachyarrhythmia (atrial flutter fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia).
would it be good advice to do vagal maneuvers if someone is having a fast heart rate?
depends on the cause of the fast heart rate. if the rhythm is normal but fast the rate will simply slow and come right back (no net effect). same for atrial fib and flutter. but if the fast hr is due to pat/svt (atrial tachycardia) the vagal maneuver may break the rhythm and restore normal rate. it's worth a try. vagal maneuvers will have no effect on ventricular rhythms.
weird chest pain remains after several normal blood tests ekgs and chest xray?
most probably you may have esophageal spasm or acid reflux. since all tests for heart disease seems to have ruled out request your doctor to look for other possibilities.
i am experiencing what feels like heart flutters. they are random and infrequent mostly noticed at night. i have high bp but controlled with meds.
to see whether these are true cardiac arrhythmias have a 24 hour holter monitor done and write down when your symptoms occur. your md can arrange this.
what sort of problem is an atrial flutter?
atrial fluter less common than atrial fibrillation and is often a indcator of future atrial fibrillation onset. you may not notice them or you may feel a flutering in your chest. atrial flutter can be caused by scarring in the heart resulting from prior cardiac disease or heart surgery but it can also occur in some patients with no other identifiable heart problems.
what sort of problem is an atrial flutter?
a fl is a pathologic rhythm in which the atria beat at approx 300 times a minute and transmit these impulses to the ventricles in a ratio which is variable but often tends to be 2:1 resulting in a heart rhythm of about 150 bpm. treatment is individualized but usually includes anticoagulation and restoration of normal conduction.
which symptoms are associated with atrial fibrillation and flutter?
afib can cuase a variety of symptoms. palpatations or the feeling of the heart racing is common. pts may notice this at rest or with exercise. shortness of breathe also. if heart rate really fast may get dizzy. in extreme cases can get heart failure. pts without adequate blood thinning can have a stroke with afib also.
which symptoms are associated with atrial fibrillation and flutter?
palpitations shortness of breath lightheadedness are all common symptoms with either atrial fibrillation or flutter. other symptoms may be fatigue fast or irregular pulse leg swelling syncope or chest pain.
what is cardiac arrhythmia? is cardiac arrhythmia partly caused by water intoxication?
the normal heartbeat is from the sinus located in the top of the heart and is called normal sinus rhythm. an arrhythmia is anything other than sinus rhythm - supraventricular tachycardia (svt) atrial fibrillation atrial flutter ventricular tachycardia are all cardiac arrhythmias. they can cause fainting and worse up to and including death. water intoxication does not cause them. alcohol can.
why does my heart speed up when i stand up? my heart has been acting strange lately. when i am seated my heart beat is normal around 60 beats per minute. but when i stand it jumps to around 100 bpm. should i be worried about this?
when a person stands up it is normal for the heart rate to transiently increase but in your case this jump in heart rate is a bit more than expected. you may be dehydrated. when sitting blood pools in the legs. when a person stands the heart and blood vessels act in a coordinated way to compensate against gravity and maintain adequate blood flow to the brain. when adequately hydrated this is easy for the heart to accomplish and the change in heart rate is minimal. if a person is dehydrated a larger percentage of their blood is pooled in the legs and the upper body blood vessels are relatively depleted. the "tank is empty" so to speak. in this circumstance it is harder for the heart to compensate for the standing and in order to maintain an adequate amount of blood flow the heart has to speed up. try increasing your fluid intake and avoid excessive caffeine or alcohol both of which act as diuretics. if your symptoms do not improve see your doctor for further evaluation.
what causes atrial flutter? what is the cause of my atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter? will my condition go away on its own?
you have ventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? you have a little too much going on - you need to either buy a cardiology textbook or be under the regular care of a cardiologist!
what causes atrial flutter? what is the cause of my atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter? will my condition go away on its own?
the most common cause of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter is a history of high blood pressure (hypertension) and the conditions are both more common as people age. they can also be associated with other forms of structural heart disease and numerous other less common causes. without knowing more about you i cannot say why you specifically have it. atrial fibrillation and flutter are usually chronic conditions and do not spontaneously resolve. treatment option include simply controlling the heart rate since these rhythms tend to go fast (rate control strategy) or using medicines to try and maintain a normal sinus rhythm and keep the person out of atrial fibrillation or flutter (rhythm control strategy). there are also surgical and minimally invasive procedures that can be offered to try and cure the rhythm. it is also important to realize the both conditions can increase the risk of stroke and so many people take additional medicine to minimize this risk.
what causes heart palpitations and what do you do about it? i have had a problem for many years with heart palpitations. i know that caffeine is a real culprit and i try to stay away from it as much as i can. what else can i do?
if it's just a single out of place beat here or there it's just an irritable extra beat from either the top or bottom chambers. if it's a sustained thing with a fast run it's usu one of 3 different rhythms we collectively call svts. if it's all the time it could be inappropriate sinus tach atrial flutter or atrial fib. a cardiac electrophysiologist can help you get to the bottom of this.
i have sudden dizziness when i walk with burning sensation in my throught and vomiting and palpitation but i'm not pregnant what the possible diagnos?
not enough information to answer. the burning is probably some acid reflux before you vomit. if the dizziness is that severe to cause vomiting go see your pcp. many different causes to explore.
i struggle with moderate anorexia. what could cause my low blood pressure tachycardia and dizziness as well as fatigue?
low blood pressure tachycardia dizziness and fatigue are all symptoms of volume contraction. if you're not drinking enough as a result of or independently of the anorexia those symptoms will occur. liberalize your salt intake (eat potato chips! ) drink enough fluids to make your urine clear and avoid alcohol and caffeine. see if that helps?
i have pots i get chest pain like angina when exercising since 18 im 22. i've had ecg stress ecg echo cmri mr angiography. should i do any other?
assuming those tests were all normal (as i would expect in someone your age) i think it's clear that your heart is not the cause of your pain. it's time to investigate a different potential cause. the 2 usual suspects are musculo-skeletal and gastrointestinal. your pain could be due to gastritis esophageal reflux peptic ulcer disease etc. or fibromyalgia costochondritis myofascial syndrome.
is there any research between hormone fluctuations and pvcs/pacs. i get a lot 10 days before period and my heart is structurally healthy. very scared!
yes hormonal changes are frequent causes of extrasystoles.
i have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome and i hate the life it has given me. is there any help out there?
there is no great treatment other than salt and fluid the good news is at it gets better in most patients and rarely gets worse.
is it possible for someone to fluctuate between hypokalemia and normal levels such that it is not picked up by the bmp?
certainly possible if the level is fluctuating.
is it possible for someone to fluctuate between hypokalemia and normal levels such that it is not picked up by the bmp?
it is not uncommon. labs are not perfect and your body is constantly changing. just like any electrolyte it can be high low and normal from day to day.
is it possible for someone to fluctuate between hypokalemia and normal levels such that it is not picked up by the bmp?
very common. yes. be certain blood is drawn without tourniquet or squeezing hand which will falsely measure your k as normal when it is not. if you have primary aldosteronism you may be in early state. join our yahoo group (hyperaldoseronism) with 1 000 others for more information and help. of consult with me. this is all i do.
i had atrial fibrillation 4months ago dr found my thyroid levels were high am on flecainide 100mg thyroid level ok do i still need med. ?
fib is a progressive disease and tends to occur more the more you have it. the flecainide may be holding you in normal rhythm. you should also be on a medicine with a name ending in "-olol" like metoprolol (a beta blocker) or diltiazem or verapamil with that flec by the way. ask your cardiologist about why (rate control of flutter in a class ic agent).
is the come down off of adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) similar to the signs of a heart attack?
ok - let's ignore the fact that the phrasing means i'm almost certainly answering a question about illegal presc. drug abuse. no the come-off from amphetamines is usually marked by loss of energy depression of varying severities (depending on how much you've abused it) sleep disturbances etc. the heart attack symptoms (chest pain nausea flushing racing heart) usually come with the overdose.
i am 25 years old and am on metoprolol 100mg twice a day and florinef (fludrocortisone). will being on this much metoprolol at my age have harmful effects later on?
metoprolol has no accumulation or long term toxicity. countless people have taken it for decades to treat high blood pressure arrhythmias and/or coronary artery disease.
i had a cardiac ablation yesterday to correct avnrt. i have a little seeping from one of the catheter sites in the groin. is this ok?
it is not uncommon to have a little oozing or clear to blood-tinged fluid coming from the catheter insertion sites. watch for spreading bruising an expanding knot or numbness or severe pain in the leg.
i have had heart palpitaions for years and it happens whenever i am anxious. every emotion i get flutter and i am so sock of it. ?
sounds like generalized anxiety which is repeat episodes of excessive worry that occur more days than not. many symptoms from this condition are generated just by thinking of anticipated events. begin by scheduling a visit with your primary care physician to rule out other causes. if findings are unremarkable follow up with a mental health provider.
i have had heart palpitaions for years and it happens whenever i am anxious. every emotion i get flutter and i am so sock of it. ?
you are probably getting little surges of adrenaline most commonly due to low blood sugar. avoid the simple carbohydrates eat frequently like every 2-3 hours and exercise regularly. have a doctor check a 2 hour insulin resistance blood test. anxiety gives you more adrenaline as well. you probably get shakey irritable or cloudy thinking if you don't eat for awhile right?
i had mi 3years ago on holliday and got sunburnt lower legs and ankles ankles have swollen mostly my right is this from sunburn or heart failure?
swelling in one foot/leg is usually caused by something in your foot or leg; swelling in both feet/legs usually means fluid retention. in your case given your history it could be a combination. you gotta go see your md and get checked. it's important.
is it possible for atrial flutter to cause cardiac arrest?
cardiac arrest is a term when the heart can't pump any blood. atrial flutter rarely causes this problem unless there is very fast conduction into the lower part of the heart or if the atrial flutter degenerated into another rhythm condition (this may occur in patients with significant structural heart disease).
is it possible for atrial flutter to cause cardiac arrest?
atrial flutter is when the atrium beat 2 3 or 4 times for every time the heart beats. you run a small increased risk of stroke because blood will pool in the atrium and shoot to the brain later on. i have no heart of a case where aflutter caused a cardiac arrest.
i have dcm and bi vent pacemaker. is it possible that if i had too much salt i can have shortness of breath? within how many hours of eating?
by ventricular pacemaker can improve symptoms for up to 70% of people who receive one however it does not prevent heart failure from existing. if you eat too much salt your body will retain fluid the same way as any other heart failure patient. the effects are usually seen within 12 to 48 hours.
i have dcm and bi vent pacemaker. is it possible that if i had too much salt i can have shortness of breath? within how many hours of eating?
salt draws in fluid. people with dcm don't handle excess fluid well. that's why diuretics like lasix(furosemide) are used. if a single meal with extra salt causes you to tip over into decompensated chf you need an adjustment in your overall regimen. it's not a 1:1 ratio with a fixed time course like a the effects of a drug.
i am using beta blocker and calcium blocker with diuretics. now my blood pressure is reduced to the range of 95/60. please advise. reducing now dosage?
typically dosage reduction or medication cuts needed now. which/how much shoud be supervised by your doctor. in the short run avoiding the diuretic might reduce the risk of light headedness secondary to low bp or orthostasis on standing. drink plenty of fluids. beta blocker doses cut in half migh provide some additional cover as bp trends towards a new steady state.
i am on 50mg toprol (metoprolol) xl but still suffer from heart fluttering what can i do?
im assuming a full history and physical was done and secondary causes ruled out. you are going to be limited to some degree by bp and heart rate at base line. if your still having symptoms and the dose of toprol (metoprolol) is as high as can be tolerated by your heart rate and blood pressure then an eps study with possible ablation is the most definitive and effective aproach.
is it bad to drink alcohol if i have an atrial flutter of the heart?
it will increase the underling chances or recurring/increasing flutter.
i have an unusually fast heart rate for long periods of time. what is wrong?
what do you mean by "unusually fast hr"? causes of sinus (normal) tachycardia include:fever pain anxiety fatigue exercise dehydration caffeine asthma inhalers many other medicines and drugs hemorrhage anemia excess thyroid hormone; then there are abnormal rhythms such as atrial fibrillation or flutter pat/svt wpw and vt - there are many other possibilities. you need an ekg!
i had catheter ablation for svt and atrial flutter yesterday. should i feel a different heartbeat if i'm cured?
if you were constantly in an abnormal rhythm and the ablation was successful you should feel different. however if the rhythm was intermittent it may be more difficult to discern a difference.
i had catheter ablation for svt and atrial flutter yesterday. should i feel a different heartbeat if i'm cured?
some individuals do not have symptoms or feel their rhythm disturbance. others that do have palpitations or other symptoms often feel immediately better.
is it blood pressure or the medicine that is causing excessive amounts of fluid on my legs? currently taking carvedilol clonidine and furosemide.
the fluid may be a side effect of your heart working too hard to pump blood which is hypertension and the carvediol can also cause some swelling because it lowers your bp by dilating your arteries. the furosemide is to help get rid of the fluid no matter what the cause so talk to your doctor you may need a different dose.
is it blood pressure or the medicine that is causing excessive amounts of fluid on my legs? currently taking carvedilol clonidine and furosemide.
these two blood pressure pills are not considered common causes of leg swelling/edema thus you see your doctor to have further evaluation. there is "idiopathic edema" which basically means no known cause but you need to find out known causes first. compression stockings can help.
is it blood pressure or the medicine that is causing excessive amounts of fluid on my legs? currently taking carvedilol clonidine and furosemide.
there are some blood pressure medicines like amlodipine that can cause leg swelling. the three you listed from my experience shouldn't do that. there's probably some other process that's causing that.
is it blood pressure or the medicine that is causing excessive amounts of fluid on my legs? currently taking carvedilol clonidine and furosemide.
swelling of the legs can occur for a variety of reasons. someone on clonidine likely has had blood pressure that has been very difficult to control. this can stiffen or enlarge the heart & fluid can back up into the lungs or rest of body settling in the legs. congestive heart failure can do the same. lung diseases (eg. copd) can cause leg swelling. bad veins can. carvedilol and clonidine can too.
is it blood pressure or the medicine that is causing excessive amounts of fluid on my legs? currently taking carvedilol clonidine and furosemide.
these particular medicines do not usually cause significant leg swelling. of the 3 the carvedilol is the one that could. the other possibility you have to consider is that the condition that is being treated with these 3 medicines may be causing the problem. another possibility is the the veins in your legs are getting weak. a doctor's visit should be able to answer this question for you.
is it normal for me to have heart palpitations when yawning?
yawning can induce a temporary decreased heart rate (bradycardia) which may result in a premature beat felt as a flutter or palpitation in some people. if it last more than a couple of seconds or results in almost fainting rather than brief and symptom free a cardiac evaluation is indicated.
is there a way to treat heart arrhythmias and prevent heart failure?
you need to discuss with the doc. as to what arythmia it is first atrial fib /flutter or ventricular arythmias.
is a sinus tachycardia same thing as supraventricular tachycardia?
"supra-ventricular" means 'above the ventricle' and the sinus node is indeed above the ventricle so st is one type of svt. atrial fibrillation flutter ectopic atrial tachycardia all fit this description. usually when talking about svt (or psvt) we refer to a rhythm coming from another specific source such as a re-entry loop.
is there a difference between alcoholic cardiomyopathy and congestive cardiomyopathy?
alcohol causes direct toxicity to the heart and can cause weakening of the heart. this can cause fluid retention and congestion. however there are other types of heart weakening which can cause congestion. sometimes the weakening from alcohol improves after someone stops drinking.
is there a difference between alcoholic cardiomyopathy and congestive cardiomyopathy?
there are 2 major kinds of cardiomyopathy which literally means disease of heart muscle. one is obstructive (asymmetric septal hypertrophy or ash) and the other is congestive where heart muscle is weakened and fluid backs up into the lungs and body (congestive heart failure). alcohol is one kind of congestive cardiomyopathy - others are viral post-pregnancy and toxin-related.
is a rapid heart rate a symptom of congestive heart failure?
although the heart rate increases to compensate for inadequate pumping by the heart there are many more common reasons for a rapid heart rate. common symptoms of heart failure are fluid retention and difficulty breathing (particularly when lying flat).
is an aed useful in effectively treatment for sudden cardiac arrest to synchronize cardioversion?
aed effectively treats cardiac arrest if due to ventricular fibrillation by giving an unsynchronized shock once the aed machine recognizes the rhythm as v-fib. a more sophisticated machine is needed for a synchronized shock to convert from rhythms such as atrial fib or flutter to normal sinus.
i have heart flutters. it also feels like someone is squeezing or stepping on my chest. could this be digestive health related?
rule out cardiac etiology.
i have heart flutters. it also feels like someone is squeezing or stepping on my chest. could this be digestive health related?
although digestive disorders can be mistaken for heart they should not cause both heart flutters and chest squeezing go see a doctor about this.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
ablation can treat atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter but can also treat other conduction abnormalities such as wolf-parkinson-white (wpw) syndrome which involves an abnormal electrical connection between the atria and the ventricles of the heart.
i understand that atrial fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia. is ablation used to treat only afib or other arrhythmia conditions?
ablation is a procedure used to treat many different types of dysrhythmias; atrial fibrillation is only the latest in a long line of dysrhythmias treated successfully by ablation. ablative therapy has been used to treat supraventicular tachycardias such as av nodal reentrant tachycardia atrial flutter wolff-parkinson-white and others. it is also used to treat types of ventricular tachycardias.
i get heart flutters in the middle of the night that wake me up what should i do?
watch what you are eating and drinking and see if there is a pattern. if you eat certain foods or drinks you notice symptoms try to avoid triggers and see if symptoms improve. consider getting a heart monitor which will help to see what exactly is happening withyour heart when these symptoms are occuring so arrhythmias can be ruled out. try to avoid taking decongestants also.
i get heart flutters in the middle of the night that wake me up what should i do?
avoid alcohol and caffeine and illicit drugs and go see a doctor.
is there a relationship between heart burn and heart attack?
there's no known association between acid-reflux the condition that causes "heartburn" and heart attack. however the chest discomfort in these two conditions can mimic each other. for instance people with heartburn frequently feel more of a chest pressure tightness or pain than an actual "burning" and those with a heart attack may have classical reflux symptoms.
is there a relationship between heart burn and heart attack?
although the symptoms of one could be mistaken for the other heartburn and heart attack are unrelated. a heart attack occurs when heart muscle is damaged from sudden lack of blood flow. heartburn refers to he discomfort caused by acid refluxing from the stomach up into the esophagus.
is a heart rate over 100 bpm normal if you have the flu/fever?
in an adult tachycardia is defined as a heart rate above 100. fever can certainly increase your heart rate (as can many other things).
is a heart rate over 100 bpm normal if you have the flu/fever?
generally when you have a fever your heart rate increases drink plenty of fluids to keep hydrated and get plenty of bed rest if you are still concern see your doctor.
i have a swollen tonsil and extreme pain. should i go to the er? one of my tonsils is swollen my throat is swollen i am having a hard time breathing massive headaches - shooting pains. only on the right side of my head heart flutters and shakes. i h
trouble breathing can be a scary symptom and an emergency. if youfeel it is an emergency then definitely go to the er. a swollen tonsila nd sore throat can be as simple as a virus or can be serious. a full history would include how long youhave had these symptoms. if it is acute and accompanied by fever then you should see a primary care doctor for a possible strep throat. you doctor can determine if this is appropriate. if it has been there longer than 2-3 weeks is getting worse you have other lumps int he neck then you should go to your doctor to rule out other serious conditions.
i have a swollen tonsil and extreme pain. should i go to the er? one of my tonsils is swollen my throat is swollen i am having a hard time breathing massive headaches - shooting pains. only on the right side of my head heart flutters and shakes. i h
if you are having trouble breathing then it may be a good idea to go to an er (or urgent care clinic) to be seen sooner and to get an examination.
i am 20 and my pulse is 89 i gao into a car accident 2 days ago. i hit my head really hard and i n now i have really bad head ache blurry vision i feel very weak n really depress is this normal? or what shoul i do? also i feel my eyes very heavy n the
a concussion is a traumatic brain injury that impacts the way your brain functions - usually caused by a blow to the head but can also be caused by violent shaking. you don't need to lose consciousness to have a concussion. if your symptoms are worsening - you should definitely be checked out sooner rather than later. your severe headache and blurry vision is concern enough to go to the er. other reasons to seek emergency care are: -vomiting -worsening headache -confusion -loss of consciousness -slurred speech -changes in behavior such as increasing irritability or fussiness -worsening coordination such as trouble walking or clumsiness -seizures -changes in pupils such as one larger than the other -lasting or recurrent dizziness -blood or fluid coming from the nose or ears - large bumps or bruises on areas other than the forehead - especially in infants a good rule of thumb is when in doubt get it checked out!
i have an irregular heart beat i had a severe copd attack 2 weeks ago which i eneded up in the hospital. yesterday i went to the doctor for a follow up and the doctor noticed that i had a irregular heart beat (as high as 141 bpms) so she ordered a ekg
it is hard to know what kind of 'irregular heart beat' you have. if the rate was truly at 141 bpm (and that was more than a few beats) chances are it is a pathological cardiac arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation atrial flutter or multifocal atrial tachycardia. it is possible but unlikely that it is just sinus (normal) tachycardia but to drinking tea unless you were taking very large amounts or you copd is severe.
i have a pacemaker. but i am having trouble breathing when i lay down. what could it be?
it may mean that you have congestive heart failure i. e. extrafluid build u p in your body with leg swelling. when you sleep flat the fluid creeps up to the lungs making you short of breath. if you have edema you will need to control salt and water and take your water pills. other options are lung disease like asthma emphysema or pneumonia. it is imperative to check with doctor before emergency.
i have a pacemaker. but i am having trouble breathing when i lay down. what could it be?
sounds like it could be fluid overload or a problem with the heart muscle. it may be reasonable to get a clinical; exam chest xray and an echocardiogram. kidney and liver function need to be assessed as well.
i have been having heart palpitation in the evening should i be concerned? i have a pacemaker for bardycardia crohn's disease and high blood pressure. taking atenolol for blood pressure.
do not know if the sensation you are having is a fluttering feeling pounding skipping a beat beating rapidly etc. you have high blood pressure and take a medication which can effect pulse rate you also have a pacemaker which can effect your heart rate. if you are experiencing irregularities with your heart rhythm or beat recommend that you see your physician to determine the cause. he or she will like evaluate to determine if the palpitations are fairly benign in nature or if there is a more worrisome cause.
i have a 17 yr old boy that has had ablation for svt 2 years ago. is it possible that it did not take? he is having fluutering shortness of breath chest pains high blood pressure fast heart rate.
he might have had an incomplete ablation of the accelerated site of conduction or he may have a secondary focci not detected on the first study. he definitely needs to have eps re-evaluation.
i have a 17 yr old boy that has had ablation for svt 2 years ago. is it possible that it did not take? he is having fluutering shortness of breath chest pains high blood pressure fast heart rate.
it is possible that one can have recurrent problems after an ablation. best to see a cardiologist who specializes in electrophysiology. he would be able to arrange monitoring which will capture any episodes of rapid heart rhythms so that appropriate treatment can be undertaken.
if i develop dilated cardiomyopathy how will it be treated?
beta blockers ace inhibitors/ arb agents plus aldosterone inhibitor (spironolactone or eplerenone) are mainstay. in addition based upon amount of fluid retention a loop diuretic such as furosemide is added. devices such as icd (implantable defibrillator) and crt (cardiac resynchronization therapy) is appropriate in some patients. salt restriction and exercise program helps.
i need a straight answer. what is restrictive cardiomyopathy?
restrictive cardiomyopathy is a disorder of cardiac muscle marked by impaired (diastolic) filling of the ventricle. cardiac output (the amount of blood pumped) falls. the syndrome of congestive heart failure marked by shortness of breath and fluid retention can result. the national library of medicine has a nice summary at: <link>
is a v fib where the bottom of the heat flutters and the blood does not go to the rest of the body considered a heart attack?
ventricular fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythm) that can result from a heart attack. a heart attack implies a blockage of one of the coronary arteries resulting in lack of blood supply (and oxygen) to a portion of the heart. however ventricular fibrillation has many other potential causes.
is a v fib where the bottom of the heat flutters and the blood does not go to the rest of the body considered a heart attack?
ventricular fibrillation or vfib means bottom chambers of the heart fibrillate not flutter however flutter would lead to vfib. a heart attack or myocardial infarction may lead to vfib. however vfib may happen without heart attack.
is a v fib where the bottom of the heat flutters and the blood does not go to the rest of the body considered a heart attack?
it is not a heart attack. it is a serious and potentially fatal arrhythmia. it can lead to a heart attack or be a warning sign for high risk of heart attack.
i am having what feels like fluttering. heart palpitations?
everyone feels their heart "skip pound flutter quiver " or even race sometimes. it doesn't necessarily indicate a problem but if it becomes frequent bothersome or occurs with dizziness passing out chest pain or trouble breathing it's time to get it checked out.
i am having what feels like fluttering. heart palpitations?
you should be evaluated with a history and physical exam. in addition an ekg and perhaps a 24hour recording (holter monitor) would be useful to characterize the cause and help to decide if any treatment is necessary. it may be helpful to avoid excess caffeine and alcohol.
is atrial fibrillation or flutter a more serious condition?
atrial fibrillation and flutter are both common arrythmias. flutter tends to degenerate into fibrillation; the difference is that flutter tends to be regular and fibrillation irregular. generally speaking irregular is worse than regular because there is a higher risk of clots forming in the heart which can then cause strokes and other potential problems. most flutter will become fibrillation.
is atrial fibrillation or flutter a more serious condition?
they both are risk factors for stroke and can cause similar symptoms. the main difference is that flutter is easy to cure by ablation.
i am having esophageal spasms in waves. i know i am not having a heart attack. i take hyocyamine for colon spasms. what else can i do?
can ask your gastroenterologist for nitroglycerin sublingual or spray. . also avoid causes of esophageal spasms such as too hot or too cold foods or liquids. anti-reflux precautions also.
i was treated with valium for alcohol and heart attack. allergic to the dye and flushed at hospital with large amount of fluids. i am in a program and had three urine tests. results 1 creatine-20 benzos-60----2 creatine-65 benzos-1335----3 creatine-260 b
why you would be tested for drugs after a heart attack i don't know. however if you were treated with valium by doctors this is not "failing" a drug test. when you first get a drug it has not been metabolized yet and drug tests measure the metabolites usually not the parent drug. so a test becomes more positive as you metabolize more of the drug which takes time. initial urine was dilute.
i was treated with valium for alcohol and heart attack. allergic to the dye and flushed at hospital with large amount of fluids. i am in a program and had three urine tests. results 1 creatine-20 benzos-60----2 creatine-65 benzos-1335----3 creatine-260 b
hello. your logic sounds correct. your first result had a creatinine of 20 which is exactly at the cut off level for most labs. most labs classifiy specimens with creatinine less than 20 mg/ml and specific gravity less than 1. 003 as diluted samples. thus your level was still very diluted; even though it met the actual cutoff score. as your creatinine levels rise there will be less dilution of the benzodiazapine and so the values will be more accurate. normal creatinine ranges for males is about 44 to 250 mg/ml and normal specific gravity is 1. 002 - 1. 030.
i feel a strange fluttering in my chest and just sometimes. could this be atrial fibrillation?
however there are many other types of arrhythmias that could cause the same symptoms. also fluttering in the chest may not be even due to an arrhythmia. go see a doctor.
i feel a strange fluttering in my chest and just sometimes. could this be atrial fibrillation?
you can feel your pulse to see if it's irregular during an episode. sometimes what is called an event monitor can be placed to capture the heart's rhythm and have it analyzed by a cardiologist. you should have this evaluated since intermittent atrial fibrillation can lead to stroke and other serious problems.
i've been having bad chest pain and having a hard time breathing. doctor said ekg and chest x-ray look ok and that im fine the pain is getting worse?
i think we can say that your evaluation is not done since no explanation was found. if you're still having chest pain more eval is needed. consider a cardiac stress test a test for gastroesophageal reflux a test for the gastritis germ h pylori a test of your oxygen saturation a test for cardiac and other muscle proteins and tests for rheumatologic conditions (ana esr crp etc. ).
i have been having fluctuation chest pain i had a heart attack in 2003 and the pain was nearly identical to this except this is not constant like then. i have also been short of breath sick to my stomach and clammy. what do you think it might be a
if the chest pain is similar to previous proven chest pain from heart then it has a high likelihood that it is again. shortness of breath is frequently related to heart disease. nausea less so but can. cardiology is the discipline to assess for you. soon is recommended.
i have been having fluctuation chest pain i had a heart attack in 2003 and the pain was nearly identical to this except this is not constant like then. i have also been short of breath sick to my stomach and clammy. what do you think it might be a
by the date of this post almost a week has passed. i hope you have seen your doctor by now. if not it is imperative you do so right away. chest pain in anyone is serious especially someone who has heart disease and a previous heart attack. for the future or for anyone reading this text if you have chest pain you need to seek medical care right away. lastly make sure you are following up with your doctor regularly to manage high cholesterol and other issues that may be present. take care.
i have both premature ventricular contraction and mitral valve prolapse so am i at an increased risk for something bad?
at risk for cardiac arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats) such as atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter with rapid ventricular rate which could lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation which can be fatal.
if a person has hypertension (160-19<negative_smiley>75-91) shortness of breath and a fib is on metoprolol and coversyl 4 mg daily what else could you do?
the shortness of breath suggest the possibility of left sided heart failure (pulmonary edema). if this was the case then a diuretic medication that would reduce the fluid in the lungs and potentially reduce the high systolic blood pressure would be advised.
is supraventricular tachycardia (svt) in fetus deadly?
whether supraventricular tachycardia (svt) causes problems in a fetus depends on how often and for how long the fetus remains in svt and on the rate of the svt (how fast). typically if a fetus is having problems with svt a fetal cardiac ultrasound will detect that the heart function is declining and there may be evidence for abnormal fluid collections (so called non-immune hydrops).
i am on the beta-blocker pindolol and was wondering if i do drink what effects would it cause?
although there are no drug interactions listed for pindolol & ethanol (drinking alcohol) it is never a good idea to mix medications with alcohol. take all meds with full glass of water to be sure the med gets into the stomach (some can be very irritating to esophagus). alcohol & beta blockers (pindolol) can irritate stomach or worsen acid reflux.
i have been having heart fluttering and a numb left arm? big deal or not?
those are symptoms that should be evaluated. there are so many causes. some are serious some are not.
is methathione ok with rheumatic heart disease?
it should not necessarily influence rheumatic heart disease one way or the other. the question is why are you taking this natural amino acid? is this a dietary supplement or do you know something about it that most doctors do not?
i have tachycardia chest pain that radiates between my shoulders nausea could this be angina or symptoms of heartattack?
but given your age it is unlikely a "heartattack" or "angina". your symptoms should be evaluated by an in office visit. certain abnormal heart rhythms are possible or even non-heart related conditions such as gastroesophageal reflux disease and even anxiety and stress may trigger such symptoms. go get checked.
i am 7 weeks pregnant and am having occasional palpitations. feels like skipped beat. mostly while laying down. hr 60. is this normal?
this happens often - avoid stimulants (caffeine) drink plenty of fluids and try lying on your side. discuss with your doctor the next time you go in. if you have chest pain shortness of breath or other symptoms seek care.
i feel my heart rate slow down when i go to bed a night. is that because i am fit?
everyone heart rate slows down at night because there is withdrawal of sympathetic forces and increase parasympathetic influence. a personal who is fit will start out with a slower hr and will slow down even further.
if my heart rate slowed right down i felt dizzy had waves of flushes through body what happened?
this response is similar to what may happen when someone stands up too quickly from a seated or lying position has been standing in one place too long or is significantly dehydrated. basically the triggering stimulus produces a simultaneous increase in parasympathetic tone (decreased heart rate and contractility) and withdrawal of sympathetic tone (low blood pressure) that may cause fainting.
i have frequent heart fluttering andextreme neck and shoulder pain. what should i do?
heart fluttering doesn't cause neck or shoulder pain. you need to have an evaluation of both problems.
if i have a history of atrial fibrillation and tachycardia is it bad that my heart rate has been 144 all day?
sounds like atrial flutter especially if your heart rate is almost invariate at that rate. further testing would be required but if the diagnosis is flutter an electrophysiologist could help you bid that problem goodbye for life. at the very least you could get to the bottom of the diagnosis.
i have been short of breath with head and ear congestion i have had xrays and ekg what causes this i am a 27 year old female?
if you are young and otherwise healthy it is likely a viral syndrome. this may be related to associated reactive airways disease or a possible pericardial effusion (fluid around the heart). a possible but less likely scenario may be an associated weakness of the heart muscle. would rec. an md with great physical diagnosis skills and possibly an echocardiogram (ultrasound of the heart).
is it possible to have had a heart attack without any symptoms?
or at least symptoms that are mild enough to be ignored. we can see evidence of prior heart attacks without the patient having any knowledge of having one. some diseases like diabetes blunt symptoms and some people have atypical symptoms that mimic acid reflux or other conditions.
i am heat sensitive and have been for years it makes my heart beat fast and makes me feel tired and panicky thyroid normal am 37 low bp?
if you're heat sensitive tired with low bp consider dehydration. two major causes: sweating and not drinking enough? (if you have other fluid losses like diarrhea vomiting or bleeding they would also contribute to your symptoms). panicky does not fit- you may have two distinct issues. uncontrolled diabetes the rare entity diabetes insipidus and some drugs could contribute.
i have a fluttering feeling in my chest. it comes and goes. it almost feels like a rapid heart beat but i checked my pulse and it doesn't seem to be beating to fast?
you may need an ecg or an event monitor to figure out exactly what you have. it could be atrial fib or flutter or svt or ventricular tachycardia.
i have a fluttering feeling in my chest. it comes and goes. it almost feels like a rapid heart beat but i checked my pulse and it doesn't seem to be beating to fast?
a full history and physical along with labs and a 12 lead ecg should be done. a 48 hr holter if it occurs frequently or a 30 day event recorder if its intermittent. a 2d echo will tell if heart is structually normal. if symptoms occur with activity a stress echo can be done.
i am a 23 year old woman. i been having chest pains since february. i don't want to consider it being a heart attack. last time i told my doctor this she said i'm too young to have a heart attack? if its not a heart attack than what could it be? i do not
differential diagnosis spans from serious problems like pulmonary embolism pneumothorax cardiomyopathy congenital disorders etc to things such as gastric acid reflux or musculoskeletal pain which are by far the most common. also asthma and anxiety. a thorough physical exam and a few simple tests should help you. and if you have had this pain since feb makes it less likely to be really bad.
i'm being weaned off metoprolol after being on it for 2 years for hbp. i was taking 50mg morning 50 at night. now on 25mg just at night. dizzy spells?
dizzy spells can have a number of causes including tapering off metoprolol. however more information is needed such as current blood pressure other medications new medications recently started other disease processes going on or even recent colds and flu's. all of these can play a role in dizziness. best to follow up with your doctor so that he or she can examine you and find a cause.
i've been getting bad lightheaded spells thought to be autonomic dysfxn by neuro md. my mri was neg. salt & florinef (fludrocortisone) don't help. prednisone 10 mg does. help!?
autonomic dysfunction can be difficult to treat & debilitating. it is more frequent in parkinson's disease or long standing diabetics. talk with your physician to understand more.
in hospital for chest pain. ekg heart uktrasound bloodwork and xrays cane back normal. poss. pain from belly. whats next that dr might try?
look for other causes such as esophageal spasms acid reflux ulcers in stomach hiatal hernia etc. your doctor will do appropriate tests.
if heart palpitations are safe for a healthy person are they also considered safe for somebody born with a congenital heart defect?
palpitations are you simply feeling an extra early beat. we all have them and they are usually not a problem. usually. if you get dizzy with them have fainted after having them or you feel like your heart is twitching of fluttering rather that a few beats here and there. then that's worrisome. if you were my kid i'd place a 24 hour holter monitor. it's like a continuous ecg.
i had asd repair as an infant. i have tricuspid regurgitation low bp high pulse fluid retention and chest heaviness. i have to take a lot of deep breaths what should i do?
you need to touch base with your primary care provider to he/she can get you to see your cardiologist. you need to have a functional assessment of your heart.
i had asd repair as an infant. i have tricuspid regurgitation low bp high pulse fluid retention and chest heaviness. i have to take a lot of deep breaths what should i do?
see a cardiologist who will get an echocardiogram & consult with you.
i had asd repair as an infant. i have tricuspid regurgitation low bp high pulse fluid retention and chest heaviness. i have to take a lot of deep breaths what should i do?
your history of surgery puts you at risk for many post-surgical issues. you may have abnormal heart rhythms your heart function may be decreased to name just a few. you need to see a cardiologist to help determine what is going on and how to help treat you.
i had asd repair as an infant. i have tricuspid regurgitation low bp high pulse fluid retention and chest heaviness. i have to take a lot of deep breaths what should i do?
sounds like you have significant right heart disease and you may have to get your tricuspid valve repaired.
i walked 5 miles today at a fast rate and afterwards was very dizzy. my heart rate was 90 and bp 110/60. what could cause this?
you probably became dehydrated hence the somewhat low blood pressure and mild-moderately rapid heart rate. best course in future is pre-walk hydration and possibly during walk hydration. include electrolytes in your fluids to keep the fluid in your circulation.
i'm getting a lot of palpitations i also have gerd could gerd cause palpitaions?
anything that causes adrenaline release (like pain from reflux) can exacerbate palpitations.
i had a chemical stress test this afternoon. my heart is racing still and i am very flushed. is that normal?
chemical stress tests w dobutamine can cause heart racing but the dobutamine typically wears off quickly. lexiscan or adenosine usually slow the heart rate. let your doctor know. rarely an arrhythmia like atrial fibrillation can occur w a chemical stress test and persist after w fast heart rate (irregular ) and possibly flushing.
is there a common description of heart palpitations? could they be consistent with regular twitching in the upper left side of the chest?
i have many different descriptions. . the only description i can give from personal experience is a hard pounding that feels slow (random occurrence) or a light fluttering that feels fast (often when i lay on left side). i have never had an ekg echo or any other heart eval though. i am the doc here just describing personal experience. too much caffeine.
i have svt and heart palpitations currently on atenolol and verapamil. is it safe to get flu shot?
no interactions b/t the meds and influenza vaccine.
i am a 65 years old male. i had a colonoscopy last wednesday and all went well. however starting on friday ihave had several periods of arrhythmia. what should i do?
chances are that your electrolytes got a bit out of wack when you drank all that stuff to clean yourself out for the colonoscopy. that liquid pulls thing including water through your intestines and washes out electrolytes along the way. sodium potassium calcium and magnesium levels could be off. drink plenty of fluids electrolyte containing eat bananas and oranges.
i have achy dull chest pain every once in a while lasting usually about 5 minutes if that. exercise does not worsen itpacs &pvcs at times; ekg normal.?
your pain is not anginal in character so it is not likely to be do to coronary artery disease. the underlying cause of your extra heartbeats should be clarified by a careful listening for a heart murmur check of your blood pressure careful taking of your history and perhaps an echocardiogram. your esophagus could be another source of pain (inflammation or reflux of stomach acid).
i have a sharp pain in my chest it comes and go. i once experience something like heart attack but i thought it happened because i slept angry.?
could be anxiety reflux heartburn lung problem irritation of sternum or heart. since your young probably reflux but i don't know your history. would monitor make appt with primary doc to get ekg and see. if you have any worsening symptoms like difficulty breathing or increasing chest pain go to er.
is it true that by taking flu shots you can reduce the risk of heart attack?
does reduce risk of flu which has a significant mortality usually from lung complications or sepsis. a few may die of heart secondary to lungs if they had pre-existing heart disease.
is it true that by taking flu shots you can reduce the risk of heart attack?
you can prevent the flu but a heart attack is due to underlying coronary artery disease. if you have significant coronary disease and acquire the flu it could possibly lead to a heart attack but at your age it would be highly unlikely. preventing the flu is important no matter what age you are so get a flu vaccine every year to reduce your risk.
i am a 44 year old male who is on beta pace for afib and aflutter. i'm lethargic and am having leg pain headache and dizziness. thoughts? thanks!
sotalol may slow heart rate and creates some of symptoms described monitoring or ecg may be useful
i am a 44 year old male who is on beta pace for afib and aflutter. i'm lethargic and am having leg pain headache and dizziness. thoughts? thanks!
consider getting the a. fib. /flutter permanently ablated by an electrophysiologist. betapace (sotalol) can cause all of the side effects you are describing.
i had a flutter for about one second. i was under some stress that day. went to my pcp had a ecg done normal. do i need to worry.?
if it recurs do a holter monitor!
is clonidine 0. 1mg tizandine 2mg hydrocodone/acetaminophen clonazepam amlodipine besylate losatan? hctz 100/12. 5 mg dexilant (dexlansoprazole) beta blockers?
if the question was "are these beta blockers" the answer is no. you have quite a list of meds though. it looks like you have blood pressure pain muscles spasms anxiety and reflux covered though.
i had endiscopy echo stress test several ecg blood tests. all normal. no boday explained why i have weird gas like movements around my heart?
since your heart is good you may have acid reflux from your stomach which can mimic heart symptoms (and vice versa). you could have muscle strain in your breast bone or sternum although this is less likely to cause your symptoms. you could try something otc like ranitidine 150 mg twice a day for a week or so but you should really see your primary care doctor for additional follow up.
i have the flu. been sick for 5 days. no more fever but feel horrible extremely dizzy- feel like i will pass out- and heart palpitations. er? !
most viral illness syndromes resolve within a week if you are getting worse not better and feel like passing out get checked out.
i'm 10wks pregnant type 1 diabetic and have been having heart fluttering/palpitations. very frequent today?
dm and pregnancy spells high risk. close follow up with your doc is important!
i have had a pain in my chest off and on for a few years and i also have carpel tunnel and a glomus tumor. i've had ecg. it was fine. what could it be.?
the most worrisome chest pains are those that take your breath away are very severe make you sweat or come with a sense of fear. other causes of recurrent chest pain range from stitch from a fold in the pleura (knifelike on breathing) to acid reflux to a host of musculoskeletal troubles. a normal ekg while resting and not in discomfort does not rule out coronary disease. good luck on search.
i was on bisoprolol 10mg as diagnosed with innapropriate sinus tachycardia had to drop to 5mg was making me ill what other meds for ist?
perhaps taking another look would be fruitful. heart rate is influenced by multiple neuroendocrine factors some of which are uncommon. a careful history physical exam and specific blood and urine tests might provide an answer as to the cause; this could be helpful in providing a clue as to the therapeutic options. an experienced internist cardiologist or endocrinologist might be helpful.
is miralax (polyethylene glycol) safe for long term use? i have chronic constipation and doc wants me to take miralax (polyethylene glycol) everyday. i also have chronically low potassium
fluids. eat a high fiber diet between 20-25 grams per day regular meal times and drink 80-100 oz of caffeine free alcohol free fluids daily. if you exercise and should add 20 oz per 30 minutes of strenuous exercise. some meds contribute to constipation so take the meds with full glass of fluid instead of a sip in addition to the above recommended fluids.
i have connective tissue disease. my chest x-ray showed slightly enlarged pulmonary artery. the symptoms are occasional sob heart palpitations bad dizziness andintermittent chest pain. the symptoms come and go to extreme. i am having tte next. cause?
the options are so big hard to answer. perhaps the symptos are not cardiac but a combination of anxiety and cardiac working together? how's sleep? try prilosec won't hurt see if reflux contributing. is dizziness related to blood pressure? are you tall linky see marfans' syndrome. did u mean tee for the next test? it's complex but treating reflux anxiety and mood during workup may help.
i have smpytoms of almost passing out my cheeks get flushed i can hear my heart beat and i get short winded and my energy idrained?
please see my previous answer to you - you need to see a cardiologist.
i am having heart attack symptoms could it be anxiety or my acid reflux?
yes the symptoms could be medically based and/or have a psychological component; suggest individual see pcp first & if recommended a cardiologist; if not medical see a mental health prof. to evaluate for possible anxiety stress &/or depression.
i am having heart attack symptoms could it be anxiety or my acid reflux?
remember a heart attack is an occlusion of a coronary artery and doesn't mean cardiac arrest. if you develop sudden crushing chest pain not relieved with rest you may be having a heart attack. seek urgent medical attention. chest pain associated with activity could be angina and you should be checked out.
i just got told i have fluid in my ears i feel pressure in my face but the weirdest part is i felt palpitations i feel dehydrated can this be the caus?
a pulse in your ear is known as "pulsating" or "vascular" tinnitus. chronic inflammation or infection of the middle ear. middle-ear effusion (fluid). this the common usually cause that.
is it normal for my qt interval on ecg to fluctuate between 300-350 everytime i have an ecg? is this too short?
see my answer on short qt interval. if symptomatic see an ep cardiologist!
im taking sotalol at the moment for atrial flutter but it's constantly making me dizzy and on the verge of fainting. should i consult my cardiologist?
absolutely. sotalol is a drug for atrial fib. it could cause other type of sometimes serious rhythm disturbance. if you are dizzy it is possible that your heart beat is slow. you need to see your cardiologist. if you have blood pressure calf check your bp & your pulse when you feel dizzy.
im taking sotalol at the moment for atrial flutter but it's constantly making me dizzy and on the verge of fainting. should i consult my cardiologist?
you may be having more effects from the agent causing the symptoms.
i have heart attack symptoms pain in the middle of my chest and pain in the neck and jaw. could this be some other cause?
but the risks are higher to ignore the cardiac potential. hiatal hernia esophagitis reflux cholecystitis can all mimic heart symptoms.
i keep feeling fluttering in my chest. i have had an ekg done at the doctors and it shows normal. it feels like my heart is having trouble beating.
the key question is whether the ecg was done when you were having your symptoms. if not you should get a longer term monitor like a 24 hour holter monitor or a 30 day event monitor. this will allow the cause of palpitations to be determined and a treatment recommended.
i keep feeling fluttering in my chest. i have had an ekg done at the doctors and it shows normal. it feels like my heart is having trouble beating.
if you had a normal ekg while the symptoms were occurring then this is nothing to worry about. if there is just a single flutter or sensation of a single extra beat and you have no trouble with exercise then it is very likely benign but if the sensation lasts longer it might be worthwhile to have a holter or event monitor placed.
i have afib episodes every few months. should i have ablation before it gets to be more frequent or persistent?
you're asking a *very* smart but complicated question. afib is an incompletely understood disease process and because of this the treatment of it is actively in flux with new technologies under development all the time. each ablation permanently destroys a certain amount of atrium and docs get more aggressive with each subseq. attempt. new technologies are getting better at persistent cases. <negative_smiley>.
i have had facial flushing for the past 6 months. gall bladder removed 1 week ago. flushing still pain in mid back. palpitations. no carcinoid. help?
go to see a rheumatologist he or she can sort it out for you. good luck!
i have had facial flushing for the past 6 months. gall bladder removed 1 week ago. flushing still pain in mid back. palpitations. no carcinoid. help?
you may want to ask your doctors about esophageal spasm. you would need high resolution esophageal manometry and maybe an upper gi contrast study to find out. at least you know it's not the gallbladder.
i have 2 of woman heart attack symptoms pain in the middle of my chest and pain in the neck and jaw. could this be some other cause?
but that is by exclusion. get the heart checked now. if normal then the diagnostician can pursue gallbladder gastro reflux hiatal hernia dental or other symptomatic situations.
i ve had idiopathic recurrent hives for months my most rcent blood work shows high potassium could they be connected?
the high potassium is a fluke if the blood sample was not processed adequately or delayed. it is not related to hives that are usually of unknown cause and are frustrating. you need to treat them as they come and i hate to say it learn to live with them.
is high blood pressure and palpitations normal two days after carotid body paraganglioma surgery?
possible. there is a rich neural supply at the bifurcation of the carotid where your surgeon would have removed your tumor. there can be fluctuations in heart rate and blood pressure when this area is manipulated but it is best if you are evaluated by your surgeon.
i have resting heart rate-90-120 loud systolic heart murmur breathlessness lung function just below 80% + nausea/reflux. what cud be wrong? age 21.
those findings could be associated with a number of heart problems. you should see a dr. and be evaluated.
i have resting heart rate-90-120 loud systolic heart murmur breathlessness lung function just below 80% + nausea/reflux. what cud be wrong? age 21.
the murmur may indicate a valve problem or a septal defect (hole in the heart) or another congenital heart abnormality. an echocardiogram would be a good place to start after an examination.
i was told that because of the vagus nerve that gerd can cause a fast heart rate. is that true?
a rapid heart rate is not in general a part of gastroesophageal reflux disease syndrome. the vagus nerve does have a proximity to the area but is not usually affected by what is going on with esophageal reflux.
i get flutters n heart palpitations n missed heart beats when i make love when i'm anxious or nervous. no pain nothing. is this normal?
relax and enjoy life. you are fine. good luck!
i get flutters n heart palpitations n missed heart beats when i make love when i'm anxious or nervous. no pain nothing. is this normal?
see a cardiologist for evaluation and work up.
i've had n ekg n it checkout fine n the sound of my heart it's fine. why do i get flutters skip beats vibrations feelings fast n slow beats?
ask your doctor about holter monitor.
i've had n ekg n it checkout fine n the sound of my heart it's fine. why do i get flutters skip beats vibrations feelings fast n slow beats?
an ekg only captures a few heartbeats. if you are having heart palpitations you should tell your primary care doctor. s/he can arrange for you to have a test called a 24 hour halter monitor. you wear a device for an entire day and it captures every heartbeat and can help to prove or disprove the presence if an irregular heartbeat aka an arrhythmia.
i have multifocal pvcs. can my ep fone am ablation?
pvcs can be normal or marker for more serious disorder. since they are multifocal very unlikely to be able to find a location to ablate. if the heart is structurally normal no coronary disease electrolytes normal and no drug influence they may be ok as is.
i read that multifocal pvcs are usually in a diseased heart. but my dr is not worries about mine. should i be concerned? can ablation be performed?
pvcs can be normal or marker for more serious disorder. since they are multifocal very unlikely to be able to find a location to ablate. if the heart is structurally normal no coronary disease electrolytes normal and no drug influence they may be ok as is.
i felt induce tachycardia and mild chest pain when im on workout after a month off with it. is it angina? or is it normal uncondition for workout?
doubtful you have coronary disease at 29 but nothing is impossible. may be a bit exaggerated for only one month without exercise - unless had been bed-ridden. many other causes as well dehydration acid reflux pulmonary emboli . as will all chest pain - if in doubt best to have it checked out at least once. hard to say without ecg further history and perhaps additional tests.
i've suffered pvc's for years but i had just had one with pain as the pvc happened seconds after i had warm flush feeling through out my body. help?
pvc's are not felt as pain. usualy is a feeling of skipping a beat bubble in chest or neck but most often no symptoms at all. the pain may be related to inflamation of the linnig of the structures in the chest. the warm feeling may be a reaction to pain but of course other things may be goin on. get a consultation with your pc. ( do you smoke? ).
i've suffered pvc's for years but i had just had one with pain as the pvc happened seconds after i had warm flush feeling through out my body. help?
your cardiologist. most young people with arrhythmias have benign conditions unless accompanied by symptoms such as chest pain dizziness passing out vomiting etc. perhaps you may need more work-up like electrophysiologic studies to determine the exact nerve conduction in your heart or it could just be anxiety/panic attack as your history suggests. bless you!
i've been experiencing a fluttering sensation in my chest (i suppose where the sternum is) for the past two weeks. heart palpitations?
these are caused by many things. stress excitement irritants both physical and chemical pressure like a hiatal hernia or esophageal push or pull and primary heart things the causes are very many in number.
i went to my doctor office and she refer me to a cardiologist for irregular heart beat what does this mean?
your doctor cares for you. symptoms of "irregular heart beat"/palpitation/flutter are commonly encountered in clinical practice and may be benign. your doctor will perform an ecg as a way of trying to determine what may be causing your symptoms. your doctor may not feel comfortable with the findings on the ecg and will then ask a cardiologist's help in deciding what it is or isn't.
i am a 26 year old male 6'6'' 300 lbs. i've been having left chest pain and left arm numb followed by strong burp. ekg and nuke stress neg. any ideas?
yes -- you may have gerd or reflux esophagitis giving chest pain that radiates to the left arm just like cardiac angina -- take some prilosec once or twice a day for about a week -- hope you feel better.
i've had chest xray ekg n the doctor says heart is fine n strong but here lately i've had chest pains seems like the more i do it hurts?
chest pain associated with activities can still be heart condition acid reflux complicateted with esophageal spasm asthma/reactive airway disease chest wall pain. a stress test could be indicated even with normal ecg depending on your risk assessment. talk to your doctor.
i have tachycardia. recieving fluids through an i. v. always slowed my heart rate even tho i was not dehydrated. why is this? this is b4 i was on meds.
most likely you were given medicine through the iv such as adenosine or diltiazem. the iv fluid is used just to provide vascular access.
i'm 21 and since a bad flu 3 months ago i've been having tachycardia and extreme exercise intolerance. ekgs echo and troponins have been normal but potassium is low despite high dietary intake. causes?
you may have a problem with potassium (k) wasting possibly by your kidneys. if you had no wasting of k k supplements would have elevated your blood k level. see a nephrologist to rule out a renal cause of k loss. good luck.
i'm 21 and since a bad flu 3 months ago i've been having tachycardia and extreme exercise intolerance. ekgs echo and troponins have been normal but potassium is low despite high dietary intake. causes?
low potassium could certainly be the problem. if diet alone hasn't worked you may need further workup to find out why and you likely will need your doctor to prescribe a potassium supplement.
i'm 21 and since a bad flu 3 months ago i've been having tachycardia and extreme exercise intolerance. ekgs echo and troponins have been normal but potassium is low despite high dietary intake. causes?
but these will not do you much good without the ability to obtain a thorough history perform a detailed exam have access to all your prior medical records and do testing. you need to see a general internist or a kidney specialist and do it soon. the list of possible causes is too long to list here. please be seen and get better soon.
i'm 21 and since a bad flu 3 months ago i've been having tachycardia and extreme exercise intolerance. ekgs echo and troponins have been normal but potassium is low despite high dietary intake. what could be the causes?
sounds like you have had a work up to rule out heart problems but probably are out of shape and need to rehab back.
i'm 21 and since a bad flu 3 months ago i've been having tachycardia and extreme exercise intolerance. ekgs echo and troponins have been normal but potassium is low despite high dietary intake. what could be the causes?
data (ekgs echocardiogram cardiac enzyme studies) suggest a negative workup for cardiac injury. rapid heart beat (tachycardia) and decreased aerobic capacity may or may not be related to your earlier illness. in any event it sounds like you're already being evaluated for these symptoms & that's great! dehydration fever or simple loss of aerobic capacity due to the flu are all possibilities.
i'm 21 and since a bad flu 3 months ago i've been having tachycardia and extreme exercise intolerance. ekgs echo and troponins have been normal but potassium is low despite high dietary intake. what could be the causes?
it seems that your heart appears to be normal. perhaps your symptoms are related to your low potassium (k) levels. you are taking adequate amounts of k and still have low levels. it is time that you go to a nephrologist (n) to see why you k is low. you could have a kidney problem making you lose k or you could have a low magnesium level which also is associated with a low k. see a n about your k.
i'm 21 had angina-like pains when running all my life. since a flu 3 months ago been experiencing breathlessness and palps; i'm almost immobile. ekgs echo blood tests normal. could it still be heart?
look for other causes such as thyroid and adrenal disease as well as other possibles. the fact that it only exercise induced may be important. consider asking as a stress echo.
i'm 21 had angina-like pains when running all my life. since a flu 3 months ago been experiencing breathlessness and palps; i'm almost immobile. ekgs echo blood tests normal. could it still be heart?
or holter moniter? these are 2 other tests i would do before giving you the all clear!
i experience sudden weight gain head ache and palpitation. is there something wrong with me?
sudden weight gain is usually fluid retention. the headache could be related and the palpitation also. would recommend getting checked out.
i'm 39 weeks pregnant and at my last ultrasound (in march) my son's heart rate was 118 bpm. at home it's always 105-120 bpm max isn't it too low?
that's a good heart rate what you should expect. fluctuations in heart rate are common within 10-15 beats per minute.
i'm 21 and keep getting pain in my left arm chest back and jaw. went to emergency room and they didn't find anything. had severe exercise intolerance since flu. had echo post flu ct 24hr holter.
if u have seen a physician and u have received extensive work up with normal finding most likely u have anxiety with somatic symptoms. u may try to see a mental health professional for med treatment and psychotherapy.
i'm 21 and keep getting pain in my left arm chest back and jaw. went to emergency room and they didn't find anything. had severe exercise intolerance since flu. had echo post flu ct 24hr holter.
your extensive cardiac workup is the very reason why our healthcare system is overutilized with unnecessary procedures. your history if someone care to aks seems more likely immune related causes. the flu unfortunately causes a reaction with your immune system and sometimes can cause post-reaction including the neuromuscular system a mild rare form of guillian barre syndrome can occur.
it'd be possible that a new onset of diabetes cause palpitations and or chest pain?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
is my sons untreated reflux triggering svt episodes?
although there is not a direct correlation to date between svt episodes and gi reflux there are cases of arrhythmias being triggered by swallowing. the esophagus lies just behind the left atrial and if there is some difficulty for food passing to the stomach afib and other arrhythmias might be triggered. empiric trial to treat the gi reflux would be reasonable. please discuss with your doctor.
is my sons untreated reflux triggering svt episodes?
supraventricular tachycardia (svt) can be triggered by emotional stress anxiety physical stress medications and pain or discomfort among other things. reflux may well be such a trigger fr him. treating the reflux won't eliminate the underlying svt of course but it may remove one of the triggers of episodes.
i had asked the question about my pulse rest @ 150. i had ekg & it showed all norm but sinus tachycardia 150 at rest. is this ok? it wasn't vt or svt
if the ecg was sinus tachycardia you needn't worry about ventricular tachycardia. svt is usually faster. a rate of 150 is often aflutter with 2:1 block. if your physician is confident it is sinus tachycardia then it shouldn't be a problem. you may want to ask his/her opinion as to what is thought to be the cause.
if i have atrial flutter but beta blockers control it well do i still need blood thinner?
usually the need for blood thinners depends on several factors. see below link to calculate the cha2ds2-vasc score. this helps to identify risk of stroke and tia's. <link> in a young person with just hypertension you may not need anticoagulation. need to see a physician regarding this.
if i have atrial flutter but beta blockers control it well do i still need blood thinner?
the need for blood thinners (to prevent a stroke) depends upon many factors including age medical history if there is structural heart disease (e. g. of the valves) etc. the absence of symptoms does not necessarily mean that the arrhythmia is gone you may still be having episodes of trial flutter that do not race fast enough (on your beta blocker) to cause symptoms.
is there anyone on here who is a specialist in post orthostatic tachycardia syndrome and treats regular patients with it? thanks.
i am pretty familiar with syndrome although i do not treat many patients with it. florinef (fludrocortisone) and midodrine are two medications that have been used effectively in this syndrome. two of the prominent institutions working on this are vanderbilt and new york medical college (dr. julian stewart).
i'm 21; i have been very sick since a flu four months ago. i suffer from postural tachycardia palpitations dizziness chest pain sweating terrible heartburn and vomiting. the cardiologist cleared me but did not get a stress test done. do i have pots
i agree with your cardiologist. your symptoms are not suggestive of coronary heart disease which is what a stress test is for. are you staying well hydrated?
i'm 21; i have been very sick since a flu four months ago. i suffer from postural tachycardia palpitations dizziness chest pain sweating terrible heartburn and vomiting. the cardiologist cleared me but did not get a stress test done. do i have pots
with your gi symptoms you need to see a gastroenterologist at this point.
i'm 21; i have been very sick since a flu four months ago. i suffer from postural tachycardia palpitations dizziness chest pain sweating terrible heartburn and vomiting. the cardiologist cleared me but did not get a stress test done. do i have pots
pots is a possibility. you should see a neurologist to have it checked out. another possible diagnosis is a post-viral syndrome.
i have been checked n d dr told me that my heart its find. i get missed heart beat n fluttering on n off. do i make it worst by worrying?
you have not explained what was checked (what tests what results) but if you were checked properly then the rhythms may be benign and yes worrying about it can make it worse.
is chest pain a symptom of anxiety (right side) + needling sensation and heart flutters pvcs? <negative_smiley> i have no heart disease but i so have awful anxiety
do not intend to promote anxiety but long known that cvds typically starts childhood yet asymptomatic for decades & docs do no detect; hidden in artery walls not in openings. heart rate & contraction spit-second controlled from brain yet docs can't see this only a few end responses. flutters more commonly heart pvcs (if accurate) are heart & cvds promotes but brain control still dominant.
i have some kind of cold and i think i have a high fever my heart rate is 95 when i am at rest and i have pain though my body what could it be?
it sounds like you have a viral flu- like syndrome with fever responsible for your tachycardia stay with fluids and fever control medication.
it seems that for the past year i haven't benn able to lay down on my right side because i get a lot of heart thumps and palpitations. what could it b?
lying on one side or another impacts on both lung mechanics (influences ventilatiry capacity deepening on function of each lung in the chest cavity) and venous return to te heart. either of these factors can influence cardiopulmonary status and under the right conditions can produce a stress on the heart that results in sympathetic nervous stimulation. this can cause skipped beats/palpitations.
increased palpitations and heart flutters general chest discomfort (no heart disease + normal echo) medication or un noticed subconscious anxiety?
likely due to low blood sugars can cause palpitations anxiety attacks and other symptoms. have your doctor check you for the insulin resistance syndrome eat frequent small meals with a low glycemic index to avoid these. check glycemicindex. com for a list of the glycemic index of various foods.
i have pots. today i can't get my heart rate to go below 100-120 even if i lie down. my bp is around 100/70 even with my heart rate. i also feel weak. i started taking florinef earlier but it has had no effect yet. is it okay for pots?
you may require more medications and lifestyle modifications from my experience it usually takes more than one med to control pots avoid hot weather drink plenty of fluids wear compression stockings talk to your dr. if you are not improving.
i have pots. today i can't get my heart rate to go below 100-120 even if i lie down. my bp is around 100/70 even with my heart rate. i also feel weak. i started taking florinef earlier but it has had no effect yet. is it okay for pots?
low blood pressure in the absence of symptoms like dizziness has no bad effects pots if correctly dx will drop pressure on standing incresed heart. rate can be due to anxiety or lack of fluids drnk a lot of fluids and if not symptomatic donot check your blood pressure if not happy check with md about small doses of b blockers.
i've been on 75mcg of levothyroxine 6 days total now. i'm having heart fluttering and anxiety. can i stop taking until my doc is back from vacation?
if you've never been on thyroid replacement before it's entirely possible that starting on that dose could cause palpitations in susceptible people. in such cases it's recommended that you start at 25 then 50 then 75 with at least 1-2 weeks between dose changes. i'd stop for now and talk further with your doctor.
is diflucan (fluconazole) dangerous for a person who has palpitations and on a beta blocker but whose heart health is otherwise good?
generally a safe medication for short period like a week. . not a good medication for people with liver disease.
is bittergourd high in potassium?
the key to treating pots is lots of salt and fluid. flornef can also be useful in some patients.
i wake up with my ears plugged up because i'm congested due to allergies. decongestants/stimulants make me jittery/shaky/anxious/high heart rate.
rather than using decongestants which can cause side effects that you've noticed try an antihistamine if you don't have any contraindications. otc examples include loratadine & diphenhydramine. be sure to chat w/your family doc. sometimes normal saline nasal sprays (not afrin or neosynephrine) & steroid nasal sprays can be useful. also sinus flushes/washes too.
is it possible a viral infection (coxsackie) in dec 2012 could be cause of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy diagnsd in june 2013? is it reversible?
viral myocarditis is usually caused by influenza a or b in the winter and coxsackie a or b in the summer but can vary. it is considered a "disease of thirds" a third of people get better a third get worse and often die and a third become chronic. you are either in the first or third group. no treatment is known to cure it it is mainly supportive treatment. it may still get better icd needed?
i'm sitting in my car and boom i get flushed my heart rate is up to 125 bpm my heart is also pounding in my chest and throat.
go to your md or er. this is not normal. this could represent a cardiac dysrhthymia (abnormal heart beat) an endocrine problem or physical response to stress. get it checked out.
i'm sitting in my car and boom i get flushed my heart rate is up to 125 bpm my heart is also pounding in my chest and throat.
your symptoms could be part of an arrhythmia or some other condition causing your heart to speed up abnormally. these can be picked up by some heart monitors that your primary care provider or a heart doctor could order if deemed appropriate. many other things can cause this this too though including anxiety and panic attacks so i'd speak with a health care professional first in person!
i've got retro sternal pain since 6mnths. x ray& ecg reveals normal what could b the reason? i was suffreing from vit d3 deficiency also.
could be related to esophagus - acid reflux common. reflux more likely with smoking sodas lying down right after eating pregnancy) you might notice acid or metal taste in mouth in am when you awaken. if pain goes to back this could be your aorta (needs quick check up - risk higher with high bp and atherosclerosis - usually older people).
i am on 80mg fluoxetine daily amd was prescibed 10mg propranolol for palpitations. is this safe to take together?
using propranolol together with fluoxetine may increase the effects of propranolol. contact your doctor if you experience uneven heartbeats shortness of breath bluish-colored fingernails dizziness weakness fainting or seizure (convulsions). these drugs can be safely used together you just need to be in close contact with your doc if symptoms develop.
i am on 80mg fluoxetine daily amd was prescibed 10mg propranolol for palpitations. is this safe to take together?
a good question to ask your prescribing physician who knows your medical file and condition.
i have significant mitral valve prolapse. i stopped taking lanoxin (digoxin) when i was 21. i am no 50 and i get bad fluttering in my chest do i need it now?
find out what is behind the fluttering feeling. possibly a rhythm disturbance such as salvo of premature contractions or atrial fibrillation. i both cases i would see the internist/cardiologist as especially having afib exposes you to blood clots in the upper chamber that can lead to strokes. so my humble advise see the cardiologist asap! please do not delay!
i have significant mitral valve prolapse. i stopped taking lanoxin (digoxin) when i was 21. i am no 50 and i get bad fluttering in my chest do i need it now?
recommend you to get checked out. make sure you do not have any arrhythmias. may need an echo to see if you have any regurgitation. if no mr or arrhythmia beta blockers might help symptoms.
i think i do have postural tachycardia syndrome. what should i do? what can cause this? can losartan do this?
the cause is unknown. losartan doesn't cause it. dehydration makes it worse. drinking fluids and eating salt makes it better. in time most people get better - may take a year for some.
i recently had a nodal ablation and permanent pacemaker implant for afib relief. i still feel flutter would additional drug treatment help?
sometimes it takes more than one ablative procedure to get it under control and often the medications need to be tweeked. most importantly avoid alcohol as it can trigger a fib. if you are unable to do this seek help.
i recently had a nodal ablation and permanent pacemaker implant for afib relief. i still feel flutter would additional drug treatment help?
if your nodal ablation was successful the bottom chamber rhythm should be entirely controlled by your pacemaker at which point most people no longer feel symptoms of fib. that'd be my first check - to make sure the nodal ablation produced dense block.
i'm a man 24 yo. my heart rate jumps from 60 to 85 bpm very quickly when i'm sitting down resting for an hour. i workout 6 days/week. is it normal?
fluctuations of heart rate between the phases of respiration in a normal person. 85/min is a normal heart rate. are you having any other symptoms? are you drinking coffee or energy drinks in excess? are you using drugs like marihuana? if u have no other symptoms and u can exercise without any problems you are probably ok. but a good history and physical a good idea if that bother you.
is it normal for babies to hiccup a lot in the womb? my baby does it a lot i'm 33 weeks and all my prenatal stuff was ok and his heart rate was 140s
and hopefully the cnadian system will allow u to have another us 34-36 weeks that is an important one cause it gives an est fetal wt checks the fluid and position of the baby all of my obs always get one at that time.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
atrial flutter does not require antibiotics before dental procedures.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
no however you need to see a specialist to see if your condition can be treated with cardioversion or drug therapy. you also run the risk of blood clots due to the pooling of blood in the atria. see a specialist to determine the best treatment for you and get treated.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
for atrial flutter your dentist may want to use an anesthetic with no or less epinephrine have your dentist consult with your md.
i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. does this mean that i have to take antibiotics before dental procedures/cleanings?
according to the ama antibiotics before dental procedures are needed if you have anything foreign in your heart have had endocarditis before or have a congenital condition of the heart. as always though dentists usually defer to whatever your heart doctor or family physician wants you to do.
i'm on klonopin (clonazepam) for anxiety&pseudoseizures. i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. is it okay to continue the klonopin (clonazepam) with my new med metoprolol?
it is ok to take the metoprolol while continuing the klonopin (clonazepam). there are no interactions known but if you have any problems with either medication you should follow up with your doctor.
i'm on klonopin (clonazepam) for anxiety&pseudoseizures. i was just diagnosed with atrial flutter. is it okay to continue the klonopin (clonazepam) with my new med metoprolol?
most likely there will be no problem but always be aware of how you feel when adding a new medicine! beta blockers ( metoprolol) can make you fell blah / slowed down and clonazepam ( klonopin) can also make you tired but no likely bad interactions.
i have lam disease -a rare lung disease. just diagnosed w/atrial flutter &prescribed metoprolol tartrate. any lung side effects from new med 2 watch 4?
in sensitive patients with reactive airway disease beta blockers may trigger airways spasm leading to asthma-like symptoms such as shortness of breath and wheezing.
what are the causes of viral cardiomyopathy?
almost any virus can cause a virial cardiomyopathy but the most common are enteroviruses coxsackievirus a and b echovirus influenza polio adenovirus mumps rubella and hiv.
what is the difference between heart flutter and arrhythmia?
heart flutter is an arrhythmia. it's like asking "what is the difference between chevrolet and automobiles? ".
what is the difference between heart flutter and arrhythmia?
heart flutter is a symptom. arrhythmia means an abnormal heart rhythm that could be the cause of the feeling of the heart flutter. there are a myriad of arrhythmias.
what can be done to stop heart palpitations?
palpitations usually are a fluttery or pounding feeling in the chest. it can be caused by anything minor like anxiety all the way to life threatening abnormalities of the heart beat. you cannot tell how dangerous it is without a medical evaluation.
what is atrial flutter?
the two top chambers of the 4chamber heart are called atria. the normal heartbeat is set off in sinus node a concentrated bundle of heart cells that sets off the lub (contraction of atria) of the lub dub. every single heart cell has the capacity to depolarize & set the chambers into contraction. atrial fibrillation or flutter causes chaotic atrial contrctns. ekg in flutter looks like a saw tooth.
what is atrial flutter?
this is a rapid regular atrial rhythm from 250-350 beats per minute roughly it rarely conducts to the ventricles at 1:1. it is related to atrial fibrillation and is treated in a somewhat similar manner.
i have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome so i drink 2. 5litres water/powerade a day but i urinate loads. is this normal? im not diabetic.
of course you're going to urinate lots if your drink this much fluid. i trust it helps your pots some and if it doesn't bother you fine. have you been offered rx with fludrocortisone? propranolol? it is your choice just how aggressively this is treated; its severity varies greatly. glad you're taking a proactive role in your care. good luck.
i have been feeling dizzy and lightheaded lately checked my pulse has been high lately should i be worried i weight 120 it been as high as 103 - 116?
check your bp and heart rate in lying down and standing posture. check out any orthostatic hypotension? it is defined as a fall in systolic blood pressure of at least 20 mm hg or diastolic blood pressure of at least 10 mm hg when a person assumes a standing position. if your bp drops ; heart rate increases as a compensatory mechanism. drink plenty of fluids. anxiety could increase heart rate.
is inderal (propranolol) good med for skipped beats and fast heart rate. my dr just put me on it. 10 mg twice a day. 48 year old female with normal bp.
management of hypertension; angina pectoris; pheochromocytoma; essential tremor; supraventricular arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation and flutter av nodal re-entrant tachycardias) ventricular tachycardias (catecholamine-induced arrhythmias digoxin toxicity); prevention of myocardial infarction; migraine headache prophylaxis; symptomatic treatment of hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.
i have ibs i some time have over gas which caused palpitaion to me. is it possible yes u will say panic but if u not panic? all test clear! bug gas
excess gi gas is most commonly caused by air swallowing. look at what you are eating snacking sucking on anxious people swallow a lot of air. if you drink a lot of fluid air comes in with that also. you can take simethicone but figuring out where you are swallowing the air and decreasing it can help a lot.
what's the difference between atrial flutter and svt- and can they happen at the same time?
both originate with the "pace-maker" in the right atrium. in svt it leads to a sinus rhythm over 100-140 beats per min (bpm). atrial flutter is a specific type of svt that causes (by definition) an atrial rate of around 300 bpm. depending on the electrical conduction of that heart it will lead to a ventricular rate of some multiple of 300 (150 100 75 etc).
what's the difference between atrial flutter and svt- and can they happen at the same time?
svt stands for supraventricular tachycardia or a fast heartbeat coming from the top part of the heart. there are many fast rhythms coming from the top of the heart: atrial tachycardia atrial fibrillation junctional tachycardia and psvt (paroxyxmal svt). atrial flutter is one of these rhythms and is characterized by a regular rapid rate of the atrium typically between 290 and 310 bpm.
why sour make your heart palpitation?
looks like no one wants to answer this. reflux of acid from the stomach to the esophagus can cause a sour taste in your mouth. the esophagus passes along the back of the heart so that if it gets irritated it can affect the heart beat. residents i work with did a study showing ekg changes if cold water is swallowed. there are other possible mechanisms for palpitations as well.
what does a heart palpitation feel like?
it is like a fluttering sensation in your chest. some say it feels like something turning over. it can be a skipping sensation or a feeling of the heart racing in your chest. some patients even describe it as painful. it is an awareness of your heart beating.
what are the symptoms of the palpitation?
actually palpitation is a symptom. it is a sensation of fluttering in the chest most commonly because the heart is beating irregularly or harder and/or faster than norma.
in er for asthma while on monitor they said i had a short run of ventricular fibrillation it stooped felt flutter in chest. ovrnight no more. worry?
if they really meant ventricular fibrillation it can be fatal and will strongly recomend you to see a cardiologist for further evaluation with stress test and echocardiogram.
if the heart feels fluttering without fast heart rate is this most likely anxiety? just felt groups of flutters today my heart wasnt racing though.
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
if the heart feels fluttering without fast heart rate is this most likely anxiety? just felt groups of flutters today my heart wasnt racing though.
please see a cardiologist to make sure you do not have an irregular heart beat that is causing your "flutters". just because your heart's rate is not rapid does not mean that there may be nothing wrong with your heart. see a cardiologist and get a meaningful answer to your question. good luck.
i feel bloated breathless dizzy confused and nauseous. i just ate a lot but was fatigued before eating. i fear cardiac arrest. er?
when you are bloated gas goes up to your esophagus and could be breathed in and cause your feeling of sob. the fear causes hyperventilation dizziness faintish feeling and some numbness of face fingers and feet. the nausea is simply from the belatedness. drink some fluid if can have some antacid and relax. your risks at 18 is low.
i've had about five ekgs in the past two years and a eco gram and they couldn't find anything wrong so my question could itbe aniexty for my chestpain?
chest pains in young and healthy people are common. the most common reasons include: musculoskeletal aches and pains gastroesophageal reflux and a condition called fibromyalgia. in each of these the ekgs and echocardiogram would be expected to be normal.
i have a temp of 99. 1 my body is aching. my heart rate is 98 bpm. i feel like my muscles are shaking.
you are ill. this is the time to rest drink as much fluids as possible. and to keep your temperature under control you may want to take some advil or tylenol (acetaminophen).
i have acid reflux and have developed what is to be believed as svt in my heart. seems to get better when i stop taking reflux meds. any connection?
if the reflux medication is a proton pump inhibitor it can decrease the amount of magnesium in your blood over time and increase the risk if irregular beats. usually not svt though. more common for pvc. a little irritation of the lining of the esophagus gives symptoms more might take then away if it actually burns out your ability to perceive the motion of the heart in the chest.
why could gas cause heart palpitations?
the association between gi activity (e. g. gas/bloating acid reflux) and palpitations exists but we aren't sure why. it may involve the vagus nerve which controls gi tract as well as the heart especially the electrical properties of cardiac tissue. alterations in vagus activity triggered by gi feedback may alter conduction properties in heart muscle leading to fast or irregular heart beats.
what are the elements used in pacemakers?
the device is generally a nonreactive metal like titanium along with computer components hermetically sealed inside the device. a battery usually lithium based is inside and the sealed electronic connections to the lead are protected by a silicone sleeve around the lead to keep body fluids from shorting and eroding the system.
when does someone use a defibrillator?
threatening arrhythmia or to cardiovert rhythms like afib svt or atrial flutter.
what happens during surgery of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator?
the patient is sedated or anesthetized. incision is made. venous access is done. needle introducers and wires are passed to proper position with fluoroscopic - xray control and tested electronically. then a device nice - the aicd is attached. the wound is closed.
what does it mean when i have an irregular ekg reading during a sleep study?
it could be atrial fibrillation atrial flutter and pvcs. treatment depends on what the monitored showed. lot of times if your sleep apnea gets treated and if it improves your arrhytmia will get better also.
i often have heart palpitations but today my heart feels fluttery weak & like its skipping i feel fine just dizzy plus a little nauseous & v tired?
palpitations fatigue nausea dizzy you think of a lot of things from thyroid cardiac sugars electrolyte metabolic problems and even gyn/female causes. you'd should see your health care provider as soon as possible.
is ards related to fever and a high pulse rate and respiratory rate?
ards is a lung disorder that can occur as a result of infection inflammation. it causes the lung to get small and inflamed and filled with fluid. fever is common in ards as well as high respiratory rate. severe cases require mechnical ventilation at low tidal volumes and high oxygen and peep as well as treatment of the underlying cause. steroids not helpful initially.
is it pleurisy or pericarditis for chest pain in the center of sternum below left breast. normal 2decho jan2013 chest xray 12lead ecg threadmill test?
how long have you had it? is it the sequelae of a flu or cold you've had recently. if the pain increases with inspiration or coughing it is more likely musculoskeletal so costochondritis or pleuritic pain is most likely. see your doctor tomorrow. those tests you're asking about are only necessary if more simple diagnostic steps haven't succeeded in identifying the problem.
which type of high blood pressure medication would be best to combine with a low dosage of beta blocker?
the low dosage of beta blocker would not especially influence my choice of a second agent except for the fact that medications like verapamil or diltiazem also slow the pulse as does the beta blocker. so one would want to make sure that the beta blocker has not significantly lowered the pulse.
what do it means when your heart flutters?
atrial fibrillation or flutter is a condition where heart's conduction system is abnormal and puts you at risk for stroke. you need to see a doc to discuss anticoagulation or ablation and a thalium stress test.
what does it mean if you sometimes get palputations in ur heart just little flutters rarely?
usually these are extra beats from the upper or lower chambers of the heart. however this symptom could represent other heart rhythm abnormalities. if the heart is otherwise normal they are usually benign. a holter monitor or event recorder can help capture your heart rhythm during symptoms to precisely determine the cause of palpitations.
what does it mean if you sometimes get palputations in ur heart just little flutters rarely?
the sensation of irregular heart beats may be entirely benign or a harbinger of more serious cardiac conditions. that the symptoms are rare and presumably not progressive would argue for a benign cause. if progressive or associated with other symptoms further evaluation is warranted with rhythm monitors (holter event monitor) echocardiography and stress testing or electrophysiologic testing.
what causes burping after pacemaker insertion?
there is unlikely to be a connection between the two; usually burping is caused by gastro-esophageal reflux. it's possible that you are paying more attention to your body after the pacemaker procedure.
what does atrial fibrillation means?
atrial fibrillation is a type of irregular heart beat that results in a fluttering (fibrillating) of the top portion of the heart.
what are the signs for having a heart palputations?
someone with heart palpitations may experience a flutter in the left side of their chest or a skipped beat or a prolonged irregular rhythm or prolonged fast or slow rhythm. anything that is prolonged (ex:>5 min) or associated with chest pain shortness of breath dizziness or loss of consciousness needs further evaluation perhaps even in the er depending on the severity of symptoms.
why would a patient be on blood thinner for high heart rate?
the fast heart rate is probably a consequence of irregular heart beats coming from the top chambers (atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter). these conditions can lead to formation of blood clots inside the heart that can lead to strokes. as such blood thinners are used to prevent it.
what are some reasons for chest pains with a normal ekg?
extremely important to rule out heart if significant risk factors. a stress test may be better then an ekg. however reflux esophageal spasm musculoskeletal pulmonary (lung) are all potential causes. see your doctor.
weird heart flutters after eating?
this can be arrhythmia and should be evaluated with a holter.
weird heart flutters after eating?
some times you can get palpitations after eating due to changes in autonomic function (vagal nerve activity). these could be extra heart beats called premature atrial or premature ventricular beats or fast heart beats from upper chamber of the heart. having hiatal hernia may also increase the tendency. a 24 hour heart monitor may provide answers especially if you have these daily.
what are the signs and heart attack symptoms for women?
heart attacks (mi) usually cause the same symptoms in both men and women: chest pain or pressure that can go to arm or jaw sweating nausea shortness of breath. however an mi can have very few symptoms as well and be "painless" more common in diabetics. some people only feel like they have the "flu". mis in women especially in 40s/50s are often missed because they are not considered. be seen!
is it normal to have heart palpitations that is relived by burping while having the flu? i've had chills with no fever at night as well.
if you have influenza as diagnosed by specific testing this is a recognised cause of myocarditis and can lead to significant impairment of cardiac function and mortality. other viral causes of an influenza-like illness can also be responsible for cardiomyopathy. strongly suggest you see a doctor and get fully evaluated and tested. good news is that complete recovery is the rule. good luck.
i get night time facial flushing and palpitations last few minutes to hour 61yrs thru menopause is it carcinoid syndrome?
carcinoid syndrome is very rare. flushing from perimenopausal state s is very common. common things happen commonly. but if you want to rule out carcinoid ask your doctor to collect a 24 hour urine for 5h-iaa. then you can put your mind at ease.
is it safe to be taking aspirin to prevent heart attack? patient has pacemaker. is there any side effects like gastrointestinal disorder? thank you
as long as you don't have any gi bleeding problems reflux or gastritis you can take aspirin.
i have mvp and ocd. heartrate 90 temp around 37. 3 celsius. cant workout as it causes headache. what should i do? was on propranolol for 1 year.
your heart rate is still in the normal range. you are on zithromax for some sort of infection but your temperature is not bad at 90. 1. normal is 98. 6 with fluctuations throughout the day. i know that you were on propranolol before. if you are getting headaches while exercising then i would hold off on the exercising today. wait until your infection clears and you are feeling better and then you can go back to exercising. if your heart rate goes over 120 or for any reason becomes significantly abnormal then you should contact your doctor. best wishes.
i m taking adivan prozac (fluoxetine) metoprpolo triplix lovaza. daily asprin i m geting pvcs normal heart test done i think isit my madication doing it?
using metoprolol together with fluoxetine may increase the effects of metoprolol. contact your doctor if you experience uneven heartbeats. source: www. drugs. com. best wishes. a holter monitor would help.
i took concerta 54mg durring new years and drank on it(alcohol) next day chest tightness/shortness of breath. ekg normal. chest ticklish. 1 week past.
not sure why a 21 year old would go to the er for alcohol and drug related anxiety problems. but you did and it proved that it was not your heart. it is the flu season. i would think that the medications and alcohol are out of your system by now. it is very normal this season to have respiratory illness.
what else can i do for hypertension than a beta blocker?
to start with is lifestyle modifications that you have most likely been instructed on but it never hurts to repeat - less than 2 grams of salt daily less fluid intake (preferably less than 1/2 gallon/day) moderate exercise (~30 minutes/day). labs are important as some medications may be contraindicated. diuretics are first line ace inhibitoris calcium channel blockers arbs are other options.
what do you recommend for atrial flutter?
this is the standard of treatment and it is a quick and easy noninvasive outpatient procedure.
what do you recommend for atrial flutter?
atrial flutter unlike atrial fibrillation most often results in the atria beating at about 300 bpm with the ventricles beating at about 150. this rapid rate is annoying difficult to slow with medication and is best treated by converting the rhythm to normal (or to atrial fibrillation). this requires blood thinning and then special meds plus electrical cardioversion if the meds alone fail.
what would cause your pulse to remain over 100bpm at rest with no history of heart disease?
dehydration caffeine anxiety anemia high thyroid hormone levels are a few. meds like albuterol can also. amphetamines can cause tachycardia for over a day. it sounds like you might be most concerned with arrythmias like atrial fibrillation flutter or others. your physician will evaluate possible causes and treat or refer you to a specialist.
what would cause fast heart rate and pvcs while drinking? ii have a history of pvcs and sinus tachycardia.
atrial fibrillation is disorganized heart muscle activity (looks like quivering) of the upper chambers of the heart. the result is that the bottom chamber doesn't get it's usual rhythmic electrical stimulus and it squeezes after slowly filling for longer than it usually takes. this feels like fluttering with strong beats in between. you need medical attention -- can be dangerous.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for cardiomyopathy?
pills for cardiomyopathy generally consist of diuretics (water pills) which make the patient urinate more and get rid of extra fluid that accumulate because the heart is not pumping well and/or medications that help the heart muscles pump better such as digoxin.
what's your opinion on treating high potassium?
most causes of high potassium are related to decreased kidney ability to excrete potassium in the urine. this coupled with increased intake will cause problems including heart rhythm issues. first treat the cause/kidney disease. if can't restrict potassium intake e. g. potatoes tomato sauce broccoli/squash oranges bananas raisins. some meds help like diuretics fludro-cortisone & kayexalate (sodium polystyrene sulfonate).
what would be the cause of pvcs only with heart rates over 100?
tachycardia needs to be evaluated by your pcp and cardiologist. it could be hyperthyroidism severe anemia stimulants/cocaine use anxiety heart disturbances (atrail fibrillation/flutter & other) fever heart disease/coronary artery ds . need ekg labs and further testing depending on the results.
what are my chances of getting blood clots heart attack or stroke on birth control?
there is a history of disease in the past family history positive age is somewhat influential smoking.
is sinus arrhythmia in an 8 year old a norm finding? dangerous? my son was diag with it after a 48 hr holter. his heartrate was 50-193 bpm. he had strp a and was hospitalized a month before. worried.
a sinus arrhythmia is not an unusual finding even in a child and often results in fluctuating heart rates. it is not usually a concern unless the heart rate is too high which can give symptoms and could potentially impact ability to exercise. ask provider for more specific information regarding ability to exercise and if any other intervention is needed.
i have chest pains shortness of breath and bad indigestion. i had a ekg blood test and chest x-ray but it was normal. is this my anxiety disorder?
it could be but i would more likely think tha it is gerd or gastro esophageal reflux or heartburn. i would try prilosec once or twice a day before eals.
what are the common symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
highly variable: some people are entirely unaware. others feel their heart beating irregularly or "fluttering" & may notice rapid heart rate. commonly people notice fatigue and their exercise capacity is mildly reduced. sedentary people usually don't notice any change. younger people & folks with their 1st bout tend to be more aware. frequent bouts and older people are less likely to notice.
what type side effects are from comming off effexor? i was taking effexor for 6 years 37. 5mg daily. i was told i could quit. i tappored off medication and have not taken any for six weeks. i have parkinson's for 12 years i have a pacemaker for almost 2 ye
any time you discontinue antidepressant especially after a long period of time side effects or recurrence of symptoms can occur. effexor (venlafaxine) appears to have worse withdrawal effects that other classes of antidepressants and takes up to four weeks of a slow taper to prevent withdraw side effects such as dizziness flu-like symptoms and anxiety. you took effexor (venlafaxine) for a rather prolonged period of time and i can't be sure how you tapered the medication. if your symptoms are withdrawal your doctor may tell you to restart the medication and taper for a rather extended period of time. it is not uncommon to experience symptoms of depression after stopping an antidepressant and may indicate that you truly need to take some type of anti-depressant. in your case you have an underlying disorder that actually causes depression. depression and anxiety are physiologic symptoms of parkinsonâ€™s disease that occur in up to 60 to 80 percent of patients that suffer with parkinsonâ€™s. in other words people are not depressed because they have parkinsonâ€™s but rather it is a part of the disease process itself. your symptoms may me depressive symptoms associated with parkinsonâ€™s. you may have unmasked your depression by stopping effexor (venlafaxine) but this is something you and your doctor should discuss. if that is the case your symptoms may not improve without some type of anti-depressant. although effexor (venlafaxine) appears to be a good choice in parkinsonâ€™s patients it may not be the best medication for those that have issues with arrhythmias. six weeks of suffering like you are deserves an evaluation by your doctor or neurologist to ensure your symptoms are not due to withdrawal another medical issue or from depression. i would not self-treat without discussing this with your doctor. although many claim that supplements and natural compounds are effective in the symptoms of depression and parkinsonâ€™s there is not good evidence that it does. i would urge you to see your doctor for further evaluation of your symptoms.
why does cardiologist recommend that my grandfather with chf and an icd/pacemaker sleep with his head elevated above his heart? thank you.
the cardiologist is trying to prevent or control one or both of the symptoms known as 1) orthopnea where fluid buildup in the lungs causes shortness of breath when laying flat or 2) paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea - a waking several hours after going to sleep with sensations of choking or drowning. keeping the lungs above the heart uses gravity to keep wayward fluid elsewhere.
i had an ekg done today and the doctor found it irregular. is it possible there is nothing wrong and if there is what could it be?
some irregular hb are a variation of normal (sings arrhythmia) many others are very common and quite harmless (pac pvc ) others may require further evaluation or treatment (atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation). check with your doc to get more specifics about your particular irregular rhythm.
it feels like my heart skips a best then goes normal skips a beat then goes normal do i have some kind of heart problem?
may have palpitations which can be described as skipped beats fluttery feeling in chest or episodes or heart pounding or racing most of the time these are of no consequence but in certain cases could be related to thyroid problems anemia electrolyte imbalances and of course cardiac disorders. it is important to discuss with your doctor so that the above can be ruled out. good luck!
i've been getting a deep pulse in my heart it feels like a lump in my throat for a sec and my heart beat is weird feel for a few seconds the fine?
description you may have palpitations which are common episodes of heart fluttering skipping beats or racing. can sometimes be related to caffeine intake certain medications anxiety. for the most part the tend to be benign but should be evaluated if persistent or if accompanied by chest pain dizziness or other symptoms to rule out other diseases. good luck!
i can feel my heart skip a beat if i feel the pulse on my neck there is no pulse when i feel the flutter. this is a normal day thing for me. normal?
sounds like premature beats which are normal. different people experience them differently (if at all). if no sustained symptoms this is nothing to worry about.
i get frequent heart flutters and i have tightness in my chest on my left side at times now actually. do i need to go to the dr's?
you may have mitral valve prolapse which can cause chest pains and arrhythmia. less common pericarditis cardiomyopathy accessory pathways etc.
irreg an high resting hrt rate can it cause exhaustion low enenergy wt loss an get strange feelin in head/eyes? tachycardia not sure cause!
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid and salt intake try magnesium supplements.
why would my heart arrhythmia doctor tell me to eat more salt? he did not really tell me why.
in general too much salt can lead to fluid retention and elevated blood pressure which in turn can increase your risk of heart disease and arrhythmia. but if your sodium level is abnormally low you may need more salt intake. salt may be an important source of iodine if you are deficient. so your case should be discussed with your doctor because we don't know the context.
what is the treatment for metoprolol overdose?
if ingested within 2 hours of receiving treatment activated charcoal will be given. otherwise the physician will use atropine if patient is bradycardic and glucagon to enhance contractility. if refractory to the aforementioned drugs then calcium and insulin with dextrose can be administered. usually supportive iv fluids and or atropine if low heart rate or low blood pressure.
what is the treatment for metoprolol overdose?
overdose of beta blocker can be serious leading to slow heart rate blood pressure circulatory collapse and seizures. treatment is immediate medical attention. depending on severity treatment includes adrenergic agents intravenous fluid glucagon insulin. bottom line seek medical attention immediately.
what can a doctor tell me about my risk for fast heart rate?
heart rate itself when in normal rhythm is highly variable and depends on many factors. when abnormal rhythm develops such as atrial fibrillation or flutter fast heart rates are usually avoided with medications or other therapy. if you have some types of valvular heart disease you might be at higher risk for atrial fibrillation and also if your left atrium is large on echo.
what are the tests for atrial flutter?
if the atrial flutter is ongoing then a standard electrocardiogram will show it. if it only occurs on occasion then home monitoring devices known as "event recorders" can be used so that the patient can record an electrocardiogram when he\she feels the symptoms.
what side effects does hyzaar (losartan and hydrocholorthiazide) and betaloc have as i feel sick dizzy and have bad flushing of the face?
as with any medication there are potential side effects of hyzaar (losartan and hydrocholorthiazide). the most common side effect is low potassium in the blood which occurs in up to 6. 7 percent of patients. other common reactions include an infection such as the common cold or flu; dizziness; and coughing. if you experience more severe problems such as seizures an unexplained rash or vomiting contact your healthcare provider.
i am 22 and last night in bed i had bad pain in centre of chest and couldn't stop burping was it heart attack or not?
sounds like heartburn or reflux. take antacids and avoid eating shortly before bedtime.
i'll feel a heart flutter. lasts for a while. notice more while laying down. doc said heart sounds fine. something to look into further?
holter moniter is safe convenient and non invasive and something i would suggest you talk to your doctor about. it would easily answer what you are concerned about.
i see an specialist in 2 weeks. my heart skips have been worse but brief so no point going to er. how would i know if they are dangerous otherwise?
skips in heartbeats may be associated with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
i try to fall asleep but my heart rate goes up alittle and i get a falling sensation could acid reflux be causing this?
unless you had gi bleeding and anemia or low blood count -- please check with your doctor.
i am noticing that my heart flutters primarily occur in relation to my period. is this normal? why do they occur?
palpitations varying with the menstrual cycle are not unusual. we believe the variation in hormonal levels relates to the variation in frequency of extra beats.
what does rheumatic fever feel like? is it just a fever?
symptoms also may include: painful and tender joints — most often the ankles knees elbows or wrists; less often the shoulders hips hands and feet pain in one joint that migrates to another joint red hot or swollen joints small painless nodules beneath the skin chest pain sensation of rapid fluttering or pounding heartbeats (palpitations) fatigue shortness of breath flat or slightly raised .
what are the symptoms of heart attack in young men?
anything between the belly button-mouth front or back including neck shoulders and arms + belching "indigestion" sweating ache/pressure including et cetera can be heart disease in the young or older patient. in diabetics and hypertensive heart symptoms can be "the flu" unusual fatigue or nothing!
what are irregular heartbeats?
many types of irregular heart beats exist. normal heart beat starts in right atrium ("top" chamber") moves to crux of the heart and then spreads to lower pumping chambers (ventricles). irregular beats can originate in the atria or ventricles. taking breaths influences heart rate as well for many factors. interpreting irregular heart beats requires a full history and exam by a doctor.
what is the treatment for beta blocker overdose?
overdose of beta blocker can be serious leading to slow heart rate blood pressure circulatory collapse and seizures. treatment is immediate medical attention. depending on severity treatment includes adrenergic agents intravenous fluid glucagon insulin. bottom line seek medical attention immediately.
what are the symptoms of an arrhythmia of the heart that you can actually feel?
these include palpitations (a feeling of skipped heart beats fluttering or "flip-flops " or feeling that your heart is "running away"). pounding in your chest. dizziness or feeling light-headed. fainting. shortness of breath. chest discomfort. weakness or fatigue (feeling very tired).
what is the typical cost for pacemaker implantation in the u. s.?
the pacemaker itself has a certain cost; the company sends a rep to supervise which pacemaker is inserted making sure it captures and works correctly; the surgeon putting it in; and the anesthesiologist -- besides all of the or time fluoroscopy radiology technicians and nurses. so--it is many thousands depending on where you live and which pacemaker you are implanting.
i am taking olmesartan 20mg and lercanidipine 20mg once daily at daytime and i am experiencing severe dry mouth please advice what i should do?
your medications can cause dry mouth. dry mouth can lead to cavities so good dental care is important. biotene products can help your mouth feel better. avoid mouthwashes with alcohol they can dry it even more. chew xylitol or sugar free gum can stimulate saliva. reduce highly acidic and sugary foods and drinks. see your dentist for mi paste or fluoride. hope this helps.
i am taking olmesartan 20mg and lercanidipine 20mg once daily at daytime and i am experiencing severe dry mouth please advice what i should do?
numerous diseases and medications can influence the salivary glands resulting in dry mouth. sometimes the medications can be reduced or changed to help you with this side effect. it is not uncommon. talk to your doctor. there are also things that you can do to aid the symptoms of dry mouth.
iaying on my left side tachycardia chest pain with with occasional flutters. lately i have had an increase in these symptoms. are they a concern?
there are kind of tachycardia's which can be troublesome and happens in young age. you may wanna get evaluated by a cardiologist.
iaying on my left side tachycardia chest pain with with occasional flutters. lately i have had an increase in these symptoms. are they a concern?
if you find the symptoms troublesome by definition then they are a concern. fyi: your albuterol can cause all those symptoms. if you want to determine if there is any significant rhythm disturbance present (as opposed to simple cardiac awareness) a 24 hour holter and echocardiogram would be indicated.
is vildaglipten safe drug for dialated cardiomyopathy patients?
since fluid retention or depression of heart muscle function are not listed as side effects of vildagliptin it should not adversely affect dilated cardiomyopathy patients.
why do i sometimes feel like my heart is racing?
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations etc.
what happens if you have an abnormally fast heartrate for an extended amount of time due to running in the heat?
you're perfectly described what happens to someone who is dehydrated. be sure to drink plenty of fluids and replaces electrolytes (ie salts) when running in the heat.
why do i wake up with my heart racing after hot dream?
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations dreams etc.
i take beta blockers and synthroid (thyroxine) is it ok to take phenylephrine if i have a cold?
oral nasal decongestants such as sudafed (pseudoephedrine) and sudafed pe (phenylephedrine) can increase blood pressure by increasing your heart rate and by causing blood vessels to narrow also known as vasoconstriction. these effects are greater with immediate release products and higher doses. pseudoephedrine and phenylephedrine can also be found in many cold cough and flu medicines.
i went for root canal treatment and today i discovered swelling. my dr. says its due to the reaction af anesthesia. is it critical. m worried about it?
when we give local anesthesia especially with an infiltration injection the tissue may temporarily swell from the slow infiltration of the fluid. less commonly a hematoma may form which will take longer to dissipate. as long as the swelling is not from an untreated infection you will be fine.
is it dangerous to have a heart that reacts to everything too sensitive & extreme? hr goes up and down all the time switching side in bed hr up 35 bpm
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
i drink caffeine and have anxiety. i've had a few normal ekg but sometimes i feel my heart flutter a little. is this normal?
caffeine can cause palpitations -- it's part of its pharmacological profile. it can also worsen anxiety especially if you have an anxiety disorder. you could stop the caffeine and see what happens. . . you might feel a whole lot better.
what could cause a slight arrhythmia at sudden changes of position?
slight arrhythmia or palpitation is usually benign if brief and self limiting and not causing any other symptoms. if provoked by positional change likely being influenced by blood return to the right atrium.
what are these irregular heartbeats i feel when on my fertility drugs?
some women are sensitive to fluctuations in estrogen levels that occur while using fertility drugs. if you notice it more than once or twice it couldn't hurt to see a qualified cardiologist just to be sure nothing more is going on. good luck!
why does my heart rate slow down when i relax?
the hr is influence by sympathetic ( adrenergic) and parasympathetic forces. adrenergic or sympathetic drive ( fight or flight ) leads to tachycardia and parasympathetic forces leads to bradycardia. when the body relax there is withdrawal of sympathetic and increase of parasympathetic influence.
what is the ecg finding for an atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter?
in atrial fibrillation there are no p waves seen or the p waves are highly irregular and not directly correlated with the qrs complexes. in atrial flutter constant regularized activity is seen generally without a fixed baseline.
what is the ecg finding for an atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter?
there are small waves from the atrial activity on 12-lead ecg. normally these are single well defined p waves during sinus rhythm. for flutter they are rapid and regular often with a "sawtooth" pattern. for fib the atrial activity is very random irregular and sometimes hard to see. atypical flutter can be hard to distinguish from "coarse" af by ecg.
i was sitting on my bed talking and all of a sudden my heart started beating irregularly too quickly and hard. i could feel the contractions. are random palpitations normal? should i be worried?
palpitations are very common in the general population. usually these consist of extra beats known as pvcs or pacs. these cause a chaotic fluttering sensation and take the breath momentarily away. they are most notable when stationary or lying down at night for example. sometimes they may be evident at other times as well. caffeine and stress potentate these common annoyers.
i get heart flutters everyday they seem worse while drinking alcohol. is this dangerous? can drinking on occasion cause me a heart attack?
alcohol can certainly cause heart rhythm issues. alcohol itself would not directly cause a heart attack.
is there any correlation between benign pvcs and reflux?
anything that increases sympathetic tone (adrenaline like responses) such as pain or discomfort could increase the frequency of pvcs.
i've been having chest pains randomly for about a week and i've been to the er twice. ekg and x-ray showed normal. low potassium. is heart attack likely?
a heart attack without major risk factors at 19 is rare - low potassium is not necessarily normal - make sure that any of your medications couldn't be affecting your potassium - are you having any reflux symptoms?
is high pulse rate between 100-130 normal during pregnancy? i am in my 36 th week of pregnancy. how does it affect the baby? my bp seems to be fine
your heart needs to pump a tremendously increased amount of blood late in pregnancy. dehydration may be one reason your pulse is fast. make sure you are getting enough fluids. also your doctor should check for anemia and thyroid problem both not uncommon in young women. this rate of pulse will not affect your baby.
i have frequent arrhythmia following heavy meals should i be worried?
would suggest an ekg. however your symptoms could be related to heart burn or acid reflux if relayed to food.
i have palpitations that dr. says are anxiety/stress related. ekg / holter ok. is it normal for palps to be so strong entire torso seems to flutter?
yes since all exams and tests were normal and if no family history of heart problems at a young age then you can try to eliminate caffeine increase fluid intake eat health and slowly increase activity as tolerated. try yoga as they can help as well. changing environment for few days might help as well. good luck.
i have pericarditis & cardiomyopathy. my boss wants a letter from my doc to say it won't influence my work do i have to give him one?
for your own peace of mind ask your family physician or your cardiologist if your cardiomyopathy and pericarditis may affect your ability to perform your work. your health is by far more important than your work. your boss is probably right. good luck!
i have pericarditis & cardiomyopathy. my boss wants a letter from my doc to say it won't influence my work do i have to give him one?
it depend on what are your symptoms? do you have chest pain? dyspnea? fever? do you honk are you able to work? also it depends on what kind of work you have? office work? . . generally speaking you need to have few days bedrest
is it normal to have a rapid increase heartbeat and fast pulse when standing up or doing light activity?
dehydration and autonomic dysfunction are common causes of this. if increasing ones fluid intake eliminates the rapid heartbeat upon standing it suggests the former. however there are less common causes including anemia; therefore one should see ones doctor for a careful history and physical exam to elucidate the underlying cause of the heart rate increase.
why does your heart rate increase when you have a cold or the flu?
heart rate increases with fever. it increases with pain (which usually accompanies flu). it increases with dehydration which happens more quickly than normal if you have a fever and aren't drinking well enough. it increases with combinations of all of the above. rarely it happens because the virus that is making you sick effects your heart directly.
what do i do if i feel my heart fluttering off and on?
may be as simple as too much caffeine. but if this becomes more frequent would see your doctor.
what does it mean when i feel my heart fluttering?
palpitations/fluuters can come any time and it can be scary for some folks. at times we don't know why but sometimes there are reasons--anxiety/panic attacks thyroid disease medication side effects drug/alcohol use/abuse heart-attacks fever/infections heart-conductions problem excessive caffeine/stimulants etc. if persistent/concerning to you consult doc for an eval. good luck.
what is a cardiac arrhythmia?
arrhythmia is when the heart beats too fast or too slow and when the normal pattern of the heart beats is disturbed. it is a general term that include several conditions like atrial fibrillation or flutter supraventricular and ventricular tachycardia or other forms of heart blocks
what does a fast heart rate indicate in a fetus?
if the fetal heart rate remains above 160 beats per minute for over 10 minutes then fetal tachycardia is diagnosed (unless the pregnancy is in the first trimester). this can be due to maternal fever or fetal hyperthyroidism cardiac defect circulatory compromise excessive fetal activity (benign transient) or fetal tachyarrhythmia (atrial flutter fibrillation supraventricular tachycardia).
what does an atrial flutter feel like?
palpitations shortness of breath chest pain syncope fatigue and sometimes none: some people are asymptomatic.
why doesn't icd (intercondylar distance) have nothing to do with teeth occlusal morphology?
i suppose that the intercondylar distance development is connected with the rest of the cranial development while other factors influence the occlusal morphology. later in life the two become related as the jaw functions and teeth wear etc.
what are causing my heart flutters?
need to be evaluated by your doctor. could be as simple as too much caffeine. but you need to be examined to be sure.
i'm 24 i've been having discomfort in chest & arms for the past 2 months i had ekg blood work and chest xray all normal. what could it be?
at your age heart disease as a cause of chest and arm pain would be distinctly rare. it's much more likely to be a combination of issues. the possibilities are: myofascial syndrome fibromyalgia gastroesophageal reflux disease non-ulcer dyspepsia muscular strain stress etc - your doctor can help you sort through all these possibilities.
is it possible for iv saline to cause fluid overload in cardiac arrest patients?
fluid from any source can cause fluid overload.
i have had left arm pain on and off for about 3 weeks with fluttering and mild pain in chest and shoulder pain. fluttering as well. heart attack?
not a high probability for heart attack but also only sparse information available.
what is the? difference between restrictive cardiomyopathy and constrictive pericarditis?
clinically similar. both restricts filling of the ventricles. although sometimes the echocardiogram and cardiac mri will show findings favoring one over the other such as a thickened heart thickened pericardium cardiac catheterization is often required. in restrictive cardiomyopathy the left ventricular pressure is higher than the right specially with fluid challenge. similarly left atrial pressure
what is the? difference between restrictive cardiomyopathy and constrictive pericarditis?
pericarditis is inflammation with fluid accumulation and reduced cardiac output. restrictive cardiomyopathy resist diastolic filling due to noncompliant ventricular walls.
when does a bradycardia turn into an arrhythmia?
bradycardia meaning heart rate less than 60- sometimes termed as bradyarrhythmia if slow heart rate associated with a rhythm abnormality such as slow atrial fib or flutter or premature ventricular contractions or premature atrial contractions etc.
what does it mean if i have absent p waves on ekg?
on an ekg if you have absent p waves most often it means you have atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and flutter?
atrial flutter is a very organized rhythm in which electricity gets stuck in a loop going round and round much like cars on a nascar racetrack. atrial fibrillation is a more complex rhythm in which the majority of the atrium is in chaos driven by a focus known as a rotor. atrial fibrillation is much harder to cure than atrial flutter however rate control is usually better for fibrillation.
what is the difference between atrial fibrillation and flutter?
atrial fib is a chaotic irregular contraction of the top chambers of the heart (atria). atrial flutter is a rapid but regular beating of the atria. both can lead to the same symptoms both can cause irregular pulse both have a risk of stroke. usually flutter is easier to treat with a catheter ablation than af is. an ekg can often tell the difference.
what conditions require the use of an automatic electric defibrillator (aed)?
well only ventricular fibrillation ventricular tachycardia and ventricular flutter require the use of a defibrillator though we also use them to treat atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter in symptomatic patients.
i am always scared if my resting heart rate isn't below 60. sometimes it's 75-80 then other mornings and nights it's 55-69. should i be concerned?
you should be scared if your heart rate does not ever fluctuate. i think you may be misinformed about heart health and focusing on something that is nearly meaningless for a 24 year old male to be worrying about. your heart rate fluctuations are not only normal they represent good heart health.
would there be any contraindications to having general anesthesia for someone with pots w/ near constant tachycardia even when lying down?
we have fluids and meds to keep your blood pressure up and other meds to slow your heart rate. i hope that you are under the care of a physician familiar with postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome and that increased fluid intake and meds have been tried. if not its possible that other causes may need to be ruled out.
what could i do to reduce heart fluttering?
first & most important is to find the cause so it can be treated. consult your pcp for evaluation.
what does breathlessness on lying down indicate in a known cardiac patient taking beta blockers and diuretics?
the term for this is orthopnea. it can be a sign of fluid overload. it can be confirmed by an examination by the doctor.
what causes heart fluttering?
fluttering is a sensation. a diagnosis involves looking at the heart rhythm on an ecg. thereare countless rhythm variations. some are serious some are benign.
what could cause a fast heart rate without exercising?
rapid heart rate in addition to exercise other causes are caffeine low bp acute blood loss medications atrial fib flutter v. tach etc.
why is my heart racing and i have pains in the side of my chest where heart is?
if your heart racing and have chest pain you need to go to the er. it could be svt a fib or flutter.
what's an irregular heartbeat called?
your heartbeat is meant to be regular but there are many things that make it feel like it is missing skipping or fluttering. most are benign but it is reasonable to see your gp and get an ecg to diagnose the problem if one actually exists.
what could cause rapid heart beat and flushing after drinking alcohol?
some people have a genetic variant of an enzyme that metabolizes alcohol. the aldh2 gene regulates the production of the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 that transforms acetaldehyde into acetic acid. the aldh2*2 variant is common in individuals of east asian descent (45-50%) but is extremely rare in most non-asian populations. when drinking alcohol these people flush have tachycardia etc .
what could cause rapid heart beat and flushing after drinking alcohol?
alcohol is a vasodilator you can see some flushing following which you can have tachycardia. excitement also makes heart rate to go up.
what could cause rapid heart beat and flushing after drinking alcohol?
alcohol causes many health problems such as dehydration that can cause a rapid heart rate. there also is a condition known as the holiday heart syndrome that happens the day after a heavy night of drinking this is usually a sign of mild withdrawels if these are happening to you see a doctor anyway to do an ekg and other tests to make sure its not more serous.
what are the ways to control vasovagal attacks?
vsavagal attacks (neurocardiogenic syncope) occurs as a result of an abnormal reflex between the heart and the brain creating a vagal response to the heart and blood vessels resulting in a drop in blood pressure and heart rate. the best treatment is avoidance. once symptoms ate felt: lay down or perform kegel techniques (squeeze pelvic muscles). fluid hydration very important. also there are rx.
is it normal to feel your heart "flutter" when lying down? the heart rate is steady. i am otherwise healthy and not experiencing anxiety.
all adults feel this sometime. it isn't a disease. if it happens frequently enough to disturb you testing can be done to reassure you.
i have flu. i have no history of heart deceases. my heart rate is a bit higher as normal. is it normal during flu or is this a concern?
expected with rise in body temperature and dehydration. some adequate hydration will be helpful
is olmesartan associated with water retention?
olmesartan (o) is not associated with fluid accumulation or edema (e). you are also taking amlodipine which can also cause e. if you are not yet on 40 mg of o daily ask your doctor to put you on that dose. ask if you can stop alodipine and start a diuretic if you still have e. as the e disappears your bp may improve. good luck.
i'm 39+2 days pregnant and foetal heart rate is 117 and measuring sga should i be worried?
baseline heart rate is normal between 110 to 160 beats per minute so your baby's heart rate is normal. the timing of delivery for your baby will depends on how growth restricted s/he is. if the baby is very small has abnormal amniotic fluid or abnormal dopplers your doctor will likely recommend delivery.
what does repolarization mean for an ecg reading?
the automatic pace maker on the top of your heart generate tiny amout of electricity which travels down the heart and trigger it to contract/beat. this electrical current comes from the influx/outflux of calcium/potassium etc. so when it is "polarized" the heart pumps. in order for it to pump again it must relax and repolarization is basically a recharge. hope that makes sense. have fun learning.
what could cause heart fluttering right before my period?
palpitations caused by premature beats can worsen with hormonal shifts.
what could cause sudden rapid heart beat and shortness of breath?
cardiac causes atrial fibrillation flutter svt v. tach myocardial infarction pericarditis etc. noncardiac causes- pneumonia pleurisy copd etc.
what could cause frequent heart fluttering?
the causes of heart fluttering (pslpitations) are many. they may be caused from abnormal rhythms in the heart or may be even normal variants. sometimes they may be due to atrial or ventricular premature beats (extra beats) which are usually benign. work up with a holter or event monitor may be helpful.
what would cause his heart rate to jump from around 80 to 150?
a tachyarrythmia. . rate of 150bpm makes me suspect atrial flutter if not associated with vigorous exercise. see a cardiologist for further evaluation.
what are the symptoms of cardiomyopathy in drinker?
fatigue difficulty breathing fluid retention irregular heartbeat.
what could be some causes of waking up amd feeling like you can't breathe? i gasp for air and its really scary. i have history of pvcs.
depending upon your age and history it could also be a sign of heart problems fluid accumulating in your lungs few hours after lying down in bed. make sure you have seen an md about it pvc could cause some transient shortness of breath and that will happen more so during the day.
i can occasionally hear my heart-beat in my mouth generally when i am slouching and only lasts 3-4 beats. sounds like dripping water. should i worry?
the heart pretty much sits on top of the stomach and when you slouch you kind of squish them closer together. also what sounds like water dripping may actually be your stomach with the heart beats mixing up what's in your stomach &#40;the stomach has air fluid levels that can make noise that noise&#41;. lesson here is listen to your mom and don't slouch :&#41;
i have chest pain since 3weeks. its not a continues pain. my ecg and x-ray is nornal. is there is any prob?
if you are really 22 and if you don't use cocaine and don't have diabetes the statistics are overwhelmingly in your favor for a benign cause. a sore muscle or acid reflux are most common causes.
i have been getting heart palpitations during and after period?
many women note a monthly periodicity to their palpitations. no doubt hormonal effects are influencing cardiac conduction. if it's bothersome see your doctor for a more thorough discussion and evaluation.
if bnp is secreted by the ventricles in response to stretching due to fluid overload. why is it named brain natriuretic peptide?
the peptide was initially discovered and identified in pig brains though in humans it is generally secreted by the heart.
what is relatinoship of low blood pressure high pulse rate?
get high enough blood pressure can fall but this is usually observed in irregular rhythms like atrial fibrillation or flutter or ventricular tachycardia where the atrial contribution to filling is lost.
what are the causes of palpitations of the heart?
the heart can flutter with premature ventricular contractions ( pvc) premature atrial contractions (pac ) atrial fibrillatrion etc. fluttering also known as palpitations is basically a symptom and further work up is needed.
i am 21 i'd ben feeling sick haveing pressure in top of my chest an went er ekg chest x ray normal burning in stomac burp sour stuff pain in left arm?
these symptoms are common in gastric reflux disease and heart attach. given your age and the purblind. i think you might have gastric reflux
i am 21 i'd ben feeling sick haveing pressure in top of my chest an went er ekg chest x ray normal burning in stomac burp sour stuff pain in left arm?
sounds very much like you may have gastro-esophageal reflux. a simple way to check it out is to try some tums (calcium carbonate) or antacid (otc). if the symptoms get better than you have your answer and can see your doctor for more definitive management. good luck.
i had catheter ablation for atrial flutter at bw. how long before i resume normal exercise. i was a rower & am used to strenuous workouts. i am 62.
i would give yourself time to heal. atrial flutter ablations are not simple and benign procedures. i would make sure you stay in a good rhythm and give yourself a couple of weeks.
i had catheter ablation for atrial flutter at bw. how long before i resume normal exercise. i was a rower & am used to strenuous workouts. i am 62.
right away if you're up for it -- and make sure your cardiologist agreed with your exercise program
i was diagnosed with silent reflux & gastroparesis. i was prescribed reglan (metoclopramide). having heart palps and stopped reglan (metoclopramide). can 500 mg cause this too?
side effects of reglan (metoclopramide) can be quite serious but heart palpitations is not one of them. however i am concerned about the dosage you are saying. is that over 24 hr? 10mg every four hours is the higher end of normal and reglan (metoclopramide) is not a medicine you want to take for long periods of time. please see the rx'ing md regarding this and to go over your other medications and symptoms.
i had an 24 hr ecg and at a time i was walking at a normal pace my heart rate was 180bpm and i was feeling breathless it was in sinus rhythm causes?
many reason for rapid heart rate: i. e. atrial fibrilation flutter psvt sinus tachycardia. if it is sinus tachycardia asyou mentioned the causes are as below: hyperthyroidism fever volume depletion anxiety pheochromocytoma sepsis anemia hypotension and shock pulmonary embolism heart failure low oxygen copd nicotine or caffeine etc.
i had a flu since friday throat pain. normally i have a low hr at rest but today is always 94 to 100. is that high hr at rest related to flu? txs
heart rate and respiratory rates can be elevaated by infections. the heart rate rises by 8-9 bpm fr every degree celsius the temperature is elevated.
i have anxiety & during times of extra stress i can feel palpitations where my heart feels like it flutters. is this dangerous? can it cause damage?
make sure you dont have medical condition such as mitral valve prolapse (mvp) or hyperthyroidism. an electrocardiogram and blood test will able to identify these issues. consider talking to your pcp. wish you a good luck
i'm 28 yrs old and for years get a fluttering in upper abdomen after eating. perfect bloodwork and ekg results last month. what could this be?
this may be some type of spasm or gi upset. not any evidence to suggest cardiac disease. this fluttering is not mentioned how frequent but may represent spams of the bowel after eating. something else that is rare at your age is a type of dumping syndrome one other question is how much caffeine are you taking. irritable can be evident as fluttering if you are under stress. discuss with doc
is it normal to have a slower heart rate during menstruation? my heart rate is 60 bpm while walking around at work. i feel dizzy.
some research studies (minson et al circulation 2000) have shown that sympathetic baroreflex sensitivity was influenced by hormonal fluctuations during the normal menstrual cycle in healthy women. so it is possible for this to happen during your cycle. however if you feel dizzy then you need to be evaluated as there are treatments available. you may consult one of the helathtap physicians
i feel my heart skip a beat or flutter 2 to 4 times a month. should i worry. because i am.
in the absence of any other symptoms this is likely benign. when you see you doctor ask about a heart monitor that can show what is happening when you have this feeling. an occasional extra beat is common in many people and not dangerous. you will need a check up to confirm that you have no structural heart disease. monitor your symptoms and see you doctor. go to er for worse/long symptoms.
i can't tell if i am having a heart flutter or not. i just get this weird feeling in the top of my chest sometimes. no pain or fast heart beat. help?
the story here is important. angina is classically discomfort worse with exertion and relieved with rest. if you have this "weird" feeling and you run down the street and it gets better that is not a heart attack! if it occurs with meals when you assume a certain position when you see a certain person it could have more or less significance (esp. if you're in love:]! ). get a check-up soon
i can't tell if i am having a heart flutter or not. i just get this weird feeling in the top of my chest sometimes. no pain or fast heart beat. help?
what you are feeling sounds like it could be heart palpitations. if you are not having any symptoms with them then it is most likely not serious. i would recommend that you get in to get evaluated for any abnormality in things like thyroid or minerals (potassium and magnesium). a heart monitor could also be placed to try and determine exactly what is going on. if you have symptoms get it!
is normal during a cold with very low fever to have diarrhea and high hr at rest (87 to 97). if yes how long it could stay? txs
diarrhea can occur with virus. diarrhea/ fever causes dehydration (increased heart rate)drink fluids- water alternate with gaterade/apple juice. avoid dairy. try white rice bananas toast apple sauce. consider probiotics ( saccharomyces boulardii). if > 8 watery bm a day > 2 days increasing fever worse abdominal pain bloody diarrhea see a doctor/er/ urgent care. avoid asa products
i have feel pain in my chest. my alll test of heart is fine ecg ett and echo. what is issue?
to your doctor. if cardiac work up is negative. look for other causes of chest pain. reflux. musculoskeletal etc.
i have a pacemaker now. my heart doctors want to do another surgery. my heart is still going to fast are to slow. what other surgerys would they do.
you might have atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular heart rate. the pacemaker can support your heart when it is slow but will not be helpful for a fast heart rate. in this case the doctor will go in and ablate or cut the atrial ventricular node and allow the pacemaker to pace your heart at a regular slower rate alternately if is a flutter or paroxysmal atrial tachycardia then ablate
i have the cold/flu and usually my resting heart rate is 54-55 (i'm 23) now my heart is 95-100 lying down. i feel weak i'm worried i rarely fallsick?
fever can increase heart rate. try taking ibuprofen to lower the fever. additionally dehydration can cause increased heart rate. it sounds like you need to be evaluated by a doctor and treated.
i have heart flutters when i am relaxed?
it is always easier to feel extra beats when there are no distractions.
why's intravenous therapy given to mi patients?
intravenous therapy in acute mi often is a drug to break up clots. also iv access is needed if needed to help resuscitate a patient with acute mi by giving fluid for low blood pressure and rhythm drugs for arrhythmias.
what can i do if i am experiencing heart fluttering?
your doctor will do an ekg and if needed a 24 hour ekg (holter) can be worn. event monitors for up to 30 days can be worn to record your rhythm during your fluttering. if you have severe symptoms with your fluttering go to er. otherwise start with your primary physician.
what sort of virus causes viral cardiomyopathy?
can. during the winter months influenza can do it. in the summer months enteroviruses such as coxsackie can.
when i'm laying down it feels like my heart flutters? no pain just fluttering. this doesn't happen all the time but when it does strange feelin
you may have atrial flutter or fibrillation. please consult your doctor to discuss the need for a holter monitor to study your heart rhythm over a day or so.
what are rapid heart beat dizziness and blurred vision symptoms of?
dizziness and blurred vision can be symptoms of a rapid heart rate. now we need to find out why you or some one has rapid heart rate--- several causes- atrial fibrillation flutter sinus tachycardia ventricular tach supraventricular tachy cardia. it is imperative that you see a doctor asap if you have these symptoms.
i have been monitoring my heart rate closely at home. my standing heart rate is 145 and 5 minutes later my resting heart rate is 88. am i ok?
for some reason you are orthostatic - when heart rate increases with sitting or standing up. this is usually associated with low blood volume - bleeding dehydration (diarrhea vomiting) or internal volume loss (fluid in the belly usually due to low albumine state). if this is sudden (started within last week) - seek urgent care. if that been going on for a long time see your doctor.
i'm five weeks pregnant and my heart rate has gone from a normal of about 68 to around 105 resting. is this normal?
since this is a bit high - do ask your obgyn about it and keep track. if there's no other problem it may be a normal fluctuation - call them to ask and perhaps move up your next appointment. don't worry just call. hope it's nothing or that it can be easily addressed. best wishes!
i get heart flutters when lying down then burping right after? why? normal ekg/echo/holter/stress. occasional pvc's/pac's with anxiety.
make sure you have a better control of your stress and anxiety even if you have to take medicine for it make sure you do not have any digestive problems that could imitate heart problem since you were cleared by cardiologist from any heart problem you might need to see a specialist on cardiac electrical system to make sure these arrhythmia are not from faulty heart wiring good luck
i have indigestion and achy chest. norm stress test and ekg last year. i get sharp pain in the mid sternum too. worried.
good thing you had normal stress test. if you do not get chest pain while exercising; chances are this pain not com in from heart. if you get mid sternum pain after you eat in supine position associated with sour taste in mouth at times it is because of acid reflux. rx pepcid (famotidine) and omeprazole is good. avoid eating 3 hours prior to bedtime and avoid spicy food. get checked for gall stone!
ive already been 2 the hospital for chest pain twice. both times normal ekg chest xray. what could be causing my chest pain. it comes and goes. im 17?
there are many reasons for this and the best thing is to get a full workup by your doctor. causes when ekg and cxr normal: drug use anxiety recent lung infection like pneumonia or bronchitis smoking (anything) reflux disease coronary vasospasm subtle cardiac rhythm abnormality not caught on ekg and others.
if you have anxiety and depression but not at the moment could that still cause heart flutters? ive had many many heart tests and it's "healthy"?
cannot answer on your particular case and. . the heart flutter and the anxiety and hyperventilation and other issues can occur somewhat independently in many. also mitral valve prolapse causes both. the connection is unclear.
if you have anxiety and depression but not at the moment could that still cause heart flutters? ive had many many heart tests and it's "healthy"?
heart flutter can mean something like a cardiac arrhythmia or irregularity or nothing like feeling your own normal beats. regardless the fact that your doctors have not found anything wrong with your heart is comforting enough.
is it normal for a heart rate to jump 30 bpm from laying down to sitting up? (ie: 72 to 102+) and stay elevated from walking around & eating? i am 28.
craig this is called a postural tachycardia and is usually due to dehydration. be sure to drink plenty of non caffeinated fluids. other conditions such as anemia can also cause it so if it doesn't go away or you get lightheaded with it see your doctor as you may need lab tests. hope this helps!
is it possible to have atrial fibrillation and not detect it by a bp monitor or taking the pulse? my husband feels weak and lethargic.
blood pressure machines can detect an irregular pulse but cannot diagnose atrial fibrillation and they are far from perfect. same goes for taking your pulse. at times atrial fibrillation and especially atrial flutter can be fairly regular and not even show up as an irregular rhythm by these methods. he needs an ekg or a heart monitor that shows the rhythm
i have a tightness in my chest and neck and i feel like i'm going to have a heart attack. but the tests came back fine 3 weeks ago. what could be wron?
the most common concern about chest pain is a problem with the heart. after it is determined that the heart is okay the second most common cause of chest pain is from esophageal problems: spasm ulcers reflux. a discussion with your primary care doctor may be helpful.
i'm 26 and my chest hurts and the ekg came back clear and so did the chest xray. does g. e. r. d make ur chest hurt really bad?
gerd and acid indigestion that refluxes into the esophagus can most definitely cause chest pain. don't let that always be your default answer though had a cardiologist colleague of ours that passed away with tums (calcium carbonate) in his hand thinking his chest pain was heart burn when he was really having a heart attack. it can go both ways exercise caution and always talk with your doctors.
is there a difference between pac's/pvc's and atrial flutter/fib on holter monitors? when i got tested had a few skipped beats more frequent now?
pac's originate in the atrium as the pvc's originate from the ventricle. both can be normal but the pvc can become more problematic with the type and frequency. atrial fib is where the atrium fires irregularly and needs to be treated. almost always with a medication to stop blood clots and for regulation. atrial flutter is a more regular rate and less common than fib. your ekg will be diagnostic.
is there a difference between pac's/pvc's and atrial flutter/fib on holter monitors? when i got tested had a few skipped beats more frequent now?
it is essential to distinguish between atrial flutter/fib and pacs/pvcs because one carries a risk of stroke and the other does not. pacs and pvcs are extra beats that sneak into an otherwise sinus rhythm. atrial flutter or fibrillation are a more fundamental disruption to sinus rhythm. a large number of pacs and/or pvcs can cause symptoms and need to be treated. essential to distinguish.
what is pepto bismol used for? and can i use it for acid reflux after a meal? i'm on toprol (metoprolol) xr and synthroid. also having diarreah
pepto bismol (bismuth subsalicylate) is used for nausea heartburn indigestion upset stomach and diarrhea. since heartburn is a common signs of acid reflux most likely pepto bismol (bismuth subsalicylate) will help. consult your doctor about a medication you can take if this over the counter drug does not help. always consult your doctor about mixing medications as well since i am not familiar with your medical history.
what is the definition or description of: atrial flutter?
atrial flutter is an abnormally fast heart beat usually originating from the right atrium of the heart. it can cause the rest of the heart to beat very fast (called tachycardia). it may cause symptoms of palpitations chest pain or shortness of breath to name a few. this serious issue should be evaluated by your cardiologist and further treatment is dependent on the particular cause.
why do i have swollen ankles? i am diabetic and had a heart attack 6 years ago.
you may have poor valves within your blood vessels causing fluid accumulation around ankle. see your doctor compression stockings may help.
will norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) try to slow my heart rate while i excersise my heart rate is fast already. i take norco (hydrocodone and acetaminophen) for my back.?
your heart rate variability depends on genetic factors your level of activity hydration food intake hormonal fluctuation and many other factors. impossible to predict how small dose of morphine will affect your heart rate.
what could cause frequent pvcs (benign) daily? bupropion xl 150mg 3x daily prozac (fluoxetine) 20mg or the combo? also take 200mg modafinil levothroid 88mcg.
the modafinil is a stimulant which can cause abnormal hearth rhythms. your levothroid if not properly dosed could do it as well ask your doctor for a blood test to make sure that dose is not too high for you. being 58 years old you could have heart problems unrelated to the medications. you should see a doctor to get this evaluated.
i feel fluttering on top of my stomach what could that be?
sometimes muscle fibrillating can occur but no significant medical cause.
i have anxiety and ocd about my heart rate and blood pressure. can your heart beat go so fast you die? often when i see it higher this the worst fear.
if sufficient tachycardia continues over time it is possible to cause heart failure and eventually die. it would have to be significantly above sinus tachycardia >120 for hours or days. people with paroxysmal atrial tachycardia can have heart rates around 150-250bpm. atrial flutter around 300bpm. of course ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation leads to death quickly within minutes.
i have been getting heart palpitations. 21 active. stress test ekg xray and enzymes were all good! should i be worried?
have your electrolytes checked. limit your use of albuterol if possible. might need a 24 hr holter monitor or 2 week event monitor to rule out an arrhymthia. no stimulants such as caffeine or decongestants for now. adequate fluids.
i have mono and i can see my pulse in my stomach also i'm having a hard time focusing on things is this normal? my chest also feels tight a lot and
may be able to see their pulse in the abdomen when lying down but usually this suggests that the heart is beating more dynamically which would happen with fever or dehydration or an adrenaline surge if you are anxious. push fluids even though you have sore throat. if unable please let your doctor know about your symptoms especially if your tight chest and focusing don't improve with fluids.
im having strange palpitations-fluttering feeling i cant see my cardiologist for 3mths bisoprolol 2. 5mg isnt working any advice to relueve this?
to be seen by your cardiologist before your medication is adjusted. you can also call your cardiologist. if you can not able to hold your cardiologist you can go to an urgent care or to an er.
i have had 5 ecg's in the past i had another one today but this one said "consider right ventricular hypertrophy" could it be wrong? really worried.
ecg's are now automatically read by a machine which prints out an interpretation to a pattern. the patterns reflect the integrity of the electrical system of the heart. at your age and normal ecg's you need to consider other non cardiac reasons for chest pain such as gastric reflux gas abdominal pain. rvh is a person your age is rare. get a consult from a good cardiologist.
what happens if the doctor defibs someone not in cardiac arrest?
if ventricular tachycardia atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation they will be cardioverted possibly. if person was in normal rhythym they will have had a shock and muscles will be sore!
what is the difference between supraventricular tachycardia and supraventricular arrthymias?
most likely they are the same; theoretically supra ventricular arrhythmia can include atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. however when people talk about it they most commonly mean supra ventricular tachycardia.
why am i gettin constant heart flutters and dizzy spells and shortness of breath for the last few weeks?
your symptoms may be due to an abnormal heart rhythm resulting in dizziness and shortness of breath. you ought to be evaluated in the er as this can be life-threatening. if your symptoms are relatively mild see your doctor asap to have an evaluation. to evaluate this as an outpatient you will need an outpatient heart monitor. if these symptoms are happening often however then get to the er!
what are heart attack symptoms in women?
symptoms vary from person to person men and women. classic symptoms include pressure or squeezing pain which moves to arm neck and/or jaw. shortness of breath nausea/vomiting sweating and/or flush face often accompany. some have just sob or sharp pain. some gas pain. dizziness or just fatigue. some have no symptoms at all. if you have risks then follow up with a doctor is most important.
what is the definition or description of: abnormal fetal heart rate?
after the first trimester the fetal heart rate should fluctuate between 110-160 beats per minute. arrhythmias (skipped beats tachy-/brady-arrhythmias) account for most pre-labor abnormal heart rates. intrapartum fetal heart rate depends on fetal oxygenation and placental perfusion and is used to prevent death of brain injury during labor. decelerations may be early variable or late.
what is the difference between cardiac cough and cardiac asthma? cough is not from medication or illness. have it with talking. have dcm.
cardiac cough can comes at night as part of the paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea from chf. cardiac asthma is bronchospasm/wheezing from pulmonary interstitial fluid accumulation from chf.
what is the difference between cardiac cough and cardiac asthma? cough is not from medication or illness. have it with talking. have dcm.
both refer to symptoms that are usually interpreted as pulmonary in origin but found to be from increased fluid in the lung from congestion from heart failure.
what can be done for postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome?
first one should undergo several basic tests including a careful recording of ones history check of ones blood pressure sitting and standing blood tests to look for identifiable medical causes of the syndrome and a search for commonly associated medical conditions. treatment can begin with a mild tilt of ones bed to keep the head of the bed 6 inches higher than the foot; increase oral fluids.
i have had influenza this is third week and much improved except very week and tired and a heart rate of 127 when sitting down should i be worried?
at your age (i'll keep it confidential) that's not a healthy heart rate for you. it's likely that you are dehydrated since you've been ill. i assume you no longer have fever (? ) which could also cause rapid heart rate. force fluids until you're urinating clear urine frequently. if your heart rate remains >100 at complete rest seek medical attention - you may have an arrhythmia like atr. fib.
is the flue jab safe with warfarin and flecainide?
no problem with coumadin (warfarin)
i have palpitations & left shoulder blade pain. tonight i had a fluttering in the left shoulder blade. now pain in same area. muscle spasm or palps?
most probably unrelated to heart and local muscle spasm more likely.
i have just had ecg and echo which were fine but my chest pain is worsening.
for different cause of chest pain. gi source. may be reflux or esophageal issue. musculoskeletal. talk to your doctor to find out cause
what is the cause of my heart flutters?
possibilities and the treatment can be very different depending upon the etiology. recommend evaluation with your physician.
when you are having shortness of breath from dcm and heart failure is there anything you can do to help with this symptom?
if your symptoms are due to becoming fluid overloaded you may need your diuretic (water pill) adjusted. there are other medication changes which can also be made depending on your blood pressure etc. sometimes people who are quite symptomatic from heart failure benefit from biventricular pacemakers. also eecp can help some. if all measures fail then may need to consider heart transplant.
i have had chest pain ekg fine. i havent been officially diagnosed w/ reflux but have the symptoms. is the severe chest pain today likely gi related?
most probably. no age?
i'm 27 female 5'8. 250lbs chest pain and lightheaded all day. tests all ekg blood xray good. help? doc said good pulse too
of course i can't tell you the cause but two things come to mind: 1)acid reflux and 2)viral syndrome. the first is easily treated with otc medications - check with your pharmacist. the latter must run its course. lie low and rest and you'll get better on your own. best wishes to you.
i am suffering increased heart rate heat flushes sweating and speaking problem each time i speak in public. i feel so embarrassed?
or stage fright. it is a very common problem that is very treatable. make an appt with your local doctor. they can give you medications like lose dose beta blockers propranolol or an anti anxiety medication. often behavior therapy can be very helpful and you may not need meds.
i am suffering increased heart rate heat flushes sweating and speaking problem each time i speak in public. i feel so embarrassed?
this is a common occurrence for a lot of people. there are some simple medications that can help or therapy. see your doctor for help with this concern.
what are the side effects of olmesetran drug?
the most common listed side effects occurring in between 1 and 10% of patients include: dizziness headache increase in blood sugar increase in triglycerides diarrhea back pain bronchitis sore throat flu-like symptoms and occasionally blood in the urine. note: just because they occur does not mean that the drug definitively causes them. it's just that they have been observed.
what drugs are used to treat restrictive cardiomyopathy what are their dosages and how often are they taken?
restrictive cardiomyopathy can be very challenging to treat. the main avenues for treatment are diuretics to keep excess fluid off the body and blood pressure control of which there are many different choices. i would recommend finding a good heart failure cardiologist to work with.
what is causes of vasovagal attack?
i agree this may have been a "vasovagal attack. " for whatever reason your blood pressure dropped to an abnormally low level and this came close to causing you to pass out. you need to be certain you're drinking plenty of water to stay well-hydrated. if you have swelling of the legs and feet the fluid lost into those tissues from the blood compartment may have contributed to the problem.
what can cause severe dehydration and low potassium even when you can eat normal and haven't been sick?
abnormal fluid losses from your gi tract or urine can lead to this. not sure if you have been having vomiting or diarrhea; if not a careful review of your medications as would other tests including urine studies are in order. your doctor can help sort this out after taking a complete history and physical exam. in the meantime stay well hydrated and liberalize dietary potassium. best of luck!
why do i have heart flutters? i have hypertension although it is under control.
ask for a holter monitor if u have heart flutter every day or a loop recorder if only a few times a week or month. that will help determine what's going on when your "heart flutters". it could be nothing or it could be something. also check your thyroid (tsh) while there. and ask if beta blocker is an appropriate blood pressure medication to help control flutter. ndhp calcium channel blockers too.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic and nervousness?
this can be either due to heart or non-heart reasons. of heart causes would consider a tachyarrhythmia (e. g. svt atrial fibrillation atrial flutter) - would need an event monitor to check this. also consider some other causes (not a comprehensive list due to space limitations for answers but more commonly tested): hyperthyroidism anemia illness pheochromocytoma or panic/anxiety attack .
i was laying on my bed and my heart rate was about 79bpm i stood up and it went up to 124bpm. is that something to worry about?
would be worried that you are dehydrated. does it calm down very rapidly (seconds)? if so then maybe just the normal response. if it persists drink extra fluids. still persists see your doctor.
i have a burning sensation in the middle of my chest. when i get that my heart beats faster. what could it be?
hi does this pain become worse with activity? do you have any anxiety? do you have any acid reflux? please see your md for further evaluation.
i'm 66 and on flecainide for af due to pfo closure. also on warfarin for same reason. i'm afraid of the flue injection - any advice?
the flu is a significant risk and the shot is usually a lower risk than the risk of hematoma from the shot in someone on warfarin. you should discuss this with your dr. who is familiar with your anticoagulation state and your history of problems with it.
is 14. 5. mono. concerning. mchc is 35. 5. low potassium. itchy hands. went from 128 lb to 116 in 4 weeks. had diarrheah for 3 weeks. er said just flu?
three weeks of diarrhea can certainly cause you to lose weight for which you should be seen by your doctor. you should modify your diet to avoid dairy products sugar drinks etc. and easy to digest foods such as yogurt soups crackers and meat broths and probiotics. gradually advance diet as tolerated.
is 14. 5. mono. concerning. mchc is 35. 5. low potassium. itchy hands. went from 128 lb to 116 in 4 weeks. had diarrheah for 3 weeks. er said just flu?
if your notation ""14. 5 mono" refers to monocytes increased in your blood you should consult your healthcare provider for advice. you may also have a vitamin deficiency. influenza can produce diarrhea and gastrointestinal symptoms but monocytes may also represent other blood diseases.
i stopped taking 60 mg which i had been on for a month (fluxoteine) because i began experiencing serotonin syndrome such as unusual sweating diarrhea muscle cramping irregular heartbeat increased anxiety. a professional on healthtap suggested i lower
prozac (fluoxetine) is one of the ssri meds that you can stop w/o worrying about withdrawal b/c the levels gradually decrease over 2 weeks. if it was helpful for reducing anxiety and depression then you can start it at a lower dose such as 10 or 20 mg a day to avoid experiencing side effects of serotonin syndrome again. please consult with your prescribing provider about restarting treatment.
i stopped taking 60 mg which i had been on for a month (fluxoteine) because i began experiencing serotonin syndrome such as unusual sweating diarrhea muscle cramping irregular heartbeat increased anxiety. a professional on healthtap suggested i lower
lowering the dose of the ssri can reduce or prevent the side effects that are being experienced. take care.
i get flutters in my throat when i'm excited or nervous hr fast no other symptoms. disappears when i'm calm again. ecg & echo normal. anxiety?
it's a great point in time to do some postpartum depression pervention. i'd advise you to find a good cbt therapist w/ that experience who you can grow to trust. you'd learn skills to deal w/ anxiety and to nip any problems after the birth. it's not uncommon to have such a reaction to the changes and you'll be one step ahead of it. you'll be able to avoid possible baby harm from medications too.
if you have an echo suggesting that the the left atrium appears small. is it possible that the heart was originally small within normal limits and that the right atrium may of enlarged making the left atrium appear small? also if the ecg also shows point
i note you list scoliosis has condition you have. echo appearance is highly beam angle influenced. it is possible you have a normal size l atrium but the beam angles because of the scoliosis make it look small. if everything else is ok no reason for you to be concerned unless the cardiologist is concerned about the echo.
i don't have a medical condition i have been experiencing my heart rate standing out of bed or when anxious to be 100-145. why? doc isn't cocerned.
one reason the heart rate increases on standing is if you have not been taking in enough fluids. make sure to drink at least 8 large glasses of water daily. have your doctor check your blood pressure laying sitting and standing if you still don't improve.
i don't have a medical condition i have been experiencing my heart rate standing out of bed or when anxious to be 100-145. why? doc isn't cocerned.
can definitely increase your heart rate to those levels. in addition if you don't drink enough fluids you could experience heart rate increases with standing. if you are concerned ask your doctor if he would do an ekg just to be sure everything is ok. hope this helps!
what are symptoms of cardiomyopathy?
shortness of breath with minimal activity. weakness congestive heart failure (fluid in the lungs) feeling like you will pass out going from sitting to standing. cardiac echo is the diagnostic test that confirms.
what wave on an ecg shows ejection fraction and how would it look if it was poor?
ef comes from visualizing the heart chamber fully filled and fully contracted (/emptied) and determining what % of the blood within it did not get pumped out. this is done by ultrasound (echocardiogram) or often during cardiac catheterization (using fluoroscopic technique). ecg/ekg cannot tell you this.
what are the symptoms of dilated cardiomyopathy?
you might feel fatigue weakness shortness of breath while you are lying down or physically active lightheaded dizzy fainting persistent cough of wheezing especial at when you are lying downs. you might have leg ankle or feet swelling sudden weight gain or fluid retention lack of appetite heart flutters palpitations and pale skin.
what is the treatment of rapid heart rate in infants? please help.
first you must define rapid as an infant may normally run rates of 90-180/min in various states of activity. if the rate is high for the activity you identify the reason for a rapid rate and fix it. for dehydration you give fluids for fever you reduce the fever. for infection you treat the infection. for a heart related issue you must identify the problem to treat it.
why am i having a twitch above the right ear? i also had a fluttering heart beat the other day but always have good heart rate and blood pressure @ dr
with relatively little information it's only speculation that is possible. the ear twitch and palpitations aren't necessarily related but a viral process might tie them together. anxiety would be another possibility.
why am i having a twitch above the right ear? i also had a fluttering heart beat the other day but always have good heart rate and blood pressure @ dr
these two may be unrelated. . however if the palpitating retune please see a doctor to find out the cause.
what does it mean to all of a sudden get a fluttering feeling in the middle to upper portion of the chest ekg is normal resting hr is 57-63 bpm?
you have perfectly described "palpitations. " this is due to an irregularity of your heart rhythm which tends to be sporadic. a prolonged recording of your heart rhythm (at least 24 hours but may require 30 days) will be necessary to detect the arrhythmia. an echocardiogram will determine if your heart is structurally and physiologically normal. blood work will determine if you have triggers.
what does it mean to all of a sudden get a fluttering feeling in the middle to upper portion of the chest ekg is normal resting hr is 57-63 bpm?
you probably are having short groups of extra heart beats. a random ecg could miss these. they are generally benign. they are worth checking out with your doctor. we have tests that can show them and other possibilities are also present.
what is the maximum temperature that is safe in a sauna/steam bath if you have svt?
if you have svt you should avoid both saunas and steam baths or situations which cause excess e sweating which increases your loss of fluids which can increase your likelihood of having svt.
what are the symptoms of an arrythmia?
most people describe a "flutter" "skip" "thud" or feeling like they need to cough with an odd sensation in their chest. an on-going arrhythmia can cause breathlessness with exertion and fatigue. a very rapid or very slow heart beat can cause faintness.
is drinking 2 cups of coffee making my heart flutter? i've been drinking it for years with no problem. it flutters all day now not just right after
it sounds like you're having palpitations. that could mean you have an abnormal heart rhythm. you should see your doctor to have an ekg done. 2 cups of regular coffee wouldn't be expected to increase palpitations if that's your normal amount. avoid other stimulants (energy drinks nasal decongestants drugs of abuse).
i've had diarrhea and nausea all day. body is achy and sore. as a cardiomyopathy patent should i be extra concerned?
people with cardiomyopathy should be more careful about their heart condition even in association with other conditions like diarrhea and generalized body aches. you should carefully hydrate yourself & drink fluids with adequate electrolytes. if the symptoms continue you should consult with your pcp & cardiologist.
i've had diarrhea and nausea all day. body is achy and sore. as a cardiomyopathy patent should i be extra concerned?
yes if you are on a diuretic you can get very dehydrated also may be side effect of medication. talk with your doc tonight. try to keep up with fluids water gatorade clear liquids
i've been told i'm heart healthy with tests and had a few pacs with holter monitors. the heart flutters are worse with exercise. what causes these?
nearly everyone has some pac's on a holter. they increase with increasing cardiac stimulation including exercise caffeiene eletrolyte abnormalities and many other conditions. so. this may well be totatllly average cannot say in your particular case
i've been told i'm heart healthy with tests and had a few pacs with holter monitors. the heart flutters are worse with exercise. what causes these?
typically "flutters" are due to some of your heart cells firing a bit early pre-empting the natural pacemaker. this causes a reset and an irregular timing to the pulse. typically flutters get better with exercise since there is less time between regular beats for an extra one to fit in. you should discuss your particular case with your doc.
i'm 36 weeks pregnant and baby's heart rate was 170 last time it was they were worried what should i do i've also been having pains in my stomach?
a fetal heart rate between 110 and 170 can be normal. my guess is that you had monitoring done the last time this happened. of more concern is your complaints of abdominal pain. is it constant? does it come and go? any bleeding? baby active? this is something you should call your ob about. in the mean time push oral fluids and take two tylenol (acetaminophen) if not allergic and try lying down on left side.
i have been having pvcs. and flutter for the past 2 months. seeing a cardiologist. recommendations on pros and cons for flecainide vs ablation.
every single one of my patients on flecainide has had problems with drug- drug interactions or problematic side effects. ablation is usually low risk quick easy and permanent. i say ablate that puppy
i had contrast ct 2 hours ago. i'm terrified i will get a delayed adverse reaction and cardiac arrest from it. could i? feel flush and dizzy
by 2hr post ct you are well past the time when you are likely to have an adverse reaction try and relax
what are arrythmia symptoms?
heart arrythmias usually causes palpitations (heart fluttering) or sometimes dizziness. if you have any of these get evaluated by your doctor.
what is the physiology that explains how a high heart rate influences coronary artery perfusion and myocardial oxygen delivery?
by itself a high heart rate will result in higher oxygen demand and utilization but delivery should also increase to compensate. so everything should balance if the heart is healthy. if the heart isn't healthy to begin with a high heart rate is not desirable.
what are the symptoms of atrial flutter?
butterflies in chest or a palpitations can indicate atrial fib or flutter. make sure your blood pressure controlled.
what are the symptoms of atrial flutter?
sometimes it can be asymptotic or regular palpitations until the heart rate is controlled. people with heart disease or poor exercise tolerance may develop symptoms such as dyspnea chest pains dizziness nausea or anxiety. prolonged fast flutter can lead to tacchycardia induced congestive heart failure!
what is the treatment for atrial flutter?
treatment of a flutter depends on the type of flutter (typical or atypical) whether it's the 1st episode the age of the patient the presence or absence of underlying heart disease and patient's personal preferences (more medications vs. procedural approach (ablation). ablation is an excellent option for typical flutter. you should discuss this with your doctor or an electrophysiologist.
what is the treatment for atrial flutter?
atrial flutter is likely to turn into atrial fibrillation but the treatment is similar and depends on symptoms onset and duration other medical problems and what the cause is thought to be. there are 2 main strategies. rate control to slow down the rate. the other is rhythm control to get you into sinus. this can be done with medications or electricity. anticoagulation may be indicated.
what is the treatment for atrial flutter?
radio frequency ablation medication surgery. . see this: <link>
what are the symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
atrial fib presents differently in everybody. sometimes it can be completely asymptomatic. other times it can be flutters in the chest shortness of breath dizziness to name a few.
what are the symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
atrial fibrillation is disorganized irregular electrical activity in the upper chamber of the heart (atrium). symptoms included sensation of pounding irregular or rapid heart beats lightheadedness flushing weakness shortness breath. but most people with atrial fibrillation have no symptoms and do not know it!
what are the symptoms of atrial fibrillation?
some people have no symptoms whatsoever. others depending how fast the ventricular heart rate may have "fluttering" or palpitations or sudden loss of energy with fatigue sometimes dizziness. if they have underlying cardiac problems they can get chest discomfort or breathlessness if they go into af with a rapid resultant heart rate. to avoid complications like a stroke get urgent evaluation!
what can you do to raise low blood pressure and low potassium levels at the same time?
drink fluids and eat salt and potassium rich foods like dark green leafy vegetables tomatoes and bananas. you may need to take a potassium supplement depending on your deficit. if you don't have diarrhea vomiting diuretic use or nasogastric suction your potassium will correct itself on its own.
i have chronic asthma. i am on singulair (montelukast). i took flovent (2 puffs ) earlier this evening and my heart beat has been erratic. caused by the flovent?
flovent is an inhaled steroid and does not cause palpitations. albuterol would be more likely to do so. now if the flovent is combined with another medicine (is there another word after fluticasone on the inhaler? ) then it would be a possible cause. if you have chest pain or dizziness with the erratic heart beat you need to be seen urgently.
i'm 7weeks pregnant very weak can't keep anything down not even water very shaky and my heartbeat has been very fast can't do anything but lay down.
your weakness shakiness and rapid heart beat may be the result of being dehydrated. you may actually need some iv fluid - see your doctor! when things settle down you may find that frequent tiny sips (teaspoons) of liquid will stay down better. try sips of broth "jello water " ginger tea - anything with a little sugar or salt will help you feel better.
i'm 7weeks pregnant very weak can't keep anything down not even water very shaky and my heartbeat has been very fast can't do anything but lay down.
the nausea and vomiting of early pregnancy can cause dehydration and electrolyte problems which can be serious. as severe as yours sound you need to get in touch with your doctor. you may need iv fluids and prescription meds. in milder cases frequent small meals the avoidance of spicey foods and foods with strong smells ginger dry crackers and accupressure bands can help.
is a fast heart rate normal with stomach flu? 99. 8 body temp and drinking plenty of water. pulse 90-100.
both fever and mild dehydration may cause tachycardia or a fast heart rate.
i'm joining the army but fear i will get sudden cardiac arrest triggered by intensiv exercise? ! should i go cardiologist for tests to reassure?
hi. bayes theorem states that post test probability of an event prediction or disease is influenced by not only sensitivity and specificity of the test but also pretest probability of event or disease. your pretest probability of sudden cardiac arrest at your age in the absence of a horrible gene or dysrhythmia (very rare things) is essentially zero. since no test is perfect i advise no test.
i'm a healthy 43yr old. i took 1 dose of tarmiflu last spring. my heart rate increased from 60bpm to 120bpm within 20 mins. is it safe to take again?
tachycardia is not listed as a side effect of tamiflu (oseltamivir) we cannot give an accurate opinion on what type of reaction you were expeiencing at the time. i would suggest not to take it unless recommended by your doctor and under close surveillance if he/she agrees.
what could cause rapid fluttery jumpy heartrate 75-110 resting. 120-160's from minor activities and showers had svt corrective surgery and its diff?
further evaluation with your cardiologist as this is suspicious for arrhythmia.
what are the affects of alcohol on low bp and pre mature irregular heart beat?
alcohol is a diuretic. . making you pee off fluids through your kidneys. it is also a depressant and can really make moodiness or depression worse. so if you are dehydrated both of the heart symptoms you describe above will be made worse with alcohol. everything else being normal.
why would i have a heart rate of 108 and blood pressure of 92/68?
you might be dehydrated. although your blood pressure is in the normal range it might be lower than your average blood pressure. to compensate your heart beats faster and harder. try drinking some fluids and see if that helps.
why has my doctor not checked for coronary artery anomolies excercise chest pain. had echo ecg stress ecg 24h ecg bloods. 21 male.
at 21 y/o with the above negative studies i can say with certainty that you do not have coronary artery disease. i will look for chest wall pain/costochondritis asthma induce exercise acid reflux that can mimic pressure chest pain like from the heart anxiety disorders. trust your doctor stay in shape do not smoke or drink eat healthy.
what is it like to get a cardiac pacemaker?
in the or the chest is prepped and the patient receives light sedation. the implant area is numbed with local anesthetic and the pacing wires are introduced and passed under fluoroscopy to the heart positioned and tested. the device is attached to the leads and placed in a pocket under the skin. the pocket is closed and the patient is monitored before going home.
i am having a lot of tachycardia with severe gastritis and head pain. can't sleep?
gastritis can be caused by the meds used to treat tachycardia are you on any? also can be caused by obesity alcohol and the bacteria h. pylori. the tachycardia could also be anxiety from feeling ill. both of them can cause difficult sleeping. simple acid reflux and gastritis responds well to otc acid blockers (nexium prevacid (lansoprazole) etc) if no better need to see an specialist to look for the cause.
i get some pvc's that i can feel everyday. doctor says they are benign. is it true that staying hydrated can help reduce them? i hate them!
you might even make them worse because by pushing fluids you induce diuresis and can cause washout of your important electrolytes for cardiac rhythm: potassium and magnesium. if your pvcs are driving you crazy they can be treated! see your cardiologist or an electrophysiologist.
i am 45 m early heartbeat at times. now 7 weeks pregnant via ivf. yesterday after eating started feeling fluttering on an off all night. normal?
the bottom line here is you need to be checked out. at 45 your body is not as resilient as a 20 something pregnancy is more of a physical challenge. in addition the hcg molecule behaves biologically as if it were thyroid stimulating hormone so women are mildly hyperthyroid during early pregnancy. that may cause arrhythmia and even a fib. you need to call ob & an echo/cardiology consult per ob.
if one suffers with bothersome pvcs is it usual for them to increase and get worse when you have a urine infection/the flu?
infections should not cause cardiac arrhythmias to worsen. if you take antibiotics for them it might interact with your cardiac meds. ask your doctor or pharmacist if any of your meds interact with one another.
is it weird when i was at my dr last week my bp went from 120/70 and today my bp was 154/109 and when i took it a fews mins ago 144/90 something wrong?
blood pressure fluctuates during the day. stress and tension can elevate bp. some battery powered bp machines are more accurate than others depending on the brand. if you are using such a machine you need to bring it to your next visit and have dr check its accuracy. wrist bp machines tend to be inaccurate. the medications you are taking for your low bp condition can also cause high bp.
i know i have a problem with my thyroid but i have tried synthroid (thyroxine) but i think it has to do with potassium deficiency is that possible for the weight gain fluid retention charlie horses ?
you have to stop guessing. if you have a thyroid problem and if you were prescribed synthroid (thyroxine) means you have hypothyroidism you have to continue and follow up with your doctor who prescribed the synthroid (thyroxine) as you will need repeat blood test to see if you need any dose adjustment. pottasium deficiency does not cause weight gain and fluid retention ask your doctor to check potassium level as well
i have asymptomatic bradycardia with frequent pvcs/pacs. i was given prozac (fluoxetine) to help with ongoing physical symptoms with no answer. insert says people with bradyarrythmias shouldnt take. why prescribed?
prozac (fluoxetine) can be used by patients with bradyarrythmias however caution is required. . which means monitoring by your medical professional including ekg follow-ups! do not stop your prozac (fluoxetine) for this reason without contact the prescribing physician> hope this helps dr z
i have asymptomatic bradycardia with frequent pvcs/pacs. i was given prozac (fluoxetine) to help with ongoing physical symptoms with no answer. insert says people with bradyarrythmias shouldnt take. why prescribed?
your doctor knows about your physical condition i do not. i am sure s/he will discuss the rationale behind his choice of medications if you ask.
i have asymptomatic bradycardia with frequent pvcs/pacs. i was given prozac (fluoxetine) to help with ongoing physical symptoms with no answer. insert says people with bradyarrythmias shouldnt take. why prescribed?
you should discuss with the prescribing physician what the prescriber expects to be the positive effects of prozac (fluoxetine) in you relative to the symptoms you are having. the question of relative risk given your form of bradycardia to the probability of benefit to your physical symptoms should be discussed. not enough information here to advise you why prescribed
i'm taking zopaclone diazapam propranolol fluoxetine naproxin and lasoprozol. yesterday i noticed i'm getting small sores inside my mouth.
it is possible that this could be a side effect of one of your medications but you shouldn't eliminate any one of them without your physician's supervision. talk to your pharmacist who has access to all information regarding your medications and see if any of them has been known to cause oral sores. if there is one your physician may taper you off it and give you a suitable substitute.
i get feeling of skipped beat and fast beat (palpitations)in my neck artery when i have acid reflux or been drinking. i have constant reflux. normal?
constant reflux is not normal. although everybody experiences some degree of reflux it is usually minimal. if it is causing significant symptoms and affecting the quality of your life you should see your physician regarding the symptoms and have an examination. often over-the-counter medications will control the reflux symptoms
what are the side effects of xanax (alprazolam) and can xanax (alprazolam) cause palpitaions?
yes palpitations can be caused by xanax (alprazolam). if you have chest pain fluttering sensation of chest or pounding pulse- seek medical attention.
why dose my heart hurt sometimes? i've been to a hospital because of my heart rate was to high and had to stay for 4 days then they said i was fine?
heart pain is probably your symptom. a common cause of cp in young males is chest wall pain/costochondritis acid reflux asthma pneumonia bronchitis. if the hospital said you were fine probably you don't have a heart disease. stay with your primary care doctor to find out the cause of your cp.
what does this mean? sinus rhythm at rates 78 to 140 bpm with rare vpbs. had a heart holster test done. dizzyness. skipped beat. right side chest pain
mean that during the holter test monitoring of your heart your heart rate fluctuated between 78to 140beats per minute. . you were supposed to right down the time you felt any symptoms at all. with that you go and see your doctor for further evaluation. good luck.
woke up went outside for a smoke felt heart flutters and then fainted. went to doc and ekg is normal. could the issue be head related?
fainting is an important symptom. to be head related it would have to be a seizure and this is very unlikely based on what u describe. because u had a fluttering sensation first it implies that u fainted due to a heart issue. most common problem would be brief atrial fibrillation but u r quite young for that. i would do a holter monitor on you to track your heart rate through the day.
what could a pulsating in abdomen and rapid heartbeat be from?
a rapid heart beat with abdominal pulsations (particularly noticeable in a thin person) might signify a tachycardia type arrhythmia (either svt or vt in origin). if large fluctuations in neck veins are seen it could favor vt as te cause given the av dissociation that would typically occur (atria contracting against a closed av valve producing cannon "a" waves. patient activated monitoring helpful.
what fluctuates bp been low 91/58 t o normal. 136/59 had thyroid removed to being over after n causing afib have a lil dizziness n a slight headache?
did the whole thyroid come out? if so get your thyroid level checked. you may not have enough thyroid hormone replacement. check your heart with an ekg you may still have runs or afib. tonight check your pulse. is it regular and the same rate? if so you are not likely in afib which would make. your heart beat irregularly irregular. blood pressure meds can also make you dizzy. feel better soon.
what are the causes of non-cardiogenic paulminary edema?
multiple causes; sepsis syndrome drugs brain trauma lung trauma infections such as influenza or others. volume overload to name a few. many other causes possible
what are the causes of non-cardiogenic paulminary edema?
changes in permeability of the lungs (pulmonary) capillary membranes usually as a result of either a direct or an indirect insult such as : drowning acute glomerulonephritis (kidney disease) fluid overload aspiration inhalation injury neurogenic pulmonary edema allergic reaction adult respiratory distress syndrome (ards).
how often do cardiac ablation surgeries result in complications requiring pacemakers implantation?
it depends on the ablation type: almost never for wpw atrial fibrillation/flutter or ventricular tachycardia; 1% or less for avnrt (atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia). in avnrt there is an extra 'lane' in the av node that conducts electrical impulses leading to tachycardia and the ablation can unintentionally damage the whole av node resulting in heart block and need for pacemaker.
how do you relieve pain from implantable cardioverter defibrillator surgery?
post-operative pain is normal but should not be excessive. first what is the cause of the pain? if the surgical site is red swollen or oozing fluid contact the implanting physician immediately. the problem could be serious.
how successful is cardiac ablation?
depends on the arrhythmia. for atrial fibrillation about 80% for atrial flutter close to 95% for ventricular tachycardia 90+%.
how successful is cardiac ablation?
for avnrt and avrt (the latter also called wolf parkinson white) the success rate can be as high as 98%. the same can also be true for typical (right atrial) atrial flutter. atrial tachycardias in expert hands can be as successful as 85% even if of a complicated type. ventricular tachycardias are a much more diverse group and more info would be needed to give a good answer.
how do you describe a heart palpitation?
most people describe their heart as beating too fast too hard or irregular. some say it feels like fluttering or skipping a beat. palpitations are a symptom and a doctor can usually find a diagnosis to explain your symptoms.
how do you describe a heart palpitation?
most people say they feel a "flip-flop" or a "flutter". some say they feel their heart pound. others feel a thud or a sensation as if their heart has momentarily stopped.
in terms of symptoms are there any differences between svt and atrial fibrillation?
with svt (supraventricular tachycardia) you are likely to feel dizzy or light-headed and a sense of very rapid/racing heartbeat. with atrial fibrillation the palpations may feel more like fluttering there may just be an awareness that your heart is beating chest pain/discomfort shortness of breath fatigue or lack of energy. you might not be sure your heart is the problem with af!
i am 18 years old. i have been having chest pain for the past week and i went to the emergency room twice to diagnose what wrong with me my ekg x-rays blood test and urine test came out great and they said nothing they couldn't find what was causing
did you have a chest x-ray? it would make sense that among all the other tests you mentioned they would have done a chest xray to r/o a pneumothorax or a pneumonia. it is possible this is reflux so you can try some antacid like tums (calcium carbonate) to see if it helps. another possiblility is costochondritis an inflammation of the joints between the ribs and the breast bone. usually ibuprofen helps with that
is it ok to feel a very heavy heartbeat when laying on left side in bed? it feels like im suffocating my heart.
the hart will not be suffocated unless there is a lot of fluid in the sac that surrounds the heart (pericardium) which is usually caused by an infection. it is common to feel the beats of your heart when your are lying down especially on the left side. next you see your doctor have her/him listen for bruit over your head to make sure everything is ok
i have the flu and i've been coughing constantly for 3 days. will this damage my heart? i have wpw
influenza doesn't cause heart damage and even though you feel like a dog now you'll get all better in time.
ibs-dx x4 days severe abd. pain nausea vomiting diarrhea pain get worse 7-8out of 10 when eat/drink racing heart/palpitations meds no help next step?
your symptoms are not typical of irritable bowel syndrome. pain especially 7-8 out of 10 and vomiting are unusual. also the racing heart/palpitations may be a sign that you are dehydrated. to be symptomatic at 29 you are probably very dehydrated. i would recommend you see urgent care or the emergency room - or at least your primary care doctor. these are concerning symptoms. fluids!
i frequently can see black spots in my eyes that pulsate like my heartbeat. what may cause this? lumbar puncture pressure of 30
many things can cause this. typically black spots are "floaters" or problems with the vitreous fluid in your eye. however pulsating can be a problem with the optic nerve and vasculature of your eye. given your lp "pressure of 30" you need a pupil exam a full exam of your retina and optic nerve and likely visual field testing with oct testing of your optic nerves ct/mri scan brain
i had protected anal and oral sex. and one day later i had some flu symptons. get searching and i found that hiv have similar symptoms has the flu. mi symptoms are fever sore throat headache and sinus pressure with mucus?
it is unlikely that your symptoms are due to hiv 1 day after unprotected sex. it may be an upper respiratory infection that has occurred coincidentally. usually 6-8 weeks after the virus enters your body you may start to experience the flu-like symptoms. get tested and practice safe sex always with condoms to prevent hiv and other sexually transmitted infections.
i had protected anal and oral sex. and one day later i had some flu symptons. get searching and i found that hiv have similar symptoms has the flu. mi symptoms are fever sore throat headache and sinus pressure with mucus?
first you have to find out hiv status of your partner if negative you don't have to worry too much you still may be at risk for other std s. you have to get tested for hiv and need to be tested for at least 6 months. if yur partner is hiv positive you may have to take prophylactic dose of medication consult i d specialist.
im having difficulty breathing i feel like i have alot of fluid in my lungs i have a shallow heart beat hot flushes but cold feet chest pain please?
without delay i those symptoms strongly suggest that you should go immediately to the nearest emergency room.
i am 44 yrs old. i have been experiencing strong heart palpitations and a flutter in my upper left side of my stomach. what could this be?
the feeling of palpitations flutter may be from your heart which you are feeling so see your md and make sure that your heart is ok and no issues with it. because if it is from your heart it need attention asap
i have leaky valves and pvcs. now i am feeling gurgling or fluttering in my chest. what could this be?
sounds like your symptoms could be due to palpitations from an arrhythmia possibly more frequent or a run of pvcs. please seek medical attention immediately to determine the cause for your symptoms especially given your history.
what can i do if my pulse runs anywhere between 80-132. my blood pressure runs low. what's going on?
you sound like you have reduced blood volume. try increasing your salt to 6 - 8 grams per day and your fluid intake to 4-6 liters/day. an exercise program (45 minutes 2-4x a week) for 3 months will help correct it also.
would heart failure be possible after normal resting echo? pains vomiting collapse tachycardia on standing and complete exercise intolerance 5 months. possible pots but symptoms so severe i worry.
the symptoms of heart failure are difficulty breathing with exertion or shortness of breath at rest leg swelling inability to lie flat on back due to shortness of breath and cough and fluid retention. assuming a completely normal echo your symptoms many related to vasovagal syncope pots adrenal insufficiency among others. tilt table testing and certain medications can help with diagnosis.
what causes heart spasms and how do you determine if it needs medication. has anyone seen it after broken heart syndrome?
do you mean palpitations or fluttering? chest pains? you should probably speak with your cardiologist about it.
how can atrial fibrillation and flutter be treated?
generally speaking we can attempt to control the rate we can attempt to keep you in a normal rhythm with medications or we can attempt a long-term tour of the rhythm using a catheter ablation. there are also surgical treatment for the arrhythmias but these are generally not first-line treatments unless you have another reason to have heart surgery.
how can atrial fibrillation and flutter be treated?
both are atrial arrhythmias. they often occur in the same person sometimes moments apart. in fib the atrial electrical activity is completely disorganized. in flutter the atrial rate is usually 300. in untreated fib the ventricular rate is usually 160-200. in flutter the vr is usually 150.
how can atrial fibrillation and flutter be treated?
medications are used to control the heart or restore normal rhythm. depending on the risk factors blood thinners may be prescribed to lower the risk of stroke. catheter and surgical procedures are also available in some patients to restore sinus rhythm.
how severe are heart palpitations for a woman going through menopause?
it is extremely common for peri-menopausal women to develop heart palpitations. the overwhelming majority of these cases represent heart rhythms that are in no way dangerous but can be uncomfortable and even sometimes intolerable due to the sensation of racing or fluttering pulse. the "severity" generally relates not to health risks but to how much it interferes with your life.
how severe are heart palpitations for a woman going through menopause?
hormonal imbalances at menopause may cause retention of fluid i the body and that together with progesterone effects (such as hot flashes) may speed up heart rate giving a subjective sensation of palpitations. however it is important to know if an arrhythmia (abnormal or irregular heart beat) is present or just normal rhythm being a bit fast. a few simple tests will put your mind at ease.
how do class 1b antiarrhythmic drugs help in treating ventricular fibrillation?
class ib drugs work by blocking the rapid influx of sodium ions during the depolarization phase of the heart’s depolarization-repolarization cycle. this decreases the refractory period which reduces the risk of arrhythmia. these are weak drugs that do not improve survival and are used only to treat symptoms if at all. they're rarely used in modern treatment.
how does dilated cardiomyopathy affect your body?
the output of your heart is reduced so that you might get short of breath your feet and abdomen could swell your liver can enlarge and get congested fluid can accumulate in your lungs your heart will enlarge. your lips and fingers may look bluish if the oxygen in the blood drops. since the output of the heart becomes low all the other organs can be affected.
how many people in the united states are living with supraventricular tachycardia?
according to the new england journal of medicine nejm "the incidence of supraventricular tachycardia is about 35 cases per 100 000 per persons per year and the prevalence is about 2. 25 per 1 000 (excluding atrial fibrillation atrial flutter multifocal atrial tachycardia which were not covered in this (2006) review).
how do i control fluid deposition in the stomach due to restrictive cardiomyopathy?
in general managing fluid status in restrictive cardiomyopathy requires a delicate balance. to avoid excess congestion in the body it's key to restrict sodium in diet (2 grams daily) and to maximize cardiac forward flow with medications. diuretics help the body mobilize fluid that accumulates in the abdomen or elsewhere but one has to be cautious not to overshoot and cause low blood pressure.
how do i control fluid deposition in the stomach due to restrictive cardiomyopathy?
best way to control fluid in restrictive heart failure is to make sure that there is adequate decongestion in the first place in that you are on aggressive diuretics to maintain normal filling pressures and then to minimize salt in your diet at all costs to maintain that stability. often one needs higher doses of spironolactone to aid in ascites prevention.
i'm tachycardic and feeling fluttering in my chest what should i do?
depending on how long it lasts frequency and onset things vary. you should go to your md to evaluate possible causes of possible supraventricular tachycardias aflutter and afib even though you are a young individual
i have been having bad both ear problems. and family dr isn't responding. bone behind right ear pain and hearing heartbeat in left. feeling off balance?
this is possibly due to middle ear infection or fluids behind the ear drums. you want to make sure no secondary bone infection. see ent if not pmd
i eat zantac (ranitidine) 75 tablets to get rid of acid reflux and now i having problems regarding to breathe or my heart beats too fast or i cannot sleep well?
maybe you need a more potent acid inhibitor! you may wish to get either omeprazole 20mg over the counter and take twice a day or else get your physician to prescribe protonix (pantoprazole) 40mg daily and see if that works better. .
is yohimbine safe to use while on fluoxetine abilify (aripiprazole) buproprion and a very low dose of propranolol? meds for anxiety. klonopin as needed.
between all the others you list! some are very risky! be sure your provider is watching you closely and try to stop some. ed is not your biggest worry and yohimbine has side effects. be careful - if your provider is not a psych specialist - you might want a consult when multi-pharma issues arise. add cbt tx for best outcome and less risks. you're too young for so many meds. best!
i have 2 stents in lad artery. is prozac (fluoxetine) a safe ssri due to its qt prolongation or is it to risky?
likely your prosac will have no real effect on your cardiac conduction as long as qtc measures under 499 msec but here is the key issue. huge numbers of prescription meds have potential to prolong qt interval especially opioids but also entire class of ssri's and ssnri's. will refer your question also to cardiology as they can expand on my comments.
i have indigestion and bradycardia but all cardio work up is ok. could a vagus nerve problem be a possible route of my problems?
it is very possible your reflux can cause cardiac changes as the vagus nerve can be irritated by the reflux given an atomic location of the vagus nerve to the esophagus.
is it common with postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome to have bouts of extreme tiredness?
fatigue is common in pots (postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome) for 2 reasons: 1) if ur bp is low then ur brain doesn't get enough blood flow & as a result u feel tired. 2) the causes of pots isn't fully known but some suspect it happens because of a virus or inflammatory reaction. virus infections (like the cold flu) cause u 2 b tired by their nature & ur immune system takes up energy.
how come some people with atrial fibrillation don't even know it?
atrial fibrillation by itself does not produce symptoms usually it is often the fast heart rate that may result from it that causes the symptoms of "fluttering" in the chest. even with fast heart rates some people do not feel anything in their chest because not everyone is as sensitive to these things to the same degree. some people feel fluttering and it is not related to their heart at all.
how does your diet affect svt?
most svt ("supraventricular tachycardia") episodes are unrelated to diet. there's an inherent abnormality in the way electricity is initiated or conducted in the heart. occasionally it can be set off by caffeine or alcohol though this is much less common than you might think. rarely acid reflux can be a trigger for svt; in these patients any food causing heartburn may be a culprit.
how do you tell the difference between acidity and heart attack?
it can be hard to tell the difference between heartburn and a heart attack since both can cause a prolonged burning sensation in the chest. since heart attacks kill people it is safer to presume the worst and get evaluated at the emergency room (go by ambulance) to rule out a heart attack. heartburn is more likely if symptoms are brief they occur after meals one tastes some reflux acid etc.
hello doc i am 35 years old i have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and hbp but i would like to have kids could u tell me what i can do to conceive?
with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy there is risk of cardiac event during pregnancy when your body fluid status changes significantly. you will need to see a cardiologist and high risk ob for cardiac echo among other things to see what you can do to increase you cardiac function. www. chrisohmd. com.
have had 2 rf ablasions for svt. not "successful. " possible vagal response to chronic reflux? triggered by rf stretta for gerd?
consider a different specialist for a second opinion on svt.
how serious is it? i have a pace maker and normally low blood pressure although since being pregnant (8 months) it has been fairly high for me. i was in bed with my feet up because of swelling when i got a little dizzy and my left arm felt funny. almost
changes in the vascular system during pregnancy can cause fluctuations in your blood pressure. additionally sometimes the fetus can press against the large vein coming back to the heart called the vena cava which can also cause a drop in blood pressure. it is never wrong to check in with your physician especially when you have heart disease at a young age as i presume you do since you have a pacemaker.
had an echo for palpitations and murmur that was normal with an av excursion of 2. 8cm & ef of 70%. what else can i do to address these symptoms?
i believe echo did not reveal mitral valve prolapse since no mention was made of it. get thyroid function tests. avoid stimulants suh as coffe caffein containing tea pseudoephedrine which is contained in many over the counter cold and "flu" remedies. please be aware that many over the counter supplements and energy drinks are laden with caffein. finally consider evaluation for anxiety.
how common is it for somebody to get atrial flutter?
not an uncommon arrhythmia that is not life threatening but can be quite symptomatic.
had cardiac ablation 3 weeks ago today started having arrhythmia again should i be concerned?
generally speaking atrial fibrillation ablations can see patients developed a wide variety of abnormal heart rhythms for up to three months after the procedure. if however the procedure was for atrial flutter avnrt or avrt (wolf parkinson white) this may reflect the need for additional procedural work.
how do you define atrial flutter?
atrial arrhythmia rate 230-270 or so with a particular electrocardiographic pattern from abnormal focus of initiation in the atrium.
how do you define atrial flutter?
rapid atrial rhythm 250-350 beats per minute.
how to differentiate between atrial flutter and fibrillation?
atrial flutter has a regular rhythm at a steady pace whereas atrial fibrillation is erratic and irregular. flutter frequently degenerates into fibrillation. an ekg easily can tell them apart.
how to differentiate between atrial flutter and fibrillation?
ekg is the best way to know. there can be clues. untreated atrial fibrillation tend to cause a heart rate of 120s to 180s and is irregular whereas untreated atrial flutter is often hovering right around 150 and is usually regular. there are many exceptions but the above is a good rule of thumb.
hi last week i was treated for alcohol detox and heart attack w/ valium. i was allergic to the dye and was flushed w/ iv urine results: creatine-20 benzos-60pass; creatine-65 benzos-1333fail; creatine-260 benzos-1999fail each 2 days apart. why
why you would be tested for drugs after a heart attack i don't know. however if you were treated with valium by doctors this is not "failing" a drug test. when you first get a drug it has not been metabolized yet and drug tests measure the metabolites usually not the parent drug. so a test becomes more positive as you metabolize more of the drug which takes time. initial urine was dilute.
hi last week i was treated for alcohol detox and heart attack w/ valium. i was allergic to the dye and was flushed w/ iv urine results: creatine-20 benzos-60pass; creatine-65 benzos-1333fail; creatine-260 benzos-1999fail each 2 days apart. why
hello i can not provide a definitive respons to this question as i do not know the lab standards where your urine was drug tested. it the urine has a creatinine level less than 20 mg/ml and specific gravity less than 1. 003 it is considered a diluted samples. in many jurisdictions this is considered a failure. many labs use hhs standards to determine the "cut off" or "screening threshold" for drugs of abuse. valium is a benzodiazapine. hhs standards have a cutoff for benzodiazapines at 300. your first drug screen benzodiazapine level was below 300 the the next two were well above the cutoff. i hope this is helpful.
how can i find out the origin of chest pain edema and fatigue upon exertion? i have been hospitalized recently for hypertension i have had for many years. i now have chest pain and fatigue with exercise and exertion. my cardiologist said that my ekg so
hello. if i understand correctly you have newly developed chest pain swelling and fatigue with exertion since your discharge. please let your cardiologist know as this is a change in your condition. i can't diagnose your symptoms but it sounds like your heart is having to work harder to pump blood in it's enlarged condition. rattling in the lungs can sometimes be fluid and the edema in your ankles is another area where fluid may be building up. when you speak with your cardiologist give him this information with any other pertinent symptoms. you might want to write down your questions before hand and specifically ask what your diagnosis is. take care.
i have brittle hair & hair loss. had iron levels checkd. put on 65 mg iron for 3 mos. what other effects can low iron hav on someone? my heart flutters
iron deficiency can cause symptoms related to poor total body iron stores. tired and fatigued are the most common with ice craving being very prevalent. iron is important for hair growth skin rejuvenation and all your bodily functions as well as necessary to produce red blood cells. is carried on the hemoglobin of your red blood cell. anemia may increase your risk of heart palpitations
i just had complete unprotected sex with my husband and could now be pregnant. should i see dr asap. taking metoprolol for palpitations but healthy.
if you are not having any pain abnormal discharge or heavy bleeding then there is no rush to see your ob/gyn. you should be taking vitamins and drinking lots of fluids. a good time to start our prenatal care if you are not having problems is about when you are 8 to 12 weeks pregnant. the metoprolol is ok to take in pregnancy but you could call your ob/gyn and get an opinion on that.
in several ecg the machine have interpreted "horizontal axis" (ca. p 62° qrs -13° t 50°). what can be the cause?
this is the net direction of electrical flow and can be influenced by body habitus. are you short and wide? do you have a large belly? this pattern is not necessarily caused by heart problems and often as i mentioned is just related to the way you are shaped. it is often seen in pregnant women.
ive had an odd heartbeat the last few days. itll beat normal then ill feel a fluttering in my chest & throat then it beats hard twice & gets norm.
see your doc. you are having palpitations which may indicate an irregular heart beat. there are many types most of which are not serious. testing such as an ecg overnight monitor and blood work will likely be helpful in tracking this down. in the meantime. decrease or eliminate caffeine and avoid stress.
what does it mean when it feels like my heart is fluttering and im short of breath?
it means you should go to be seen to evaluate what is going on and what if anything needs to be done about it.
why does mild pericarditis cause increased heart rate (86-9<positive_smiley> at rest and breathlessness? i am taking ibuprofen and colchicine?
the heart is inflamed and usually a small amount of fluid around the heart. the heart has to work. bit harder to push the same amount of blood throughout your body. to do this task it beats a bit faster.
why with pots does my heart rate get more tachy after i eat? this is rather annoying.
pots is a disorder of inefficient blood distribution. your heart reacts abnormally to keep blood flowing to your brain. when you eat blood flows to the splanchnic beds and makes less fluid available for proper blood flow. keep your legs up after you eat make sure you're drinking a lot of fluids and pump your arms as if you were doing curls with weights. good luck!
when exercising: clogged ears raised heart rate hard eyes pulsating neck and head red skin blotches on face feels like walking on air why?
during exercise the heart rate blood pressure and cardiac output increase and can cause the ears to seem to be "stopped up" and cause the pulsations in the neck. blood flow increases to the skin to help eliminate heat that the body is generating (flushed face). i suspect you may be hyperventilating to some degree and that causes numbness and tingling around the face arms and legs.
what is a common pulse rate in a person with atrial flutter?
2 3 4 most commonly but variable.
what is a common pulse rate in a person with atrial flutter?
it may vary from normal (60-100) to abnormal (low or high). it can change suddenly as well.
what is a common pulse rate in a person with atrial flutter?
heart rate is variable with atrial flutter and it can be quite difficult to control. acceptable rate is less than 100-110. the most common heart rate without medication is about 150 beats per minute.
wake up with discomfort in heart region but after 1hr vigorous exercise feel fine. i take atenolol lisinopril flecainide for mild arrhythmia. worry?
we hear chest pain there is concern. though generally chest pain increases with exertion unstable angina can cause pain at any time. you may try something for reflux like zantac (ranitidine) prior to bed but consider a baby asa and follow up with your doc. good luck.
what is the true cause of afib?
there are several risk factors that contribute to atrial fibrillation (left atrial size hypertension obstructive sleep apnea aging etc) however all of these risk factors influence the way atrial cardiac cells interact. they do this by increasing collagen deposition (scarring). scar formation leads to electrical structural and contractile changes in the cells which leads to afib.
what is the likelyhood of 10-20mg of prednisone raising heart rate or increasing bp?
single dose of prednisone of this size is unlikely to cause increased pulse or blood pressure. chronic use of prednisone at this daily dose could lead to fluid retention and increased blood pressure.
had extreme heart flutters nausea dizziness arm and back pain. persistant flutters about every 20 beats for over 3 hrs. 37 yr old female smoker who has had minor flutters since i was a child. usually take aspirin and feel a little better. have had ekg'
and if possible a cardiologist who specializes in heart rhythm disturbances. there are many ways to diagnose these disturbances to determine if they are likely to be serious and if so how to treat them properly. usually more than an ecg is needed and studies in an electrophysiology laboratory may be needed for a definitive answer to your problem. if you smoke stop. avoid excess caffeine etc.
had extreme heart flutters nausea dizziness arm and back pain. persistant flutters about every 20 beats for over 3 hrs. 37 yr old female smoker who has had minor flutters since i was a child. usually take aspirin and feel a little better. have had ekg'
please call 911 now. you could be having a dangerous arrythmia or a heart attack. here are possible symptoms of a mycocardial infarction (heart attack). chest pain tightness squeezing or fullness is the most common presentation. however the pain can also present in the upper back the upper middle abdomen jaw head teeth or in the arms (left more than right). one could have nausea vomiting or it could feel like indigestion or heartburn. feeling short of breath sweating and just feeling out of sorts can also occur. about a fourth of people have no significant symptoms during a heart attack. please take this seriously. call 911. take care.
how do you stop arrhythmia with medication?
there are 2 major classes of medications for fast arrhythmias: those that slow the heart rate and those that change ion fluxes of heart muscle. the first class is inexpensive and very safe. the second class is expensive and can have serious side effects but may be more effective & necessary in some cases. slow arrhythmias cannot be treated with medication and may require a pacemaker.
have chronic gastritis constipation palpitation and unrefreshing sleep. what could be the solution?
these symptoms could be due to stress anxiety and possibly reflux. without a full physical you also need to consider a cardiac issue and a gi issue. consider and evaluation by a cardiologist gastoenterologist and your family physician.
is cardioversion or ablation more effective for treating an atrial flutter?
cardioversion is used to treat individual episodes if they don't recurr frequency if chronic or recurrent atrial flutter is present then ablation attempts to prevent the rhythm from recurring long term hopefully permanently.
is cardioversion or ablation more effective for treating an atrial flutter?
cardioversion does not cure it but ablation does in most cases.
is cardioversion or ablation more effective for treating an atrial flutter?
they will both likely restore normal rhythm. a cardioversion is more of a reset than a cure for the problem. an ablation modifies the tissue in the heart so that it is very unlikely that the arrhythmia will recur. this is typically permanent.
i always feel wired/excited feeling in my chest/stomach with fast heart rate and dizzy. no meds caffeine sugar carbs or thyroid issue ?
check for reflux gastritis h pylori as well as mitral valve prolapse- with echocardiogram and wpw wolf parkinson on white syndrome or other conduction issues ( can do this by plain ekg).
i have left chest pains in the heart region it hurts when laughing or heavy breathing. my heartrate is 70bpm i don't have any history of chest pains?
it is very unlikely to be cardiac at your age. it is more likely to be a strain inflammation or reflux. as long as you don't have a congenital heart problem family history of weird heart stuff or some other practice that would out your heart at risk it's probably benign. if it is concerned get checked but don't stress yourself about your heart.
i live with anxiety. is it normal for these to fluctuate? blood pressure 120/80 - 102/56 is my normal. 60-100 heart rate changes minute to minute.
what you describe is very typical for anxiety disorder.
i get attacks of tachycardia and other symptoms including sob tingling in hands. . daily/nightly. what causes the tingling in hands and sob?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
i have pots. i am travelling south. i have not responded well to the heat in the past. should my florinef (fludrocortisone) be increased? and will it cause more swelling?
surely you're all too well aware pots is difficult to treat even when conditions are stable. many triggers can set off episodes in large part dependent upon the specifics of disease (such as the relative involvement of mast cells). increased florinef (fludrocortisone) does not automatically increase the intravascular fluid. one could do well with careful titration of salt intake adjust fluid status as needed
i was diagnosed with anxiety 5 yrs ago for a bout a mth i have been having flutters again but no chest pain no breathing problems just flutters?
it's probably a recurrence of your anxiety. however it is always best to rule out medical conditions such as svt (supra ventricular tachycardia) or thyroid disease. need to also check electrolytes esp. the potassium. proper diagnosis requires appropriate treatment. your doctor will need to see you to evaluate your symptoms. anxiety can be treated after medical causes are ruled out. best wishes!
when i clear my throat i feel/hear a fluttering noise. as well as if i breath a certain way it's there. any thoughts. ekg was normal.
probably you have either deviated nasal septum or nasal congestion.
what kinds of things are considered artifacts that would effect a heart monitor and what's seen on the screen for the heart rate?
any source of electrical input other than the signal coming from the heart can cause artifact. examples are skin contact electrical line interference poor electrode contact external current induction electrical line flux and others.
with a heart rate of 86 - 126 how dangerous is hypotension that drops to 60's/50's?
blood pressure that low is not enough to perfuse vital organs if present for very long. this would require emergent treatment with fluids and/or vasopressors to treat unless just a transient event.
what causes your heart rate to go up when laying down but stays normal when sitting/standing? hist:htn&pcos provera&lisinoprilhctz 203lbs female 17yr
when you lay down the extra fluid tends to gravitate into the chest and the heart has to work more to pump the fluid. when you stand fluid tends to shift toward the abdomen and legs.
what are the prescriptions that can possibly lower a higher heart rate?
some medications include beta- blockers ( atenolol metoprolol bisoprolol) calcium channel blockers ( verapamil amlodipine diltiazem) could all reduce heart rate. its important that to see your doctor for proper diagnosis/evaluation of any other medical conditions that may influence therapy choice. hope you and your doctor find a regimen that works for you. take care.
what is the procedure for a catheter ablation for a flutter?
read this: <link> nhlbi. nih. gov/health/health-topics/topics/ablation/
heart fluttering and skipping beat when masturbating?
most people have occasional flutters flipflops and skipped beats especially when they're doing something exciting and fun. if you have more than five per minute while you're not loaded with caffeine. if your heart suddenly starts racing and stops as suddenly or if they take your breath away or are accompanied by chest pain a physicain office visit is in order.
how does dilated cardiomyopathy affect the way people feel?
there are many manifestations of a dilated cardiomyopathy. it depends on how severe the cardiomyopathy is how many comorbidities exit and so on. common symptoms include shortness of breath exertional intolerance accumulation of fluid difficulty laying flat and so on.
how can i tell if i have a heart fluttering problem?
see your doctor he may do an electrocardiogram & also hook up a 24hr holter monitor which will record your heart beat for 24hrs. in the mean time decrease your intake of caffein alcohol & stop smoking.
how can i tell if i have a heart fluttering problem?
if you feel more than five flipflops in a minute while not overdoing caffeine if your flutter is accompanied by pain shortness of breath or fainting / wooziness or if your heart is going off like an old-time alarm clock with very rapid beats for a while then a physician's office visit is in order.
how? do you treat? postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome?
this is often difficult to treat successfully. first you need a tilt table test to confirm the diagnosis. if confirmed volume expansion by eating a high salt diet and drinking plenty of fluids may help. beta blockers fludrocortisone (florinef) and midodrine (proamatine) are used with variable success. good luck.
i am pregnant again after a missed miscarriage (3 months ago after seeing a heartbeat) at 7 weeks. what are the odds of this happening in this pre?
a spontaneous abortion should not influence subsequent pregnancies assuming that there are non underlying medical conditions.
i have bad anxiety/panic my #1 worry is my heart&i'm aware of my heartbeat. i have at least 20 palp flutters a day. normal ekg stress & echo. heart prob?
you are describing classic panic/ anxiety disorder symptoms. with a normal heart work up ask your doctor about starting you on an ssri.
i have bad anxiety/panic my #1 worry is my heart&i'm aware of my heartbeat. i have at least 20 palp flutters a day. normal ekg stress & echo. heart prob?
breathing exercises work also self-talk & reassurance until the attack subsides. gaining control is the goal. schedule appointment with a therapist to work on cognitive behavior modification. also yoga & meditation help. try imagery (visualizing what scares you with your eyes closed then open your eyes when you feel tense then go back & repeat until you are calm).
is atrial flutter serious and can it be induced by flecainide?
atrial flutter is similar to atrial fibrillation. both are significant arrhythmias. when atrial fibrillation is treated with flecainide sometimes the rhythm is converted to atrial flutter instead of to sinus rhythm. sometimes after the atrial flutter appears and flecainide is continued sinus rhythm eventuates. both afib and aflutter are appropriately anticoagulated. discuss with your doctor.
i'm a 43 year old female who has been having chest area pain/pressure that comes in waves lasting seconds at a time. ekg and bloodwork has been fine.
as long as cardiac-related cause has sufficiently been ruled out; common causes of chest pain such as this can be related to esophageal muscle spasm acid reflux anxiety or chest wall pain. a one-on-one discussion with a physician is necessary to further narrow the possibilities and recommend treatment.
i am a 15 year old female who weighs around 100lbs. my pulse rate is 122 what does this mean?
it means that your heart rate right then was 122 bpm. without more information - there is no context in which to answer this question. when you took your hr were you sitting down? had you been resting? had you been active? why did you check at that moment? were you having symptoms of something? hr fluctuates depending on activity hydration caffeine use hydration emotional state…
i keep feeling dizzy and have vertigo every day with heart palpitations. did echo and head mri; came out fine. what's happening? i have gerd btw.
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements and cardiamins (google and use code cmc for discount). stop using otc vitamins.
when i stand my heart rate goes up to 120. i get weak and achy and my body sways. could this be because i haven't exercised? i'm scared to.
postural orthostatic hypotension is a condition which is well known to occur in young women. this is a benign condition treated with lots of fluid salt ted stockings and tilt training. if needed the condition can be treated with certain medications. talk to your doctor. a test call head-up tilt table testing could help in the diagnosis.
woke up middle of night with what felt like all 4 chambers of heart fluttering alt. atflutter? have had plenty of tests and family has no disease.
this is in no way heart disease. it is you holding on to your stress or anxiety or panic in your chest. thousands of people go through this every day and waste millions of dollars on heart or emergency room tests just to be told you have to come to grips with your worries panic or stress.
what is the reason that i wake up with a rapid heartbeat?
it is difficult to tell why you are having this kind of response. the early morning cortisol levels are increasing. that is the stress hormone that fluctuates causing you to wake up. it may be that you are just becoming "startled" on morning arousal. a cardiac monitor worn overnight would be helpful in determining the cause of your symptoms.
why do gassy foods cause my heart rate to go up and i have to go and use #2 and my hr goes to about 120 until i fart or poop then resume back to norm?
sounds like you may have reflux/heartburn and the discomfort causes your heartrate to increase until you are relieved. you need to see your doctor to check your thyroid and check for possible ulcer/ reflux/ heartburn. meanwhile dont eat a lot of spicy food or dairy. get checked!
what type of medicine is digoxin? what are the side effects?
digoxin is a purigfied cardiac glycoside. digoxin is used in the treatment of atrial fibrillation atrial flutter and sometimes heart failure that cannot be controlled by other medication. common adverse effects: loss of appetite nausea vomiting and diarrhea. other common effects are blurred vision visual disturbance confusion drowsiness dizziness insomnia nightmares agitation depressio.
what is leading to a fast heart rate at rest or an irregular heart beat?
you might be having atrial fibrillation or flutter or multifocal atrial rhythm. these are kinds of cardiac arrythmias that could cause irregular heart beat. consult your physician to get work-up to adignoser underlying arrythmia (if any).
heart beating fast at night when im relaxing after a couple of glasses of wine?
wine and coffee can trigger atrial fibrillation or flutter. see your physician to determine what it is exactly.
how can i prevent hypovolemic cardiac arrest?
hypovolemic cardiac arrest is rare - usually from trauma (alot of blood loss all at once). in general a person should try to stay "euvolemic" - not too much fluid on board and not too little - dehydration. but even a fairly dehydrated person is more likely to have cardiac issues from blood electrolyte issues and not from hypovolemia.
how come my heart skips beats sometimes?
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations etc.
having trouble controlling my husbands bp he had open heart surgery two months ago. is this common heart rate ok and inr stable.?
after heart surgery the medication dosages are in flux for the first few months. expect changes in the dosing to be made fairly often. talking with your cardiologist would be important.
how can you tell the difference between atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation?
generally speaking atrial flutter is conducted in a more regular fashion to the lower chamber of the heart though this is not always true. the best way to tell the difference between the two is to obtain an ekg.
how can you tell the difference between atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation?
they look different on an ekg. atrial flutter is regular and atrial fibrillation is irregularly irregular. often the treatment is similar as an outpatient. symptomatically they would probably feel about the same to a patient.
having chest pain but normal stress test and ekg what could it be?
in a 35 yo male the most likely causes are esophagus - either spasm or esophageal reflux or intercostal muscle / nerve pain.
having chest pain but normal stress test and ekg what could it be?
you doctor might have already ruled out cardiac causes. if you have risk factors for heart disease your doctor may ask you to get a cardiac catheterization done. if not you have to look for other causes such as acid reflux esophageal spasm musculoskeletal problems etc.
how can i avoid panic attacks and heart fluttering?
the two treatments for panic disorder are medication & cbt. cbt involves exposure to the fear and not responding once the anxiety occurs. it involves facing fears head on. if you fall off a horse you get back on. one needs to allow the anxiety to wash over them cuz it will set you free. this is known as systematic desensitization. or you may need a medication. i would choose a nonaddictive one.
i was diagnosed with gerd afterecho ecg and stress test. does gerd cause a sensation of not getting enough air? felt in my nose and throat
gerd can induce symptoms of breathlessness and persistent sinus symptoms even though a person may take a medicine to deacidify gastric fluid the mechanical leak into the oesophagus continues so its important to address all issues and not simply rely on a medicine.
in my 2nd trim n sometimes have episodes of extreme stress where my heart is beating fast i can feel it. but most days are fine. can this harm baby?
your body is changing and you are adding extra weight from the baby and fluids. exercise is good and expect your he to increase with activity. if it seems that your hr is occurring more frequently then talk to your ob doctor and you may need an ekg expect these kind of changes with your body.
i just had an enema at the emergency room because i was so constipated and after i got severely nauseated and shaky cold sweat and rapid heart beat why did that happen to me?
depending on the kind of enema (sodium phosphate? ) you can have rapid fluid and electrolyte shifts and have what's akin to a vaso-vagal reaction. it's better not to have to use enemas. consider a daily maintenance dose of a laxative like milk of magnesia (magnesium hydroxide).
i have pots heart failure and asthma. i sleep with my head raised about six inches. i am short of breath when i lie down. why?
this is typical for heart failure. . when you lay down the fluid in your lungs accumulates in the lower parts of the lungs so it gives the feeling of shortness of breath. the treatment is taking the heart medications regularly including the water pill. its ok to sleep on many pillows or raise the head of your bed.
with carcinoid syndrome is flushing constant and is diarrhea and pain present. i have facial flushing +palpitations menopause 9 yrs ago?
carcinoid syndrome causes episodic flushing diarrhea and palpitations. other things can cause these symptoms and you mention one of them-- menopause. i notice you have asthma and if you use albuterol inhalers they can definitely cause those symptoms. steroids like prednisone can also cause this as can anxiety dumping syndrome and a host of other things. see a doc to get this sorted out!
what to do about abnormal heart rhythm. please help!?
variable rhythm abnormality are there some dangerous and some nuisance arrhythmia. any way if there are abnormal rhythm will need evaluation as to what type and how severe are them. might need special attention for different types. dangerous ones are ventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation svt flutter.
whenever i stand up from a lying position i will loae balance and the world before me will start to spin n go completely black for about 5s.
this sounds like a condition called orthostatic hypotension in which rising from a lying position causes a diminished blood flow to the brain. while there are many causes including anemia or other causes of fluid loss it deserves an exam and attention from a doctor to rule out the more serious and often very occult causes which may include spinal fluid leaks.
why would twins heart rate drop from 160 to 140 at 20 weeks gestation?
variations of 10-20 beats per minute is not uncommon and even different positions of the mother may cause the fetal heart rate to change. food medications and substances the mother takes in can also affect the growing baby and cause fluctuations in the heart rate for example caffeine may stimulate the baby heart rate to increase etc. best wishes and congratulations.
while awaiting appointment to see specialist regarding heart arrhythmia diagnosis. is there anything i can do to decrease my risk for sudden death?
some arrythmias are benign. if it involves ventricular side have structural heart problem. risk is more. so avoid stimulants. caffine nicotine otc decongestant medications strainuous exercise competitive physical activity. medications. mental health some antibiotics some anti-arrythmic meds themselves watch for electrolytes fluid pill. etc.
what could be wrong with your esophagus if you have pain that mimics a heart attack?
many problems come to mind such as esophageal reflux hiatal hernia esophageal spasm are my first thoughts. seeing a gi doctor would be your first step.
what leads to irregular heart beats?
your heartbeat is meant to be regular but there are many things that make it feel like it is missing skipping or fluttering. most are benign but it is reasonable to see your gp and get an ecg to diagnose the problem if one actually exists.
what can help my irregular heart beats? acting up bad today. i had no caffeine. only meds i take when needed is xanex. its like an extra beat flutter.
a 24 hour holter monitor will determine what type of irregular heart rhythm you have. thyroid check is advisable. avoiding caffeine alcohol nicotine stress and anxiety are important. see a cardiologist to check for heart valve abnormalities and for diagnosis and specific treatment.
will fludrocortisone lower resting heart rate due to increased pressure?
in most cases it would not be expected to lower your resting heart rate unless you had truly severe hypotension (low bp). but we're all a little different so you'll have to see for yourself.
heart flutters what's with this symptom i'm getting?
it depends on what the "flutters" are caused by what type of cardiac arrhythmia. you need to wear a monitor sometimes for three weeks until they can be identified. they can be as simple and benign as premature atrial or ventricular beats to atrial flutter or fibrillation or supra-ventricular tachycardia. anything more serious would be making you pass out or worse.
how do you calculate the atrial rate in atrial flutter since it is fast?
by looking at the p-waves ( atrial electrical conduction) however in atrial flutter this almost always 300 bpm.
had xray and lab work done today at er cause of a possible heart attack. all was normally except my bp. it was 100/49? normally ranges 90s/60s.
bp values usually fluctuate 10+ points throughout the day so your values are part of the normal variation.
had xray and lab work done today at er cause of a possible heart attack. all was normally except my bp. it was 100/49? normally ranges 90s/60s.
bp values usually fluctuate 10+ points throughout the day so your values are part of the normal variation. you probably still need a stress test to check for heart disease.
heart rate of 50 and asymptomatic does this warrant a call to the md?
if your heart rate has always been slow and you have no symptoms you don't need an md. but i should also advice to see a doctor make sure you don't have an irregular slow heart rate which is a symptomatic for the moment i. e. atrial flutter which needs treatments.
how can you tell the difference between esophegeal spasms and heart palpitations?
chest pain causes: heart attack musculoskeletal pan coronary artery disease aneurysm pulmonary embolism esophagitis acid reflux pneumonia gall baldder disease etc. get checked with your doctor if you have persistent pain. heart palpitations is a fluttering sensation in the chest because of rapid heart rate. spasms can feel like a chest pain.
i hv severe gerd. can a beer some olives and garlic bread with empty stomac cause smkind of strange feeling sudden bp raise and heart rate raise?
alcohol and oily foods can certainly cause reflux but it would take more than one beer to elevate the blood pressure and heart rate although severe discomfort and/or anxiety could. i assume you take a medication like prilosec or nexium (esomeprazole) to control your gerd.
i often get fluids for pots. when i got them last week they hurt. felt crawl up arm into chest. immediate coughing pain gagging. docs gave nausea med 2nd ekg and more bloodwork. what happened?
it is possible but not definite that air bubbles got into your vein and travelled to the lung causing the symptoms. the physician that attended you is best qualified to answer your question however. most importantly you seem to have had no residual problems.
what does the drug flunarizine do? what is it used for? and does it affect blood vessels?
hypertension- yes it affects blood vessels but in a good way.
why would dr prescribe z pack for flu symptoms?
concern a secondary infection?
why would dr prescribe z pack for flu symptoms?
as a general rule this seems quite inappropriate but without knowing what the doctor found on their examination would hesitate to comment. they may have discovered something which required antibiotic therapy.
when i sleep at night right before i fall asleep sometimes it feels like my heart skips a beat fluters i open my eyes breathe then its gone? comments
these are caused by many things. stress excitement irritants both physical and chemical pressure like a hiatal hernia or esophageal push or pull and primary heart things the causes are very many in number.
what effect can caffeine have on the body over time? im worried i consume to much and that my heart flutters are associated with my caffeine intake.
too much caffeine can give you headaches insomnia stomach pains increase urination increase heart rate. one or two cups a day is okay.
when i take my rescue inhaler it makes my palpitations worse and i get fluttering. i take a beta blocker daily. now my hr is so high 197 chest hurt?
you are having abnormally high heart rate. please go to er immediately to get evaluated.
when i take my rescue inhaler it makes my palpitations worse and i get fluttering. i take a beta blocker daily. now my hr is so high 197 chest hurt?
rescue inhaler like albuterol can raise your heart rate but not up to 197. why are you on beta blocker. usually beta blockers are contraindicated in patients with bronchial asthma. you also had echocardiogram. beta blockers are only used i asthmatics who have co morbid cardiovascular disease. go to er
why does my chest feel sore after days of constant palpitations and fluttering? .
it is unusual for a young person to have days of palpitations so have your heart checked by a cardiologist to help rule out rheumatic fever myocarditis pericarditis or some other reason.
why does my chest feel sore after days of constant palpitations and fluttering? .
the palpitations and chest pain you are describing are not normal. you need to see your doctor to examine you and determine if you have abnormal rhythm in your heart that may be dangerous to you. you should follow your doctors instructions carefully. you may need to consult with a cardiologist concerning your problem.
how painful is a myocardial infarction?
in many occations not painfull at all. most common symptom is chest pressure heavyness oppresion shortness of breath not "pain" sometimes indigestion like symptoms. "silent" heart attacks are common in patients with diabetes. still today about 50% of people die on their first heart attack. in many occations thinking" its not my heart" " its reflux" "indigestion" "my hiatal hernia"anything but.
how should i deal with automatic disorder? it's too soon for me to get tired (fast heart rate fainting sweating after a couple of mins'running)
if dysautonomia then you need either a cardiologist or neurologist to advise you because other conditions may be associated with dysautonomia. if this is pots only recommendations may also include increasing fluid & possibly salt intake though it needs to be addressed with the physician who knows you to ensure it's the right thing to do for you. personalized medical advice thru your doc only.
how long can i wait to take beta blocker after drinking wine?
there is no reason to wait any time between taking a beta-blocker and a glass of wine as long as you are limiting your wine consumption to 7 drinks/week in women (and older men twice that in men). wine makes some people flush and get lightheaded and beta blockers can do the same thing so if you are drinking 2-3 glasses of wine on one occasion shorter acting beta blockers (inderal) should wait.
how does hypokalemia affect leg muscle endurance activities like running and swimming? with low potassium can you still build muscle?
you need proteins to build and maintain muscle but you need to right balance of fluids and electrolytes to have good muscle function. when your potassium is low you are more likely to experience muscle cramps and fatigue.
how quickly can doctors find the root cause of low potassium? are there lots of tests that have to be done? i don't take any meds that would cause it.
chronic kidney failure diabetic ketoacidosis diarrhea excessive sweating excessive use of laxatives prescription diuretic (water or fluid pills) use primary aldosteronism occasionally primary edema.
heart flutter high heart rate no other symptoms is this a fib er dr told me tests came back fine if it was a fib wouldn't she of told me
a lot of cardiac arrhythmias are intermittent what we call in the world of medicine paroxysmal. unless there is a heart monitor on you while you are having the symptoms one can not judge what they are. your ekg if done while you are feeling ok is mostly worthless. have your doctor place a 24 hour holter monitor for you if that is fruitless go to a 30 day monitor; you will have an answer.
had the flu since tuesday! now having trouble breathing dizziness heart palpitations. should i go 2 er? if i do would they do blood work/ ekg?
the palpitations should prompt you to be seen. as to the flu keep hydrated and take tylenol (acetaminophen) or motrin for fevers and body aches. you should take tamiflu early in the course of the disease but it is too late for it to make a difference now.
had cardiac cough. dr prescribed lasix (furosemide). went away for 6 mo. now back. too much sodium? have idiopathic dcm and have bi vent. last ef 38%. no swelling
would expect you to have swelling of legs. if no swelling cough maybe a cough that is not related to fluid build up irritating your lung.
i've had a heart attack and have chf. i take effient for a blood thinner. is it safe to take ibuprofen for my arthritis along with my heart meds?
not recommended for 2 reasons one significant side effect is fluid retention/ kidney impairment and second is significantly increased risk for bleeding in the presence of blood thinners.
i am 43 and experiencing palpitations especially when i lay down. they wake me out of sleep. i have anxiety and take prozac (fluoxetine) for that but it isn't help?
palpitations can be a sign of all different types of heart arrhythmias. the greater majority are safe & are common to most people at one point or another. there are some palpitations that are more frequent with body position at night or during the onset/offset of some medications/foods but people also tend to notice them more when they go to bed. see your pcp for evaluation & possible test.
i take my resting heart rate every morning and it varies from 62 to 80. is that normal for it to fluctuate like that?
resting heart rates fluctuate based on your sleep cycles dreams physical fitness level etc. both of those rates are in the normal range. hope this helps!
i take prilosec daily but have recently been feeling breakthrough heartburn reflux in my throat and frequent heart palpitations. what else can i do?
an evaluation by a gastroenterologist. . you may have gerd and structural abnormalities in your lower esophagus (gullet). endoscopy and acid studies will probably be indicated. in the meantime you could add otc pepcid (famotidine) ac but see the expert! good luck hope this helps you! dr z
i take prilosec daily but have recently been feeling breakthrough heartburn reflux in my throat and frequent heart palpitations. what else can i do?
doctor consider other possibilities. eosinophilic esophagitis and functional dyspepsia can cause the same symptoms. you may need an endoscopy to better evaluate.
i feel unwell just wanting to vomit without vomiting for just on 2 days. horrible heart burn and almost feels like something is wrong with my pulse?
reflux (ger) frequently causes heart burn and nausea. try taking otc acid blocker eg. prilosec or nexium (esomeprazole) or zantac. avoid caffeine nicotine and alcohol; all of which lower the pressure in the lower esophageal sphincter. the les is a valve that prevents reflux of stomach contents which are very acidic up into the esophagus which has a delicate lining. longterm damage can result.
i took a 1 does 40mg prednisone 10 hrs ago for ear fluid and my heart is pounding. hr is 97. bp is normal. is this normal? will it return to normal?
prednisone can cause palpitations. it also can cause dehydration and excess urination. try to rest and push the fluids. follow up with your doctor if you are on a prednisone taper. he may want to switch to a medrol (methylprednisolone) dose pak which may be better tolerated.
why do i hear and feel my pulse in my head?
this is usually cased by fluid in your inner ear transmitting your carotid pulse to your ear drum. someone else could hear it if they placed their ear to your ear. it can be treated by antihistamines sometimes steroids and sometimes people benefit from a ct sinuses to evaluate for chronic infection. hope this helps!
what can constant dizziness be from? i had an ekg bp and vitamin deficiency tests all normal. it's a faint feeling and sometimes a sudden spinning.
we try to distinguish between vertigo (spinning) and lightheadedness or "faint feeling". vertigo often is caused by a problem with the semicircular canals in the inner ear; lightheadedness often is the result of dehydration and other causes of a low blood pressure typically upon standing. checking ones bp sitting and standing can detect the low bp and it responds to an increase in fluids.
wondering why would someone with low k+ be put on fluid restrictions?
there are hormonal problems that cause k to be diluted in the blood. fluid restriction helps minimize this. if a patient has low k with too much fluid volume; fluid restriction is prudent.
was diagnosed with hypokalemia after taking florinef (fludrocortisone). same day i had blood work for nt-probnp. could low potassium cause high bnp? mine was high
florinef (fludrocortisone) causes salt and fluid retention. the fluid retention may cause a rise in bnp. suggest you discuss result with your md. lowering of the potassium is a known side effect of florinef (fludrocortisone) use.
what could be the cause of chronic dehydration with slightly low potassium and sodium? i drink 90oz of water a day and put salt on almost all my food.
the explanation may be complex. albuterol in high doses can cause low blood potassium. otherwise if you are drinking over 90 oz fluid per day and adding salt and are still appearing dehydrated to your practitioner then you must be losing fluid and some na and k from your body somewhere. possibilities are gi skin or kidneys. some kidney dz cause just that: fluid loss na loss and k loss.
what could be the cause of chronic dehydration with slightly low potassium and sodium? i drink 90oz of water a day and put salt on almost all my food.
you're not dehydrated you're diluted. your excessive fluid intake is causing your electrolyte imbalance. eating salt will not raise your serum sodium for physiologic mechanisms that can't be explained here. this is called "dilutional hyponatremia" - you can google it.
was having sever heart palpitation's yesterday at wok once home they subsisted n today they r completely gone cud this be my anxiety?
hi it's quite possible that this is related to anxiety. it's prudent though to rule out other possible causes of palpitations. please consult your pcp to get a work up for heart rhythm irregularities (atrial flutter/fib etc) endocrine( hyperthyroidism etc) or medication related side effects( though i don't see any obvious meds listed). cut down on caffeine intake if possible. hope this helps.
what are the risks of getting a blood cloth from ectopic atrial tachycardia? it has not come many times.
unlike atrial fibrillation and flutter atrial tachycardia is not associated with significant increased risk of intracardiac thrombus formation.
what type of health issues include skin odor that recently and consistently smells like urine with an ekg that shows ischemia increased wbc w/o fever severe fatigue headaches and pain in the body?
you may have reduced kidney function high blood pressure and an infection not helped by tamiflu. you need to see a doctor urgently for an examination and for blood tests to clarify these issues. please don't delay!
hi! i have an irregular heartbeat my inr was 1. 4 i am on i was on 4. 5 mg of warfrin my doctor changed the dose to 5mg could this be my diet?
vitamin k is in dark green leafy vegetables and a lot of other foods. a balanced intake of vitamin k by eating a balanced diet and avoiding large fluctuations can help. work with your doctor or your anticoagulation clinic for guidance.
i suffer from anxiety ad get chest pains and heart flutters as my heart is shaking lasts only a few seconds? thanks
anxiety can cause chest pain and palpitations but a complete exam is in order to rule out serious causes and so that you can be reassured. (the vast majority of 26 year olds will not have a serious cause).
hello professionals! thank you in advance. my father 75 yearly male with c. o. p chf is now having kidnney failure with creatine levels high potassium ok. what else besides dialysis is rec?
every case is different so it would be impossible to say specifically what is best for your dad. however it is extremely important that he follow the advice given him by his doctor especially regarding dietary & fluid restrictions medications prescribed exercise as tolerated and smoking cessation if applicable. many patients are able to avoid dialysis for years by doing this.
heart flutters when im laying down or sitting. could this be serious?
palpitations can be arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythm) or stress or many other things. see your doctor for a careful history and physical and maybe some additional testing.
i have wpw and lbbb and have been having chest pains and heart flutterings and now i'm sweating and have a headache. what should i do?
go to the hospital! wpw with a lbbb is vey problematic.
i am 44 year old male am very fit can an a virus like flu or similiar cause heart arrhythmia? just started to notice this the last couple of days.
yes it is possible. you can get a viral myocarditis or pericarditis involving the heart and this inflammation can cause irregularities in electrical conductivity leading to arrhythmias.
i can feel when afib starts and stops i find deep breaths and coughing helps stop it when it's in flutter about to fibulate any others?
yes there are other techniques that may stop the arrythmias. see the link. <link> also avoid stimulants like caffeine chocolate decongestants stress and becoming over tired to limit episodes of fibrillation.
i had an ekg because i'm having heart flutters. i have panic attacks but what would have made "widespread changes " in my ekg?
it really depends what these changes are. . some are more worrisome than others. the word "widespread" would mean that the changes are seen in multiple leads suggesting that the finding is seen in multiple areas of your heart. but what the changes are. t wave inversion st depression etc is much more relevant. it may mean nothing much or need further testing. ask your doctor to interpret.
is it ok to take albuterol as needed while i take prozac (fluoxetine)? i saw on the drug interaction checker this can cause arrythmias? i have bad asthma.
if you need albuterol for rescue treatment don't avoid it because you are taking prozac (fluoxetine). if you are requiring albuterol frequently make an appointment with primary doctor so that you can get your asthma worked up sounds like you are poorly controlled. you might need to step up therapy with controller meds. good luck.
what is the normal ejection fraction level in cardiology. and what is the most healthy one? also my echo in 2011 was 50% 2012 was 55% 2014 is 60%.
normal ef is 60-65%. the variation in your echocardiogram can come from reader variability. it is known that in general cardiologists can have an intraobserver variability from 5 to 10% which would explain the fluctuations in your readings.
woke up to five sec. squeezing pain center of chest directly above breast line. no other symptoms. ecg/holter in oct. ok. severe cardiac anxiety.
the cause could be a kind of tendonitis at the juncture of the ribs with the chest bone. pressure a this juncture should produce an increase in sharp pain. it could also be acid reflux. the former could be treated with ice and nsaids. the latter with agents to reduce acid in the stomach such as prilosec.
was in the er with suddenly high heart rate of 138bpm and suspected severe reflux. they diagnosed strep. better 4 days later by my chest aches. why?
unless you had high fever your high heart rate may or may not be related to the strep. return to the er or go to another er and get rechecked. chest pain related to strep could indicate pericarditis. high heart rate and chest pain can also represent a pulmonary embolism unrelated to strep. you need further evaluation as soon as possible.
what otc med can i use for acid reflux since i had a heart attack with 2 stents put in 4 months ago?
please do what your doc says but a natural approach is to take dgl. dgl is licorice tablets with an enzyme remove (because too much of it can raise bp). you need to take a lot of it but many find it helpful. i know it's difficult but please try to stop smoking also. you will be glad you did. peace and good health.
went to hospital for chest pains xray was fine and ekg was fine said it was chest wall pain and i've had an eco so i guess my heart is ok?
these are good screening tests to start with to rule out major causes of chest pain related to the cardio-pulmonary system. if you do experience continued pain though a further evaluation is needed. other causes of chest pain will be evaluated if you continue to have chest pain. your reflux is another condition that can cause pain.
when to call doctor about palpitations / flutter?
when does one worry about palpitations? two things to consider: 1) accompanying symptoms. if feeling faint severe shortness of breath or severe chest pain then it's probably best getting i checked out. 2) duration of palpitations. if racing heart beats go on and on for hours or days best getting i checked out.
when to call doctor about palpitations / flutter?
palpitations should be checked. some are more serious than others and you cannot know unless they are captured on an ecg which would be by chance mostly. you may need to wear a heart monitor for some time to see the rhythm when you have the feeling.
what to do if i have the flu high heart rate pain in my left arm think i'm having a heart attack?
if you think you are having a heart attack seek immediate medical attention.
went to er i have stomach ulcer and low potassium. was prescribed pepcid (famotidine) and potassium. still have chest pains randomly. what could it be caused by?
chest pain may be due to musculo-skeletal cause acid reflux lung or heart disease esophageal disease and more. it would require taking a detailed history physical examination may be some tests. it would be prudent to see a primary care doctor for an evaluation. if you are overweight it would help to lose weight.
how do i explain atrial flutter to someone in layman terms?
it is a rapid usually regular rhythm of the top chambers of the heart caused by a electrical signal spinning around very quickly usually around 300 bpm. the bottom chambers usually only let no more that every other beat through so the pulse rate is usually 150bpm or 100 or 75.
had the stomach flu 5 days ago been very weak since weakness in thigh & tingling in fingers - could this be low potassium levels?
you could still be dehydrated and have any number of electrolyte abnormalities. drink water or even try pedialyte solution if you don't improve quickly.
how are atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter different?
heart rythm problem is more unpredictable in a fib. in flutter the are more predictable and regular rate. the treatment approach differs and risk of intracardiac blood clot also in that context.
how does dehydration decrease blood pressure and increase heart rate?
dehydration occurs when you have a fluid deficit. either you are not taking in enough fluid think of being on a life raft in the middle of the ocean with no water on board. or you have excessive fluid losses when you have diarrhea. the lack of volume in your arteries causes low blood pressure. your heart has to pump more rapidly to pump out a smaller volume of fluid to the rest of your body.
how to treat atrial flutter?
this is a rapid regular atrial rhythm from 250-350 beats per minute roughly it rarely conducts to the ventricles at 1:1. it is related to atrial fibrillation and is treated in a somewhat similar manner.
how long does an episode of atrial flutter typically last?
no usual each case is individual.
i wore the patch for about 5 hours i guess and have to take off due to side effects. how long afterwards will i have them? my heart is pounding
what type of patch? nicotine patch? - pain patch or birth control patch? - generally side effects from the patch begin to subside immediately as you have removed the source of medication from your body. it may take up to 12 hours for the effects to wear off. i would recommend drinking plenty of fluids and washing the area of the patch.
i had one pair of ventricular ectopic beats on my holter monitor. their were also 37 isolated. is this normal? echo & stress test were fine.
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations etc.
is this hot flashes with no sweat? i'm 47 and today i suddenly feel very very hot & there's a spike in my bp/heartbeat but no fever. is this menopaus
hot flashes are one of the first signs of the menopausal transition for many women. they are often but not always associated with sweating. they are actually referred to as hot flushes and you or others may notice that your face flushes when you have one. they are more common when you are stressed and are not associated with a fever. many women say they feel like a furnace inside. hope this helps.
is it safe for a hypertensive to drink liquid supplements (combination of herbs fruits vegies grains)? examples are brands like "zeal" & "intra".
yes just monitor salt intake. try to keep near ideal body weight. also recommend flute free low carb diet. gutbliss. com. wholeapproach. com
is it normal for a healthy 25 yr old who suffers from anxiety to occasionally get a few heart flutters during or right after playing soccer?
increased heart rate is a common symptom of anxiety but when you are playing sports it is important to not assume that increased heart rate is a bad thing. a good therapist can help you develop thought and behavior skills to calm down your heart and to deal well with the thoughts.
is it normal for a healthy 25 yr old who suffers from anxiety to occasionally get a few heart flutters during or right after playing soccer?
it may or may not be normal best to be checked by a doctor
is it normal for a healthy 25 yr old who suffers from anxiety to occasionally get a few heart flutters during or right after playing soccer?
it would be a good idea to have a ecg done to tell what the heart is doing. . stress test
i am a 20 yr old male. suffer from anxiety. occasionally i have heart flutter feelings. they most common during /after sport game. had ekg. is it ok?
flutter needs to be evaluated by your doc. it sounds like you've done that. next stop is to see a mental health professional to learn techniques to manage your anxiety. please don't use medicine only but make sure to get therapy. see www. relaxationresponse. org for a self-help technique.
i am a 20 yr old male. suffer from anxiety. occasionally i have heart flutter feelings. they most common during /after sport game. had ekg. is it ok?
see a psychiatrist for diagnosis and treatment of anxiety treatment of anxiety with therapy medication breathing relaxation visual imagery tai chi yoga and meditation is very beneficial
i am a 20 yr old male. suffer from anxiety. occasionally i have heart flutter feelings. they most common during /after sport game. had ekg. is it ok?
the heart rate increase is a normal part of our fight or flight response. part of your training for sports can be the positive self-talk about success. you may want to develop some specific motivational thoughts to use such as "i can do this" "we're the best" or something that makes you feel motivated!
i get heart flutters and thumping sensations every day which can cause shortness of breath?
evaluation by your primary care provider who can obtain an ekg which may give the answer or if necessary a continuous monitor (holter) may be necessary. palpitations with shortness of breath need evaluation asap! hope this helps! dr z
i'm having heart palpitations. anxiety is acting up i'm on busprione. no previous heart conditions. is there a way to stop them?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
wat could having history of sharp left sided chest pain and heart palpatations allong with an ecg showing tachycardia and eptopic complexes mean?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
what to do if heart palpitations after donating blood?
you are most likely suffering a bit of dehydration. you could also be anemic but they should not have let you donate blood if you were anemic. drink extra fluids and add some salt or electrolytes to the water. avoid overexertion for a day or so.
what do you advise if i'm currently on medication for paroxsymal atrial tachycardia but have been experiencing fluttering and pain in chest for 3 days?
you need to contact your cardiologist or electrophysiologist as your medications may need to be adjusted
why does even 1-2 units of alcohol give me palpitations racing heart and insomnia when trying to sleep? i used to be able to drink up to 10 units.
but why are you trying to drink alcohol when you are taking fluoxetine? generally alcohol will make depression and anxiety worse. you may want to discuss with your doctor first before drinking alcohol.
with myocarditis & postural orthostatic tachycardia what do you do about salt intake as one condition calls for low sodium and other calls for high?
myocarditis is not synonymous with chf. you need to avoid salt if you're retaining fluid as occurs with chf. on the other hand you need salt to support your bp so the answer is obvious: eat salt. if you're passing out from low bp myocarditis becomes irrelevant.
how much should your heart rate increase from sitting to standing at 21 year old male?
change in position triggers the carotid baroreceptors to gently change hr in order to stabilize bp from effects of gravity. normal bp/hr fluctuations should be less than 10 points unless dehydrated over medicated or suffering from neurally mediated dysfunction (abnormal reflex arc between the baroreceptors the brainstem and the heart).
hiatai hernia pain daily radiating in ribcage up into throat to ears eyes head and to my l/arm numbness what?
from your heart so get to a doctor to make sure you are not having a heart attack. if it is truly reflux pain there are meds to help it. but get to a doctor now.
help please. could drinking a liter of water before an ecg effect the results?
a liter of water in a normal person is unlikely to change the ecg. in a patient in poor fluid and electrolyte status it is possible.
had an ekg & echo done about a month ago and all test were normal but still endurance chest pain. they say its muscle. any ideas?
musculoskeletal symptoms are a common contributor to chest pain. however gastroesophageal reflux (heartburn) is known to be increased with vigorous exercise in normal people. running induces the most reflux and aerobic exercises with less bodily agitation (bicycle) produced less reflux. many medications are available for these symptoms. ask you doctor .
how are pacemakers placed?
pacemakers are placed in a cardiac cath or surgical suite with the visual guidance of fluoroscopy (x-ray visualization). a pacing lead is placed into the heart after access to a vein in the arm groin neck chest is obtained. specific electrical parameters of the lead are checked then the lead attached to a pacemaker often embedded in the upper chest wall where small incision is made.
how are pacemakers placed?
the wire is introduced through a large vein and passed to the heart position under fluoroscopic guidance. after lead position is verified a skin pocket for the pulse generator is made the system is connected placed in the pocket and the pocket is closed.
heart palpitations flutter and bubble sensation all over and lingering chest pain. any helpful info?
visiting your doctor for a good history and physical exam. ekg blood test and possibly stress test. i don't know much about you and if you have any risk for heart problems. diet and endocrine problems need to be review. good luck.
i am 19. presumably healthy. 2 months ago while playing soccer i felt few flutters in my chest. my ekg was fine before. could you offer reassurance?
given your young age; however the fact that you had a normal resting ecg before is not as revealing as a holter or event monitor would have been had you been wearing it as the time of your symptoms. having said that a good history&physical exam along with a resting normal ecg and normal 2 d echo ought to bode well for you. consider seeing a cardiologist for physical exam.
i am young. once i was playing soccer and felt few flutters. have had ecg before. doc not concerned. is this common in otherwise healthy population?
we all have occasional extra heart beats (palpitations or flutters) which are not concerning. if you have already been checked out by a health care professional and they've indicated there is nothing to worry about i would agree.
is it common that a kid rarely complains of heart flutters usually with exercise? should i be worried?
fairly uncommon for kids to complain about this--perhaps 12 year-olds more commonly might. but a sensation of flutters can be nothing or can be an early sign of significant heart problem. best to have a physician take a careful history examination and consider ekg. consultation with a pediatric cardiologist may be recommended.
i had a major heart attack and now have chf. my oxygen was always in the 90's. now my oxygen level has dropped to the 80's sometime. is my chf worse?
could be that you are retaining fluid in your lungs and therefore your oxygen saturation is decreasing. you should be feeling more short of breath if this were the case. nevertheless given this finding a visit to your cardiologist is in order to check your vitals weight symptoms diet and medications and make any adjustments necessary. good luck!
what does it mean if you have 107 over 73 bp with 102 pulse rate. i used digital bp and i'm also on my period and feeling dehydrated?
that is a normal blood pressure reading. and nothing to worry about. if you're feeling dehydrated it's a good idea to drink fluids especially in warm weather. if periods are especially heavy see your gyn for a check-up and to make sure you're not anemic.
what do you suggest for eating disorder and heart flutters/palpitations?
get your electrolytes checked especially potassium and magnesium.
why is there an edema when you have cardiomyopathy? i was given a diuretics. now why do you think is it that i was given a potassium chloride?
if the heart is weak then it does not pump forward well and fluid backs up in places - ankles/feet; lungs; belly. diuretics help drive excess fluid and salt out of the system. often diurectics also drive potassium out in the urine - hence extra potassium is needed to be taken in.
what exactly is hyperkalemia?
hyperkalemia in an elevated potassium level in the blood. it can be severe to mild. most common causes are kidney disease and addison's disease (adrenal disease0. it can occur in crush injuries and rhabdomyolysis (rapid breakdown of muscle). severe hyperkalemia can be fatal and cause the heart to stop beating. it is usually treated by dialysis and fluids with insulin and sodium bicarbonate.
had pericardial window 2 weeks ago. slowly recovering. tire easily left chest pain low blood pressure fast heart rate. how long could recovery take?
you want to check with your surgeon. there may be fluid in your chest. check as fast as possible to make sure there is no additional issue. a cxr may be useful.
have post orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. since 18 get chest pain on exercise. see profile for tests. im 22. should i have ct scan?
pots seems to affect young women and may sometimes occur after mono. your chest pain may be due to the fluctuations in your blood pressure while exercising. try drinking fluids and maybe exercise at short intervals like 30 minutes at a time. you might discuss the use of a beta blocker with your doctor. i think a ct scan would be non revealing.
have had irregular heartbeat for many years. am now experiencing back/chest and jaw pain. tests show so far heart ok. could these pains be muscular?
it could be muscular or it also could be your esophagus. reflux can lead to esophagitis and esophageal spasm which can cause the exact symptoms that you're describing. consider taking antacids and staying away from coffee tea and alcohol. also don't eat or drink anything for three hours before you go to bed at night. discuss this with your doctor.
how to determine if an arrythmia is serious?
some are symptomatic but generally benign like pvcs & pacs. others don't necessarily have symptoms but can lead to stroke in some (afib & aflutter) & some more serious in general v-tach. it's complex. talk to your physician.
how will i know what does arrhythmia feel like?
most people describe a "skip" "pounding" "flutter" "flip-flop" "racing" or something of that ilk.
have dull ache chest pain on and off above/upper left and right never in the middle. health test normal. cholesterol normal not diabetic ecg fine.
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
hoping you can tell me is rapid heart beat and extreme tiredness normal with a cold?
different folks respond differently when having a cold. a rapid heart rate and severe fatigue could be seen with a cold. it would be more common with influenza.
how does heart fluttering come or infect a person?
fluttering or "palpitations" are frequently but not always caused by a disorder of the heart rhythm.
how does heart fluttering come or infect a person?
"fluttering" sensation usually refers to the feeling one has during an irregular heartbeat. the important goal is to determine the underlying cause. it might be hypertension a heart valve malfunction overactive thyroid heart muscle problem or some other medical issue. it merits a careful examination by your doctor or by a cardiologist.
i had an ekg done today after having some heart palpitations & all that come about was rsr in v1 can this explain dizziness & heart flutters?
an ecg is a static test and so as it has been read is normal. rsr likely refers to incomplete rbbb (normal variant in 15% of adult population). if u r dizzy and/ or palpiations the yield on plain ecg is only good if u had ur sxs at that time. a normal resting ecg bodes well for u but u need an even monitor or a holter monitor to evaluate for arrhythmia if any. see a cardiologist.
if i'm burping a lot and i'm taking prilosec is that really acid reflux or a heart attack?
symptoms from coronary heart disease are rare under the age of 40. those over 40 can sometimes mistake the symptoms of heart for gerd: severe pressure discomfort in center of chest sometimes radiating to left arm or jaw or between shoulder blades. the pain is often described with a clenched fist: squeezing or "like an elephant sitting on my chest". often associated with sweating>>go to er!
if i'm burping a lot and i'm taking prilosec is that really acid reflux or a heart attack?
that is a wide possibility and it needs to be narrowed down to a reasonable cause conventional wisdom points to "burping and acid reflux" relationship but talk to your doctor for more information i am available for second opinion if needed
i have a lot of anxiety and have noticed fluttering in my upper abdomen area. my heart rate is always the same. could this be from anxiety?
trunk of the body needs to be examined by your doctor. it may be from anxiety but he/she can rule out other possibilities and then you will know how to deal w/it better. peace and good health.
is it normal to have heart rate vary from 45-100bpm during sleep? short burst of 100bpm (during rem? )
unless you have really exciting dreams. by the way how do you know that your hr is fluctuating like that while you're sound asleep? was this measured during a sleep study? are you on any cardiac stimulants? see your doc.
i sometimes have heart palpitations. and very often (usually at night) my heart feels weak my throat will even start to feel as if its tightening.
make sure you are getting enough sleep and cut back on stimulants like caffeine. if palpitations are still ongoing you probably need to see a cardiologist. throat tightening sensation may be a sign of reflux so try to avoid eating 3-4 hrs before bedtime limit alcohol and consider evaluation if symptoms persist.
irregular heart beat goes from 65-135 constantly. no pain or shortness of breath. just a flutter in my chest. ?
if the irregular heart beat is constant as you say proceed to urgent care your md or a cardiologist and get an ecg asap so as to diagnose the rhythm. the yield ought to be good as its "constant". if it is an svt then you will get appropriate treatment. if benign pvcs or pacs that you are feeling then you ought to be reassured about that. seek medical help asap
i have chf. why does chf make me have congestion in my chest all the time? i didn't have congestion in my chest before my heart attack and chf.
chf has chest congestion as its' primary symptom. the body retains fluids to compensate for weakened heart function. the fluid causes chest congestion and shortness of breath. good treatment frequently improves symptoms significantly.
what is atrial flutter with variable av block with premature ventricular or aberrantly conducted complexes? is same with av block heart degres 1?
no it's not the same. a flutter can conduct at variable rates down av node that's why it's called with variable conduction
what is atrial flutter with variable av block with premature ventricular or aberrantly conducted complexes? is same with av block heart degres 1?
atrial flutter is a cardiac irregularity whereby the upper chamber(atrium) is beatiing very fast and regular. because of the fast rate not all beats are conducted to the lower chamber(ventricle) on a one to one basis as it usually occurs normally. instead a block naturally occurs at the junction of the upper and lower chamber thus allowing only some beats to go through and this can be variable
what can i do? : acid reflux and heart palpitation?
caffeine is the most common substance associated with heart arrhythmias (palpitations). some people feel heart palpitations when they drink coffee or tea or eat chocolate. red wine and eating too much can bring about symptoms in others. these rhythm problems are rarely serious. most of these foods also cause reflux but by a different mechanism. see primary doctor for further evaluation.
what can i do? : acid reflux and heart palpitation?
u need to be evaluated and treated by ur md.
what could the doctors do if you have a high potassium?
in medical jargon it is called hyperkalemia. in an emergency we use different medications including diuretics (lasix) potassium binders (kayexalate (sodium polystyrene sulfonate)) iv insulin with 50% dextrose iv and iv fluids if not responding to these interventions will do dialysis as a last resort. if you have chronically high potassium levels kayexalate (sodium polystyrene sulfonate) is often recommended in addition to a low potassium diet.
why is my heart rate 100 when standing up?
maybe you are a little dehydrated and need more circulating fluids. drink more fluids (water) and see if that helps and see doctor if the hr stays elevated. best wishes.
heart rate between 40 bpm-50bpm echocardiogram holter monitor results are normal non athlete can my slow heart rat be due to genetics?
genetics can influence your heart's responsiveness to the balance between sympathetic and parasympathetic tone as well as endocrine conditions such as hypothyroidism which can aggravate bradycardia. their are also hereditary connections between such things as maternal lupus and congenital complete heart block. additional monitoring and assessing chronotropic responsiveness might be in order.
heart palp and almost fainting. my heart rate was slower 56-60 bpm just sitting and i felt this flutter and tried to catch my breath. felt like my heart wasnt going back in ryrthm.
you need to be evaluated by your doctor. at a minimum an ekg and blood pressure needs to be checked. more testing may be needed depending on a more thorough history of your symptoms.
heart palp and almost fainting. my heart rate was slower 56-60 bpm just sitting and i felt this flutter and tried to catch my breath. felt like my heart wasnt going back in ryrthm.
you know the answer: see cardiologist.
have panic attacks but sometimes resting heart rate increases w/o feelings of anxiety--normal test results-not worried-curious abt avg. fluctuations?
a normal heart rate is between 60 and 90 beats per minute. it can vary slightly depending upon race gender age and smoking status. degree of physical fitness is also a factor since there are plenty of people who are very physically fit with a heart rate of 50. clinically if your resting heart pulse is over 120 or under 50 if you have any symptoms then it would be appropriate to be seen by your doctor.
have panic attacks but sometimes resting heart rate increases w/o feelings of anxiety--normal test results-not worried-curious abt avg. fluctuations?
some people have a variation in their resting heart. you were great in having it checked. give yourself a pat on the back.
have panic attacks but sometimes resting heart rate increases w/o feelings of anxiety--normal test results-not worried-curious abt avg. fluctuations?
there are numbers of things that could cause elevated heart rate with no panic attacks. what were you doing just before you felt this? did u smoke drink caffeine eat chocolate take otc medication disturbing/upsetting thoughts etc. just too many causation factors possible in the face of normal test results. let it go and. if you can't talk about it to your dr. /therapist.
heart rate 67bpm i feel flutters in my chest near heart every few minutes for hours at night. i also feel flutters in my abdomen at times too. ?
if your hr is only 67 and you feel flutters they could be pvcs or anxiety. heart monitor will help determine if there is any arrythmias or not if none seen might reassure you.
heart rate 67bpm i feel flutters in my chest near heart every few minutes for hours at night. i also feel flutters in my abdomen at times too. ?
the flutters that you feel are what are known as palpitations. there are certain tests that your doctor can do to determine what is causing the problem. first you should eliminate any caffeine from your diet. second avoid dehydration. third do not take decongestants like sudafed. fourth sleep deprivation should be avoided. fifth emotional stress should be minimized. also see your doc!
have chronic symptomatic low pulse pressure (25-30) with normal hr. have had ekg stress echo 48 holter and ep study nothing urgent. what is wrong?
low pulse pressure is generally due to low systolic and near normal diastolic theoretically this can cause low perfusion in tissues but generally tissues respond by dilating blood vessels i am not sure what your symptoms are make sure sodium handling whether due to hormonal or otherwise should be checked drink lots of fluids.
heart flutters when i yawn or laugh why?
you need a 24 hour recording (a holter monitor test) to clarify what exactly your heart is doing.
had nissenfundoplication and having gurgling in chest after eating and also have flutter in my sternum don't no if its heart palpi or esophogus spasms?
your surgery was to treat a hiatal hernia you could still have residual hernia esophageal spasm or just esophageal reflux. you need to see a good gastroenterologist (gi) doctor for an endoscopy.
had nissenfundoplication and having gurgling in chest after eating and also have flutter in my sternum don't no if its heart palpi or esophogus spasms?
cardiac work up needs to ve done>gi w/u: exam/labs especially tfts/ekg/event monitor/echo andthe discussion of treatment options with your doctor. while you are waiting eliminate caffeine focus on staying hydrated. if palpitations worsen or syncope develops go directly to the er stick to a gf diet wholeapproach. com gutbliss. com anxiety and hyperventilation can cause numbness.
i took 20mg of prozac (fluoxetine) for 4 days i have been off of it for 6 days how long does it take to get out of my system? i've had heart palpitations all day
half-life of prozac (fluoxetine) is about 3 days multiply it by 5 it is about 2 weeks to bring prozac (fluoxetine) blood concentration to a barely detectable level. . but to avoid any drug-to-drug interactions i'd advice to wait for 4 weeks.
i have being having nausea after eating pain on the left side of my chest and heart flutters amd also i get exhausted quickly. what could this be?
consider gerd/gastritis with or without h pylori a bacteria. or may be pancreas gallbladder ( rarer in males) or thyroid ( rarer in males ). check h pylori breath test tsh/t4 lipase. possible ultrasound f/u w/ doc urgent care
is the dual chamber pacemaker contraindicated with persistent or chronic afib or atrial flutter? why? could u explain more to me?
a dual chamber paces the top and bottom chambers - if the top chambers (atria) are always out of rhythm then they really can't be paced - if it is intermittent afib or flutter then there may be value in the dual pacing - depends upon your exact situation.
i think i might be suffering from acid reflux have been to er because of chest and left side discomfort (burning) doctors did ekg x-rays and blood work and everything is normal. going to see a gi doctor tomorrow and hope to find an answer to my symptom
sounds like gi is a likely cause of your symptoms. best of luck with the gastrooenterology consult.
is florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 05 mg daily bad to be on longterm for pots syndrome? is it better than low dose prednisone? can't keep seem to control w/ just h20&salt
i don't understand just "salt and water" as a means of control. if you are only seeing a primary doctor you must get an appointment to see an endocrinology specialist. if you are already seeing the endocrinologist you must ask for a return visit as soon as possible.
is florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 05 mg daily bad to be on longterm for pots syndrome? how long is too long? risk of osteoporosis? is it better than low dose prednisone?
postural orthostasis maybe helped by florinef (fludrocortisone). as it seems you know it is not without risk. you need and deserve to have a full conversation with the prescribing physician not just a text commentary. that being said there are other choices- usually more costly but anything beats ffeeling woozy or passing out right? i personally would take it for a time. hope this helps- stay well
i am experiencing severe pain in backof the head and noise intolerance doctor said its vestibular vertigo and prescribed flunarizine hcl want a second opinion.
the venue you asked on is for basic medical information not for medical treatment. consider healthtap prime concierge or a neurological evaluation in person. take care.
i was lying in my bed. and i got a feeling fo my heart fluttering and racing which went away in few seconds. am really young. what r the chances vt?
except for congenital hd vt is uncommon in healthy people. with associated other diseases electrolyte sugar kidney problem extream dietary anomaly substance abuse. vt can occur.
is florinef (fludrocortisone) better to take than prednisone? i'm concerned about long term side effects but need to take florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 05 mg for pots syndrome 3x/week.
really a good alternative for florinef (fludrocortisone) in terms of pots. at least not in the long term. prednisone has little mineralocorticoid effect compared to florinef (fludrocortisone) and you mainly need that effect and a little adrenocorticoid effect that prednisolone offers. eventually you will need to replace both substances as your both aspects of your adrenal function shuts down with long term steroid use.
i'm 27 & have mild/occasional acid reflux with certain food not on any med. is there really a need for me to get a upper endoscopy only reason i even went to gi is trying to find the cause of my pacs but no dr seems to think its related anyways.
at your age assuming you do not have alarm symptoms (i. e. vomiting trouble swallowing weight loss etc) you should be able to try a short course of acid reflux medication. if no improvement an upper endoscopy may be helpful.
what do the results have to be on a positive tilt table test? does your heartate have to remain elevated for the whole 10 minutes?
tilt table test is where your heart rate bp and clinical symptoms are monitored for approximately for 1 hour and at times use provocative agents like isopril. we look for slow heart rate low bp and symptoms of dizziness passing out and how soon the patient returns to baseline treatments depends on the findings from increased salt and fluids medicines and adequate hydration
why is my heart rate faster after eating when laying down then when sitting up?
don't rely on a single measurement. i suspect you have sampling artifact. have an impartial 3rd party measure it for you several times and see if it's reproducible. generally when we lie down and rest our heart rate slows. exceptions would be if you're having pain (e. g from acid reflux or arthritis) or you're ruminating/upset/having a panic attack.
why does lamotrigne give me heart flutters will it go away or can i take so etching for it.
arrhythmia is not a listed side effect of lamotrigne. your flutters are coincidental but can be addressed as a separate problem if you seek attention for them.
what makes heart rate increase during exercise besides epinephrine?
humidity altitude oxygen tension thermal are just a few examples. dehydration as well as increasing the core body temp are very influential on raising your heart rate. how good your fitness level is also important.
what do you suggest if my mom is on metoprolol 60mg and amlodipine 5mg and she is retaining so much fluids and she is not on lasix (furosemide).?
amlodipine frequently causes fluid retention and may be the cause of the swelling. additionally h the blood pressure may not be adequately controlled on the two medications and this could cause decreased cardiac output with fluid retention and lung congestion. would suggest that the amlodipine be changed to a different antihypertensive vasodilator possibly and ace inhibitor of arb.
how come the instant i wake up in morning still laying in bed my heart beats real fast as if i were running or climbing stairs?
it is difficult to tell why you are having this kind of response. the early morning cortisol levels are increasing. that is the stress hormone that fluctuates causing you to wake up. it may be that you are just becoming "startled" on morning arousal. a cardiac monitor worn overnight would be helpful in determining the cause of your symptoms.
heart rate goes up upon standing. severely weak. just got over dehydration in the hospital 3 days ago. why am i still weak and dizzy? /my heart rate?
given what you provided you may still be somewhat 'dry'. some of your meds can cause or make worse the dizzy symptoms of dehydration. try aggressively increasing your fluid intake. generally it takes several liters of fluid to decrease dizziness when you are dry.
is there a reason to avoid prednisone for chf patient with inflammation myalgia and kidney/water retention concern? what medicine is good to reduce cortisol?
prednisone is a steroid and can potentially cause or worsen swelling and fluid retention. in some cases it can also cause kidney problems. there are cases hiwever in which steroids can be indicated in a patient with sumilar symptoms such as if they had lupus for example and were having a symptomatic flare. i would certainly discuss directly with your doctor for the specifics in your case.
is there a reason to avoid prednisone for chf patient with inflammation myalgia and kidney/water retention concern? what medicine is good to reduce cortisol?
exacerbation of fluid retention and increase in bp. elevated cortisol may be caused from many other medical issues: consult your endocrinologist.
is there a reason to avoid prednisone for chf patient with inflammation myalgia and kidney/water retention concern? what medicine is good to reduce cortisol?
prednisone causes fluid and water retention and so is not a good medicine for someone with chf. if there is no alternative the effects can be reversed with furosemide that is titrated to effect. since predisone is a corisol like drug giving it is the opposite of reducing cortisol. in other words if you have too much cortisol you would't give prednisone. capish?
i was told i have non dangerous svt by my heart specialist i was just wondering does svt cause stomach pain and anxiety which sometimes causes my heart to flutter?
flutter: yes. anxiety: yes/possible. stomach pain: no.
i'm on apixaban twice a day for clots on the lungs was diagnosed 3 months ago but still feeling rotten now my hemotologist has put me on flucloxacilli?
know why your hematologist is treating you with antibiotics thus more information is needed but i can say that the blood clots (pulmonary emboli) are a sign of other medical issues and the combination of these could make you continue to feel "rotten"! speak with your hematologist (blood clotting expert) about how you feel and do not hesitate to tell him/her about your continuing symptoms! z
ive been experience headaches and my left eye have a pulse and i feel weak. chest pains and heart flutter. what could be wrong with me?
if you are experiencing chest pain & palpitations - recommend that this be medically assessed. need to rule out cardiac problem.
is it ok to take qlearquil if i'm already taking 12. 5 metoprolol once a day and 500 metformin twice a day for a cold and sinus issue thank you so much?
none of these otc cough and cold meds works. and this one is not supposed to be used with people with hypertension. save your money. vick's chloraseptic (numbs tickle from mucus) fluids and tincture of time and you will likely get better sooner and feel better than if you took it. see <link> take tylenol (acetaminophen) for aches. no fragrances & aerosols: <link>
i have pots my chest is hurting and my pulse is 98 resting im lightheaded and faint with stomach trouble nausea heart pounding and fluttering. ok?
40y female has "pots" with typical symptoms. this is an autonomic nervous system disorder that is highly associated with hypermobility syndrome o my mind sufferers who are mostly women need to remain fit and develop good muscle tone via aquatherapy exercise yoga tai chi etc. see comments below:
i have pots. i have a friends w/ pots who is only on a beta blocker & is fine while i' m on florinef (fludrocortisone) beta blocker & still have very bad days. why?
pots has quite variable severity some people are only mildly bothered by symptoms others quite debilitated. additionally the pathophysiologic causes are several so different people respond to different interventions/medications.
i have pots. i have a friends w/ pots who is only on a beta blocker & is fine while i' m on florinef (fludrocortisone) beta blocker & still have very bad days. why?
if you do indeed have pots then you should know that the optimal therapy for it is uncertain. all medical therapies for pots have off-label indications. fludrocortisone is most effective when combined with increased salt and water intake. pots has a good prognosis with most patients noticing some improvement after one year and some with complete resolution.
i have pots. i have a friends w/ pots who is only on a beta blocker & is fine while i' m on florinef (fludrocortisone) beta blocker & still have very bad days. why?
avoid caffein and chocolates. drink plenty of fluids.
i woke up one day with a racing heartbeat. and before i sleep i feel heartbeat irregular. and when i eat alot i have heart pains when i breath?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
my heart seems to skip a beat. do i need to see a doctor? for a couple weeks now i have been noticing a fluttering in my neck (right below where you would take my pulse) that makes me cough a little. my husband listened to my heart and when it did that my
yes you should visit your doctor. this is most likely a non-serious arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythm) but further diagnosis and management decisions would be based on a careful history your risk factors a physical exam and an electrocardiogram (ecg). depending on the results your doctor may also elect to order an echocardiogram and/or ambulatory heart monitor. if this is a non-serious condition there may be no treatment necessary. but if the symptoms are a nuisance or the condition is more concerning there are numerous treatment options.
my heart seems to skip a beat. do i need to see a doctor? for a couple weeks now i have been noticing a fluttering in my neck (right below where you would take my pulse) that makes me cough a little. my husband listened to my heart and when it did that my
an occasional skip can be quite normal and in a young otherwise healthy person is best ignored. if it happens a lot your best bet is to see your doctor and have an ecg taken. for events that happen only sporadically you may be asked to wear a "holter monitor" that records all your heart beats for 1 2 or 3 days. hopefully these are just early beats and can be ignored.
my heart flutters when my boss comes around because i'm nervous. is there anything i can do?
exercise is a great way to relieve stress. your body releases endorphins during exercise which can help you feel calm. if you exercise 30 - 60 minutes a day your stress levels can improve. when stressed take 5 slow deep breaths with your eyes closed then roll your shoulders forward 5 times then back 5 times. this will slow your heart rate and release tension in your neck and shoulders.
my heart flutters when my boss comes around because i'm nervous. is there anything i can do?
avoid caffeine; consider telling him or her. ;decide if the job is worth it.
my heart started beating weird for a minute. is this what they call an irregular heartbeat?
it depends on what you mean by wierd. if the pulse became irregular then yes. if you just felt a fluttering in your chest it could possibly have nothing to do with how your heart is beating or your heart could be beating fast and/or strong but regular. an ekg or having a doctor time your pulse would give the answer.
my sister and i walk treadmill for thrity min her heart rate stays 85 mine 129 she takes blood pressue meds any danger in that i am 63 129 heart rate and she is 69
blood pressure medications often include beta blockers like metoprolol or atenolol. these drugs can prevent one's heart from going faster when one exercises. if your sister is taking one of these nmedications it might explain the difference in your heart rates. the effectiveness of aerobic exercise is often judged by the heart rate one achieves during the exercise. for vigorous exercise a target heart rate of 110 to 133 would be reasonable for an average 63 year old. consider discussing your target range with an exercise physiologist or personal trainer. if you get short of breath or have chest tightness on the treadmill you should definitely discuss this with your doctor. other medications which can lower your maximum heart rate include medications to reduce irregular heart beats some calcium blockers and digoxin. h-2 blockers prescribed for acid reflux may also reduce the maximum heart rate. ask your doctor if you need to use a lower target heart rate.
when i stand up my blood pressure decreases but my heart rate increases. is this normal?
if you are dehydrated the volume of blood in your blood vessels is decreased. therefore when you stand up there is not enough blood to sustain your blood pressure. the heart tries to compensate for the low blood volume by beating faster. if you are continuing to have diarrhea you must increase your fluid intake and mineral/electrolyte by drinking a sports typpe drink.
what's a good suppliment or medication for heart flutters?
no supplement is going to prevent or cure it. . best is to avoid caffeine drink plenty of fluids and check with your doctor to see if you suffer from cardiac dysthymia.
what causes 5 min long episodes of stabbing chest pain really uncomfortable? no other symptoms hist: htn pcos
it could be gastritis or esophagitis from chronic reflux disease -- tell your doctor
what can cause fast fluttering in chest that is not heart related? the fluttering does not match my slow hr. i can even feel the palps in my arms.
if heart checks out fine likely a muscular sensation
what would be your symptoms if the dose of premarin (conjugated estrogens) is too high? experiencing dizziness heart palpitations restless sleep and tremors
the most common symptoms of excessive dose of premarin (conjugated estrogens) would be breast tenderness nausea abdomen pain headache flu like symptoms back pain. the symptoms you describe are very serious & you should seek medical attention immediately. premarin (conjugated estrogens) therapy can cause serious side effects with increased risk of stroke pulmonary embolus deep vein thrombosis. see medical doctor right away
what are possible causes for heart flutters upon waking only?
if you wake up to an alarm clock the noise may send stress chemicals in your body such as adrenaline. this could lead to palpitations right when you wake up. it would be helpful to have your doctor listen to your heart and possibly use a heart monitor to see what the heart is doing when you wake up. in the meantime avoid caffeine sleep deprivation and alcohol which can worsen palpitations.
went out drinking lastnite woke u this morning my chest is killing me n i know i'm not having a heart attack but it feels that way?
it is not uncommon to experience severe esophageal reflux and even gastritis after drinking alcohol. both these can cause very uncomfortable substernal ( beneath the breastbone) pain. but you cannot exclude the heart if this persists. if it worsens or persists you should see your doctor.
why do i burp after a few skipped heart beats when lying down? i'm 26 no heart disease (tests ruled out) i have acid reflux
possible diaphragm twitches due to spasm after skiping beats. skip beat is not normal. need to get cardiologist evaluation done for skipping beats.
whenever i tried to sleep i wake up with a cough and mucus in my throat. and heart beats fast but slows down after a while?
you could have acid reflux which causes those symptoms also a form of sleep apnea could be occurring see your provider or a sleep doctor i order to evaluate which problem is occurring and help you
heart palpitation w/ center chest pain. lasts few moments. dizziness & sweating fallow for several mins; felt plus pulsing in neck hard & fast.
need to see doc asap for evaluation arrhythmia such as flutter wpw(wolff-parkinson-white syndrome) supraventricular tachycardia etc. . may cause this; however other diseases such as anxiety hyperthyroidism may also cause palpitation.
how often should potassium be checked after starting florinef (fludrocortisone) for low bp/fainting in someone with a history of low potassium?
florine (f) reduces potassium levels. recommended doses of potassium (k) in patient on f 8-20- meq/day regardless of what their potassium levels are. there is no documented time period of the frequency of monitoring k levels. speak to the physician who ordered the f and follow the p's advice. the source of the k deficiency needs to be determined. ask the p if it is due to a low magnesium level.
heart rate 120 dizziness nausea rapid heart beat with fluttering and can't concentrate. not feeling myself at all?
it sounds like atrial fibrilation.
how dangerous is it that my vitamin d-25 level is only 8 as measured in my blood tests. does it mean i can have a heart attack or anything else?
low vitamin d is associated with increased risk of heart attack many cancers autoimmune disease ; lower life expectancy but these are long-term risks ; youre not likely to develop any of these before you can reverse your deficiency. your body should be able to heal much of the damage related to having had low d. your most immediate risk is influenza as low d is associated with reduced immunity.
is florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 5 mg every other day bad for my bones? (i pots syndrome & can't function without it. ) is it as bad as a steroid as low dose prednisone?
florinef=fludrocortisone which is a mineralocorticoid and not a glucocorticoid. it is unique in that it is essentially a pure mineralocorticoid. glucocorticoids have effects on bone and mineralocorticoids on salt and potassium regulation. the are related in structure & being made in the adrenal but not function (although some steroids have both functions). a pure mineralo will not effect bone.
is florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 5 mg every other day bad for my bones? (i pots syndrome & can't function without it. ) is it as bad as a steroid as low dose prednisone?
should not be a problem but have your lab data checked every three months - sooner if you are not feeling well.
is it true that over a long period of time of heart palpitations can cause blood clots?
heart palpitations can range from benign premature atrial contractions to sustained abnormal rhythms such as atrial fibrillation. atrial fibrillation /flutter can causes stasis of blood flow in a heart chamber from asynchronous atrio-ventricular contractions and hence blood pools so to speak and can form clots.
i can hear rush of blood and my heart beating loudly in my left ear. notice heart beat sounds stop or greatly diminish when lifting legs. what is this? why getting louder and is affected by body movements?
negative pressure or fluid in the middle ear(eustachian tube dysfunction) tumors and vascular anomalies of the middle ear can cause this symptom. intracranial vascular anomalies or normal pressure hydrocephalus are other considerations. this has an extensive list of possibilities. you need a good ent history exam and hearing test. imaging is usually done. this is important to check.
i had a transplant 13 yrars ago. september 18 i had a tricuspid valve replaced and pacemaker put in. i had incision that would not heal on my right groin. now i am having fluid build up in my lungs. does. it sound like i am having complications with my ly
the fluid build up in the lung may represent a problem with your heart or lungs and i would suggest an evaluation to include a cardiac echo. it is important to avoid excessive salt intake to monitor your bp and to please see your cardiologist.
im anemic due to heavy periods possible gerd panic attacks also. lately pain&burning in upper body&aches but ekg ecg chest x-ray ok. what can it be?
it is due to reflux of stomach acid into the esophagus. i sure hop you are seeing a md for continuing rx.
i randomly get this thing where my heart skips beats rapidly then i feel hot all over and feel like i will vomit. cause? could it be heart related?
when your heartbeat feels unusual & rapid we call that palpitations. the association with a hot flush & nausea makes it seem more significant and it is certainly worth evaluating. if you have chest discomfort shortness of breath lightheadedness or fainting that's worrisome. start by seeing an internal medicine or cardiology doctor; depending on what else turns up some tests are in order.
is there a pots treatment that is safe with a solitary kidney? beta blockers and florinef (fludrocortisone) not viable.
discuss with your doctor use of verapamil. ivabradine(corlanor) pyridostigmine geriatr cardiol. 2012 mar; 9(1): 61–67. doi: 10. 3724/sp. j. 1263. 2012. 00061
my wife thinks i should see someone for my palpitations. should i?
if you're troubled by them you should. if you have known heart disease you should. if you're otherwise healthy and they you just feel an occasional skip or flutter you're normal and don't need to bother. everyone experiences palpitations sometimes and this may be made worse by nicotine caffeine stress lack of sleep or electrolyte imbalance from meds diarrhea vomiting or sweating.
my brother has atrial flutter. should i be worried about this?
relatively benign condition and easily treated. make sure he sees an electrophysiologist who will be able to get rid of that particular arrhythmia fairly easily.
my brother has atrial flutter. should i be worried about this?
arrhythmia where atrium beats about 250 beats per minute but does not cause sudden death.
my friend has 6 stents a pacemaker defibulator and the back of his heart is dead. how can someone live with their heart half dead?
the heart is a muscle and uses electricity to generate the "squeeze" necessary to get blood to the whole body. stents keep blood flowing to the muscle and a pacer/defibrillator keeps the electricity on and timed right. when part of the heart is dead patients are less active. they also may develop congestive heart failure with fluid backing up into lungs. pills can help.
my husband has atrial fib and recently had episodes of presyncope. he was told he was 'dry'. what's this mean?
he essentially needs fluids.
my heart keeps skipping beats? do i need an ecg?
an ecg is a simple easily accessible and reliable test to diagnose problems with your heart rhythm. many perfectly healthy people experience "skipped" beats (which in reality are usually "extra" beats) or a fluttering sensation in the chest at one time or another but this should not be a reason to not obtain a medical opinion as to the nature of your sensations.
my heart rate is very fast tonight im in pain and want to get my heart rate slow?
pain causes adrenergic stimulation leading to a fast heart rate. method to lesson the pain ( pain meds) or increase parasympathetic influence - deep breathing visualization meditation will help.
weakness fatigue fast heart rate feels like something stuck in throat burning throat and stomach. ?
are these symptoms that you have all the time or is there a pattern: mostly with meals when you lie down at night when you climb the stairs or do something strenuous or just randomly when you might be sitting? while reflux or anxiety may explain these the weakness and fatigue with these symptoms is concerning and i would recommend a check - up this week to determine a cause!
will prednisone 10mg for 2 weeks cause low potassium? i have chronically low potassium but doc isn't worried?
prednisone can lower the potassium concentration in part by causing fluid retention and dilution of the serum potassium. however the problem is dose/duration dependent so a short course of a low dose of prednisone is unlikely to cause a problem. you don't mention that you're on a potassium supplement but if you are you certainly need to continue it.
what mechanism that high potassium causes cardiac arrest? i just know high k+ causes hyper excitability of cells?
when cardiac muscle cells fire they use up part of the electrochemical gradient they maintain in life. they are repolarized by an outward potassium (k+) flux across the plasma membrane. this outward k+ current depends on the k+ electrochemical gradient. if the "outside" k+ (in blood & interstitial fluid) is very high that destroys the k+ electrochemical gradient the cells can't repol; they stop
will 2-6 units of alcohol cause low potassium? also on florinef (fludrocortisone)
hi. alcohol is not measured in "units" as far as i've ever heard. having said that alcohol at any level does not cause low blood potassium (k). there are some adrenal hormones that if present in excess will cause low k. florinef (fludrocortisone) mimics one such adrenal hormone aldosterone. if florinef (fludrocortisone) dose is too high that can cause low k. why are you on florinef (fludrocortisone)? are you also on hydrocortisone? need moreinfo
we all already know that the sympathetic system has a role in increase the blood pressure. but when can the sympathetic help in decrease it?
reduction in blood pressure influenced by sympathetic activity can be achieved by blocking the hormone at its receptor site or removing the stimulus that initiated the sympathetic response. also the bp response to epinephrine is modified by other hormones that lower bp that are released simultaneously such as the natriuretic peptides
why does acid relux cause heart palpitations and skipped heart beats? thanks
the heart is a sensitive organ and as such likes a certain mileu. acid reflux (heart burn) is not a comfortable condition with acid in an otherwise alkaline mileu (esophagus) hence can cause gi pain and/or masquerade as chest pain. this perturbs the heart and has been associated with atrial fibrillation and/or simple extra beats. this is the explanation that is believed presently.
why does acid relux cause heart palpitations and skipped heart beats? thanks
acid reflux can cause inflammation of the esophagus which can stimulate the vagus nerve which is situated nearby. activation of the vagus nerve can cause many types of symptoms related to the stomach heart lungs diaphragm ears tongue and vocal cords.
why is it when i first get up in the morning my heart rate is higher then it is throughout the day? is it pots? adreneline? my chd? normal heart tests
if you have dysautonomia your sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems tend to overreact and then overcompensate. during sleep the slower heart rate will prevail and the sympathetic nervous system will kick it upon awakening with an overcorrection if your autonomic nervous system is unstable. are you getting fluids and salt?
hello dr when i walk fast i feel double fast heart beat in my neck and my heart starts fluttering very quilckly im a girl 27 years old why is that?
this is not a normal situation and there are many possibilities. you need to make an appointment to see your doctor about this condition to obtain a diagnosis and see if you need treatment.
have hypoadrenal with low potassium and low sodium how can this be?
i see that you are already taking fludrocortisone for what i would imagine is addison's disease. you are on several medications and the interplay may have lowered both your cations; if either is far from reference range your physician knows how to manage this.
heart rate fluctuating mostly remains at 125. mvr done in 2006 taking warfarin 2mg platelets low 60 inr 1. 65. can pacemaker be inserted?
this needs to be evaluated as the rapid hr can be due to several different things including a fib. pacemaker is used for too low a hr not too fast.
heart flutters caused by low potassium. got my potassium levels up flutters stopped for 2-3wks returned with period. pot lvl 4. 0. hormonal?
there are a couple of conditions that cause low potassium especially thyroid problems. my best guess however is the hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) you're taking. you could try a different kind of water pill called a potassium-sparing diuretic which you should discuss with your doctor.
had ekg it was fine that's three this year question is what could cause my chest pain it's sharp pain stabbing could it be my acid reflux or aniexty?
chest pain in a 22 yo is rarely causec by heart problems ; the normal ekg's suggest your heart is fine. reflux or anxiety can cause chest pain that is usually squeezing or a pressure/tightness. sharp stabbing pain makes me suspect a musculoskeletal cause. consider seeing an osteopath who does manipulation or a good chiropractor- see <link> acupuncture or homeopathy may also help.
had ekg it was fine that's three this year question is what could cause my chest pain it's sharp pain stabbing could it be my acid reflux or aniexty?
the good news is it appears your heart is stable and not causing your pains. a good history and physical should now slowly start to get the real diagnosis pinpointed which certainly could include acid reflux ("heart burn"-pyrosis) or anxiety. both of which the h;p exam should be able to diagnose more easily. let dr. know if stressed or if any trigger foods cause it etc. best wishes.
had ekg it was fine that's three this year question is what could cause my chest pain it's sharp pain stabbing could it be my acid reflux or aniexty?
your 3 normal ekgs and age make your heart an unlikely source of your pain. cough muscle stretch acid reflux and anxiety are all likely contributing factors.
having constant heart flutters mild pain in chest costocondritis and hypertension that seems to remain high even with meds. what could this be?
for an evaluation and cardiac workup. cannot diagnose in this type of forum.
i have this pain in my back and ribs all the time nonstop i feel like i am going to pass out and at times it feels like my heart is fluttering?
with pain that severe please f/u in er today. could be gerd gastritis with or without h pylori gallbladder but could be cardiac(coronary disease structural disease pericarditis) vascular ( aorta) or lung ( do you smoke? follow up today in er
i have been having intermittent sharp chest pains that shoot down to my pinkie finger. never lasts more than a second except wrist is tingly.
at age 19 chest pain is more a sign of anxiety than heart dis assuming you don't have gastric reflux or other specific (physically identifiable) disorders
i can't breath from nose cause of my cough and mucus the scary part is aside from that i'm having irregular heartbeats. no chest pain. is this bad?
r u febrile? u appear to have flu symptoms or bad cold. medicines for cold can cause irreg heart beats & it is good to know what rhythm is on ecg as well as what meds u r taking. you should see an internist. asap. afrin (oxymetazoline) (generic avail) overcounter spray should help clear mucous(only spray sitting up). little systemic effect but use gingerly you nose can become addicted (ie only clear w afrin).
i'm sitting down and just finish eating a meal and everything feels like it's turning upside down and in a few seconds i'm ok again. any idea?
could be reflux /gerd wiht or without h pylori a bacteria or gallbladder. could try rantidine 150 mg 1 a day and or prevecid 30 mg 1 a day also avoid alcohol soda caffeine spicy food very fatty food. may also be a food intolerance though that usually has longer discomfort gallbladder -that is usually 1 hour after eating. follow up with doc
i get ectopic beats sometimes with a pause and strong beat other times a flutter then normal beat no pause (pac i assume? ) could mvp cause these?
mitral valve prolapse can be associated with various kinds of extrasystoles and arrhythmias. causality is often assumed but not necessarily proven.
i have some throbbing & fluttering in the middle of my chest sometimes & these symptoms cause pain on my chest when/where they happen. it means what?
it means it's worthwhile to see your doctor and get checked out. likely it's nothing serious but the symptoms can be caused by many things.
i'm a 26 yr old "athletic" male who regularly weight trains/boxes. i was diagnosed with mvp and have had all the symptoms to varying degrees at various times and levels of physical excursions (palpitations fluttering "skipped beats" shortness of breath
with you doctor for monitoring. also mvp is often associated w/anxiety. stress management may be helpful. see a mental health professional for treating. self-help at www. relaxationresponse. org
i'm a 26 yr old "athletic" male who regularly weight trains/boxes. i was diagnosed with mvp and have had all the symptoms to varying degrees at various times and levels of physical excursions (palpitations fluttering "skipped beats" shortness of breath
what is your question?
i've been coughing a lot tonight and now my chest hurts a little bit. i feel a little out of breath. what can i do to help it go away?
would seek medical attention. may be viral or from post nasal drip ( which is helped if you raise the head of bed) or from reflux which is helped by raising head of bed and trying prevecid (otc) or ranitidine or bacterial including mycoplasma which needs antibiotics. may also be a bit of reactive airway and need albuterol inhaler. f/u/ w/ doc today especially if short of breath
my mom is now in afib again. doctors want to do a cardiac conversion tomorrow shock her i guess. now remember she has copd chf and is a diabetic with fluids around lungs and organs. how serious is this procedure? should i be present for the conversion? i
a cardioversion is a procedure used to restore sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation. it is usually a safe procedure performed with minimal anesthesia usually versed or propofol. the key important thing is that she has been on blood thinners for an appropriate period of time to prevent a stroke. sometimes antiarrhythmic medication is administered afterwards to maintain sinus rhythm.
my mom is now in afib again. doctors want to do a cardiac conversion tomorrow shock her i guess. now remember she has copd chf and is a diabetic with fluids around lungs and organs. how serious is this procedure? should i be present for the conversion? i
the procedure called cardioversion is safe and may actually really help her current condition. usually an anesthesiologist is present to provide sedation and comfort. when the heart can be in a regular rhythm it performs more efficiently and some of her chf can improve.
my mom is now in afib again. doctors want to do a cardiac conversion tomorrow shock her i guess. now remember she has copd chf and is a diabetic with fluids around lungs and organs. how serious is this procedure? should i be present for the conversion? i
intractable a. fib are treated with cardioversion. it is relatively safe. they usually give a sedative to make them comfortable.
my doc has given me celexa 20mg whereas psych gave prozac (fluoxetine) 20 mg but said i could take any 1. have dep/anxiety/ panic/ heart palp. need help decide?
both celexa and prozac (fluoxetine) are ssri antidepressants and can help depression anxiety and panic problems. they are a bit different in terms of half-life and specific fda approval for ocd etc. prozac (fluoxetine) may be a little more activating than celexa in some people. remember that the psychiatrist has additional specialty training in these disorders. you'll also likely need psychotherapy for best outcome.
my doc has given me celexa 20mg whereas psych gave prozac (fluoxetine) 20 mg but said i could take any 1. have dep/anxiety/ panic/ heart palp. need help decide?
both are ssri antidepressants that can help depression and anxiety. there may be specific reasons the psychiatrist preferred prozac (fluoxetine) in your case. not knowing anything else about you or your symptoms i might opt for the celexa: it works a few days sooner and is less likely to cause agitation as a side effect. but either one is a reasonable choice.
my heart rate is up and i an losing color in my face i was told i have pheunmonia is this normal side effects for it?
very typical to have a high heart rate with pneumonia. pale face can be due to peripheral vasoconstriction and should respond to fluids with electrolytes such as chicken soup. if you are feeling very badly despite treatment you should be talking to your doc.
my father is a heart patient with dilated cardiomyopathy. is it safe to use amifru?
amifru is a combination of two medications that cause one to move fluid out by urinating keeping it from backing up in the lungs.
my results showed off my 7 day monitor that my heart rate never went below 150bpm through the day at nigh t would drop to 80bpm when get up back 150?
i'm suspicious that you have atrial flutter (rate is typical) or paroxysmal atrial tachycardia (the heart rate is not typical). it's also possible that you have normal rhythm that's abnormally fast. your monitor strips should contain the info to distinguish among the above. has your thyroid been checked? do you use medication or recreational drugs? is your general health ok? many possibilities.
my heart rate is over 100 bpm and back muscle are aching iv had a cough for a while now but easing off not sure if i have the flu cause no temp
take your temperature after 4 pm (when fever shows itself). use an ear or temple device or if you use an oral thermometer be sure not to eat or drink for 30 minutes beforehand. it's possible that you had a fever a week ago and that you're on the tail-end of this illness when fever has resolved.
muscles all over are aching have a slight cough still is fading feel a bit dizzy and very cold even when in front of a heater and my heart rate is 110?
do you think you might have the flu?
when does orthastatic hypotension stop after prolong bed rest for 3 months? will walking be dangerous? or would help?
drink plenty of fluids and gradually increase your activity (walking is a good activity since your leg muscles "pump" the blood in your veins towards your heart. some extra salt is helpful provided there are no other problems (like congestive heart failure) a health care provider should monitor this! hope this helps' dr z
what is the risk of having a vasovagal reaction during pregnancy and birth? how can one mitigate the risks?
vaso vagal syncope is usually triggered by a drop in bp due to reduce venous return. thus it can occur with prolonged standing which during pregnancy can be worse because of the growing uterus during birth there is sudden loss of fluid. prevention include avoiding standing for long periods and hydration
why can't a patient receive a flu shot if they have an elevated heart rate due to an anxiety disorder? (ptsd)
usually the only issues that would preclude you from getting a flu shot is current infection fever or allergy to eggs/other parts of the immunization. anxiety disorder does not prevent you from getting the flu vaccine.
what kind of arrhythmia would cause your heart to flutter dizzy like no beats in between and scared. it felt like a lot if pvcs in a row.
there are several arrhythmias that can cause these symptoms including atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter pvcs that can occur as "runs" where there are several in a row. ventricular arrhythmias besides pvcs would likely cause more symptoms like passing out. the best way to figure out what is wrong is to have a holter monitor placed for at least a few days so see your doctor asap or go to er!
what causes palpitations and heart flutters like your heart is dropping in your chest or like it's drowning?
sounds like you're describing a premature ventricular contraction (pvc) which feels like a short pause followed by a single stronger beat. they're very common among otherwise healthy people and can be reduced by avoiding stimulants such as caffeine. see a heart rhythm specialist (cardiac electrophysiologist) for further evaluation and to ensure your heart is healthy.
what to do if i'm in my second trimester at 16 weeks and 5 days what to do if i'm currently sick an my babys heart rate is 186 bpm?
take tylenol (acetaminophen) drink plenty of fluids. when you get better the baby's heart rate will decrease
have an on/off tightening under my left ribs with occasional difficult deep breath. 2 ekg tests in 2012/2013 said my heart is good. what can b wrong?
a little vague: need more info. possibly do fluoroscopy (x-ray) of that area to see if allmoving. you may just need pt. if it is a rare occurenence just see what happens. rerurn to md for further eval as necessary-no more ekg's for that.
how can myocardial infarction affect serum potassium and sodium levels?
unlikely that a heart attack will affect sodium or potassium measurably but medications will particularly diuretics and in the case of sodium: too much fluid intake can drop the level.
had an ecg and treadmill test regular drs care. bp fine. yet can't stop thinking chest pain from acid reflux is a heart prob. how to stop worrying?
if you were already checked and everything was fine maybe your problem is plain anxiety. please be careful to control it under family doctor /internist / psychiatric supervision as anxiety may worsen into panic attacks that are more difficult to control.
had many in depth heart test done. every dr. i seen says my heart is healthy. im 10wks preg. flutters r more intense/frequent. shld i c cardiologist again?
you should probably wear a heart monitor to check your heart rhythm when you have the feelings.
heart rate fluctuating between 130 to 145. taking metoprolol 25mg 2wice daily. taking diuretic 5mg. bp is 85/60. feeling tired. pl advice?
sounds suspicious for atrial fibrillation a rapid rhythm emanating from the upper poles of the heart frequently seen in older patients and in patients with previous heart disease. should preferably confer with your pcp to confirm. might be able to take diltiazem in low doses in addition to other meds and have minimal effect on bp but this would have to be approved/monitored by a local doctor.
heart flutters everyday. worse when i have a beer. cardiologist doesn't think i shud b worried. shud i get 2nd opinion? can it give me a heart attack
skips in heartbeats may be associated with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements. avoid stimulants such as caffeine alcohol (beer) otc decongestants eg pseudafed.
how could a high heart rate influence coronary artery perfusion and myocardial oxygen delivery?
in coronary perfusion pressure due to shortened diastole. oxygen demand is increased but perfusion may not keep up if there is narrowing of coronary artery
i had the stomach flu and now for the past two days i've had shortness of breath gas and chest tightness. i don't have a fever. is this pneumonia?
it is difficult to say what it could be but any shortness of breath and chest tightness needs to be evaluated. i suggest go to the er and get checked. they will take a detailed history and exam and if indicated a chest xray to diagnose and treat your condition
ive had a headache for 3 days! the pain is all round my head but the worst pain in my forehead! i feel dizzy when i stand up and i have an earache in both ears a tight chest and extremely sore throat! my headache throat and chest are the worst though e
it sounds like your symptoms are more than you can handle at home. you've tried taking over-the-counter therapies like paracetamol? you should call your doc since you have dizziness and could be dehydrated. i recommend chicken soup fluids and rest until you can be seen. you need something for the chest too-like an inhaler (albuterol). limit stress and sleep well to avoid these type of infections
my heart often 'flutters' or skips a beat which can take my breath away. plus i get dizzy spells. ecg normal. heart conditions in family
various rhythm abnormalities can give these symptoms but most common is premature beats (apcs or pvcs depending where in heart the beats arise). they usually are benign requiring no treatment unless frequent/intolerable symptoms. ecg only detects this if it happens at exactly the time the tracing is taken. monitors can be worn for longer periods to make a diagnosis. unlikely to be familial.
m45 for past 5 yrs woken periodically from sleep with chest pain on lt side hot skin/sweats. ekgs stress tests holter ct heart ultrasound all good?
reflux can cause all these sx. non medical maneuvers include not lying down within four hours of meal. elevate head of bed. decrease caffeine intake if you smoke stop. beyond that see doctor and consider further eval and prescriptive therapy.
my left arm is falling sleep and my left hand hurt for the pass three days and also have chills. are those symptoms of a heart attack? i am 35
left arm falling asleep is more likely related to peripheral nerve issues of the arm or shoulder. symptoms worrisome for acute heart issues are chest pain extending to the left arm. chills are very nonspecific and can be associated with many disorders including flu infection and other systemic maladies.
my heart skips beats quite regularly and i get a fluttery feeling in my neck what causes it? how do i know if i need to go in?
skip beats of various types are quite common and may be due to an irregular heart rhythm most of which are benign in nature but some ard a bit more serious. see your doctor to figure out what you have.
my pulse rate has been running 122 all the time why?
it is important to known exactly what your underlying heart rhythm is. you need an electrocardiogram (ecg). likely potential causes: sinus tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. also could be a supraventricular tachycardia or atrial flutter. sometimes fast heart rhythms can be due to high thyroid level or anemia.
my right ear has been giving me trouble for about 3 years now. everyday once my heart rate goes up a little my ear clogs and sounds like it's full of water and i feel like i'm talking real loud because of the vibrations i'm hearing but no fluid in it. o
you may have a patulous tube. normally it is closed but in some it is open most of the time. symptoms are fullness hearing your own breathing and speech (autophony). usually best in am or when laying down. gets worse later in day or with exertion. ear exam is normal but ear drum can be seen moving while breathing forcefully thru your nose. hearing test usually normal. suggest entevaluation.
my right ear has been giving me trouble for about 3 years now. everyday once my heart rate goes up a little my ear clogs and sounds like it's full of water and i feel like i'm talking real loud because of the vibrations i'm hearing but no fluid in it. o
hello sounds like you might have an inner ear infection. you might consider an ear specialist. good luck.
my head feels pressure and my ears do too slight pains in my arms and shoulders feeling of heart beating fast upper back pain. i just had baby?
congratulations on your newborn. you can have flu or other things. impossible to guess without physical exam. see the doctor.
my blood pressure spiked high while having a svt attack last night. is that normal. it went back to normal after the attack?
blood pressure fluctuates constantly. it also responds to physical and emotional stress. in that way it could be considered a normal response. however having svt is not "normal. " fixing the svt could solve the problem. treating the svt with medication could also treat the blood pressure.
my heart rate (not resting) is 77. i am 19 and a female. i have a squeezing left chest pain painful shoulders and nausea. what should i do?
hrt attack try mylanta. it's probably esophageal reflux (heartburn) or possibly anxiety (maybe both). are u sleeping well at night? do u clinch your teeth? significant chest pain is very low probability for a cardiac problem or death at ur age. it would be irresponsible of me to tell u to not go in though. it may b something more significant.
my heart rate (not resting) is 77. i am 19 and a female. i have a squeezing left chest pain painful shoulders and nausea. what should i do?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
my neck veins bulge a lot when i talk laugh lie down or sometimes stand upright. is this related to heart palpitations or how my neck veins twitch?
it is not uncommon for veins in the neck to stand out when you increase pressure in your chest. this can occur when you cough laugh or bear down. neck veins can also bulge when you have too much fluid in your body or when part of your heart is not working properly. a doctor may examine you and listen to the heart for evaluation. it is not generally related to heart rhythm problems.
what causes a 2 hr dull pain in left chest above breast below collarbone? passed stress test ekg heart monitor. similar pains in arm shoulder blade.
the most important to rule out is heart disease and sounds like you've done that. gastrointestinal reflux heartburn costochondritis muscle spasm shoulder arthritis-it's a long list. anxiety is a biggie.
what can cause undigested food in stool and weight loss? i also get very weak shaky and tachycardic after eating. thank you in advance
irritable bowel disease and crohn's disease may cause the symptoms you are having. if you are losing a lot of fluid because you intestines are not absorbing nutrients and fluids you could go hypotensive (low blood pressure) and hypovolemic (low volume of fluid) and could cause tachycardia and this could be causing weakness. see a physician immediately.
what can cause undigested food in stool and weight loss? i also get very weak shaky and tachycardic after eating. thank you in advance
the first thing one thinks of regarding undigested food in stool is malabsorption. if food/nutrients are not absorbed in the small intestine nutritional deficiencies weight loss and other problems develop. perhaps you have glucose absorption issues as well contributing fluctuating blood sugar and shakiness. you need testing for malabsorption and glucose tolerance/metabolism. good wishes<positive_smiley>
what are the differences between tachycardia & tachyarrhythmia?
both mean rapid heart rate but tachycardia usually refers to the normal rhythm just beating faster than normal (sinus tachycardia). tachyarrhythmia usually refers to an abnormal and fast heart rhythm such as atrial fibrillation atrial flutter supra ventricular tachycardia (svt) or ventricular tachycardia (vt).
what can i take that will decrease the fluid in my sinuses and ears but won't affect my heart rate?
not sure what you mean by a heart rattle but you can use a saline spray for the nose and warm mist and guaifenesin
what bodily factors affect heart rate?
various factors influencing heart rate include body temperature blood volume and hemoglobin content thyroid status exercise status heart health metabolic status peripheral vascular resistance and other factors also
what is the outcome after someone survives a heart attack?
the outcome will depend on how much damage was done to the heart muscle during the heart attack. if the damage was minimal there may be no residual symptoms but if there is a lot of damage there may be shortness of breath with activity or at rest chest pain with activity fluid in the lungs or legs etc. cardiac rehabilitation can be very helpful after a heart attack so see your doctor!
what factors cause high heart rate?
many factors. normal - regular 60-100bpm. normally sinus node hr is 60-100; junctional 70-110; ventricular ~ 36 bpm. any abn focus can lead to irregular rhythms such as a. fib/flutter sinus tahcycardia ventricualr tachycardia to name a few. abnormal cardiac focus - afib; metabolic/endocrine - thyroid infections; ca; substance abuse; anxiety; congenital abn are some.
hr 55 ecg showed a quick beat after the previous beat and felt a flutter then back to 55. not pvc was normal wave formation?
could be a premature atrial contraction (a pac) or possibly a normal sinus beat in a sinus arrhythmia (a somewhat variable heart beat in an otherwise normal rhythm). neither of those is generally a concern but neither is typically symptomatic either. i would check in with your md or whoever did the ecg.
help plz! can severe hypoxia cause bradydysrhythmias more often than ventricular fibrillation and why?
severe hypoxia can manifest as extreme bradycardia which can degenerate into vf. many factors influence this including underlying heart disease electrolyte balance medications taken to name a few.
hi i have been experiencing some chest pressure (no pain) for the past two weeks. i'm 23 could this really be a sign of a heart attack?
given your age and conditions this could be gastroesophageal reflux disease. usually symptoms worsens when lying down particularly after a large late night meal. risk factors for men in particular are obesity tobacco use and alcohol consumption nsaid use as well as dietary factors such as the intake of caffeinated beverages. try antacids changing eating habits stopping ibuprofen weight loss
how can i lower heart pulse rate after weeks of spinal tap procedure?
the heart rate and the spinal tap procedure are unrelated. if you have a rapid heart rate then meditation relaxation techniques and biofeedback can help. cardiovascular exercise also helps to lower heart rate. see your medical doctor to evaluate the heart rate. in addition your medical doctor should provide you with the results of your cerebrospinal fluid studies from the lumbar puncture.
heart rate goes from 50 when sitting to 116 when standing up. then within 40 seconds my hr goes back to normal. recovery hr when excersising is 60/70?
when your heart rate goes up that high with standing you need to strongly consider dehydration. check your blood pressure sitting and standing as well to confirm. i would recommend drinking zero calorie gatorade nuun with water or any other electrolyte rich fluids. remember if you sweat (you loose salt). need salt replacement not just water!
i've been feeling chest pressure after eating mainly at night. could this be caused by my heartburn?
acid reflux and esophageal muscle contraction both trigger sensory nerves and produce chest discomfort. it can be exacerbated by eating and lying flat at night.
i have a ct w/ contrast later today. i'm nervous because i read a serious side effect of the contrast is cardiac arrest. should i refuse the contrast?
you are more likely to get in a car wreck on the way to the ct than have a fatal reaction to the dye. for actual stats see: <link> there are risks of allergy and concerns if patients have bad kidneys going into the test. general advice is to drink fluids afterwards to help flush the stuff out.
i'm in afib n atrial flutter. can i do some physical exercise? what is the best exercise for patient afib n atrial flutter like me? thank you
you must exercise; it is not harmful to your heart rhythm. but do it with moderate pace like a brisk walk for one to two miles daily(start slowly and build it up). avoid heavy duty weight lifting etc. good luck
i'm in afib n atrial flutter. can i do some physical exercise? what is the best exercise for patient afib n atrial flutter like me? thank you
you may exercise if it is not too vigorous. walking and lifting light weightlifting. no contact sports. kayaking is fine. jogging is fine. good luck! feel better!
i'm in afib n atrial flutter. can i do some physical exercise? what is the best exercise for patient afib n atrial flutter like me? thank you
exercising with atrial fibrillation: prescription for health american college of sports medicine <link> medscape. com/viewarticle/719110
i have prolactin level of 1300. can this cause anxiety/flushing? propananol was helping but now isn't working! tried increasing dose but didn't help
is very high. it is imperative you inform your primary doctor asap. . more tests are needed. best regards.
i'm not an athlete or considered 'fit' but my heart rate whilst sleeping goes as low as 43bpm is this normal?
do you take any pills to lower your heart rate? if this causes any symptoms? fluttering or palpitation? if you don't take any medications or does not cause any problems may be okay but its good to see a doctor if this persists.
i'm on nadolol and prozac (fluoxetine) and recently began peeing every 30 minutes. also drinking huge amount of h2o for pots. what are some causes to explore?
your polyuria is a direct result of polydipsia!
in the mornings i will cough till i am sick often. chest xrays appear clear. i passed a lung test after inhalers but asthma not confirmed. chest pains?
lots of possibilities including esophageal reflux allergies and inhalant reactions among others. see a lung specialist to work through them if primary care doc limited.
my resting heart rate is between 70-75 on lopressor (metoprolol tartrate) for afib but every time i wake up even from naps it is between 90-100. what could cause this?
atrial fibrillation/flutter gives irregular heart ratethat may have wide or narrow range. this rate can be altered with activity caffeine or other drug intake. there is also a daily increase in adrenaline just before awakening in morning. i don't know how this relates to naps. if symptoms other than awareness of heart rate occur (short of breath chest pain lightheaded) seek medical attentio.
my normal resting heart rate is around 60. why is it sometimes down at 52? once it was even 48. i am a non athlete.
heart rate is variable throughout the day your life and in many different situations. there is no such thing as a static normal heart rate. normal exists as a range depending on what activities you have engaged in. emotions physical activity and diet can influence your heart rate throughout the day.
my doctor says palpitations can be caused by hiatal hernias. are these harmful to an otherwise healthy heart?
palpitations can be caused by increased input from the vagus nerve or even exercise. while there is no direct connection or possibility to damage the heart form a hiatal hernia it could mimick exercise or straining that may influence palpitations. it's a bit of a stretch though.
my husband has the flu w/ vomiting and body aches. he had a heart attack 5 weeks ago and is experiencing some discomfort in his chest. is this typical?
him evaluated in the er if he is having similar symptoms.
my husband has the flu w/ vomiting and body aches. he had a heart attack 5 weeks ago and is experiencing some discomfort in his chest. is this typical?
no. please seek help from the closest er. he is at high risk due to the recent angioplasty he likely had few weeks ago.
my wife often wakeup at night complaining she can't breath. ecg and cxr are clear. it's often dark and always happen in closed room.
one of the common cause of waking up at night with complain of can not breath is gastroesophageal reflux dut to regurgitation of acid it may or may not be the cause but it is worth ruled outmay be your doctor will recommend a trial of acid supressant therapy discuss with your doctor it can also be sleep apnea and she may need sleep studies to rule that out.
my wife often wakeup at night complaining she can't breath. ecg and cxr are clear. it's often dark and always happen in closed room.
gastric-esophageal reflux disease sleep apnea or panic attacks in partnership with your physician please!
my heart is fluttering and my blood pressure and heart rate are elevated i have taken 2 baby aspirin with no relief this is very uncomfortable?
you should go to the closest er for evaluation or call 911 to have emergency medical service come to you!
my heart is fluttering and my blood pressure and heart rate are elevated i have taken 2 baby aspirin with no relief this is very uncomfortable?
would suggest being seen asap. the best place for such evaluation may be the nearest emergency room.
what is the impact of heart rate variablity due to mental & social influences?
the heart rate is variable throughout different ages activities mental physical ambiental circumstances. only when heart rate variability is extremely exaggerated it could bring some problems. if you do not have symptoms: please do not waste any time or effort measuring your heart rate
what is done for teens with neurocardiogenic syncope?
neurocardiogenic syncope can be treated with medications such a nadolol florinef (fludrocortisone) midodrin. in addition avoiding caffeine alcohol drinking plenty of fluids can help. compression stockings may help as well. hot environments should be avoided as symptoms can be worsened.
what do the hormones aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide do?
hi. aldosterone (aldo) tends to promote sodium reabsorption (retention) and potassium excretion by the kidney tubule. anp as the name implies tends to promote urinary sodium excretion and is somewhat regulated by how much sodium (i. e. salt) is in the diet. we use an aldo analog fludrocortisone clinically for people who can't make aldo.
what is a normal heart rate when active. i mean like cooking n cleaning. my resting heart rate is 77bpm. was 85 bpm when i was cooking. ?
minor fluctuation of 10 beats per minute with everyday activities of daily living are normal. stay well best wishes.
why do i have a high pulse rate? is it dangerous?
depends on the reason for an increased heart rate. increased heart rate can be a normal response to heart rate >100 -> sinus tachycardia - other possibilities are arrythmias like atrial flutter/atrial fibrillation/ and supraventricular tachycardias an ekg will be very useful in this case. depending on ekg results and symptoms holter might also help. infection can also cause increased heart rate
why do i have palpitation after an abortion. my doctor said everything is ok. will the palpitating go away if i have my period?
the palpitations may be occurring because of some blood loss and fluid shifts after an abortion. hormonal changes as well as the effect of the stress on the body can also contribute to palpitations. keep well hydrated and get some rest. if they persist for more than a couple of days you should consider getting further medical evaluation.
heaviness in my chest feels like someone is sitting there had an ekg done nothing was found could it be anxiety? or what can it be?
many things cause chest pain including anxiety. other non-heart related causes include acid reflux asthma lung infections muscular pain blood clots. discuss your ekg with your doctor. knowing more about the type of pain -how long it lasts what makes it worse or better-is helpful so your doctor can help figure out why you have the symptoms and what can be done about it.
had ekg and ecg and chest xray yesterday said my heart looked perfect im 23 left side chest pain that sometimes goes to back shoulder comes andgoes?
heartburn or gastroesophageal reflux is the most common causse of chest pain often mimicikng cardiac pain. you should have gi workup having excuded cardicac etiology. i noted you are on aciphex (rabeprazole). sometimes if refux persists without relief other issues such as gastritis slow stomach emptying may contribute. musculoskeletal issues are sometime to blame with inflammation or trauma.
havin chest pain in center of chest down right arm and up side of neck i had a heart attack before but not the same symptoms. heart rate irregular.
while there are several things that can cause your symptoms e. g. gastroesophageal reflux peptic ulcer pancreatitis pleurisy the one that is most seriously urgent and potentially life threatening is pain of heart origin. with an irregular heart rate you should head to the nearest emergency room for ekg blood work and examination. do this now.
how u know when you are having a heart attack. i m 28 and worried. had the holter blood work ekg echo was fine but had a lot of sharp pain mid chest?
you have had a pretty thorough cardiac work up for someone your age. heart attacks although possible are not typically seen at your age unless there are some genetic or other medical issues present. heart attacks also typically aren't sharp pains they are classically described as crushing with an inability to catch ones breath. time to look for other things reflux anxiety etc.
heart rate of 120 two hours after intense cardio. i rarely do cardio so is this normal?
not two hours later. make sure blood sugar is not low. also some agents used to treat nasal congestion can cause tachycardia (rapid heart rate). desloratdine (aerius) is a metabolite of loratadine. avamys is fluticasone (a steroid) these two brand names suggest you live in australia or canada. see your doctor right away if you still have a rapid heart rate.
heart rate of 120 two hours after intense cardio. i rarely do cardio so is this normal?
possible inappropiate sinus tachycardia in association with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but may cause anxiety about symptoms. see doctor to be checked and to consider ultra low dose beta-blocker drugs. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium & omega fish oil supplements.
had ekg stress echo xray and all normal. still having a lot of mild shortness of breath and heart racing. especially after eating. ?
it is possible you are having reflux and the reflux is causing bronchospasm. the bronchospasm then causes your symptoms. treatment would include aggressive treatment of reflux and possibly a bronchodilator inhaler. see your doctor so this can be diagnosed and treated!
had virtually every diagnostic test- all negative. still have constant palpitations spasms in heart cough heart fluttering chest pain. what is it?
these significant symptoms require a person to person evaluation examination by a doctor and a variety of testing. a cardiologist is who you need to consult with. if you have already seen one then i would recommend a second opinion by another one.
having dry cough and chest tightess mostly with movement i have esophagitis can this cause this problem? had ekg last week it was ok
if the esophagitis is due to reflux of acid from the stomach it is quite likely to be associated with both chest pain and a persistent cough. it merits a careful assessment to confirm this and is readily treatable with anti-acid medications such as the proton pump inhibitors and the local tissue-coating medication carafate (sucralfate).
had lunch suddently little pain in chest gas got form in stomach. feling so uneasy and heart rate increse to 110. went to bathrum got relief slowly. why?
you could have reflux disease which would explain the gas and pain after eating. at your age you could likely have irritable bowel syndrome especially with the increased heart rate and relief with bowel movement. you should see your pcp for further evaluation.
is one dose of diflucan safe if i'm on a beta blocker xyzal (levocetirizine) zantac and suffer from palpitations? 42 vaginal yeast infcn otc cream not working.
a single tablet is usually very effective for vaginal yeast. sometimes the diagnosis is wrong. then the result is disappointing.
i've been dehydrated increased urination and feel way too hot since starting beta blockers. can't retain any fluids and will get faint if not guzzling water/gatorade. what does this sound like?
theoretically speaking beta blockers by inhibiting sympathetic functions could cause unopposed parasympathetic functions. talk to your doctor about a trial of stopping it a few days to see if symptoms resolve. however maybe you have another problem unrelated to beta blocker. have you been checked for diabetes?
in a 60 second period i skip 11 heart beats. is this a problem.
your heartbeat is meant to be regular but there are many things that make it feel like it is missing skipping or fluttering. most are benign but it is reasonable to see your gp and get an ecg to diagnose the problem if one actually exists.
i have acid reflux and am now sick with cold/sinus infection. i blew my nose and almost fainted. what's wrong with me?
coughing or sneezing can cause a vaso vagal response which can cause passing out. for specific diagnosis or treatment see a doctor in person
in a pots flare & having a lot of gi issues extremely lightheaded. bp in 80s/40s despite fluids &salt. missed 2 days of work. any other tips?
are your gi issues causing nausea and vomiting which might lead to dehydration worsening your condition? if so need to rehydrate. if not need to see dr. treating your condition as your treatment needs adjustment. best of luck with this.
is it risky to be on 0. 05 mg florinef (fludrocortisone) ever other day for pots? i struggle with when off it. concern for bones thinning skin adrenal suppression
b"sd florinef (fludrocortisone) is the only aldosterone like agent available. to my knowledge unlike corticosteroids it does not suppress the pituitary adrenal axis or cause thinning of the skin. if anything it should decrease renal calcium excretion and possibly decrease bone loss. the main concerns; 1. hypokalemia 2. hypertension especially when supine. glad to discuss further
i recently feel my heart rate very fast but when i check my pulse is always between 50-55. i feel my muscle and heart is flutter and shaking. why?
can be because of variety of reasons including caffeine and anxiety. would recommend a holter monitor if still ongoing
i have cough with yellow thick pleghm voice horsening and chest pain but no fever. my nose are congested at night no flu. should i start antibiotiocs?
this certainly sounds more like a viral infection which is not helped with antibiotics. if you worsen or develop a fever then you can reconsider.
my heart rate's been fluctuating quickly 80-170bpm for a week. ekg and labs normal mitral valve prolapse on echo. burning in inner ears today. ideas?
it you have supraventricular tachycardia diagnosed cilnically or on holter monitor there are a variety of ways to approach it -- i used to have it (and mild prolapse on echo) and found that simply staying in really good aerobic shape worked better than meds as the textbooks confirm. this is one for a good general physician or a caridologist.
my heart rate's been fluctuating quickly 80-170bpm for a week. ekg and labs normal mitral valve prolapse on echo. burning in inner ears today. ideas?
you almost certainly have rhythm problems probably atrial arrhythmias. you will need to see a cardiologist and have holter monitoring which is usually attaching a recorder to you and storing all the rhythms for analysis later.
my breath catches and heart flutters at times esp when i take a deep breath. ekg stress test normal. echo showed "normal" murmer. what could it be?
there is no normal murmur to my knowledge at the age of 32 yrs unless you are pregnant. also it might be panic disorder but i would do 24 hr holter monitor thyroid tests if i were your physician to rule out other causes. you should see a physician for your symptoms.
wheeze upper chest cough non specific changed t waves on ecg normal bp and oxygen help?
this is most likely a pulmonary issue possibly asthma or an upper resp infection (viral vs bacterial but unless fevers and chills - probably viral). the nonspecific t wave changes are just that and likely unrelated to this acute episode unless you have other chf symptoms (fluid overload decreased energy level etc)
why might my pulse reading spike so high?
many options 1) regular response white coat syndrome 2) too much caffeine or other stimulants 3) arrythmias like atrial fibrillation or flutter 4) nervous or stressful situation
what is anxiety? i'm 18 and have been experiencing a feeling of impending doom when it comes to my health. fluttering heartbeat sweats numbness
the symptoms you are experiencing are symptoms of anxiety. see your physician
why would i have short of breath and chest pain with flu virus. normal chest x-ray and ecg in emergency. not much coughing.
i take it you are a healthy female. if your bloodworm and xray is normal you will probably recover soon. if not you need to see another doctor suggest pulmonologist.
hi doc! im doing low blood pressure with heart palpitation at rest if i bend over or stand up feel like passing out feel tired all the time what to do?
i think a doctor can help you! first try increasing your salt comsumption and fluid intake. if that not sufficient then a visit to an internist to evaluate for orthostatic hypotension vasovagal syncope hypothyroidism and adrenal insufficiency would be next step. good luck!
heart flutter right after sneezing and then chest pain. i also have irregular heart beat and rapid heart beat followed by passing out time to time?
irregular heart beat with chest pain and syncope(passing out) i strongly recommend you have an evaluation by a cardiologist for your symptoms. if symptoms are prolonged or worsen go to your local er for an evaluation immediately.
hello are heart flutters during very strenuous exercise dangerous? i've been checked out by a cardio but no stress test before. thx
feeling your heart beat fast during exercise is normal but the term "flutters" would imply some abnormality. a stress echocardiogram will help clear up what's going on with your heart during exercise and could be helpful if you're embarking on an intensive exercise program.
hello are heart flutters during very strenuous exercise dangerous? i've been checked out by a cardio but no stress test before. thx
possibly. this requires monitoring keep a diary. perhaps a holter monitor will be valuable. a stress test may help too although you are young. avoid caffeine and energy drinks.
hi! can exercise cause heart flutters (pvcs)? i've had echo ekgs holter event but no stress test. cardio cleared me. what is this? thx
pvcs can occur at any time. they do not necessarily occur due to exercise. they are more interesting when they occur very very frequently especially after someone has had a heart attack. your normal testing indicates you are in good shape! <link>
heart flutters (pvcs) during exercise; had multiple ekgs echo holter event and physical by cardio who cleared me. are these benign? thank you docs
in the absence of any heart problem those pvcs are benign
how likely is 75mg of venlafaxine instance release to cause cardiac problems like heart attack. i've been on it for 4 days and getting palpitations.
venlafaxine causes cardiac problems like heart attack by causing severe hypertension. bp should be checked regularly. this drug is used to treat depression personality disorder social anxiety disorder bipolar. other drugs like flupentixol yasmin (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) have same effect in a non smoker. it may cause palpitation.
heart rate fluctating every few mins from 55- 130. patient 90 years old. please comment?
this is quite possibly atrial fibrillation but could be a variety of other heart conduction problems and should be checked out by your primary physician or cardiologist if you have one as soon as you can.
heart rate fluctating every few mins from 55- 130. patient 90 years old. please comment?
as we age the electrical system in our heart get tired and can take "time-outs" so to speak. variable heart rate like yours at your age is most likely due to this. you need to see a cardiologist as soon as possible; eliminate any medication that may be aggravating situation do a holter monitor to document your rhythm and then a pacemaker ought to be considered. if you have passed out then er
how can you tell difference on ekg of a resting heart rate of 160 is svt or just sinus tach?
first: resting hr is never 160. if hr is 160 at rest it's svt. second: w carotid massage or valsalva: sinus slows svt breaks or blocks down. third: iv adenosine: same as #2. narrow complex tach of 160 maybe svt or atrial flutter.
hi i think i might have gastroenteritis. i've been nauseous all day mi joints and muscles hurt i have fever my stomach hurts. i want to feel bette?
you may well be right about having gastroenteritis. unfortunately we have no cure for this. it's an illness your body must take care of. all you can do is listen to your body and take your cues from it. if tired sleep. if nauseous go bland diet or just sips of fluids. usually lasts a couple of days. if then not getting better or sooner if bad symptoms like persistent vomiting see doc.
i'm a 31 year old female my resting hr is anywhere from 84-94. sometimes i feel flutters. what could this be? is exercise okay to get into shape?
indicates the need to see our doc and perhaps a cardiologist. he's he will diagnose and treat if needed. peace and good health.
i have a really bad cough every morning i cough up a bunch of yellow/green flem my chest hurts and my throat hurts. no fever. what could this be?
hello your symptoms could be due to a variety of causes. much depends on the details you can provide such as duration severity aggravating/alleviating factors. your symptoms could be due to a cold sinus infection allergy acid reflux tonsillitis etc. if your symptoms persist beyond 5-7 days see your doctor so they can prescribe appropriate treatment.
i usually experience vaso vagal reaction after having blood drawn. my latest reaction was flu-like symptoms. should i do more research into this?
such a reaction is not uncommon and is not a disease. next time you need to have blood drawn tell the person drawing blood that you tend to faint. after having your blood drawn rest in the chair for 5-10 minutes. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains low fat milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex.
i had a bit of a headache earlier from crying that lingered throughout the day. but later as i went to have warm bath soak i got a bit lightheaded getting out and now an hour later i still feel disoriented and a bit dizzy. my hr when out was 160.
since you already take triptan u must have chronic recurrent headaches. the warm bath could cause vasodilitation then tachycardia with resulting disorientation&dizzy d/t diversion of blood to skin away from brain. drink fluids. rest with feet elevated. tylenol (acetaminophen) for ha. if this persists for more than one hour then see your doctor
i'm almost 7 weeks pregnant and my resting hr is going back down after climbing from 55 to 71. now it's back down to 63? normal?
do not worry best wishes. heart rate can fluctuate due to so many reasons as long you are doing well with no other symptoms do not dwell on this. best wishes
i'm almost 7 weeks pregnant and my resting hr is going back down after climbing from 55 to 71. now it's back down to 63? normal?
resting heart rates during pregnancy can change due to the expanding volume of blood and fluids that need to be moved through the system(you) at any given time.
increasing fatigue and flu symptoms week before period. last month i felt nausea and fainted while working. i am not able to afford this pms "illness"?
i understand your distress feeling overwhelmed and frustration. these symptoms are likely due to premenstrual dysphoric disorder (pmdd). fainting may be due to emotional stress pain dehydration heavy sweating exhaustion or other medical problem. avoid caffeine alcohol and smoking see your gynecologist and psychiatrist for diagnosis medication. therapy breathing relaxation meditation.
i have very bad watery diarrhoea and an extremely sore throat. i have been getting back and chest pains along with a cough also. what could this be?
sounds like you may have the flu or an intestinal infection. make sure you stay hydrated. if you can't you will need to go to the hospital. hope this helps!
i have two siblings with pots & ehlers-danlos ages 12 & 16. we have tried beta blockers fludrocortisone midodrine and zoloft (sertraline). suggestions?
here's a quick read review on the subject: <link> ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pmc/articles/pmc3390096/ i've recommended compression stockings as well although those aren't mentioned in the review.
it's troubling breathing through my mouth and i feel stomach palpitations is it acid reflux? how can i fix this?
particularly consistent with gerd and may not even be due to the same condition. you sound appropriately concerned so please check with your provider for advice based on directed questioning and physical examination.
my 5yr old keeps telling me his heart hurts and hes had an ekg and xray both normal and hes still telln me it hurts please help me someone?
common causes of this complaint at this age are muscle pain of the chest muscles due to a strin or bruise. also acid reflux disease (gerd) causes pain in the chest. muscle pain may hurt when pressing the chest. reflux may include dietary association burping spitting and more hiccupping. ask your doctor.
my heart rate has been really fast for the past few days. i'm not doing any greuling activities either. what could this be?
you may be in an abnormal heart rhythm that requires treatment. supraventricular tachycardia atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter are often the culprit for an on-going rapid heart rate.
male 22. i have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. heart rate goes to 100 when i stand. will regular excercise bring it down at all?
there is a long list of therapies and medications used in pots partly because no single approach has been found to work in all patients but one important component of treatment is regular exercise to improve cardiovascular conditioning. that combined with increased fluid and salt intake as well as medications as determined by your md will be your best bet to improve your symptoms.
my mom is 72 years old she has diabetes congestive heart failure her ekg came back with fluid and heart enlarged. how should we proceed?
she needs to be evaluated completely by a cardiologist with an echocardiogram as the first step and laboratory data and exam. depending upon the results of the above one can proceed with appropriate medical therapy.
my postural orthosatic tachycardia syndrome is acting up. my pulse jumps 50 bpm upon standing and my bp is staying low. is this dangerous or just pots?
sounds potentially consistent with pots a relatively difficult diagnosis which you apparently carry. make sure there is no simple factor making your symptoms worse--are you drinking enough fluid? eating enough salt? avoiding skipping meals? coming down with a viral illness? if the symptoms are persistently worse and not responding to better fluid and salt intake you should probably see your pcp.
my resting heart rate is 110 bpm/i was drinking too much last night is my situation so bad? and is this related to drinking? !
because you are binge drinking excessive alcohol causes dehydration and is poisonous to your body. it is bad all around please stop doing it. drink plenty of fluids and if you have vomiting abdominal pain or yellowing of the eyes seek help right away. please read this <link>
my doctor put me on 75mcg of levothyroxine 4 days ago for hypothyroidism. is occasional heart flutters normal? should i worry?
you should go back to ur doc and get an ekg done. also ur dose may be too high to start with. maybe ur doc could cut back the dose and move up in dose by 12. 5 mg gradually every few months and regularly checking ur tsh. titrating is a slow process.
mild heart pain on & off for 4 hrs. bp 97/62. normal ecg one month back. 33 years female. had same pain when i was pregnant on 2010. got better soon. help!
any chest pain is worth checking out. . there are many causes for chest pain. reflux heart attack inflammation rashes . impossible to say the cause without an exam but best to check it out with your doc!
my brother was diagnosed with arrhythmia. how many types of arrhythmia s exist?
there are many arrhythmias or dysrrhythmias. paroxysmal svt atrial fibrillation atrial flutter v-tech v-fibrillation wolff-parkinson's-white syndrome sick-sinus-syndrome. some are serious and some not. please see <link> thanks.
male 22 have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. resting hr 50. need midodrine but hr will go lower. pacemaker?
drink lots of fluids increase salt intake (do both at once with gatoraide. considering your age hang in there it may decrease in a few years especially if it started with your growth spurt. i doubt your resting hr is an issue. carefully starting an excercize program may also help i suggest starting with an indoor recumbent exercycle proamatine is a good choice beta blockers or ssris may help.
my heart rate is still fast in the 90's after my mitral valve repair is this normal. will it get slower after some time only been three weeks.
a hole had to be cut into your atrium repair the valve. it is not unusual to develop an arrhythmia known as scar flutter where the cardiac electrical activity travels around and around the scar in a circle. this can be quite subtle and difficult to diagnose. it really requires an ekg but an indication you may have this is a heart rate that doesn't vary. it just stays at a given rate all the time.
my cardiologist thinks my atrial flutter is due to a severe anxiety disorder. if the anxiety gets controlled can the atrial flutter go away?
atrial flutter is due to an abnormal electrical pathway. it may be triggered by anxiety if the anxiety make you have extra early beats (palpitations) which may trigger the rhythm problem. otherwise atrial flutter may resolve on its own (but may return) may be controlled by medications or may need a procedure called an ablation to cure.
my cardiologist prescribed a med for atrial flutter but not blood thinners. he said my echo is perfectly normal. should i be on blood thinners anyway?
anticoagulation (blood thinner) is prescribed to prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation and flutter. need for such treatment depends on risk vs. benefit. patients with diabetes hypertension prior stoke or tia congestive heart failure vascular disease and older would be at higher risk. if your doctor did not recommend anticoagulation for you it is possibly due to your risk profile.
moderate/severe chest pain on/off since 3pm its now 3 am heart fluttering at random i drank heavily last night could this. be anxiety or a-fib?
things including a heart arrhythmia and even a heart attack or a anxiety attack. go to emergency room asap. talk to your parents friends or 911 if alone.
what can cause an atrial flutter?
in general atrial flutter is often seen in the setting of an enlarged atrium (which in turn is a result of an enlarged left ventricle) or it could be because of underlying congenital heart disease or it could just happen without any real well known understanding of exactly why.
have the occasional etopic heartbeat maybe once a day normally at night seconds before feels as tho breathe taken away then thud is this normal?
occasional ectopic heart beats are common. but the fact that you have additional symptoms of shortness of breath is significant. so stop any caffeine tobacco alcohol over-the-counter diet products and cold and flu medicines and get evaluated. you may be given a portable heart monitor for 24 hours (holter monitor) and be required to keep a symptom diary at the same time. hope that helps.
heart has been fluttering off and on since last night. what could be going on? should i be concerned?
history is needed: is this the 1st time has youuuuuuuur diet changed any alcohol any new over-the-counter meds any prescritption meds. .? hrs md facc www. thepmc. org
heart flutters when lie down the past few dys. also had dizzyness 4 over a month when lying down. ear pain off/on 4 a yr. i dont smoke drink drugs.
the ear pain and dizziness when lying down may be related - you may have otitis/labyrinthitis and you should see your primary care doctor or an ent for that. palpitations are present is everyone sometimes and are more apt to be noticed when lying down esp in a quiet place without distractions. they are present in normal hearts but if you're bothered cardiac evaluation is not unreasonable.
having cold sore throat and rapid heart rate since 2 days along with fatigue. is rapid heart rate a cause of worry?
hi. usually that's due to some degree of dehydration. do you have a fever? it could be bacterial and not viral although viral is certainly more likely. if bacterial you may need antibiotics. in any even drink plenty of fluids. good luck!
how can i distinguish between a heart attack and acid reflux?
not sure if you're asking the cause of the chest pain. if that's the case a thorough history and physical examination by your primary physician can typically narrow down the possibilities. i don't see an age on your profile so its' difficult to tell how concerned. basically if you're concerned don't risk it. if you feel it might be a heart attack or something else dangerous call 911.
husband's ecg showed st depression but no blockadge shown in ct followed by normal ecg. what may be the cause?
ask for a clear explanation - but this sounds good. the lack of blockage and 2nd normal ekg is good. the 1st reading can be a sign of reversible myocardial ischemia often caused by insufficient blood to the heart muscle. but in this case it may have been a normal fluctuation. that's why they did it again. ask understand trust live healthily and relax. best to you both!
hi docs! i have 5 yrs hbp & now my blood pressure fluctuates a lot. is a digital wrist blood pressure monitor & heart beat meter ok to monitor my bp?
the wrist monitors can sometimes fluctuate quite a bit. if possible check it against your doctor's meter for accuracy and consistency. if you develop symptoms associated with blood pressure that is too high or too low see your doctor for medication adjustment.
hi docs! i have 5 yrs hbp & now my blood pressure fluctuates a lot. is a digital wrist blood pressure monitor & heart beat meter ok to monitor my bp?
it is best to use an arm cuff blood pressure automated monitor for the best accuracy but the wrist monitor may give an estimate. compare its reading with an accurate pharmacy blood pressure machine or manual cuff pressure measured by a health care worker. calibration for under or overestimation this way may help.
how would atrial flutter or fib feel different to normal sinus tach or psvt? are there telltale symptoms or must need to be caught on ecg to tell?
variable symptoms can be none to an awareness of palpitations or a general sense of being unwell-a wide range exists;diagnosis can often be made on exam;certainty requires an ecg
heart fluttering is it something serious?
heart fluttering can be from a variety of causes but most commonly from anxiety or psvt. psvt can be treated by putting your face in ice water or bearing down more seriously it can be from underlying heart conditions or even from side effects of medications it is best to have it evaluated by your doctor.
hi my testcles under my penis their giving mi pain almost three months now so wants the problem.
testicle pain or scrotum pain has many causes. hernia hydrocoele (fluid from the abdomen going into the scrotum) infection/inflammation (epidymitis orchitis) etc. you should see your doctor for an exam. it may be obvious on exam or you may need further testing such as an ultrasound.
had a pacemaker upgrade and atrial lead revision a couple of days ago pain in shoulder now and weird fluttering sensation don't know if this is normal?
would call doctor who did you procedure you may need a device check to make sure lead device incision and heart rhythm are ok
i am roughly 5 weeks pregnant and have started having chest pain! is this normal?
but not totally unusual. often times it is due to anxiety and reflux. chest pain due to cardiac and pulmonary reasons can also happen but rare. hopefully your past medical history is negative keep your ob informed. best wishes
i have acute bronchitis. i was prescribed the 5 day z-pac. may i take the 3 day dosing instead?
you can take the 3 day dosage but you need to take the correct dose of the medicine. if you have the five day dose it is wise to take it as prescribed. however to take 500 mg for 3 days is also effective but probably would be wise also to check it out with the prescriber of your medicine. drink lots of fluids and steam yourself is also good. i hope you find this helpful.
i looked back at health records from three months ago and saw on an eeg i had "atrial flutter with 4:1 av conduction" i was never told! what is this?
an ecg or ekg ( eeg is a brainwave! ) the presence of flutter with 4 to 1 conduction is a benign arrythmia however i do think yoy ahould ask for more details about it and it should not be ignored! was it temporary? usually it is but this should be "followed up" hope this helps! dr z
i exercise and run about 9-10pm and by 11:30pm im in bed and then i get heart flutters and palpitations. only on days i exercise usually and its after?
strenuous or excessive exercise can put a strain on the heart may cause heart flutters and palpitations. let wise man within you reflect: •need to do strenuous or excessive exercise •need to feel good about your muscles and appearance •need to impress others •stress in your life •breathing and music relaxation •visual imagery •to see physician •to see a therapist for coping skills for stress.
i exercise and run about 9-10pm and by 11:30pm im in bed and then i get heart flutters and palpitations. only on days i exercise usually and its after?
i would recommend you be seen and evaluated. although it is not common there are many cases of even high level athletes that have had congenital cardiac conditions that became progressively symptomatic with exercise. you need a thorough cardiac evaluation.
i have been experiencing a chocking feeling in the neck and a heavy feeling in the chest along with headaches and other symptoms. what could this be?
you do not give enough information to give a formal diagnosis but a lump in the throat sensation is referred to as globus sensation. this can be caused by stress or anxiety but a more formal h & p needs to be done to rule out other causes which may include inflammation of the throat from sinus drainage or ge reflux dysfuntion of the muscles in the esophagus etc. make an appt with your doctor
i did laughing gas and drank a lot of alcohol! the day after my heart rate felt really high i was out of breath & had hot and cold flushes & got acold?
it's not a good idea to drink "a lot of alcohol" which certainly didn't help you to feel good. on top of that it sounds like your symptoms were probably related to catching a cold. feel better. if symptoms continue see a physician.
i did laughing gas and drank a lot of alcohol! the day after my heart rate felt really high i was out of breath & had hot and cold flushes & got acold?
laughing gas nitrous oxide is removed from you system very quickly usually 10 to 15 minutes after you stop inhaling it. you were probably coming down with a cold prior to that. did you use the laughing gas during a medical or dental procedure? if not you are lucky something else didn't happen.
i ate flaxseed months ago and had heart palpitations. now today i ate chia seeds in a recipe and now having heart flutters again. do these cause this?
i've never heard of either flax or chia seeds causing heart palpitations. this could be a coincidence (just because you eat something and then get a symptom does not mean that was the cause of the symptom). it is possible you are allergic to flax and chia seeds as palpitations can be caused by food allergies. try these again (separately). if every time you eat them you get palpitations then avoid.
if i have a slower than normal baseline heart rate (50s) is it safe for me to be taking an antidepressant like prozac (fluoxetine)? or is qt prolongation a risk?
qt prolongation has not been causally linked to prozac (fluoxetine) use. it is safe to use.
if i have a slower than normal baseline heart rate (50s) is it safe for me to be taking an antidepressant like prozac (fluoxetine)? or is qt prolongation a risk?
need to find out why you are depressed first and why your heart rate is slow
i used to drink bottled tea everyday before & i experienced heart palpitations is it true that drinking bottled processed tea cause palpitations?
is outside. reality: power control of all body functions overwhelmingly within. like all living creatures this must be the case in order to survive; termed homeostasis. control of heart like rest of body from brain many many interactive control cycles per second. thus mental issues are dominant though some outside influences can interact. no precise way to know/answer; what research is about.
my heart rate is very volatile. without a beta blocker at rest it can get up to 150+ but with meds it stays at 50 & at night slips to 40. is this ok?
i am concerned about your heart rate fluctuating so much. at your age the heart is supposed to be healthy and beat between 60-90 times per minute. the doctor who gave you a beta blocker needs to explain to you why he/she placed you on a beta blocker in the first place. intense anxiety can cause heart rate to go high especially if you have panic attacks. you need a psychologist/counseler to help y.
my symptoms are: rapid heart beat slow heart beat fluttering in my chest feeling my heart beat pain in my chest lightheaded and dizziness. ?
the symptoms you are describing can be dangerous please see your doctor asap or go to the emergency department.
my heart fluttering randomly i get worried it got wrost when i was on a plane it was to many people help me im really scared that its something wrong?
palpitations are an awareness of extra heartbeats which most of us have. the sensation can be single or multiple and can sometimes last minutes. different people may feel other symptoms along with them such as dizzy lightheaded or short of breath. the palpitations are almost always atrial or ventricular premature beats. usually benign but they are also found with abnormal hearts.
my husband had the body trembling headaches arrhythmia and lost sleep. your coloesterol is 246. he may have a heart attack?
heart attacks may manifest in different symptoms. at times it is silent (no symptoms). or it's only heart racing sensation. typically though it is more than that. chest pain (i am not talking about a discomfort but crushing agonizing pain) sometimes upper stomach pain shortness of breath etc. the symptoms you are describing sound more like he may have had a mild flu. see your dr if persists.
mom in law has pacemaker docs took 800 cc of fluid out her body the right side of her heart and atries to her heart is damaged wore out will she be ok?
in general right heart failure can be difficult to treat. her treating physicians who have seen her test results and examined her can give you a better answer about prognosis.
my heart flutters alot i don't have any other systoms it just scares me sometimes it feels like gas. what could be goimg on?
very likely you are feeling some irregularity in your heart's rhythm. it is not indicative of a disease. normal hearts beat >100 000 times a day and there are always some beats out of rhythm. stress fatigue stimulants (like nicotine or caffeine) can make it worse. if it continues to be bothersome check with your doctor. most often it subsides on its own after a few days.
where do you feel heart fluttering? can gas cause fluttering in the heart area? mine are right in the middle of my chest
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
what can cause rapid heart rate (up to 174 bpm) severe headache rapid breathing adrenaline rush to occur multiple times a night every night.
all these symptoms are a warning that are telling you to be seen when we lie down fluid changes in our system can trigger underlying heart disease and trigger some of your symptoms and could also be an endocrine (gland and hormone) problem so please get to your doctor and get this evaluated right away!
what are some proven ways to fight esophageal spasms? those things hurt worse than a heart attack and can be quite frequent at times.
painful! you really need to see a gastrointestinal doctor. he may want to take a look at your esophagus and take a biopsy. many factors make it worse - gerd allergies to foods spicy foods smoking and hot drinks. help would be acid reflux meds diet change chewing food better and drinking more water with meals and sleeping with the head elevated. see your doctor!
wheezy chest heart rate is fast. every time she coughs she vomits. can't stand for too long what shall i do?
take her to a physician asap urgent care or er. she may have asthma pertussis heart failure pneumonia. time to get an exam and xray. keep her hydrated with fluids. vomiting losses need extra fluids to make up for them. in the er iv fluids can be given and at least anti-emetics to ease the nausea and vomiting and anti-tussives to ease the coughing.
heart palpitations and diahhrea. i have a heart murmur but i seen the heart doc not to long ago and everything was ok. i did have low potassium level.
your potassium must be restored to normal before anything else. additionally your rbc magnesium level needs to be checked and also followed as the magnesium level affects potassium level and both can precipitate arrythmias. the diarrhea probably caused the initially low potassium. make sure you don't have an infection. meantime rehydrate with an electrolyte drink to restore fluid and minerals.
how much propranolol (base on mg) can cause an adult (young) guy to lose his balance and fall over (considering he takes citalopram 20 every day)?
medication response is very individual. if you notice you're feeling light headed upon arising from bed or after lying down a while this might be addressed by simply waiting a bit before leaping out of bed in the morning. fluid intake can help. if you're a little dehydrated the propranolol effect can be magnified. you could discuss splitting the pill to only take 5mg 1-2 times a day.
had ecg chest x-ray tropin levels dimer all neg am i ok?
if you were having chest pain and had normal results you probably at your age have no cardiac issue you still could have heart burn gastritis reflux gallbladder issues etc. which could be causing pain if you have continued pain go and be seen again for another evaluation
heart rate around 150-160 while standing and feeling really dizzy. been having chest pain but all my heart test come back normal what could this be?
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter wpw and more. see cardiology and get holter monitor to discriminate the rhythm.
i was prescribed 10mg of elavil for anxiety. prozac (fluoxetine) gave me palpitations &zoloft made me depressed. i'm so scared of side effects! should i try this?
i understand you feeling scared of side effects of medication due to unpleasant experiences with 3 medications. discuss with psychiatrist: • intensity of symptoms at that time • diagnosis-anxiety depression or both • therapy for stresses of relationships separations school work and finances • develop coping skills • breathing relaxation • visual imagery • meditation • yoga • tai chi
i have paroxysmal afib - is it ok to take fluconazole to treat fungal/yeast issue? i know fluconazole can impact rhythm.
fluconazole does unfortunately have pro arrhythmic properties and thus can cause you to have an episode of atrial fib or worse a ventricular arrhythmia therefore i would be cautious about this drug - now if you are using it topically you might be safe since a minimal amount is absorbed but an oral form - i would avoid or at best take the lowest dose for the shortest time.
i m short of breath with minimum exertion. cbc ecg spirometry xray all normal. b12 a lil low and hv acid reflux. previous smoker bt quit a year ago.
if you have most problem in getting air in and the shortness of breath starts in less than 10 minutes after exercise vocal cord dysfunction (in which the throat closes up during breathing instead of opening up) needs be considered. an ent evaluation may be helpful. absent that i would recommend an exercise tolerance test to find out the cause.
i went to er for chest pain racing heart dizzy. ekg / troponin / chest xray negative heart attack. still hurts 5 days later. possibly still heart?
still possible. pericarditis is common at your age. but non-cardiac chest pain is more common. ie: esophageal reflux musculoskeletal pain gas pain etc
i am tired all the time major heart burn flutter feeling in chest pain in upper right abdomen pain in chest elevated liver enzymes. negative hepa?
"hepatitis" means inflammation of liver--due to viral infection (cytomegalovirus epstein-barr virus a b c d etc) familial diseases (hemochromatosis wilson's alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency etc) infiltrative disease (steatohepatitis from fatty liver granulomatous hepatitis foreign body reaction) toxic (alcoholic tylenol) ischemic congestive pregnancy-related etc. cause determines
i have chf. i had a massive heart attack in 2014. will the chf go away or will i always have it? like have flare ups with it?
chf is heart failure when a heart attack destroys heart muscle. in a large heart attack your hearts ability to pump blood is reduced hence heart failure. this causes fluid to build up in your lungs/legs etc. medications help and some heart function recovers over time but generally this is a stable to worsening problem. avoid salt eat healthy restrict your fluids and exercise and take meds.
i got a holter test done came back that my heart was adding beats and i feel my heart beating on my back when laying down and i can see my pulse on top of my wrist is this dangerous?
it all depends on what the holter says. did your symptoms (back heart beat and wrist pulse) correlate with an abnormal rhythm on the holter? (hopefully you kept a symptom. diary when wearing the holter) if the underlying rhythm i'd dangerous (vtach or other) then a cardiologist consult is needed. if the underlying rhythm is aberrant it could still be benign (atrial tach or atrial flutter). ttyd.
is it normal to have tachycardia while standing and bradycardia once i lie down?
doctors & nurses check vital signs (blood pressure & heart rate) in lying sitting & standing (orthostatic) positions to assess if whether a patient's blood volume is decreased eg. from dehydration or from bleeding. other factors can also influence the orthostatic response including normal and abnormal ("pots") reflexes. for help with your own situation get a cardiology consult on healthtap.
is it safe to be taking 10mg of prozac (fluoxetine) (once daily) with 100mg of modafinil (once daily as needed) and 10 mg of propranolol (once daily as needed)?
make sure to stagger the doses by 3-4 hours.
i'm 28 and have a clean bill of health but still having constant chest pains pounding and acid relfux ( allergic to ppi). i have bad anxiety ( new) & ocd. i'm always tired ( weight? ). i'm having daily thoughts of suicide over all this. what do i do?
28 year old lady with palpitations new bad anxiety and acid reflux. first of all you need to realize that you should never ever hurt yourself and reach out for help. you have several medical problems that need specialist referrals. please reach out to a psychiatrist on healthtap asap and do cognitive behavioral therapy to get some relief from this stressful situation. good luck.
my heart is racing shaking and sweating what does this mean?
the electrical system of the heart sends regular pulses to the heart muscle to signal it to contract. many things can disturb this natural rhythm eg electrolyte abnormalities (low potassium or magnesium) excessive stimulants eg caffeine alcohol nasal decongestants certain asociated conditions such as mvp (mitral valve prolapse) anxiety hormonal fluctuations etc.
my 4yr old has bad flu. not getting better after 4 days. his temp is 94. 4. shaky weak high pulse. eating once a day. is urgent medical care req.?
yes take him to the er asap. he may be very dehydrated and shocky.
my ectopic atrial tachycardia first showed when becoming really stressed. how is this related? do i have to take beta blockers even if not stressed?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid and salt intake try magnesium supplements. ultra low dose beta blockers can be initiated and then up-titrated to control symptoms
my heart beat feels weird sometimes. i could be laying down and it will speed up or flutter which startled me. when is it serious?
to make sure there is not a heart arrhythmia.
my relative just got an icd and they keep telling him to stop eating any salt is not eating salt permanent?
it is generally recommended for heart failure patients to consume less than 2000 mg of sodium (salt) per day. this helps prevent fluid accumulation in the lungs legs and abdomen which can lead to hospitalizations for congestive heart failure. the icd was probably implanted for severe heart failure in your relative.
history of avnrt. successful rf ablation. having short runs of non-sustained palps. quick flutters of 4-5 beats in <1 second. scared to death of v-fib?
i think you need to find out first what these pals are about. if they are short runs of avnrt you may or may not need another ablation. cryoablation can be done in a safer way then rf ablation. you can consult me if you want i am a pediatric electrophysiologist and perform these procedures very commonly.
history of avnrt. successful rf ablation. having short runs of non-sustained palps. quick flutters of 4-5 beats in <1 second. scared to death of v-fib?
not vfib-otherwise you would not be alive;however the symptoms do warrant re evaluation of your metabolic and electrophysiologic state and an effort to document the evident arrhythmia.
have ist / mild pots only real symptom is irritating high hr which causes anxiety ranges from 100-140 standing. concern or just annoyance 2 deal with?
pots can be symptomatic with fatigue gi symptoms (nausea. . ) and dizziness. usually the first step is to increase fluids and salt intake avoid caffeine and lower limbs exercises. if these don't help there are medications that can help with this.
have had two strong heart flutters and afterwards have chest pain for few hours then goes away. can lupus cause this symptom?
lupus can affect the heart too. please see your physician for an ecg and other testing as necessary today if possible. if the symptoms recur please go directly to the emergency room or call 911.
hello when i've woke up in the morning i get strange palpitations one every couple of mins no chest pain or other symptoms any ideas?
may be from reflux or caffeine (coffee energy drinks lots of tea or cocaine). check thyroid. as you wake systems are just starting up may be mal-regulation of vagal tone- (when stimulated should slow heart rate). may consider ekg/ sonogram just to ensure not mitral valve prolapse or hypertrophy. review medications f/u with doctor /urgent care
have crt-d & med. controlled dcm/hf. often i have uncontrolled changes in breathing pattern w/ a sudden long inhalation. i can't force exhale? scarey.
have your physician examine you to see if you have wheezing. also bnp blood test may help physician adjust your medications. if this occurs with sleep then sleep study may be helpful. weigh yourself daily and let your doctor know if you gain 6 pounds in three days as this could be from fluid accumulation. last limit your sodium intake by not adding salt and looking at sodium content in foods.
heart palpitations shaking cold nausea diarea bp went up to 131/89 from 107/72. after taking klonopin (clonazepam) bp is 104/61 laying down 112/66 sitting up.
the symptoms suggest a possible viral infection. check temp. if 100 or less take plenty of clear fluids tylenol (acetaminophen) and rest until diarrhea and fever resolve. if symptoms worsen see a doctor for a careful evaluation.
had ekg stress test chest x-ray high/normal bp 64-80bpm@rest blood and no sign of problem. what else could be causing chronic chest discomfort?
most commonly acid reflux/gastrointestinal problem or a muscoloskeletal pain. unlikely to be anything very dangerous. sounds like you're in a good spot with that workup.
i have an anxiety disorder. i take 10mg of cipralex each night. i recently ran a half marathon and have been having heart palpatations (heart flutter)?
i commend you for running half marathon. cipralex ( lexapro) can cause palpitations. running half marathon possibly increased palpitations. discuss with psychiatrist: •anxiety symptoms for which cipralex was started •side effects and effect of half marathon •severity of symptoms now needing medication •decreasing dose •ativan or xanax (alprazolam) for anxiety •therapy for stresses •breathing relaxation.
i'm having intermittent chest pain on my left side but my blood work is completely fine and i've been working out (cardio and strength) and have had?
have you ever had chest trauma such as mva months or years ago. or pneumonia or l side fluid collection which required drainage. have you had imaging of the chest; cxr ct or mri. if not i suggest to have them done to rule out any other condition such as chronic pleuritis or pulmonary disease or even rib fracture. in these conditions the blood testing will be normal. go to a dr. request t
i was told on here that gamers tend to have vasovagal syncope. my 14 y. o son has the symptoms of at least the feelings of near-syncope. howdoiprevent?
limit the period of time he can play consecutively(shorter periods w/rest in between). make sure his fluid intake is maximal-this increases circulating blood volume and reduces chance of syncope
is benicar (olmesartan) hct stronger then regular benicar (olmesartan)? my doc switch me from regular benicar (olmesartan) 20 to 4mg still high. i plan to go see him next week like he said
benicar (olmesartan) htc has an additional ingredient called hydrochlorothiazide. hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic (water pill) that helps prevent your body from absorbing too much salt which can cause fluid retention and an increase in blood pressure
i've been to the er feeling chest discomfort rapid heartbeat a lil sweats they tell me i'm fine ekg and x-ray good but i still can't figure out why?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i've been having frequent palpitations / fluttering in my heart since starting 250mg acetezolomide for iih. i'm also stressed in life. stop the meds?
when taking medication prescribed by a physician a "rule of thumb" is to take the medication as directed & do not alter the dose or manner of administration without discussing things with the physician who prescribed it. not wise in this case to stop any medication without expert advice from treating physician.
i get chest pain regurgitation and bad nausea after eating or when i lay down. had an ekg chest x-ray and gallbladder ultrasound and all came bac?
if all these tests came back normal your symptoms may be due to gastroesophageal reflux disease or gerd. it may be worthwhile to aggressively treat for gerd including prescription anti-reflux medication. you also need an anti-reflux diet that your doctor or nutritionist can discuss w/ you. other interventions like not lying flat are also important. see your doctor or a gi doctor to treat!
i've been sick all weekend. shaky weak dizzy throwing up almost passing out. i think i'm super dehydrated. i don't know what to do?
get some iv fluids. you need them
is iv saline a good treatment for pots?
if pots is due to dehydration or if dehydration is contributing to blood pressure instability then iv saline is a good starting point. however if symptoms persist despite adequate (re-)hydration then you have to look to medications - florinef (fludrocortisone) midodrine - and other interventions (compression hose - it's actually the most effective in controlling pots symptoms but people don't like to wear them
my heartrate in the morning is 70 after juste standing up is go to around hundred and 20 and keep like this all the day what causes this?
ortho static hypotension. . increase your fluid intake. if this does fix it then consult your physician.
mctd- tachycardia upon excursion and flushing. my doc is putting me on calcium channel blockers til i see the rhuem. i need a second opinion.
without access to the ekg there is no way to provide an answer.
mctd tachycardia upon excursion and flushing. doc putting me on calcium channel blocker till i see rhuemy. ekg &stress normal. i need a second opinion?
connective tissue disease can be associated with cardiovascular disease. i would recommend doing echo stress test and heart monitor. the connective tissue disease needs to be under good control. calcium channel blocker and beta blocker can work here and increase fluid intake and avoid caffeine.
my husband 34y is taking medicine for hypertension comes with water bills noticed his pulse between 60-70 & he is loosing weight. is there smt wrong?
he is on a beta blocker and they help slow the heart rate. water pills help you lose water weight especially if he retains fluids or has edema. call his doctor and read the package insert for more information.
why do i get palpitations when i lay down. usually after 20mins then they really start. when i'm nearly asleep 30yrs otherwise healthy. not anxiety?
maybe reflux as pain or burning not necessarily noted with reflux and cough and or palpitations maybe only notable symptom. everyone has palpations and some people are more in tune with these changes a fee test would be needed to assure this is normal heart beat changes or if there is something abnormal going on even at the young age of thirty. hope all is well.
what could cause fluid in and around the lungs and an erratic racing heartbeat?
congestive heart failure pneumonia protein deficiency are but three there are more possibilities
what is a typical vs. atypical atrial flutter?
read this: <link>
what is the meaning of nt pro bnp value 3670?
there are many causes of elevation. i see that you take carvedilol and eplerenone. from this i infer that you have a cardiomyopathy (? ) that alone will account for elevation of your nt-probnp. you need to be examined and possibly have a chest x-ray to determine if you have fluid overload or not. if you're short of breath lying down at rest you probably need a diuretic (or dose adjustment).
high hr (up to 180bpm) sob tingly hands flushed rush feeling high urine adrenalune. doc says pheo too rare and no imaging? feel terrible. advice?
while pheo's are incredibly rare your symptoms are obviously coming from some issue. it's not normal to have hr's in the 180's unless you are really exercising hard at the time. is it possible to get a second opinion to better sort through things? how high was your urine epinephrine(adrenaline)?
heart flutters that last a few seconds and lightheaded and a bit dizzy and shakey after the flutter ends?
sounds like it could be a rhythm problem. not necessarily serious but should be checked by a doc who will have easy tools to find out what is going on (ecg rhythm monitoring). good luck.
hi can i take colon cleanse with propanolol?
healthtap physicians have repeatedly addressed this subject with a clear "no" answer to your question. there is virtually no value to colon flushes cleansers enemas irrigation machines when the technique is accomplished to "detox" or eliminate "accumulated waste. " the "no" response also applies to liver detoxes! there are few real health benefits but sigificant unjustified risk. don't "cleanse"
i keep having episodes of sweating do much it goes through to my jeans muscle aches heart racing and flu like symptoms that come and go?
these type of sweats suggest that you may have an underlying infection of some sort. this is the first thing i would recommend your physician check for. there are occasional metabolic syndrome to consider as they can also cause sweating. i would start with your physician and if necessary have you see a specialist infectious diseases.
i have pots syndrome & am on 50 mcg florinef (fludrocortisone) daily along w/ very high salt diet so i'm confused why my recent blood sodium level was a tad low (134).
how much salt are you consuming daily? please send me the actual amount. thank you very much.
is it safe to take propranolol 40mg twice a day with fluoxetine 20 mg?
i suggest staggering the doses by 2-3 hrs.
if i've been off my rx for too long ~ hbp & i retain too much fluid around my heart so i'm on carvedilol furosemide amlodopine besylate what does?
prescriptions asap.
i have digestive issues with ibs. i have had episodes that last a few minutes where i belch frequently and have chest pain in the center of my chest.
if the chest pain follows belching it is not unusual. it is probably related to acid refluxing into the esophagus (food tube) that was elevated by gas bubbles. calcium carbonate tablets (tums) or simethicone (gas-x) or both may help with symptoms. the bigger question is whether or not ibs was confirmed & whether any other problems / treatments were prescribed. talk to your doctor about you symp
i had a flare up of my chf stage c. my pcp said my symptoms were all in my head. new pro nt bnp returned 1568. had been doing extra work in my house.
high bp is a sign of chf fluid restriction and additional diuretics needed check your weight also check renal function. bun and cret. if they are elevated the no is falsely elevated also
my heart is fluttering blurry vision still have it happened really fast like overnight just curious let me a blood-pressure something are something?
i see you have a history of a-flutter. if this continues and sustains itself it can be dangerous and a lack of oxygenated blood through the carotids can certainly cause blurred vision. you need to see the dr. asap for an evaluation. best wishes.
my concern knowing bp 119/68 (avg) ef 55% mildly elevated edp/20-25mm lbbb plumbing great no pain but sob w/exertion should i still exercise? all started in the past few years am i deteriorating
is not. could very well b cardiac in origin so a trip 2 ur cardiologist is in order. mitral valve reflux or prolapse insufficiency inhibits some blood flow 2 the lungs & lower o/2 levels which can b asymmetric @ rest but effects u with exercise.
my sugar lvl 5. 1 cholesterol 5. 4 bp 144/81. ecg and echo 6 times. but always feel tremble and unsteadiness while walking. chest pain. is it nerve prob?
it could be anxiety/nerves. what is your blood pressure when standing? non heart causes of chest pain include caffeine medications thyroid abnormalities gastric reflux h. pylori infection rarely pheochromcytoma and carcinoids(most these have blood tests). try a trial of antacid/omeprazole avoid caffeine follow with a doctor
my chest is hurting very bad even to take a swallow of drink after moving to a downstairs apt from upstairs it burns is it a heart attack. im 44y old m?
one can't tell from the description if this is just a case of heart burns or a heart attack. rush to your doctor or er now even though it may just be a case of reflux. in the meanwhile take an asa tablet and perhaps try some pepcid (famotidine) ac.
my heart flutters and beats 40-50 bpm when i lay in bed. my doctor says i dont have heart disease but this feels abnormal.
when you are in bed all is quiet and it is possible to notice many things about your body and sometimes even hear blood flowing by your ear. a heart rate of 40-50 is nice and slow and may indicate that you are very healthy of an elite athlete. it is uncommon to have such a slow heart beat so your heart pumps a full load of blood with each beat. a flutter is a fast heartbeat maybe 170
should i get my heart checked? my heart flutters a lot at least 8-15 times a day if not more. its starting to really worry me.? could you please give me some answers.
fluttering heartbeats are generally termed palpitations and can be triggered by stress exercise medication or sometimes by an underlying medical condition. they are usually harmless. they can be a symptom of a more serious heart condition such as an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) that may require treatment. since you have frequent palpitations you should see to your doctor to see if you need heart-monitoring tests to see if your palpitations are caused by a more serious heart problem. this evaluation could be urgently needed if your palpitations are accompanied by chest pain shortness of breath fainting or dizziness. palpitations can be caused by stress or anxiety exercise fever caffeine nicotine or stimulants in some medications. occasionally heart palpitations are a sign of a serious problem such as an overactive thyroid gland or an arrhythmia. arrhythmias can be very fast unusually slow an irregular heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation). atrial fibrillation can be a sign of underlying heart disease such as mitral valve disease or other conditions that can cause stretching of the atria â€” the upper chambers of the heart. a cardiologistâ€™s evaluation and an echocardiogram are often useful in ruling out some structural disease affecting your heart. if there is no structural heart disease then the principal risk of atrial fibrillation is that blood clots may form in areas of the heart that are not contracting and possibly travel through the bloodstream to cause a stroke. this risk of a stroke is increased if you are over 65 years old; if you have high blood pressure; if you are female; if you have had a prior stroke transient ischemic attack (or tia â€” a fleeting stroke) or other blood clot disorder; if you have diabetes; if you have heart failure; or if you have known vascular disease (heart attack aneurysm or limitation of blood flow to the legs). the more risk factors you have the higher your risk of a stroke. with one risk factor many physicians will recommend aspirin therapy or sometimes more potent blood thinners. with two or more risk factors blood thinners are usually recommended. this should be discussed in detail with your doctor. unless your palpitations signify of an underlying heart condition there's little risk but if there is an underlying heart condition possible complications include fainting stroke heart failure or it can cause your heart to stop beating effectively.
should i get my heart checked? my heart flutters a lot at least 8-15 times a day if not more. its starting to really worry me.? could you please give me some answers.
heart "flutters" or more generically palpitations can range from very benign to very serious depending on what the actual cause is. unfortunately the only way to accurately assess the cause is to capture the electrical rhythm of the heart during an episode. this can be done a variety of ways but typically your physician will start off with an ecg and may also order a 24 or 48 hour continuous monitor called a "holter monitor". if neither of these tests show anything then there are additional options as well. because there are potential high risk abnormalities associated with your symptoms which also may vary depending on your other medical conditions i would highly recommend that you see your primary physician and discuss this with them further and if needed make an appointment with a cardiologist.
symptoms: heart palpitations waning nausea shortness of breath fatigue. i thought i had the flu until it never went away. what else could it be?
please see your doctor immediately. viral infections like flu can cause complications and you need to be looked at and listened to.
symptoms: heart palpitations waning nausea shortness of breath fatigue. i thought i had the flu until it never went away. what else could it be?
your symptoms could be the sign of heart disease such as arrhythmia or heart failure. you need to get it checked as soon as possible.
skipped heart beat is it like thumpping?
supposed to be regular an early beat may cause a pause but these can be started from atrial sources (flutter fibrillation or pac's) or ventricle pvc's. these usually are uncomfortable but thumping is not how i would describe. but it might be .
so was having chest pain. holter was normal and ecg was normal. potassium was a little low. what next?
you need to look for some other cause of this chest pain may not be the heart. possibly acid reflux or costochondritis/ inflammation of the rib cartilage or esophageal spasm.
should acid reflux ever cause heart palpitations? if so how is it possible?
the esophagus sits immediately posterior to the heart. acidic irritation in the esophagus could elicit palpitations by local inflammation and irritation as well as by increasing adrenergic tone because of associated pain and anxiety.
which is better for an atrial flutter: cardioversion or ablation?
what does better mean? initial atrial flutter ablation success rates run around 80-85%. this for the typical flutter variety. a form of atrial flutter called atypical atrial flutter has a much lower success rate. but ablation is invasive meaning there is inherent risk such as perforation of the heart pericardial effusion need for permanent pacemaker implantation etc. such risks are very rare
which is better for an atrial flutter: cardioversion or ablation?
ablation since it cures most of atrial flutter cardioversion is only temporary measure to stop it.
weird single flutter behind sternum that takes my breath. normal echo ecg n x ray from 5 month ago but have had this flutter before that. what is it?
these are caused by many things. stress excitement irritants both physical and chemical pressure like a hiatal hernia or esophageal push or pull and primary heart things the causes are very many in number.
what are palpitations? are they the same thing as flutters?
when the heart's rhythm is interrupted as it is in virtually all normal people everyday it's usually not felt. but when it is felt the feeling is called a "palpitation". many people perceive the irregularity as a "flutter".
what are palpitations? are they the same thing as flutters?
palpitations are an awareness of extra heartbeats which most of us have. the sensation can be single or multiple and can sometimes last minutes. different people may feel other symptoms along with them such as dizzy lightheaded or short of breath. the palpitations are almost always atrial or ventricular premature beats. usually benign but they are also found with abnormal hearts.
when i am standing up the heart rate is always above 100 and sometimes even 120. weight is 50 kg and height 6 feet?
common causes of tachycardia - or a elevated heart rate is people are dehydrated. if your from india i am sure you are dehydrated from all the humidity in the air. drink plenty of fluids. if your heart still has an elevated rhythm obtain an ekg to determine if there is an abnormal electrical arrhythmia that needs to be treated. you may have pvc's or atrial fibrillation. get checked.
why do i seem to get heart flutters at night whilst trying to sleep or in the middle of sleep. healthy 23 m lift weights higher salt intake lately.
on any meds or supplements that may b causing it. also when u say fluttering do u mean cardiac awareness? a premature ventricular contraction will give you this. u r more aware of it bcause u r @ complete rest. feel ur pulse if u feel a sudden fast barely palpable pulse followed by a longer pause then a stronger than usual it's due 2 over filling during the psuse & stronger beat 2empty. c cardio.
what lymphatic disease causes uticaria difficulty breathing palpitations flushing nausea and abdominal pain?
can't just fit those symptoms into a disease and call it a lymphatic disease those symptoms are common to some different disorders mastocytosis is one but is it the diagnosis? we don't know proper management = proper diagnosis hence right treatment for the condition proven/suspected your best option as i see it would be seeking help in a tetriary care/teaching or university hospital
why do i feel movement around my lower right abdomen? it's like fluttering or heartbeat. i'm 6 weeks and 4 days pregnant.
at 6 weeks the baby the very very small - only a few millimeters in size so it is too early to feel the baby move yet. you may be feeling gas in your intestines or stool moving through.
what can cause light headedness tingling in arms and hands like needles pricking your skin heart fluttering and anxiousness?
when you are anxious or stressed for some reasons you hyperventilate and your heart can flutter. during hyperventilation your blood chemistry changes in a negative way. you exhale to much co2 and your blood pco2 drops and this in turn decreases ionized calcium in the blood causing tingling decreased blood pco2 can give you light headedness. breathing to a paper bag helps when under stress.
what causes lower calves to swell. had venous doppler test. showed little reflux in one. started when had cdiff with abnormal ekg. stress test okay.
if someone has had a recent illness swelling in the legs can be a byproduct of that-esp. if it was severe. if you had c. diff then you probably were quite ill. i suspect your albumin must be low (a protein in the blood and correlate of good health). leg swelling in your case is probably from tissue fluid (lymph) that's sitting there in that 3rd space. as your health recovers it should go away.
woke up with dull pain in upper back(no specific spot) and some reflux that both have lasted all day. common heart attack symptom? or my anxiety?
more likely your symptoms are gi or musculoskeletal in nature if going by the odds. why? because of the description of your symptoms your young age and your gender. statistically speaking it's unlikely to be a heart attack. nonetheless if symptoms persist then a good idea to go get checked out
have anxiety disorder. had dull chest pain for months. had 5+ ekgs blood tests ct and seen cardiologist. all say heart is ok. just my anxiety?
sounds like your heart has been ruled out but other causes of dull chest pain include: gastroesophageal reflux costochondritis fibromyalgia gastritis peptic ulcer non-ulcer dyspepsia myofascial syndrome and others. your heart isn't the only possible cause of pain. anxiety is a diagnosis of exclusion since there are no tests to confirm it as the cause.
how many types of atrial flutter?
from a practical standpoint think of it as one. no need to go beyond that. if a specific case arises see a cardiac electrophysiologist (eps) for further definition
heart fluttering for a few months and now triggers coughing fit. chest feels tight. mirena (levonorgestrel) implant. past asthma. strange pain in legs. nausea. tired?
with multiple nonspecific symptoms it is impossible to sort out your problems with a limited answer in an online forum. you should see your primary care provider a more complete evaluation. hope this helps!
hello i want to ask that what should we do immediately after our dinner at night to digest food fast to avoid heart attack at night?
i'm pretty sure you mean heart burn not heart attack. i would start with a over the counter medication for dyspepsia with your meal like zantac (ranitidine) or pepcid (famotidine). make sure you don't lie down right after you eat too as this promotes acid reflux.
having feelings of palpitations under on my left side right under my rib cage. no pain but feels like a slight pressure with what feels like a fluttering sensation.
asap or go to the er fast if you feel like you have an elephant sitting on your chest or with that such pressure or heaviness on the left side chest. although you are only 26 years old heart attack or other cardiac issues can strike at any age. additionally panic attack can lead to similar symptoms but that is a diagnosis to be made after more serious life-threatening diagnosis are ruled out.
having feelings of palpitations under on my left side right under my rib cage. no pain but feels like a slight pressure with what feels like a fluttering sensation.
fluttering sensation may be from faster heart beats which can be regular or irregular. avoid caffeine chocolate and alcohol that may worsen this. if symptoms persist you may need an ekg to look at the rate and rhythm of the heart and possible work up to get to the underlying cuase.
i have started getting chest pains and i visited a er friday evening. the tests that they took all came back good. could it be something mental?
mental isn't a good description anxiety is a better description however you should rule in what is causing your pain. cp isn't always from the heart which is likely what was checked other causes acid reflux hernias infections anxiety etc. i would speak to your primary and get an overall checkup looking at your go tract and a careful dietary history as well
i once had fluid in my chest is it possible for it to come back? my chest hurts while breathing in and my back hurts what does this mean
at your age (17) is more likely than not to be due to a viral infection of the lining of the lung (pleura) fluid is a "reaction" to that fluid kind of like a blister. after the fluid goes away the pain from "rubbing" of the lining(s) (when you breathe in) may "travel" to your upper back. this will all gradually improve and if it doesn't a chest xray (or ct) is probably a good idea. hope this help
i am having on an off fluttering feeling in my chest. my blood pressure has been good along with my pulse. should i be concerned?
but you need a cardiogram if not a holter monitor
is conjugated linolenic acid safe to take while on a beta blocker low dose aspirin? adverse effects on lft's / blood sugar?
generally fatty acids such as this are considered good because they increase the fluidity of cell membranes and allow hdl to carry cholesterol out of the body more efficiently at least in theory
i have one lower shoulder. i feel pain between the shoulder blades and increased heart rate. i also have gastritis and acid reflux. is this heart related?
most likely gi related symptoms. see gastroenterologist and have egd done
i had a pericardial window now i have increased hr & a flutter w/ every heart beat 80% of the time. told dr. they said i'm fine. i know i'm not. help?
if you feel fluttering not captured on ekg than an event recorder may be helpful
is it possible after a pericardial window for pericarditis to return? my pericarditis was gone but had to get rid of fluid. now i think peri back
pericardial effusion will return if the cause is not known addressed or treatable.
my blood pressure is 108 over 63 with chest pain could i still be having a heart attack? pulse is 63 a and i have used nitro spray which helps
you can be having a heart attack with any blood pressure. it neither rules it in nor out. nitro spray helping is also non-specific since nitro spray also helps acid reflux and esophagitis. if you think you might be having a heart attack the only option is to go to the er. since someone gave you nitro spray clearly you have been evaluated. without that information further advice isn't possible.
maybe a heat exhaustion vomiting dizzy heart racing. it was very hot and humid today. i don't think my wife is drinking enough.
if indeed she's not drinking enough fluid then you're right to keep her well hydrated and in a cool place. if she's not able to drink because of the vomiting then she will need iv fluid replacements. for now it's safe to assume it's heat exhaustion but if symptoms recur under a different setting she needs to see her physician.
my heart has been fluttering and heart rate around 100 at rest but jumps to 146-160 when i'm up and moving what are some possibilities?
when heart rate goes above 100 beats per minute you start feeling heart beats that is called palpitations. most commonly it is from anxiety / stress but at times could be due to underlying heart problems such as atrial fibrillation sinus tachycardia. need to see your doctor and he may put you on medicine such as beta blocker to control your hear rate.
my company is providing flu & b12 shots next week. i take lisinipril & metoprolol for hbp (which is now normal due to meds). is it ok to get the shots?
yes get a flu shot by all means. no to the b12. why is your company giving everyone b12 shots? does everyone there have pernicious anemia? there is no indication to get b12 unless you have that disease.
my company is providing flu & b12 shots next week. i take lisinipril & metoprolol for hbp (which is now normal due to meds). is it ok to get the shots?
not sure why you need vitamin b12 shot unless you are a vegan and/or have documented low b12 blood levels.
my son is 6 has a heart rate of 140 resp 32 throwing up diareah temp 100. 2 body aches chills should i take him to er?
sound like the early course of most stomach viruses. the pulse resps and temp are all within expected limits. if he has taken in enough fluids to pee every 6 hours is alert and able to respond well you can monitor at home. if it persists or you get spooked by his look or pattern take him to his regular doc during regular hours. the er is often a poor place for a 6 yo with mild illness.
mild chest pressure. no sob. recent norm stress echo&holter months ago. male age 28 no fam hist. can this be cardaic related still? i have mild flu atm to
at 28 your probability of heart disease is close to zero without any tests. with negative tests it's even lower. not all chest discomfort is heart related. you have muscles ribs cartilages ligaments esophagus stomach gall bladder lungs pleura colon etc - all of which cause some chest discomfort in some people. seek an alternative explanation.
my heart rate fluctuates from 80 to 105 to 85 and continues to fluctuate. i am nervous that my heart rate fluctuates this much possible causes?
heart rate fluctuates from 60 to 100. some people have tendency to run very slow in their 60s and some have higher base line hr. anxiety can increase heart rate because of adrenaline secretion. so please calm down. if you having symptoms with it please go to your doctor.
my heart rate fluctuates from 80 to 105 to 85 and continues to fluctuate. i am nervous that my heart rate fluctuates this much possible causes?
it is common for our heart rate to fluctuate depending on activity anxiety just being nervous about something or taking certain medications. top heart rate of 105 is not of concern. if you use your albuterol inhaler it will cause your heart rate to elevate as it has a stimulant affect on the heart and can also make you jittery. if you are greatly concerned i recommend seeing your doc
sudden chest pain on 1/10/12 with tendency of vomit. practically no vomit till now. first doctor said due to gas after ecg. again pain on 5/10/12.?
you have already seen a doctor and an ekg was done and nothing suspicious showed i presume. now you should look for other causes such as acid reflux "gas" etc. follow up with your doctor until you get a definitive diagnosis and appropriate treatment.
skipped heart beats or bubbling in chest. sometimes a vein in right side of neck feels like it's about to explode and a bit of chest pain. what is it?
often premature beats may cause a fluttering in the chest. they may also cause a skipping sensation. if the upper chambers of the heart contract after a premature ventricular contraction against closed valves blood may regurgitate into the pulmonary and neck veins. this may be evaluated by a cardiologist.
should i request for central line iv access during surgery if i have angina and undiagnosed ekg abnormalty?
for iv fluid and blood during major operations is an indication however to monitor cardiac function many anesthesiologists now use non-invasive methods of monitoring heart function including cardiac output monitors and intra-operative ultrasound.
sometimes i have chest pressure at night. there is no shortness of breath. i was ekged last time (great result) but i was curious what it could be?
possible when lying flat at night in bed your having reflux that can cause chest pain.
starting florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 5mg 3x/week for lightheaded spells related to dysautonomia. how long before i should feel difference if it works? side effects?
this drug should work the first time you take it if the dose is correct. it does not work immediately in the morning but causes your body to retain more fluid over the course of the day. that is intended to help regulate your blood pressure especially when upright.
starting florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 5mg 3x/week for lightheaded spells related to dysautonomia. how long before i should feel difference if it works? side effects?
be sure to liberally use salt in your diet when taking flurinef. the most common side effect is edema (swelling) and the dose should be adjusted to avoid more than a trace. other side effects can be nausea upset stomach low potassium menstrual irregularities & acne.
slight chest pressure after light activity 2 normal stress test over 12 normal ecg 2 normal echo's should i do coronary angiography or its gerd?
unless there is a family history of premature heart disease or you take meth or cocaine you likely have asthma anxiety or reflux. you have at this point demonstrated that it is almost certainly not your heart try other approaches.
several years ago 2d eco showed small mitrol prolapse recently anxiety symptoms and ekg with extra beats. should i be concerned?
this is a typical constellation of symptoms with mitral valve prolapse. occassion skipped beats are ok but if you ger rapid fluttering of your heart talk with your doctor. sharp chest pain lasting seconds are usually normal. if your mitral valves is not too diseased you need not worry about infection from dental work. once again clarify with your doctor.
when lying on stomach and deep inhale i feel a flutter in my chest. no other symptoms and it's the only time i really notice this sensation. ?
generally a sensation of fluttering in the chest only when lying on your stomach and taking a deep breath is unlikely to be caused by a significant heart problem unless you are having the same symptoms at other times of the day or with exercise. normal people can have brief episodes of arrhythmia called svt in which the heart can suddenly speed up and beat very quickly> <link>
when lying on stomach and deep inhale i feel a flutter in my chest. no other symptoms and it's the only time i really notice this sensation. ?
i don't believe this is of any consequence by itself
why does acid reflux radiate from middle of your chest to the left and sometimes right when it goes to the left i think it's a heart attack.
existentially it seems like a sick practical joke leaving patient & physicians befuddled & feeling very inadequate at times. and it is the reason we don't mess around with chest pain. heart attacks can trigger reflux and reflux can induce coronary vasospasm. it's all connected in there and it is often a muddy bag of worms trying to figure it all out.
why does acid reflux make you think your having a heart attack?
they are close to each other and the signals can get crossed but talk to your doctor for more information i am available for second opinion if needed
how much water would a person have to drink over a period of 12 hours in order to develop hyponatremia? i've drank about 9 cups of fluid in 12 hours but i feel like that's too much. also i have a mildly low k level (3. 2) so is that too much h2o?
unless you exceed the capacity of the kidney to excrete free water or have either medications or a reason for high adh (vasopressin) you should not develop hyponatremia. your kidney should excrete the free water. we can't drink our way to hyponatremia unless there is a additional reason like high adh (vasopressin) or meds. you have low k that needs to be worked up. drink to thrist the best way to do it.
how much water would a person have to drink over a period of 12 hours in order to develop hyponatremia? i've drank about 9 cups of fluid in 12 hours but i feel like that's too much. also i have a mildly low k level (3. 2) so is that too much h2o?
yes you are drinking to much water!
heart skips a beat flutters only last a few seconds happens occasionally not daily but feels odd. is this normal? ekg's have been normal in past.
most often what you describe is benign and requires no treatment just reassurance. your doctor can check you to be sure what your situation is. in the unlikely case some abnormality is present dr. can deal with it for you.
heart skips a beat flutters only last a few seconds happens occasionally not daily but feels odd. is this normal? ekg's have been normal in past.
jeff you need to contact a physician. i am a dentist so your issue is out of my expertise.
hi. 50. male. very fit. cta: clear arteries normal bp no structural issues. but ef of 32%. flu and pneumonia 6 mos. ago. global hypo? why?
there are many reasons for cardiomyopathy. ischemic heart disease is only one. alcohol viral toxic idiopathic. it sounds like you have a health care professional taking care of you but if you do not you should! you need medications and if they are not effective you should have an icd implanted to protect you from sudden cardiac death. please seek appropriate medical attention. don't wait!
healthy 22 year old female with tachycardia since yesterday afternoon. baseline at rest is at 90 with fluctuation to 130. should i seek help?
go to e. r. immediately and get checked up and treatment before it gets worse.
how long should it take a heart rate to normalize after activity? i have ans dysfunction/ist. hours after exercising a bit hr is around 120-140 bpm.
people with normal heart function after vigorous exercise have their heart rates return to normal or baseline within 10-20 minutes of rest. your heart rate of 120-140 hours after exercise is very abnormal and if over 120 suggests that its not simple sinus tachycardia but probable svt atrial flutter atrial fibrillation nodal tachycardia or even ventricular tachycardia. ? echo thyroid holter stress
hi i am 9week preg seen heartbeat 6 1/2 week had pains in sides since implantation maybe but 2 days im having hips pain very little and a little cramp/fatigue of legs because of pain is everything normal? pain is like shooting but goes away quickly it
well you are a little early in to be feeling much more than a flutter. now pregnancy can aggravate an underlying arthritis so best to see doctor for a good exam.
habit of eating and laying down. pain in chest for month. started taking acid reflux meds 2 days ago helps a little still there is this heart attack?
this is reflux pain and not a heart attack. you've identified one major factor; lying down immediately after eating. other lifestyle factors include smoking obesity and certain foods like fatty or fried food tomato sauce chocolate and garlic. alcohol is a risk as well. given the response to antacids you may want to try an over-the-counter medication like zantac (ranitidine) or axid.
how can i tell reflux pain from a heart attack pain. little chest pain for a month. note: i do eat & lay down & i have anxiety but no attack lately.
heart attack pain may be similar in character. however due to your young age cardiac disease is less likely but still possible. please ask your doctor to obtain an ekg and evaluate you for cardiac risk factors ie hypertension diabetes dyslipidemia tobacco use family hsitory
how can i tell reflux pain from a heart attack pain. little chest pain for a month. note: i do eat & lay down & i have anxiety but no attack lately.
please see your health care provider to assess but the history goes against it being a heart issue.
had a few ekgs troponin an echo and stress test all normal. have severe burning in left chest and shoulder and fatigue. could it still be heart?
given the investigation you had it is not likely that the symptoms are due to heart disease. it may be due to gastro-esophageal reflux. if you are overweight try to lose weight. if taking antacids helps see a gi specialist for further information.
hr can get up to 180 only after an hour of being asleep. my ep says it is pots / reentry tach for me to increase fluids. still really scares me.
i presume you mean heart rate. if so 180 is very high and needs attention as soon as possible. if i misread your question please let me know.
hello dr it is common to some1 heart beat fall under 60 to 55 beats when i measure it with oximeter at sleep time and in day sometimes go up to 100?
your hr and your bp continually fluctuates throughout the day (and night). as you go about your life doing whatever it is you do you respond to it both physiologically and psychologically and these in turn call upon our heart to pump more or less blood. and so it goes.
i have recently been having heart palpitations at night. i am wondering if i should be worried about this? anything you recommend that i can do? thanks! heart palpatations
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i had a dream where i fainted. my heart raced in it i passed out and felt like i couldn't breathe before waking up. causes?
release pent up emotions from our day. the reason for your dream is likely anxiety. i see that you are being treated by a doctor and mental health professional. please keep up the good work and know that we all dream and some of them are not pleasant but they do help us. read think and recall pleasant things prior to sleep to help influence the content of your dreams. peace and good health.
i do not sweat if i get overheated i start to feel faint and flusterd and heart rate gets dangerously high. makes it hard to work out.
if you really do not sweat you could have one of several inherited defects in the pathway or take a medicine which stops sweating or you might be dehydrated. a sweat test could make the diagnosis. you could become quickly overheated even up to the level of a heat stroke. avoid activities which would normally require sweating to cool the body.
i take fludrocortisone for pots for over 2 years. will fludro affect any of these test results immunoglobulin and free light chain assay. thanks.
all laboratory results need to be interpreted in the clinical context and the doctor who ordered the tests is usually in the best position to do that. having said that taking steroids may affect immunoglobulin levels but will not interfere with detection of monoclonal immunoglobulins. free light chain assay is not a useful test for diagnosing myeloma.
i had the flu about two weeks ago along with strep. now coughing up phlegm wheezing heart rate 115 oxygen 94 chest pain. would they admit me?
you need a chest x-ray
i suffer from psvt i would like to get the flu shot this year. is it safe for me to get the shot? will it cause tachycardia to get worse?
you can take a flu shot if you have psvt. egg allergies are the greatest contraindication. side effects do not affect heart rate.
ive been getting palpitations for awhile now. every day i get them. even when i go up the stairs. how do i stop them?
heart palpitations are the feelings of having rapid fluttering or pounding heart. heart palpitations can be triggered by stress exercise medication or rarely a medical condition. <link>
its been 8 hrs and my heart feels like it is fluttering out of my chest. what should i do? er? its pretty constant.
yes have a doctor see you and do an ekg
my pfo was closed 10/15/14. i now have more migraines tingling/numbness in my hand and heart flutters when on my back. is this normal? i take plavix (clopidogrel)
the symptoms you mention are not the result of your heart surgery! they are also not related to the plavix (clopidogrel) you are taking to keep clots away from the surgical site! speak with your general medicine health care provider about your increased headaches and other symptoms! hope this helps dr z
my heart is racing every day for a week. and this is my ovulation. doc prescribed me fluoxetine 10 mg. would this help? i feel nervous & feel insecure
it is not unusual for women to get palpitations or a sense of the heart racing occasionally and the reason may be hormonal fluctuations. try to feel your pulse on your wrist when it happens to see if it correlates with the sensation of a "racing" heartbeat. you might be comforted if you see that your pulse (=heart beat) is actually normal. u can try breathing meditation & calming herbs first.
my son (20 yr)was diagnosed w/ heart murmur (leaky valve). he drinks lots of redbull in college. lately complaining of chest pain. could it be from rdbul?
the chest pain at his age likely comes from his swallowing tube not his heart. the caffeine in the bull can aggravate the reflux/irritation. as can acidic foods/drinks or laying down within an hour of eating.
my 2yr old son has a faster heart beat crying sleeping alot/tired. he only eats/drinks a little bit. his temp is 102 for the past 2 days. what do i do?
your son needs to have a complete history and exam by his physician. might be viral but hard to tell without examining him. his fast heart rate may be partially from dehydration but having a fever makes the heart beat faster as well. push fluids and you can give a dose of motrin if he is 20 pounds you can give him a teaspoon for fever pain.
sickle cell paitent heart is fluttering why?
there are many explanations for a patient feeling a rapid heart beat. an irregular heart beat like atrial fibrillation or supracentricular tachycardia will give the sensation of fluttering heart. in a sickle cell patient severe anemia can lead to sinus tachycardia that can be perceived as fluttering heart. as your symptoms could indicate something serious i recommend that you see a doctor soon.
sickle cell paitent heart is fluttering why?
see your physician for further evaluation.
since 18 chest pain wen excersise. had ecg stress ecg echo cardiac mri 24 hour ecg bp normal. now 22 what can this be! strange angina!
by this point i can tell you that your probability of having ischemic heart disease is very low. prinzmetal angina an spasm of the coronary arteries without significant coronary blockage should be in the differential but probably was already r/o by your doctors. acid reflux can give you pressure pain and chest wall pain due to costochondritis if you lift weight at work or at exercise.
solu medrol (methylprednisolone). can it cause low heart rate and nonspecific ekg?
why are you on solumedrol (methylprednisolone)? it can increase bp fluid retention tachycardia mood swings nervousness insomnia anxiety vertigo hypokalemia glucose intolerance and in theory non specific ekg changes due to above.
severe weakness nausea diarrhea strange smell rapid heart beat with getting up and moving?
it sure sounds like you are not keeping up on your fluids and hydration. it would help here if i knew your temperature heart rate and blood pressure but if this is severe it is very common to need to get to the er for iv hydration and some anti-diarrhea or nausea treatment.
should a person with cardiomyopathy avoid the sun and heat?
especially with excessive heat and direct sun as your body chemistries can be affected if your fluid balance is not just right. also the heat can add stress to your heart which you would also want ot avoid. best to stick with your outdoor activity to cooler times of the day.
symptoms of dilated cardiomyopathy?
fatigue & fluid retention.
symptoms of heart murmurs? sometimes i feel my heart flutter/beat really fast. ekg last yr said heart was fine. i have anxiety too. heart problems?
a heart murmur. a murmur is just noise. sometimes serious problems cause a murmur many times a murmur is caused by normal flow. patients often misctranslate what the dr. tells them. you may have anxiety underlying.
symptoms of heart murmurs? sometimes i feel my heart flutter/beat really fast. ekg last yr said heart was fine. i have anxiety too. heart problems?
if you can feel your heart flutter and beat very fast you may have a fast heart rate abnormality which comes and goes. your provider may want to hook you up to a holter monitor which monitors your heart rhythm for a day or more while you go about you normal activities.
sometimes get a heartbeat that feels like my heart stops/flutters/skips a beat/drops. feel dizzy/sick and then returns to normal. is this pvc? cause?
could be pvc or premature atrial contraction premature junctional beats or another arrhythmia like svt. would get checked with an ekg and possibly a 24 hour monitor to find out for certain. talk to your doc.
sometimes my heart flutters and then i have to cough. should i have it checked?
what are you waiting for?
sensation of fluttering and skipped heart beat on waking up after intense night of vivid dreams. should be worried? lasted about 2-3 seconds.
to play it safe i would get an anafranil (clomipramine) level to make sure it is not above the therapeutic range and an ekg as a baseline and to rule prolonged qtc interval. also see you family doctor and see what he recommends re: your breathing difficulty and shortness of breath. pulmonary function tests to rule out asthma may be helpful and gerd should be ruled out as a cause for chest pain ; breathing d.
why would my 5yo have a sleeping heart rate of 86 one night but 100 the next night at the exact time of night and not ill?
heart rate can vary even at rest depending on stimuli. i'm glad she's feeling better. make sure she is drinking plenty of fluids.
why would my 5yo have a sleeping heart rate of 86 one night but 100 the next night at the exact time of night and not ill?
there are normal variations in heart rate during wake and sleep. they are influenced by growth and digestive work. i wouldn't worry about it.
why is magnesium preferred for torsades?
i want you to read about ead (early after depolarization) which is the mechanism of torsades due to r on t phenomenon. magnesium is the drug of choice for suppressing eads and terminating the torsades. magnesium achieves this by decreasing the influx of calcium thus lowering the amplitude of eads. mg is used for treatment in hemodynamically stable sustained torsades.
walked 2 miles then drank a cup of cold water quickly 10 mins later had bad fluttering in chest while resting lasted 5 mins i'm worried?
different things. ask your healthcare provider to give you a monitor to wear if the symptoms are recurrent.
hi i have had a nagging cough for the passed month for the passed few days every time i cough my heart flutters could you tell me why this happens?
you could be performing what is called a "valsalva" maneuver a sudden holding breath against pressure. this may slow your heart enough that the next beat contains more blood and you feel it! just a thought! hope it helps! dr z
how come gerd and gas feels like a heart attack sometimes? i know it's most likely not one since i'm 22 but it's so scary. hard to distinguish.
it's related to the location of the pains in the chest and how your brain interprets the sensation sent to it by the esophagus. but you're right - reflux and esophageal spasm can easily feel like a heart attack.
how come gerd and gas feels like a heart attack sometimes? i know it's most likely not one since i'm 22 but it's so scary. hard to distinguish.
the feeling of acid reflux can be uncomfortable and painful but many things distinguish from a heart attack - precipitating factors lifestyle family history diet etc.
hi. the high bun ratio seems to persist due to 80 mg lasix a day with metoprolol 100. is the patient dehydrated at the fluid restriction? any home technique to determine fluid retention in lungs? patient lost 20 lbs frm 150 lbs in a month (no gain)
check your weight on the same scale without your shoes and an increase of more than 2-3 pounds may mean you are getting on too much fluid.
hi. the high bun ratio seems to persist due to 80 mg lasix a day with metoprolol 100. is the patient dehydrated at the fluid restriction? any home technique to determine fluid retention in lungs? patient lost 20 lbs frm 150 lbs in a month (no gain)
yes dehydrated. fluid retention in the lung could be detected if the patient is not able to lie flat on the bed because of shortness of breath. or feeling short of breath with minimal effort like going to the bathroom. losing 20 lbs is too much (13%) of body weight
hi my two year old girl has a uti and a stomach bug both organisms confirmed in urinalysis. she's doing well but her resting hr is 120-130 that ok?
drinking water 1/2 strength juice soup milk will help flush the urinary tract. encourage and offer frequently. ice pops and jell-o are other good ways to increase fluid intake.
had dizzy spell inner ear congested area under ear on neck hurts to touch. also sore throat nasal congestion. tests for flu & strep throat neg.
and strep tests i'm assuming you had your whole body examined. did they mention if you had fluid behind your eardrum? it sounds like you could have a middle or inner ear infection. i would follow up with your doctor and be examined again. you may need some lab work done or a referral to a specialist if the doctor you're seeing can't find a reason for your symptoms.
having a flutter/popping feeling in my chest where my collar bones meet. i have mild palipitations and ms frequency has increased over the last week?
what medication are you on? would check thyroid cbc ekg. also may be reflux with or without h pylori so may consider ranitidine 150 mg qd stop caffeien if and no alcohol. check ms status f/u with doc over next 2-4 days.
how do i break out of a pots flare when i'm on already on florinef (fludrocortisone) every other day nadolol high salt &fluids exercise. i am so lightheaded& feel drunk?
may be helpful for you. (thigh or preferably waist high. ) also nocturnal training by elevating the head of your bed 6 inches can be useful. (the bed needs to have a foot board) additional medications can also be utilized such as proamatine effexor (venlafaxine) and droxidopa. ask your health care provider for reassessment.
had flu for the last week with high heart rate now that flu is gone my heart rate is really low in the 50s feeling light headed. should i be worrie?
it's unclear what relation that 'flu' may have had to your low heart rate now. because you have symptoms of lightheadedness with this slow heart rate (bradycardia) it should be evaluated asap. have someone drive you to an er urgent care center or call 911 if no one can. the danger would be passing out and falling/getting hurt if you don't do this promptly. i wouldn't take a chance.
headache tingling in arms+legs slight trembling flushed face and fast heartbeat after drinking 1 refresher from starbucks. caffeine toxicity?
as just the normal response to a large amount of caffeine. try decaf next time!
had 6 teeth extracted yesterday. not are much. had spell today vision went dark hot flash fast heart shaky & sound was muffled. lightheadedness? '
is most consistent with an episode of hypotension (low blood pressure. ) i suspect you are dehydrated from not eating before your extractions and then probably limiting your eating and drinking after because of the obvious. try to drink lots of fluids and perhaps some hearty and a little salty soft products. avoid prolonged standing. you'll recover in a few days with hydration.
hospitalized 3. 3 k tachycardia fluctuations in glucose 100-368 quickly (non-diabetic) tsh high 10. 8. my tsh is usually 1. 2 glucose 60-120. cause?
more information to be helpful. . for example do you have an eating disorder? why were you admitted? any prior history of low thyroid? family history? ask again! dr z
had a feeling of few flutters in my chest when playing soccer. gonna get seen soon. is there a chance this will turn out to be benign? is this bad?
fluttering in the chest is a non specific symptom. it is more likely benign. have an ekg and a holter study to visualize your heart rhythm. i good physical exam is also important. all the best.
i've contracted a cold from a 8 month baby i've now got a bad sore throat chest pain and bad breathing and when ever i cough i taste blood.
it appears you have caught a cold so treat with fluids and tylenol for pain fever. otc meds for cold as needed throat lozenges. also cold fluids for the broken throat capillary suspected from strong coughing. if blood and coughing persist see an md for further investigation or call for virtual appt with internist thru health tap.
i have random heart palpitations. when i check my pulse when that happens the heart rate is not particularly fast. is that normal? i do feel pinching
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
i woke up to a pinching chest pain in the middle of my chest. never had this pain. it lasted a few seconds and then i got nausea. when i go in for other stuff the doctor say i am perfectly healthy. in my opinion i am way too young for this. what should i
please see your pediatrician and consider a trial of zantac or nexium if your pain is associated with reflux or heartburn. stay calm and get a full exam.
i feel like a hiccup is stuck in my chest hurts to swallow anything. always have a painful hiccup on my first sip of soda.
i'm sorry but the question sounds too vague. more information would be needed before a diagnosis can be made. it is possible that you suffer from either a hiatus hernia or reflux or even inflammation of the food pipe (oesophagitis). you will need further evaluation and maybe a gastroscopy to see what the cause is. see your doctor
ive been on clarithromycin metronidazole & omeprazole to fight h. pylori. but ive been experiencing headaches flu symptoms head aches chest pain.
it sounds like you caught a regular cold virus or maybe influenza (it's early but flu season is starting). anyway these symptoms prorbably have nothing to do with helicobacter pylori or the antibiotics. if in doubt discuss with the doctor treating you. good luck!
i've been feeling stress in my stomach area tight chest. what causes this?
please be more specific - do you mean pressure or pain in your stomach area? there could be several causes for this including acid reflux ulcers hiatus hernia asthma. you need to see your dr for further workup
ive had a chest xray today still worried. what do you think it is? ive been coughing up foamy phlem and been sick nearly passing out gasping for air
i would recommend being seen again for a follow up visit. your chest radiograph may be uploaded so that i can view it by booking an inbox consultation. monitor your temperature carefully and drink plenty of fluids. your pcp may prescribe an inhaler as needed for wheezing/bronchospasm.
i've been vomiting every morning for 2 weeks. durin the day i'm fine. made an ecg all organs were ok. what can it be?
any reflux? heartburn symptoms? this can cause nausea and vomiting. i presume you mean ultrasound was ok - no gallstones? you could try some nexium over the counter for a few weeks and see if symptoms are relieved.
i took rainbow light prenatal vitamin and i have had chest pain. like a squeezing sensation in middle of chest. what is this?
chest pain during pregnancy may be caused by several disorders. among these are reflux associated pain pulmonary embolism irregular heart rhythms asthma and infection. an inbox consultation may be booked online and a visit with your physician is suggested.
i was told thumping in ear was fluid. couple of wks ago i went for walk. i came back & vein felt like it came out of neck pulse has been high lately?
bot hears? is your ear still thumping? do antihistamines help? very rarely and usually in hypertensives/ older individuals you can have artery issues( aneurysm/ dissection). carotid ultrasound or ct angio would clarify that usually it is 1 side. but also get a thyroid ultrasound and check thyroid levels check for pots and get echo( hi pulse). f/u w/ ent/ cardio/doc
i keep having chest pain idk why but every time i breath it hurts can weight affect the heart? and i sleep on my abdomen sometimes?
this is most likely some type of pleurisy. try fluids and an nsaid.
my mom is on metoprolol 60mg and amlodipine 5mg and she is retaining so much fluids (not on lasix). what should she do?
please check the dosage of her metoprolol (usually 25 50 100 mg pills). she is currently on beta blocker and a calcium channel blocker and has edema. did she have edema before amlodipine was started? leg edema can be seen in some patients who takes amlodipine. if her bp is well controlled one can consider stopping it. otherwise a trial with a diuretic (furosemide or hctz) can be tried.
may atrial flutter can be normal for forever with shock cardioversion treatment? or it just temporaly?
after cardioversion you may have regular rhythm for a long time unless the reason for your atrial flutter is still present. not one standard answer. it depends if your md found a reason for it and/or prescribed medicines to keep in sinus rhythm. ask your doctor (again)
see pulse in right side nape of neck above clavicle when i lean over sink. female 63 normal bp had great ekg prior to colonoscopy last week. thin?
are you very thin? this is a normal artery pulsating. have you lost more weight recently? if you have been having diarrhea you need to drink plenty fluids like gatorade avoid juices.
sneezing chest hurts fluid in ears runny nose burns when i sniff. doctor gave me nasal spray and zertec. what can i take with irregular heart beat?
yes you can.
sick 8 days now. flu like illness. saw dr. yesterday morn er after having sweats and chest pain. ekg 2 troponins 5 min. on echostress test. all neg. ideas?
chest pain can be due to the hacking cough which you probably have with the flu.
someone with long qt can't take flucanzole can they take miconazole?
miconazole doesn't prolong the qt interval the way fluconazole does. you can use it.
shortness of breath middle chest painful when i flex. sometimes when i breath or laugh hard i after big meal symptoms are worse any ideas? ekg/bld gud
you may have gastroesophageal reflux. consult your doctor.
shortness of breath chest pain burping and farting a lot cough that won't go away noisy stomach(not hungry) stomach cramping i had ekg and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago and they were clear. is this gerd?
it could be many things from reflux to even a virus. see your physician for an exam and diadnosis.
shortness of breath heartburn cough that won't go away chest x-ray and ekg are normal? what could it be?
is a viral disease characterized by prolonged excessive dry coughing. he most common symptom of acute bronchitis is a cough that is dry. acute bronchitis is a one-time condition that lasts for several weeks. drink plenty of fluids and otc medication. rec. see your pcp if symptoms persist another week.
shortness of breath heartburn cough that won't go away chest x-ray and ekg are normal? what could it be?
gastro esophageal reflux disease. avoid smoking or caffeinated beverages after 5 pm (and avoid late night snacks ). may help to take pepcid (famotidine) daily.
side effect of fludrocortisone is irregular heartbeat is this due to the drug or if it lowered potassium?
i have used the drug for years and never seen any irregular heart beats from it.
sporadic shortness of breath for a month. had a chest xray 2 ekg ct and nothing was found. what could it be?
talk to your doctor and consider causes of sporadic sob at your age. have a lung test done and also consider reflux allergies like reactive airways and you're the only who can say if it is from anxiety.
since 2 years i take pills for high bp. last 4 days my pressure is low (95-65 110-70). temperature normal heart rate 73 to 90. should i go to er? txs
but i would like to know what else is going on: do u have a cold/flu have u changed ur diet . .? i generally advise my patientto reduce 9not stop) their meds when bp is less than 120 (but bottom # must be less than 85 also). have some tea ; maybe go to local walk in center er islast choice not 1st for my patients.
stomach pain burping and gas alot sometimes sharp pain in upper chest throat feels clogged. been to hospital twice. ekg/blood work xrays clean.
if you have not taken antacids try using one of the antacids for a couple of weeks. you could either take pepcid (famotidine) twice daily or prilosec(omeprazole) once daily. if it is reflux your symptoms will start getting better in 2-3 days time. if it doe snot help you should see a gastroenterologist.
started singulair (montelukast) yesterday. also got an injection of 10 mg of decadron due to sinus issues. today i'm having intermittent palpitations. is this more likely to be from steroid injection or singulair (montelukast)!
this is a side effect of steroid injections. also may include things like flushing nausea etc. to be very fair singulair (montelukast) can also cause difficulty breathing and heart palpitations. but these are listed as severe rare side effects while the palpitations from steroid injections are much more common. good luck!
severe heart pain for3days tachycardia short of breath lightheaded explosive watery diarrhea stabbing back pain after givirus. why? see dr or er?
from the description of your symptoms of lightheadness and tachycardia you are dehydrated. get to an er for iv fluids to replete your intravascular volume and find out why you have your diarrhea. please do not wait.
should i be worried? heart rate was 120 and as of now it is 100. could my baby be harmed?
when a woman is pregnant a number of changes occur in her physiology. one of the changes includes increased fluid or plasma in the blood vessels as nutrients need to be carried to the woman and her fetus. in order to accommodate this increase in fluid the heart has to increase in size and beat more often. if you feel well a faster than normal resting heart rate is to be expected.
what could be causing slight shortness of breath/breathing deeply and increased heart rate in a teenage girl?
heavy or long periods reduce number of red blood cells (which carry oxygen) causing heart to speed up to get them from the lungs to tissue to deposit oxygen. in a single day red blood cells can travel 12 000 miles. blood clot in lung must also be considered. as should fluid around the heart (pericardial effusion) anxiety and deconditioning/obesity to name a few. get medical evaluation asap.
why am i feeling my heartbeat when i wake up? i am currently on prozac (fluoxetine).
prozac (fluoxetine) can cause heart palpitations as a side effect. other side effects include headache gi upset dizziness nervousness insomnia changes in appetite and sexual side effects. are you on any other medications? certain medications interact with prozac (fluoxetine) affecting its metabolism in the body. recommend contacting your doctor for further evaluation and recommendations. all the best.
why does my heart beat fast when i lay down after a long day?
need to know what you mean by fast? it may beat faster for a short time because when you assume the supine position the fluid collected in your lower extremities reenters your blood stream your heart must beat faster to move it around until you pee out the difference or until your bp and heart rate control systems thinks things are ok
while taking lexapro (escitalopram) 10mg for anxiety disorder can i take flunarizine 5 mg at once when having migraine? can lexapro (escitalopram) itself prevent me from migraine?
once a diagnosis of migraine has been made effective management of migraine involves three specific strategies: 1) patient education 2) nonpharmacological management and 3) pharmacological (medical) management. see an orofacial pain or headache specialist for evaluation and professional management. lexapro (escitalopram) is helpful for migraine prevention.
while taking lexapro (escitalopram) 10mg for anxiety disorder can i take flunarizine 5 mg at once when having migraine? can lexapro (escitalopram) itself prevent me from migraine?
ssris e like lexapro (escitalopram) can and in some people help decrease the frequency of migraines
when running experienced few heart flutters. getting seen by cardiologist. i have heard of conditions like hcm arvd which cause death. is this likely?
some fluttering when running is far more common with less serious prob than hcm & arvd these entities are best recognized on echocardiogram & this will be done. symptomatic hcm can be treated & if severe ess cured with diff approaches arvd is more complex. the ecg may be abn but not necess echo more definitive. other reasons for fluttering may need to be addressed.
would luvox (fluvoxamine) tend to lower or raise your heart rate and blood pressure?
it doesn't have any significant or predictable effect on either.
which med is better at not causing a racing heart. nyquil or benadryl (diphenhydramine)?
sinex or severe cold and flu would cause a racing heart both contain phenylepherine a decongestant that is not recommended also for people with high blood pressure please read the labels carefully. benadryl (diphenhydramine) and other nyquil preparations not containing epinephrine wouldn't cause such good luck
what are the possible weight loss (2. 1 kg in 2 mons) causes for 57+ female with hb 12. 4 tsh 2. 23 fbs 87 ppbs 96 vit d 57 & normal ecg?
weight loss is not considered significant if it is 1or 2 kg below the usual weight. . there is normally a fluctuation of this degree from day to day even if you use the same scale. different scales give even bigger variations and fluctuations. so lets first establish the baseline: use your own(home) machine and take your weight first thing in the morning(with minimal clothing on and before eating)
when i stand up my heart pounds hard that i feel it in chest/throat for a little bit and throws ectopic beats 2-4 they feel like a single hard beat?
this could be several things. i know not what meds u r on or what ur bp is. i know not if u r dehydrated. there could be an issue with autonomic nervous sytem. stay hydrated if u havent urinated for 3-4 hrs drink glass of water. see the doctor to check electrolytes (low mag or potassium) fluid status heart rate on standing. test for vagal reaction. if r/o need to see neurologist.
wife is 6 months preg. feeling unwell today (cold or flu). but she also had brief heart palps with near syncope. can this be related to pregnancy?
she needs an examination
have back chest and neck pain also feels like indegestion or heartburn. have some tingling down my left arm as well. heart is good ekg done a month
you have gastroesophageal reflux. please see your health provider for treatment or try otc antacid treatment and see if you get better.
have a cough for 6+ weeks with chest pressure and pain fatigue. had a ct it came back normal. lungs sounded clear one week ago. what's going on?
chronic cough has multiple causes defined as a cough lasting more than 8 weeks. post nasal drip gi-reflux disease asthma medications bronchitis including lung or thyroid cancer. details of the history such as clearing throat symptoms after food symptoms with exertion are all useful to sort out the cause and requires a detailed history and physical by a lung specialist or internist.
have a cough for 6+ weeks with chest pressure and pain fatigue. had a ct it came back normal. lungs sounded clear one week ago. what's going on?
could be as simple as a cold that would have cleared but with residual irritation/cough. as likely may be rhinitis due to infection or other chronic condition such as allergy creating post nasal mucus drip and subsequent irritation. it is sometimes due to acid reflux undiagnosed asthma (although your lungs sound clear breathing test can confirm) or vocal cord problem. or medication side effect
had chest pressure and hoarse voice for 4 days. thought maybe bronchitis after zpack still no relief. should i go get checked? possibly tonsillitis?
and had a viral infection which is why you have no response to the z-pak. probably influenza. unlikely to be tonsillitis from your description but it would't hurt to get checked out since you are uncomfortable. your health care provider will be able to give you tips for dealing with viral infections so maybe you can avoid indiscriminate use of antibiotics in the future.
hi dr how can i differentiate between costochondritis and heartburn vs something worse? i have had a normal ekg.
work up involves history and physical exam followed by appropriate tests to rule out each problem. costochondritis can often be diagnosed by exam and heart burn is a common problem sometimes associated with reflux treated with prevention and over the counter meds
hr usually 65-70 i take 50mg atenolol daily. today heart rate 75-82 i have a flu and i'm very congested. is this norma for hr to be higher?
yes completely normal i wouldnt worry about these numbers
have headache stuffy nose swollen glands dizziness chills &sweating. cold or flu? i take lopressor (metoprolol tartrate) for pots/tachycardia. what cold meds should i avoid?
afrin will help with nasal congestion & when used correctly has little systemic effect. the drug alone can only be taken short time or stops working. i suggest u ask physician for prescription of fluticosone propionate which sprayed in nostrils & breathed in once daily can help u to take the meds longer. reasonable to test for flu & take tamiflu if positive. tylenol (acetaminophen) or asa for other symptoms
hi so i've had a chronic cough for a long time and sense october it's been really frequent and i taste blood when i cough and i have been diagnosed with acid reflux. why do i taste blood and my chest hurts as well.
its possible the chronic cough is traumatizing the airway and you indeed are tasting blood. in any event get a workup why the cough allergy severe reflux asthma etc alst take the reflux seriously and start taking medication to reduce acid production. i think you should be in close contact with either your pmd or a gastroenterologist
hey doc i have really bad acid reflux and i have started to experience chest pain dizziness and being light headed. what do you think is going on with that? i get a bad headache with the dizziness and light headed feeling
besides an exam you may require blood work and a scope. one concern is that you are loosing blood which would cause your symptoms. all the best.
hello. i'm a 32 year old female. i have copd so i usually have some chest pain at times and difficulty breathing. currently i'm have a continuous ache in my arm and i've been extremely tired. should i be concerned about a heart attack?
a person with left shoulder or left arm pain without a good reason or explanation should go to her doctor or the e. r. to be checked for a heart attack. that means not waiting at home to see if it becomes a bad heart attack. it could turn out to be a lung problem a bone or muscle problem or an acid reflux problem but the heart attack can kill people. as the saying goes 'better safe than sorry. '
hello so i wanna go to the doctors because i'm having chest pains. but on friday couple of friends wanna go out i probably will drink a little. but?
go t o get checked out today it is 3 days before friday. could be reflux gerd costochondritis asthma as well but may be cardiac and need to check that out. go to er/ urgent care today so you will be well enough friday to go out. .
idk what's wrong w me. im 18 big athlete. hydrated. my hr is very high considering exertion during practice slower hr recovery. still 105bpm 1hr after?
drink alot of gatoraide and get more fluids it should help otherwise see cardiologist
i can feel my heart flutter. as if some1 squized all blood out of my heart and rushed all back in. strted a wek ago. chest pain ysterdy. dsnt hurt usly?
start wi that. could be caffeine meds "meds" thyroid mitral valve prolapse etc. see primary care or cardiologist.
i'm sick i either have bronchitis or pneumonia. is a resting heart rate of 94 normal?
over 100 is considered abnormal but everyone is different. if you take ibuprofen it might settle down a bit. and drink fluids; it's easy to get dehydrated when sick.
i have had a cough for over a week now and it is now hard to breath without coughing. i taste blood a lot too? i take atenolol for fast heart beat
you may have an infection symptoms of asthma or another underlying cause related to your cardiac condition. it would be advisable to see your pcp for an evaluation. if you are producing mucus it may be sent to the lab for analysis. have you had a flu vaccination this year? do you have a fever? testing may also include pulmonary function tests and a chest radiograph to help determine the cause.
if there was fluid build up around my heart due to cancer or blockage would it show in a catscan or x-ray? my heart beat is getting weaker everyday doctors on here telling me to chill? how when i feel my chest being right and beat abornal slow movin
go see a competent dr and get some psychological counseling also
i'm on propranolol 10 and fluexetine 10. what would happen if i took 5xpropranolol 20mg along with 1xfeluoxetine 10 at a time? i'm 28 height 190cm
an overdose (accidental or intentional) of beta blockers might cause dangerously slow heart rate or low blood pressure. if you think you might have taken an overdose seek emergency medical help immediately. if you are thinking about taking an overdose contact your mental health doctor or counsellor or go to an emergency facility.
if you have difficulty breathing/chest tightness from reflux is it possible for it to respond to rescue inhalers. (not sure if i have asthma yet)?
if you do not have asthma a rescue inhaler is unlikely to help you. on the other hand reflux often co-exists with asthma and treating the reflux often reduces the chest symptoms without improving the lung function.
i was diagnosed with pots what is the best time to take fludrocortisone. morning noon afternoon or night and why.
make any difference as to what time you take your medication. it takes almost three weeks or more to reach a steady state with regard to the mineralocorticoid effects of the medication. the key will be to take it at a time that improves your compliance and allows you to avoid missing any doses.
my bp is 79/50 lying down. it stabilizes to 120/80 after sitting up for a few minutes and usually is high when walking around. i have pots but can't get to doc until thursday. any recommendations?
the main question is if you are having any symptoms (dizziness/fatigue/blurry vision) upon standing. this moreso than vital signs usually guides intervention for patients with pots. loss of sympathetic control usually leads to salt/fluid losses which leads to episodes. you must check with your doctor by phone but s/he may suggest increasing salt and fluid intake and upright physical activity
my 14 yo son is having random bouts of chest discomfort and palpitations. recently got over pneumonia. has barky cough head hurts when he coughs?
by an allergist seems that he has reflux may be the cause for the barking cough source of cough needs to be investigated repeated cough can cause headaches chest discomfort and palpitations also needs to be evaluated either by his doctor or a cardiologist
my husband says my heart rate is too high since it rests at about 90-100. is it normal if not how can i fix it? i'm not an excerciser type person i don't have the stamina for it.
may have rapid heartbeats in association with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium and fish oil supplements. low dose beta blockers help control the rate.
palpitations on lupron (leuprolide) for fertility treatment. due to med or to low estrogen>6 skipped beats every minute.?
hot flushes and lack of sleep from the effects of lupron (leuprolide) may be responsible. family history of cardiovascular disease and other symptoms such as fatigue dizziness or chest pain demands that you see your physician asap
pain under my right breast bone. ekg and blood tests were normal. no clotting and enzymes were fine. what could this be?
it may be due to following causes 1costochondritis or chest wall pain 2 gall bladder like cholecystitis gall stones 3esophageal reflux/esophagitis/hiatus hernia 4pleurisy 5pancreatis.
please can you explain what atrial flutter with variable av block compatible with a bundle branch block. possible inferior infarction probably old is?
atrial flutter: your heart rhythm is abnormal (the atria are contracting very rapidly); variable block: there are a variable number of atrial contractions for every ventricular contraction. a bundle branch block: the ecg complex representing each ventricular contraction is widened due to a block of one branch of your heart's conduction system. q waves on the ecg suggest an infarct (? age).
please can you explain what atrial flutter with variable av block compatible with a bundle branch block. possible inferior infarction probably old is?
abnormal ekg suggesting atrial arrhythmia conduction delay and possible old heart attack. talk to a cardiologist please!
please can you explain what atrial flutter with variable av block compatible with a bundle branch block. possible inferior infarction probably old is?
atrial flutter abnormal rhythm of the heart beat. electrical impulses from the atria go thru the av node to ventricles. when there is blockage of those transmissions it can vary in degree and regularity. it can be difficult to differentiate from a bundle branch block. an inferior infarction is damage to the bottom of the heart by blockage of flow thru a coronary artery and occurred long ago.
should i worry if i'm constantly having an increase in heart rate and chest pain? could it be deadly or will i be fine.
may have rapid heartbeats in association with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
strong heart fluttering on right and left side of left breast. happens off and on about every other day or so been going on for awhile and i'm only 35?
cut out all caffeinated products if it persists see a cardiologist for a holter monitor
strong heart fluttering on right and left side of left breast. happens off and on about every other day or so been going on for awhile and i'm only 35?
this may be from anxiety or from a cardiac problem. although at your age the latter is less likely you should still need to get this checked out to make sure that it is not something more serious.
sir. my heart rate became less 45 & love b/p 150/65 ple give remedy.? & i am walking daily morning 45 minutes evening 30 minutes.
if you were symptomatic meaning : felt weak tired dizzy. flushed when you had this low heart rate and if you are on a betablocker or calcium channel blockers( medication ending in 'lol' or 'pine' or cardizem. have your primary doc lower the dosage. if this persists have him refer you to a cardiologist for thourough cardiac eval.
septic pneumonia 1 yr ago. w/ heart valves infected. now abnormal ekg w/ daily heart fluttering. could it be residual or perhaps the start of actual serious heart condition? see cardio dr next mo.
your cardiologist a call you might need an echo or an earlier appt to see him or her
since this morning intermittent flutter/twitch just below ribs left side. heart rate normal and strong. no pain but sometimes feel out of breath.
you should feel your pulse. if it's regular then it's not atrial fibrillation. however it could be atrial flutter. furthermore it could be premature ventricular contractions. i would suggest an ekg tsh and basic labs to start.
since this morning intermittent flutter/twitch just below ribs left side. heart rate normal and strong. no pain but sometimes feel out of breath.
with no more history than you provided can only say you definitely need evaluation er
stress ekg/ultrasound/ekg normal. 24hr monitor normal w/occasional pac's/pvc's. lately having stronger flutters at night. are pac's pvc's normal?
virtually all adults have them. they tend to come and go. be sure you're avoiding caffeine and nicotine getting plenty of sleep avoiding stress to the extent you're able not having diarrhea or vomiting or excessive sweating that can upset your electrolytes. if you're bothered enough to want to take a daily medicine there are meds that will help.
what besides thyroid can cause light head fluttering in chest hot an cold sweats an excess tiredness? i'm on med for low tsh.
b"sd if being on a med for "low tsh" means treatment with an antithyroid drug for hyperthyroidism then the first concern is your thyroid status as this requires frequent monitoring. thyroid function will change depending on the dose and effectiveness of the medication and the course of the underlying thryoid disease. challenging even for the best of us endocrine specialists - contact yours!
what are the treatment options for a small but recurrent (3 recurrences) idiopathic pericardial effusion which was already 2x the cause of fainting?
most invasive treatment: surgical pericardial stripping of pericardium. pericard window less invas. organs in abd r 2x wrapped so ext wrap unneces. first question:? reason for inflamation. many etiologies: fluid & poss biopsy needed for dx. infection requires antibiotics rheumatoid & nonspec treated with long tappering dose of anti-inflammatory drug. recurrent reuires more invasive treatment.
what would cause the plaque in heart arteries to suddenly rupture then form a clot then cause a heart attack? what are the reasons behind rupturing? thank you.
the plaque is fluffy and unstable and it can be sheared by the blood flow. statins will help stabilize it.
what could cause pain between lower breasts? is that considered chest pain
we may generally term this "dyspepsia". some possibilities for you specifically may include reflux gastritis stomach ulcer duodenitis duodenal ulcer or an issue with your gallbladder or pancreas.
what causes pain between lower breasts? is that still considered chest pain?
between the lower breast is the lower 1/3 of the sternum and the xiphoid process. pain in this area can be from the stomach - gastritis acid reflux. it can be from bone/cartilage - costochondritis (which can be caused by injury and even stress/anxiety). this one isn't dangerous but can be painful. is the pain worse when you breath deep? does it hurt to press in that area?
when i eat food my throat tightens badly seemingly from being twisted by a motility disorder. i also get chain spasms and chest pain. no acid reflux.
you may suffer from spasms of the esophagus that may require further evaluation by your internist
when i eat food my throat tightens badly seemingly from being twisted by a motility disorder. i also get chain spasms and chest pain. no acid reflux.
sounds like you may have achalasia diffuse esophageal spasm or nutcracker esophagus. see your dr for motility studies as this can be treated with meds.
how long does the side effect of coughing last after i stop taking coreg (carvedilol)?
this should get better within a few days but it may take upto a couple of weeks. if not better should consider other causes of cough such as other drugs reflux allergies etc.
hi. just had a endoscopy and a colonoscopy on thursday last week. feeling very hot and sweaty. went to market on sat. dizzy almost fainted. sweaty?
you may be a little d hydrated after having an anesthetic i would drink plenty of fluids and the condition should settle down
having fluttering/ palpitation feeling upper stomach no chest pain but it's very uncomfortable lasts about a minute. happens more when laying down?
eliminate caffeine and speak to your family doctor about a holter monitor to rule out significant arrythmias from the heart
having fluttering/ palpitation feeling upper stomach no chest pain but it's very uncomfortable lasts about a minute. happens more when laying down?
given your age the most likely cause is heartburn. try taking maalox or mylanta. if there are any family heart problems or if you feel dizzy lightheaded with or heavy sensation in chest like crushing or something sitting on chest and cant breath that is more likely cardiac. i would see your doc for an ekg to r/o irreg heartrate like atrial fibrillation
have had chest pain/burping all day. painful gurgling left side of chest. echo stress chest ct this year. all came back normal. could it be heart?
most common causes of chest pain in your age bracket are gastroesphageal reflux or musculoskeletal pain. belching common symptom of gerd. can cause change in appetite or difficulty swallowing? further workup of pain can include upper gastrointestinal series endoscopy of esophagus and stomach etc. most of time gerd helped with proper medications. heart can cause pain but in your case ruled out.
had 24 hr ecg in jan all normal getting horrible feeling in chest scared of sudden cardiac arrest can i develop arrythmia?
the absence of more detailed information (age duration of symptoms triggers etc) makes it impossible to provide a meaningful answer. nonetheless if 24 hr monitor was normal one needs to consider acid reflux as a potential cause for your symptoms. see doctor again.
have tightness and pressure on left side of chest gets worse when driving and feel out of breath sometimes get pvcs have digestion problems?
there are many things that can give you pain like that: pulled muscle reflux ulcer pneumonia? gallbladder? or even heart issues. especially if you are getting pvcs you should get it looked at by an md
hi doctor i am having random chest pains that last about 3 to 4 seconds i have acid reflux could this be a result of that?
going to your emergency department and getting checked out. hopefully it is reflux and there are natural treatments for that. see doc to be sure for peace of mind. peace and good health.
have small hh constant chest pressure and sob when i lay down. ruled out heart do have reflux. im on ppi can it still be caused by gerd and hernia?
non cardiac related chest pain and pressure requires a thorough evaluation including upper endoscopy and often manometric studies of the esophagus. high amplitude esophageal spasms can cause severe chest pain and this is often confused with chest pain from a cardiac etiology. since you cardiac work-up is normal this should be investigated further by your gastroenterologist.
having pain in chest when swallowing food/drinks for ~week. saw doc & prescribed heart burn meds but isn't helping. pain seems more constant now. ?
if the pain is coming from your esophagus because of reflux from your stomach make sure you take some liquid antacid which will neutralize the acid on the way down to your stomach. if the pain is coming from your stomach food of any sort will initially help. ulcers can be treated with 2 antibiotics and an antacid in about 5-6 weeks. if not better u may need gastroscopy. good luck.
high wbc 12. 9 high neutrophils %91. 9 low lymphocytes% 2. 3 in hosp. for vomiting and diarrhea fainting. er said they didn't know why. help?
gastroenteritis: typically presents with vomiting diarrhea and diffuse cramping abdominal pain. those can cause severe dehydration that can cause the patient to faint. slight increase in wbc cld be seen. in most cases patients are treated with iv fluids to replenish their hydration status while it settles down on its own. sometimes antibiotics are needed. for specifics consult your doctor.
have lupus & pots. having low blood pressures lightheaded nightsweats extreme nigttime polyuria. md ordered 24 hr urine sodium collection. why?
excreting less than 124 mmol per 24 hours of sodium in the urine predicts if you will respond favorably to salt supplementation. one also is advised to increase fluid intake to prevent the bp from dropping and the heart rate from rising ( typically above 120 b/m ) upon standing. if sodium is excreted in larger amounts chances are other therapies will be needed ( b blockers fludrocortisone etc )
how to reduce facial edmea and belly bloat when i have to be on very high sodium diet and florinef (fludrocortisone) for pots syndrome?
have you told your doctor about these symptoms? you may be able to get away with lowering your sodium or florinef (fludrocortisone) dose. propranolol and midodrine can be helpful for some people with pots without those side effects. are you using compression stockings? that can be helpful as well. good luck!
how profound are sibelium side effects? like how much weight can we expect to gain in 3 months from it and how bad is the weakness?
sibelium is indicated to prophylax migraines & to treat vestibular vertigo. the drug's safety is not established in pregnancy & it is contraindicated in patients with depression parkinson's or known hypersensitivity to flunarizine. it may lead to drowsiness particularly when taken with alcohol or cns depressants. may also lead to progressive fatigue galactorrhea & drug-drug interactions.
i've noticed that during my period my heart rate is slower than during ovulation. ovulation in the 80s during period low 60s upper 50s. reason?
physiological changes during these times along with hormonal changes that can affect your heart rate. fluid retention results in cardiac hemodynamic changes that can also affect your heart rate. basal body temperature changes can also play a role. its a complex physiological process optimized by evolution over millions of years that results in efficient reproduction.
i have tachycardia when standing up and my blood pressure spikes. what could this be? usually the blood pressure drops in pots but mine rises.
normal when you stand up your bp should go up along with slight increase in heart rate. tachycardia is not normal and may simply be due to dehydration(try drinking more fluids! ) or deconditioning. you may do well with a supervised exercise program! hope this is helpful' dr z
i'm experiencing soreness and tightness in my lower throat back of neck and upper chest. no cough and am breathing fine. not reflux?
does the throat soreness and tightness occur with swallowing. does this and the upper chest tightness occur with exercise or stress. are the symptoms continuous or intermittent. what is your age. do the symptoms occur at night when you are laying down. are they associated with eating or with specific foods. how long has this been going on?
i'm experiencing soreness and tightness in my lower throat back of neck and upper chest. no cough and am breathing fine. not reflux?
the first thing i would consider is the beginning of a viral upper respiratory tract infection with nasal congestion and some cough to follow. treatment consists of rest drinking adequate fluids gargling with warm salt water or sucking on lozenges. if sore throat persists or worsens a throat culture to check for strep(which is treated with antibiotics) is indicated. discuss this with your md.
i have anorexia and my resting heart rate varies from app. 40-135bpm. i'm 160cm and weigh 43 kilos. what does that mean and should i be concerned?
hello i would recommend you to go to nearest emergency room if you started having dizziness and fainting episodes. your heart rate variability suggest to me that you are having orthostatic hypotension. please start drinking plenty of fluid eat as much as you can your bmi is 16. 79 which is very concerning. please seek professional help right away!
i have a cold and heavy dry cough. chest pain when breathing ans shallow breathing and left shoulder blade pain when coughing. very lethargic?
have a viral infection. rest fluids and analgesics. if your symptoms do not resolve in 48-72 hours make an appointment with a health care provider for thorough evaluation.
i'm taking propranolol 5ml plus 2. 5ml twice day everyday for anxiety aswell as i take ranitidine for acid reflux twice a day everyday for the past few weeks are these medications ok to take together?
that is a common combination
i'm itching i have a cough and a tight chest. i also feel very week. could this be the flu? if not what could it be? it's been going on a week now
like it could be the flu. if symptoms persist it would be reasonable to see your health care provider for an evaluation.
my son is 5 and has high fever since monday started z pac on tuesday eve but still has fever how long before we can see the improvemet?
zithromax is known to work slowly give it another 24 hours if he still febrile & if the fever is 101 & above contact his doctor make sure to control the fever with tylenol (acetaminophen) or ibuprofen & luke warm bathing. keep him hydrated with plenty of fluids. i hope he feels better soon. just wondering can your 5 yr old swallow tablets? why is he on z pak when it is available in suspension? . good luck.
my potassium level is 3. 2. taking prepopik tomorrow for colonoscopy mon. morning. i'm nervous about k loss & arrhythmias. should i be worried?
your potassium is slightly low. prepopik usually will not worsen hypokalemia significantly. i would drink some pedialyte during the prep. remember that good fluid intake will give you a better bowel cleansing
my resting heart rate is up to 98 bpm right now. i am a 38 year old woman. i'm dehydrated from being stomach sick today. i also usually drink wine at this time of day and have not had any today. should i be worried? my normal heart rate is usually in the
as much as you can tolerate. drink most clear liquids such as water ginger-ale lemonade and/or diluted fruit juice such as apple pear or white grape juice. ginger has been used for centuries for treatment of stomach ailments; ginger-ale or ginger tea containing real ginger. chamomile and peppermint tea can also be soothing. get yourself hydrated or you may need to have iv fluids.
my father 72 diagnosed af after a big stroke. i get heart fluttering regularly. should i get checked? in the uk its hard to get referrals from the gp!
first is about the atrial fib in the father. atrial fib is a risk for stroke that is reducible with various blood thinners. then. mostly it wouldn't be hereditary. a holter monitor would determine if there is a serious arrhythmia. its useful mainly when tehre isn't a problem to be a first step in counseling anxiety treatment.
my heart rate ranges from 41-120 on the average day. only noticed bc of iwatch! flutuates constantly- not exercising: is this normal?
at rest without any excitement it should not be 120 best to be checked
my blood pressure is low. 90/60 close to that. i have fainted on occasion. it was suggested that i eat a lot of salt. i feel dizzy when i stand up.
could be low blood volume in which more salt and water will retain fluid and bring up blood pressure but could be heart problem see a cardiologist get labs too be sure not anemic and not low thyroid or other.
medication reaction? extremely high bp with crying. strong pulses in head that made me cough and have dry heaves. vomit 3rd. started lamictal ystrday
up to 20% of people can can have nausea &vomiting and that alone could cause the high blood pressure as part of the stress reaction. i don't know if you took your blood pressure but symptoms of headache or migraine may also occur. although it can happen high bp itself is very uncommon though. call prescribing doc immed. try 1/2 strength gatoraide. if not able to take fluid go to er.
moms bp was high & pulse around 50 meds started as given by dr but still its fluctuating. she is 73yrs. given telma 40 & 20 & cilacar 5mg. are these ok!
hypertension and still not controlled with medication. it is desired that pulse rate up to 60 and bp medication side effect appears to be dragging the pulse rate down. talk to her doctor may be some other kind of medications can be tried for better control and at the same time keep the pulse rate higher.
postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. bp 94/50-120/80. would fludocortisone bring my bp up? male 22.
in pots your body does not adjust your blood pressure adequately when you stand up (and your heart has to fight gravity to keep blood going to your head). fludrocortisone helps keep your blood volume higher by making you retain more salt and water so you are less likely to suffer symptoms from your pots.
postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. bp 94/50-120/80. would fludocortisone bring my bp up? male 22.
that is what it is designed to do.
please help chest pain overnight and all day im getting nervous over it is it vascular? i reel like having heart attack. normal 2decho ecg stress test
thing by excluding the serious condition that can endanger your life. the next step is to exclude other non cardiac causes of chest pain including acid reflux disease and anxiety disorder like panic attack. talk to your pcp and he may help you or refer you to psychiatrist. good luck.
postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. after eating faster heart rate. will fludocortisone help with this? does it increase blood volume?
it may and you need to have small meals avoid large meals.
please tell me could a sinus infection cause heart palpitations?
any kind of infection can cause heart palpitations. the most common reasons for palpitations associated with infections include fever and dehydration. treatment of the infection and adequate rest and fluids are helpful in preventing palpitations. some sinus medications (those with pseudophed) can also cause or worsen palpitations and should be avoided if palpitations are present.
pressure in my sternum and feel like i need to throw up. hiatel hernia and anxiety. possible flu. ekg and bloodwork normal.
gastroesophageal reflux. initial treatment is medical management with acid reducers and prokinetic agents. if this is not successful with relieving symptoms or there are cell changes on endoscopy you might even need endoscopic or surgical procedure to correct this problem. ask your gi specialist for specific recommendations.
pressure in my sternum and feel like i need to throw up. hiatel hernia and anxiety. possible flu. ekg and bloodwork normal.
this could easily be anxiety especially from your real condition of hiatal hernia. you've got some significant symptoms especially the back pain which can be many things like a tear in your esophageal-gastric lining or the beginnings of an ulcer or pancreatitis. it would be wise to see your doctor to talk of stress relief diet change and to rule out a serious issue like those mentioned.
past month random red hot hands then go back to cold at times hurts also hot flushes hot red face. see neurologist or cardiologist or other dr?
it would be prudent to see your gynecologist first just to make sure these symptoms are not due to early menopause. s/he may refer you to another specialist as may be appropriate e. g. rheumatologist.
palpitations/nausea/tachycardia (especially standing/after meals/after waking up) weak toes turn red/hot when standing. whats wrong? doc doesn't know
given the symptoms you describe a 24 hour (holter) cardiac monitor or a blood pressure monitor would be useful in helping to determine the cause of your symptoms. it may be that you have a significant fluctuation in your heart rate or blood pressure that a monitor would help define.
stress/ekg/echo/holter normal. occasional pvc's/pac's. heart thumps/flutters when eating spicy foods followed by a big burp. is this normal?
we all experience occasional pvc and apcs. multiple caises and usually benign.
sensation in left side of chest similar to when you get really startled. ekg stress test enzymes and xray all good. 21 active. heart? life threat?
there are many conditions that cause chest sensations. you are young and healthy so heart disease is unlikely. this is most likely chest wall pain or reflux. that being said it is good you got checked out. if your symptoms change or worsen or if you develop new concerning symptoms call your doctor. hope this helps!
should i use saline water to increase my sodium level. i have hep c n cirohsis. am on diuretic?
the reason your sodium is low is because of an imbalance between the amount of fluid and the amount of sodium in your body. for instance your total sodium may be normal but your body fluid may be high thus making the concentration low. you need to see your md to advise you on the appropriate treatment.
should i use saline water to increase my sodium level. i have hep c n cirohsis. am on diuretic?
you have to understand that the low sodium levels seem with persons with cirrhosis that is related to abnormalities in the kidney's handling of water and sodium. you don't want to consume more sodium in this case as it may worsen fluid retention. you will need to be careful about how much electrolyte free water you take in. the exact restriction is best determined between you and your doctor.
some people experience palps after eating heavy meals that are rich in carb sugar fat high level of msg nitrates & sodium (webmd. com). why could?
carbs and sugar effect changes in insulin and blood sugar levels which when abnormal can cause palpitations. smg and sodium causes salt and fluid retention high blood pressure and heart failure with palpitations. nitrates cause asthma and allergies in some. i'm not aware of fat causing immediate palpitations.
sometimes there's a flutter near my throat & when i take pulse heart beat feel weaker & has pause then return to normal. benign? routine ecg is ok.
a device that you can wear for 1-3 days that records variations in your heart throughout the day and night can define what is happening and the cardiologist who reads it can tell whether it is normal. everyone's heart rate varies to some degree. your physician or the cardiologist with whom he consults can arrange this
since weening off propranolol 160mg for anxiety/headaches ive suffered with acid reflux. will this stop when ive completly come off propranolol?
propranolol doesn't treat or prevent acid reflux. the issues are unrelated and their timing is coincidental. try one of the many over the counter acid reflux treatments and avoid eating within 2 hours of bedtime even water. keep your meals smallish.
so why if you read study's from cardiac mri's the normal values fluctuate so much? for instance one study said normal rv-edv:150ml average and another study said average 260ml. has this something to do with imaging techniques or with calculations?
it could be variations in the imaging technique the accuracy of the mri type the protocol used the cooperation or fluid status of the patient the software used or formulas used to calculate the volumes the preparation of the images or the interpreter doing the mri reading among several other things. this is why the results must be taken into context with the reason for ordering the test.
suffering extreme aniexty every time i stand feel sick dizzy like i'm trapped under water heart rate increases should i be worried?
need examination. orthostasis should be checked and full pe. drink plenty of fluids
sinus surgery 3wks ago. running fever sore throat aches heart beating fast. dr said not strep or flu. could it be from surgery? debride once a week
you may have contracted a cold which can cause the symptoms described. however if the fever is over 103 degree then i would suspected an infection. a rare bit problem from surgery may be a sponge left behind causing an infection. if the problem gets worse or lasts >a few days you need to check with the surgeon again and perhaps even insist on an imaging study on the sinus.
sitting at computer and felt a flutter in chest. i assumed palpitation. i immediately checked pulse in neck andwas no strong beat just weak stutter.
if you have not recently had a physical you might want to talk to your family doctor first. if physical causes are ruled out you might want to consider short-term counseling to develop skills to manage stress if you and your doctor agree that stress is the culprit.
this is worrying. why is my heart fluttering so much?
may be as simple as too much caffeine. but if this is happening a great deal would recommend you see your doctor.
these are a few of my symptoms for the last 3 months body rash including itchy skin tachycardia afib flushed hot feeling running through blood muscle aches diarrhea and tenderness below breast bone. what could it be?
when a wide range of symptoms affecting more than one body area occur endocrine or neurological issues come to mind. i would recommend an internist or an endocrinologist evaluation.
these are a few of my symptoms for the last 3 months body rash including itchy skin tachycardia afib flushed hot feeling running through blood muscle aches diarrhea and tenderness below breast bone. what could it be?
these are non specific complaints with a broad differential diagnosis. such as viral infection hodgkin's lymphoma thyroid dysfunction etc. you need a comprehensive work up asap!
these are a few of my symptoms for the last 3 months body rash including itchy skin tachycardia afib flushed hot feeling running through blood muscle aches diarrhea and tenderness below breast bone. what could it be?
than one issue. i'm sure your physician has checked multiple labs including the thyroid and electrolytes. the rash is hard to tie to the afib. diarrhea and body heat. say you have high stress and poor sleep; then menopause sx's. anxiety can affect bowel and cause rashes. no diagnosis high stress. cymbalta (duloxetine) helps anxiety hot flashes pain and a sleep med may help. treat during w/u sum sx may imp.
this may sound silly but the back of my legs are really burned and i have a resting heart rate of about 105 bpm laying down. should i worry?
when we have a first degree burn as in a non-blistered sunburn our blood moves to our skin - which makes it warm and also depletes our central blood volume. we then feel thirsty and our heart rate increases. you will likely feel better if you drink fluid to increase your overall blood volume. be careful about standing up too quickly; you could get dizzy. see your doctor if there's concern.
what medication would you recommend for silent reflux for a patient with prolonged qt. i know ppis are questionable with long qt. ?
pepcid ac or zantac (ranitidine) will be choices
what does" pseudonormal (moderate )pattern of lv diastolic filling mean? " i have a mod-large pericardial effusion.
this means that the fluid around the heart is preventing the heart from fully expanding prior to the next squeeze. they call it pseudonormal meaning that it is not affecting the overall heart function. hope this helps.
why do you think my facial puffiness went down when i started florinef (fludrocortisone) and salt to help retain sodium for pots. i would have thought it would worsen?
do not be worried - be pleased that your facial puffiness went down.
why does too much salt cause me to have skipped beats / heart palpitations?
salt per se shouldn't precipitate palpitations although it can raise the blood pressure. to affect heart action it would have to cause fluid retention which could put strain on a weak heart but not one with healthy heart and kidneys. caffeine nicotine and alcohol can induce palpitations however.
would it be ideal to do a pericardial window when one has a mod-lg pericardial effusion along w/ left shoulder/blade arm neck chest & back pain.
most importantly the cause of effusion needs determination; a window procedure offer symptom relief and opportunity to secure fluid and tissue for lab analysis as a diagnostic exercise as well as relief of symptoms
hi. i'm 27 weeks pregnant and have had a cough for 3 days. i'm starting to cough up yellow mucus and my chest hurts when i cough. need antibiotics?
would follow up with doc urgent care. there is a degree of immunocompormised state during pregnancy and it seems as your cough is worsening so some might consider antibiotics like z pak (azithromycin) if not allergic. also have them check for reflux which can precipitate /exacerbate coughing and is common in pregnancy.
heart flutters after eating food. already have a heart murmur beats more prominent?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. ><link>
have lupus both &pots. waking up lightheaded lethargic with low bps of 90/50s-60s despite florinef (fludrocortisone) & high salt diet. might midodrine be an option?
florinef (fludrocortisone) to a higher dose using support stockings and sleeping with the head of the bed elevated might be beneficial. midodrine or droxydopa could be considered. review your options with your health care provider.
hey i have minor chest pain in the mornings sometimes a heavy feeling no cough no cold or flu previously ah cold about ah month ago no fever no chills?
if i was seeing you in a clinical setting i would first be asking you many questions to make sure that you were not someone who was highly likely to be having a heart or lung issue. even if unlikely i would still be likely to obtain an ekg. if you passed the first screening questions and ekg was normal most likely explanation for your problem is mucus congestion. also consider gerd allergy
hey i never get sick and i have never had a medical issue i now sometimes get ah little chest pain in the upper left side of my chest have no signs of a flu no headache no fever no cough i had a cold about ah month ago and a half ago but nothing else i al
in general we are going to take chest pain seriously and advise evaluation. you don't want to miss something important. an otherwise healthy young woman with chest pain could be evaluated further by going through a detailed history of the symptoms. sometimes tests may help. consider seeing a doctor or discussing with one here on healthtap.
have hyperkalemia issues (low aldosterone) and multiple doctors in nj keep stopping arb instead of correcting with florinef (fludrocortisone). which specialist can help?
endocrinologist
how dangerous is a pericardial window. also how dangerous is getting put under. thanks?
pericardial window is performed to drain fluid accumulated around the heart ( blood serous pericarditis) as it builds up constricts the heart and prevents normal filing of the cavities. on inspiration the pulse amplitude decreases the heart is pumping empty and on expiration the pulse amplitude improves. the drainage depending of the severity can be done with a large bore needle or live an underwater drain and the patient stay in the icu until the drainage reduces in volume and the hemodynamics are normal. this procedure is frequently performed in the er post cardiac surgery post viral infections or post mi.
hi and thx in advance for your support. i've visited a cardiologist within the year due to heart flutters. i had heart flutter today and then racing. ?
heart rate you need to see the cardiologist again and get a holter monitor.
hi! would an echocardiogram detect an abnormal heartbeat or arrhythmia? i had one done within the year but still get random flutter and heart racing
the examination of your heart begins with observation auscultation of your heart tones and palpation. arrhythmia or abnormal heartbeat will be detected by your pulse examination electrocardiogram (ekg) and then by further investigation with holtor monitor or zio patch your cardiologist can detect arrhythmia that is sporadic. echocardiogram can detect flow valve and structural/size problems
hi! would an echocardiogram detect an abnormal heartbeat or arrhythmia? i had one done within the year but still get random flutter and heart racing
the echo is performed for cardiac morphology such as are the valve leaking do i have a cardiac shunt and how well is the muscle contracting. the ekg measures the electrical activity of the heart usually the patient wears a device for 24 hrs. and the recording is analyzed in the lab. go back to your cardiologist and request a holter monitoring after the assessment therapy can be provided m
how do you know if heart flutters followed by racing heart for a few minutes is due to anxiety?
it can be due to anxiety but can also be due to thyroid disease electrolyte abnormalities or an underlying abnormal heart rhythms so would followup with doc/ cardiologist for ekg. holter echocardiogram.
hospitalist said need cath: av block biatrial enlargement& cardiac insufficiency. heart dr. won’t cath due to my low bp. should i get second opinion?
a cardiac cath is a very safe procedure but there are potential risks including fluid overload ? attack & shock. this is a catch 22/
heart palpitations for no reason. dangerous? just sitting in bed and felt heart start fluttering for five minutes. no history heart problems. help!
take this seriously. there are various types of abnormal heart rhythms. you need cardiogram and likely a monitor. some arrhythmias are serious. paroxsysmal supra ventricular tachycardia may begin like this but get slowly worse. some of these are due to genetic disorders. some are due to thyroid disease or toxicities such as caffeine. cardiologists are plumbers or electricians. you need an electri
heart palpitations for no reason. dangerous? just sitting in bed and felt heart start fluttering for five minutes. no history heart problems. help!
everyone gets them on occasion. if they become constant and annoying there is medication to get rid of them. if it lasted for 5 mins. and has not recurred nothing needs to be done.
how does what you eat affect your chest/ breathing. i can't tell which it is but something feels uncomfortable when i breathe in at times. i had an ekg & pulmonary function test done. the doctor said i was fine. trying to think of other options.
i suggest an abdominal ultrasound and tests for gerd. you can empirically start otc prilosec nexium (esomeprazole) or zegerid; however you will need to be examined and evaluated for reflux gastritis and h. pylori disease. please call your physician and also ask for an abdominal ultrasound.
i'm a high level athlete. hr increases from 85-125 laying down to standing. but then after about 30 seconds recovers down to 105-110. is this pots?
yes see cardiologist to be sure if goes 40 beats higher for your age from lying to standing true but be sure not low blood volume dehydration drink more salty fluids and volume of water get ekg still for athlete should have lower heart rate like 50-60's be sure not anemic get labs thyroid cbc iron levels cmp.
i have what i think is a yeast infection. what's safer to take diflucan or zpack. worried about qt interval side effects. i do take atenolol daily. ?
commonly in women and refers to a yeast overgrowth in the vagina. if you are referring to a fungal infection in the groin you would treat that with a topical agent like lotrimen which would have no bearing on qt issues. oral agents would not be indicated and zpack is for bacteria not fungus. you need to see a health care provider for an accurate diagnosis and treatment.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (better by: anti-inflammatory medication antacids) (quality: burning or stinging) (side: left) (worsened by: pressing on chest taking deep breaths) (severity: mild) feeling anxious (worsened by: emotional str
this is probably pleurisy or chest wall pain. continue with fluids and ibuprofen. this should improve in a week. if fever cough then get checked. also be seen if symptoms worsen while treating.
is it possible to have atrial flutter when on ppm? (dual chamber ppm for complete heart block range 60-150 bpm). what will happened in that scenario?
control atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. pacemakers do one thing only and that is make slow hearts go faster. some pacemakers have special tachycardia recognition and pacing treatments which may help control atrial arrhythmias but it is entirely possible to have atrial flutter with a pacemaker. if programmed well this should not be an issue. if not you might experience fast heart beats.
i am experiencing dizziness (better by: drinking fluids rest) (worsened by: changing head position dehydration (fluid loss) exercise or physical.
new onset of dizziness requires medical evaluation. you could have dehydration labrinthitis (inner ear infection) or benign vertigo. but it could be something more worrisome. seek a consultation with healthtap prime your primary doctor or an urgent care.
i took one dose of tamiflu and side effects are horrible. irregular heartbeat sweats lips feel swollen but are not edgy hb races when i stand up. ?
some people can not tolerate tamiflu. you are one of them. please never try it again. any flu required a lot of fluids and many otc medication can be helpful. i always tell my patient about this terrible side effect of tamiflu when prescribing this medicine.
i have a benign aorta arrhythmia. for the past 2 days when i get the skip and the beat it is followed by a warm flush sensation in my groin.
can result in variable blood pressures. the resultant compensatory mechanisms of the vasculature could result in this sensation. doubtful this is anything to worry about.
i have a 2nd degree av block type 1 and for few days i've had a fluttery feeling in my chest & stop and start feeling. i'm scared my heart will stop?
if you have been told that you have a normal heart (the conduction defect is fairly common and generally not harmful as a "stand alone" finding. you still have a powerful heart beat producer in your ventricles if complete heart block ever occurs! hope this is helpful dr z
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (better by: anti-inflammatory medication antacids rest) (quality: burning or stinging) (side: left) (.
it sounds like you might have gerd (gastro-esophageal reflux) wherein some of your stomach contents goes back up into your esophagus. the laymen's term for it is "heartburn" though it has nothing to do with the heart. simplest way to confirm that is to get a bottle of a liquid antacid and gulp it down (1 -2 capfulls) as soon as it happens again and if u get almost immediate relief voila.
is tamiflu safe for heart patients? i have brugada syndrome
i am glad your brugada got recognized
is supraventricular ectopic beats flurry of extremely fast beats in 6-8 inbetween beats? dont get often! none on betablockers cardio said "normal"true?
friends if they experience the same symptoms. if more than 5 do it might be "normal. " the fact that beta blockers suppress them should suggest to you that they are not normal otherwise at least some of the ten would also be on beta blockers to suppress their "normal" beats. i think you need to have them defined (diagnosed) and then treated. beta blockers can be a treatment but ep could be cure.
is this an accurate description of nonsustained ventricular tachy an extremely fast flurry beats lasting <3-10secs without symptoms few times a year?
the definition is three or more ventricular beats faster than 120 bpm. unfortunately what you describe could be atrial fibrillation atrial tachycardia atrial flutter or any of a number of other arrhythmias. nonsustained=not lasting ventricular=coming from the ventricle tachycardia=fast heart beat.
i have fluctuating oxygen readings. at the er on the monitor and at home on my pulse ox. what would cause this? i am scared some bad going to happen.
unless you have airway obstruction or intermittent asthma the likeliest cause of fluctuating oxygen saturation is that you hold your breath as it's being checked (this is very common! ) as your mother perhaps used to remind you "don't forget to breathe! "
my mother has irregular heartbeats and takes fluid tables (plus loads more). is there a chance i could get this? ive had a ecg but that came out fine.
but i suspect you are hinting that your mother has "heart failure" thereby taking "loads of pills" including water pills and has an arrhythmia from scar and/or an enlarged heart. therefore a resting ecg alone is no guarantee that there is not a genetic form of heart failure here. therefore i recommend finding out exactly your mothers diagnosis and then if it's hereditary see a cardiologist.
my 5 1/2 yr old son has complained this last week that his heart is beating fast. he did have strep throat the week before and was on amoxicillin. when i take his pulse for 10 secs and multiply by 6. it's been anywhere from 85-120. he feels this rapid
this is a normal heart rate for a 5 and half years old child. now a common reason for fast heart rate in children is fever common colds and dehydration. children tend to drink and eat less when they are not feeling well and eventually become dehydrated. make sure that your child had adequate fluid intake control fever if any with tylenol (acetaminophen). if the problem persist then consult with his doctor
my neuromd diagnosed me w/ pots (postural orthostatic tachycardia)syndrome. i told by primary care md & he put postural dizziness in my chart. same?
they're not the same but do share certain features particularly the fact that both are improved by liberalizing salt and fluid administration.
my son has the flu. his pulse is 140 and rapid breathing. he has asthma so im a little concerned?
sounds like he has developed some respiratory complications which can be serious in flu. i almost lost a 3 yo last year to flu pneumonia the first in 30+ years of practice but it does happen. get moving.
my son has the flu. his pulse is 140 and rapid breathing. he has asthma so im a little concerned?
you should be! options: 1: call your son's pediatrician. 2: take your son to the emergency facility if the pediatrician can't fit him in. all should go well but it might take a day or two.
middle sharp chest pain gradually getting worse especially if stressed or upset. ?
most likely is reflux can try over the counter ranitidine or prevecid and see if helps. avoid energy drinks caffeine alcohol smoking spicy foods. also check for h pylori a bacteria that sometimes complicates reflux. alternatives includes gallbladder rarely in a young person cardiac due to spasm or structural abnormality. f/u/ w/ doc
please explain why does my heart beat harder when i inhale?
respiratory activity influences venous return to the heart. briefly increasing the rate and depth of respiration promotes venous return and therefore enhances cardiac output. non-typical respiratory activity such as being on positive pressure ventilation or doing a forced expiration against a closed glottis (valsalva maneuver) impedes and therefore reduces venous return and cardiac output.
please explain compensated heart failure/ dilated cardiomyopathy.
hello with heart failure heart is not able to pump enough blood forward so the rest goes back to lungs abdomen and legs. legs get swollen and lungs get filled with fluid. we tell patients to restrict fluid and salt intake and also pee out extra fluid out with medications. this will dry them or compensated stage. decompensated stage is fluid overloaded stage. this fluid balance defines them.
please tell me will stress and anxiety cause months long of daily heart flutters in a 19 year old?
need to be ruled out before considering this as the primary cause for these symptoms.
palpitations from anxiety per doctor. seem to be more severe lately. entire chest seems to flutter. also worse on exhaling after deep breath. normal?
any kind of abnormal heart rate or rhythm should be get evaluated by the doctor asap. get an appointment with your primary care doctor now and have a thorough evaluation.
pain in back of head on right side right at the base of head/neck. worse w alcohol. also right sided facial flushing heart palps and random sob?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
palpitations & sharp left chest pain & random sharp left nipple stabbing pains. pain- 2/3months nipple pain - 1 month. palpitations 4+ years help?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
palpitations are now all over body. can feel them in stomach back throat lighter on chest though. throat bit sore is all of this my reflux?
reflux can lead to discomfort & if you're stressed about it you may have palpitations. an investigation of palpitations will generally include a 24-hour holter study to try to "catch" an episode which is generally easier if the episodes are frequent. it can also be helpful if you count your pulse during the episodes. we approach episodes with a hr of 240 differently from ones with a hr of 120.
prilosec and heart flutters. any correlation? thinking back this is when they started right after i started on this med! i stopped taking them a wk ago
but of course anything is possible. if the palps persist check with your doc it might be something else
pvc s w/low dizziness bp fluctuates 120/80-140/90 hr 75-90. heart is good seen cardio. slgt earache. 2 y ago could read fin print now wear rding glasses?
as you approach 50 it's normal to lose near vision and require non-prescription reading glasses. this is due to the normal aging process and you can't prevent it but you can pick up some terrific lightweight magnifiers at walmart for about six bucks. bp's normal. everyone has pvcs. sorry about your ear.
sons sick with a 104 temp. 157bpm heart rate is that normal for now? should i be concerned. also anything else to help with fever other then cvs drop
with flu going around. . best advice is to get child checked out asap.
sudden flutter in the centre of the chest sometimes once or twice a day. i had 2 in 10 minutes. ?
this may represent an irregular heart beat. if an ecg at your doc doesn't catch it a 24 hour heart monitor probably will. once it is identified your doc will know the significance of it and if it needs to be treated.
she is light headed rapid heart beat hungry and nauseous at the same time and very thirsty. diabetes? urgent care or er?
she sounds dehydrated. without knowing her age and other ailments it is tough to say what is going on. urgent care may not be able to provide the iv fluids that she will probably need.
started metoprolol 25mg for b/p and palps 2 months ago was increase to 50 mg 2weeks ago b/p 124/80 but now having flutters on and off is that normal?
nice to hear the bp has normalized on the drug. let your doctor know about the flutters and he'll advise you whether any more steps are needed. they aren't necessarily a big deal but there isn't enough information here to advise you other than to notify your doctor and follow through with the doc.
started metoprolol 25mg for b/p and palps 2 months ago was increase to 50 mg 2weeks ago b/p 124/80 but now having flutters on and off is that normal?
no it is not normal and you should follow up with your doctor or cardiologist
test came back ok just shows skipping heart beats dr wants me to take metoprolo but i decided not to take tired of meds what's gooing to happen to me.
skipped beats or ectopy are usually from extra beats coming from the lower chambers of the heart. some peaople feels these as flutters palpitations or irregular heart beat. if your tests were fine the doctor is probably recommending the metoprolol (a beat-blocker) to reduce the number of ectopic beats and lessen your symptoms. this is probably a benign problem. talk to your doctor again.
trying to understand. tilt table complete. did not pass out but 20 minutes upright my bp dipped to 77/54 and back to normal in a min. bp avg'd 13<negative_smiley>87?
positive tilt table test you have autonomic dysfunction increase salt intake watch out for warning signs of low bp may need close monitoring and may be need of beta blockers as a start other treatments include midodrine flurenef in severe cases talk to your physicianmodality includes.
trying to treat syncope. drinking extra fluids increasing salt. cannot tolerated ssris still having tachycaridic spells with beta blocker.
fluids salt compression stockings are typically first line agents. beta-blockers are used for pots. next line agents include florinef (fludrocortisone) and midodrine but these have to be discussed with your physician especially florinef (fludrocortisone) which is a kind of mineralocorticoid agent and can cause problems with bone health.
today i took an infusion for hypotension. i went to emergency with dizziness fever fast heart beat. please tell me how to prevent this in the future?
it sounds as though you were dehydrated. were you recently ill with a decreased oral intake? vomiting? diarrhoea? the fever also may have caused you to lose fluid. the way to reduce the chance of this in a future similar situation is to make a conscious effort to drink extra liquids. plain water and sports drinks are ok. rehydration solutions are also good. avoid sugary and caffeinated liquids.
these past 2months i get heart flutters a week or so b4 period. could it be hormonal? i suffer from anxiety as well & have minor acid reflux.
many things can give a fluttering sensation in the chest including several heart rhythm issues. almost all these arrhythmias are benign (not dangerous) but can be annoying. the most common cause of fluttering is pvcs (single extra beats from the bottom chambers). it is common for such arrhythmias to come and go in the menstrual cycle. it is treatable and a heart monitor can make the diagnosis.
temp 97. 1-99. 4. heart rate 90-120. cold hands but i feel hot. infection in hand. will it go away? is it sepsis? had i&d <1mo ago. no redness but fluid
return to your doctor. infection may still be present in the remaining fluid which the doctor might want to culture.
temp 97. 1-99. 4. heart rate 90-120. cold hands but i feel hot. infection in hand. will it go away? is it sepsis? had i&d <1mo ago. no redness but fluid
you want to see your doc to have this checked. do not wait.
the past few days my resting heart rate has been around 106 & bp around 130/98 should i see my cardiologist or wait a few days and see if it improves?
not clear why you see a cardiologist. however you should eliminate all caffeine and increase water and fluid intake. your thyroid might be hyperactive and needs to be checked. you might be out of shape. if your heart rate continues to be elevated then you can see a cardiologist. do not take any over the counter medications without consulting with your physicians.
today when i tried to inhale deeply my heart fluttered and at the same second it felt like i couldn't breath in. is this normal for palpitations?
normal for palpitation especially if a pvc.
what are some of the non-drug treatments for hyperkalemia?
hospitalization intravenous fluids.
what is a good pulse rate?
usual range for adult is 60 to 100 but it is continually fluctuating based on what stresses your body is subjected to. it is how your heart responds to stress that is the important thing.
what's a normal resting heart rate?
generally a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. for example a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. to measure your heart rate simply check your pulse. place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe. to check your pulse at your wrist place two fingers between the bone and the tendon over your radial artery — which is located on the thumb side of your wrist. when you feel your pulse count the number of beats in 15 seconds. multiply this number by 4 to calculate your beats a minute. keep in mind that many factors can influence heart rate including: activity level fitness level air temperature body position (standing up or lying down for example) emotions body size medications. although there's a wide range of normal an unusually high or low heart rate may indicate an underlying problem. consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms such as fainting dizziness or shortness of breath.
what is a silent heart attack?
you may have never had any symptoms to warn you that you've developed a heart problem such as chest pain or shortness of breath. some people later recall their silent heart attack was mistaken for indigestion nausea muscle pain or a bad case of the flu. the risk factors for a silent heart attack are the same as those for a heart attack with symptoms. the risk factors include: smoking or chewing tobacco family history of heart disease age high cholesterol high blood pressure diabetes lack of exercise being overweight. having a silent heart attack puts you at a greater risk of having another heart attack which could be fatal. having another heart attack also increases your risk of complications such as heart failure. the only way to tell if you've had a silent heart attack is to have imaging tests such as an electrocardiogram echocardiogram or others. these tests can reveal changes that signal you've had a heart attack. if you wonder if you've had a silent heart attack talk to your doctor. a review of your symptoms health history and a physical exam can help your doctor decide if more tests are necessary. .
what other than ans dysfunction could cause bp and hr spikes upon standing for any length of time/waking? could i. get deconditioning in one day?
it sounds like you have pots syndrome which is due to dysfunction of autonomic nervous system such as autonomic neuropathy. no doubt that simple deconditioning can lead to these fluctuations in bp.
why might i have low blood sodium while on florinef (fludrocortisone)? been on 50 mcg florinef (fludrocortisone)/day along w/ high salt diet for months for pots. recent blood sodium 133
a person if unknown age and gender and ethnicity asks why is my na "low" taking florinef (fludrocortisone) and high salt for zpots. assuming you take no orger meds you are drinking more water than your body can control or you are losing more salt than you r eating. but need all the information for a good answer.
why might i have slightly low blood sodium of 133 while on florinef (fludrocortisone) 50 mcg/day along w/ 9 grams salt/day for months for pots. recheck or no concern?
the blood sodium level reflects a balance between the oral salt intake and the salt-retaining property of the florinef (fludrocortisone) as well as one's water intake. when the blood sodium level is low a slight decrease of oral fluid intake can correct it.
why might i have slightly low blood sodium of 133 while on florinef (fludrocortisone) 50 mcg/day along w/ 9 grams salt/day for months for pots syndrome? concern or no?
probably within the range of error of the test. in the absence of symptoms this is not concerning.
which is better warfarine or sintromfor stroke prevention in afib are those home monitor device for inr accurate?
i have no experience with sintrom & doubt that anyone on healthtap does as it is not used in the us. warfarin is quite common though in atrial fibrillation newer drugs like rivaroxaban are being used because they don't require inr. according to published data warfarin has a longer effective period (36 hr vs 10 hr) than sintrom & therefore less fluctuation in inr. fingerstick inr shld be accur
hi i m having light feather like fluttering sensations in front part of my right breas since today afternoon. already got my gyni check breasts 10 day?
any new lumps bumps skin changes in the breast should be evaluated by your doctor. great job doing your breast exam. fluttering could be from your heart. have your doctor examine you and determine if other testing is needed
have pots syndrome & not that well controlled yet. on florinef (fludrocortisone) nadol midrone &high salt diet. need colonscopy. how to not worsen symptoms 4 prep?
my guess is this is going to be tricky and therefore i would discuss with your pots dr. who knows you best. tell them about past problems with prep.
have pots syndrome & not that well controlled yet. on florinef (fludrocortisone) nadol midrone &high salt diet. need colonscopy. how to not worsen symptoms 4 prep?
when you have problems like electrolyte imbalance needs special attention consider getting admitted the previos day so that while getting the colon cleaned the electrolytes could be repleced iv.
had ekg and chest x ray done came out fine. still have burning chest pain left side of chest occur randomly. causes?
gerd may also cause or contribute to your symptoms. an over the counter anti-reflux medications may help.
have slight burning sensation in chest intermittently. i am active & eat well. 12lead ecg 6mo ago came bk clear. what could this be?
could be reflux. when you get the pain try a pepcid (famotidine) complete to see if it resolves the issue
hi doctors. 22 years old i've been going through a lot of anxiety for 2 months usually a very healthy person. as of late i've had a lot of heart palpitation at a normal beat and very strong but i feel a fluttering feeling as well like a buzz?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
hi for the past two months i have palpation very mild chest pain which is not frequent(once a day may be that too for an hour or so) and light head?
may be gerd/ reflux with or without h pylori try ranitidine/prevecid ( if h pylori will need antibiotics or may be mitral valve prolapse ( check echocardiogram) check thyroid function check gallbladder check for lyme rarely autoimmune avoid caffeine energy drinks alcohol consider holter f/u w internist / cardiologist
have pots syndrome i am on very high salt diet w/lots of fluids in order to not pass out. this sometimes makes face swell quite a bit. how to control?
this syndrome affects many. . it stood to avoid any alcoholic drinks energy drinks and keep well hydrated! salt intake may be too much with swelling of face. helpful diet is low card gluten free with more protein and fluids. have dr. check your labs as kidney function urinalysis possibly see cardiologist for definitive diagnosis.
have a flu it's 2nd day and i now have a bad middle chest pain/gets worse with movement/ feels like gas pain but isn't. what is this/normal for flu?
body aches are common with the flu. in young patients with no medical problems chest pain that is worse with deep inspiration or movement can usually be treated with over the counter pain meds. if you have shortness of breath cough up blood or notice the pain is worse with exertion you see a doctor to get checked out.
have a flu it's 2nd day and i now have a bad middle chest pain/gets worse with movement/ feels like gas pain but isn't. what is this/normal for flu?
it sounds like you may have strained part of the rib cage and the small muscles that attach each rib to the other rib. a violent cough or coughing fit could have caused that. hopefully you can see a doctor to verify this. if this is 'the flu' there are anti-viral medications that you can take. tylenol would help with the pain. there is of course a flu vaccine that i highly recommend to avoid this.
had viral inf 12 days ago coughing chest pain. constipation & chest pain (reflux) since then. took whole bottle of mag citrate yesterday-nothing?
try an antacid: it helps with constipation (take bid two times per day); and it helps with acid reflux.
i'm a 56 yo female recently had chest pains under my left breast. only had it once so far while i was walking up a hill.
exertional chest pain is always a concern. you should see your doctor promptly even if it's not recurring. a stress test if often very useful to distinguish heart symptoms from other causes like muscular strain or acid reflux.
i'm 51 and i have chest pain fatigue and gas for the past 8 hours after walking/jogging 3. 5 miles. should i be worried?
good sign is gas since this is not the heart but could be reflux or food type or hyperventilating with exersize swallowing air burping but if get chest pressure with running and then relief with rest get to a cardiologist for full exersize stress echocardiogram espec if overweight smoke and too much alcohol but if not and no family history early heart disease indigestion can be heart
i have severe chest pain. i caught a stomach flu and did some pretty heavy vommitting. i did it 9 times within a 4 hour time slot. can i do anything?
if you cannot see your own doctor go to the emergency department of a hospital. you are at risk of getting dehydrated and complication resulting therefrom. wish you good health.
i am 38 yo cardiac patient 70% small vessel 40% lad heavy chest pain every time i eat that last 2-3 mins. last stress echo 9mons. ago is fine.
it could be possible that your symptoms are not due to your heart but rather reflux or inflammation of your food pipe referred to as oesophagitis. it is best to address this issue with your cardiologist who can then refer you to see a gastroenterologist
i am experiencing pounding heart (pulse) upon standing as well as heart flutters. my hr is 80-100 sitting and 140-170 standing. i cant even walk.
dehydrated or you may have pots which is an autonomic dysfunction disease. see a health care professional for evaluation.
is it safe to take propranolol 40mg a day alongside 15mg of mirtazapine at night alongside 250mg of ranitidine a day for stomach acid reflux?
these medications do not have unsafe interactions.
i have lactose intolerance sometimes i have diarrhea in some episodes of this diarrhea i have tachycardia is it normal? dont have heart problems
diarrhea is common if you are consuming lactose in spite of your known intolerance. it is also common as a physical sign in irritable bowel syndrome or with incidental viral gut infections. you should expect tachycardia if you are loosing fluid volume with diarrhea or have a viral infection. you would not necessarily have tachycardia if you just had a single loose stool.
lately my heart rate has been fluctuating for no apparent reason what could this be?
it is normal for the heart rate to fluctuate throughout the fau due to the control by the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system. sometimes this could be a sign of an arrhythmia (e. g. supra ventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation) or blocked heart beats (heart blocks). if there are associated symptoms (fatigue shortness of breath dizziness) you may require to wear a monitor.
lately my face gets hot n turns red i check my blood pressure n it fine but my heart rate has been between 103 and 110.?
the cause of these symptoms merits evaluation. flushing and high heart rate can be caused by fever hyperthyroidism and by rare neuroendocrine tumors (pheocromocytoma and carcinoid tumors).
low bp mine has been fluctuating with a sometimes high hr should i worry?
adjust your bp meds or it could be a sign of poor pumping of your heart muscle/ cardiomyopathy. it can potentially cause angina/ chest pain and irregular heart rhythm. take care!
lasix (furosemide) 40 being given in condition of dilated cardiomyopathy can proove fatal in low blood pressure and low sodium level?
in dilated cardiomyopathy the decreased ejection fraction (squeezing function of the heart) may cause "back-up" of pressure which can result in fluid retention and edema (lungs legs abdomen etc). lasix (furosemide) can be quite helpful for this. if blood pressure is low lasix (furosemide) can be harmful because blood pressure can worsen. independently low sodium is a marker for worse prognosis in cardiomyopathy.
left arm squeeze pain excessive belching acid reflux very tight back/neck muscles. clean holter chest x-rays labs 2mth ago. gerd + muscle strain?
based on your brief description it is possible that you have muscular pain and gerd. i do not believe this is cardiac. i recommend to reassess your symptoms with your internist.
left arm pain/anxiety er: normal ecg/bp. 26 years old very fit. felt washed out/chest pressure a few times over next month. heart lung gi issue?
if you don't use cocaine and don't have diabetes angina at your age is unheard of. it's likely acid reflux gastritis or just a sore muscle.
mini burping n annoying popping sounds from upper throat & chest tightness. mostly aftr eating. nausea & constipated. metamucil dsnt help. reason?
this sounds like you could have acid reflux or inflammation of your stomach lining - called "gastritis". you may benefit from an antacid medication such as pepcid (famotidine) or prilosec. even if you do have a good response with this you should see a doctor to investigate the root cause because those medications may help the symptoms but not always treat the underlying condition. best wishes.
my resting heart rate was 69 bpm the other day and today it was 81. how could there be such a difference? 12 bpm difference. should i go to the er?
normal heart rate= 60 to 90. rate fluctuations are normal. get a hobby.
my heart beats increases unusually at rest. why is that?
your heart rate changes with every beat. so what do you mean by res? after working is it hot where you are this increases heart rate? if you feet are swelling and you lay down to rest the fluid goes back into your blood and heart will speed up. but not likely at your age. so think about it and give us more details.
my last question was conveniently ignored but i'm wondering why someone would continue to feel chest pressure for months on?
i did not see your last question. it was not ignored i'm sure. long term pressure in someone your age who tolerates exercise is usually due to reflux that is otherwise silent. sometimes that is the only symptom. if you have other problems like shortness of breath with exercise or when lying down or if the pressure radiates anywhere or turns to pain seek help. try prevacid!
my chest hurts when i lie down and im suddenly wheezing and coughing up water-like liquid and experiencing painful coughing.
go to er as soon as possible. you do not mention age or other history but may have some excess water in lungs and some heart issues that need a water pill or medicine to resolve it. could also be reflux with asthma but that needs evaluation as well go to er immediately.
my father had dry cough after flu episode he also took cordarone (amiodarone) 200 is this cough due to cordarone (amiodarone) what is the treatment for it?
sometimes a cough may linger for weeks after flu or a viral infection but one needs to rule out infection-triggered asthma or a sinus infection also. cordarone (amiodarone) is not expected to cause a cough but if it does changing to another drug would be the only treatment.
my father had hoarseness of voice after flu that persists for weeks (on. off)he took metoprolol and cordarone (amiodarone) what is the cause and treatment?
hoarseness that persists for several months he needs his vocal cords checked by an ent dr. to make sure they are normal.
my stomach fills up with gas and i can't burp. it causes me to have stomach and chest pains. sometimes it happens after i eat or drink. what is it?
pretty classical "gerd" (gastrointestinal reflux disorder) ("trapped burp" syndrome) and your pcp should refer you to a gastroenterologist who can make sure of the diagnosis (possible endoscopy) there is effective treatment for this condition! hope this helps and good luck dr z
middle chest pain that move to the left side. lightheaded. i am working on a graveyard shift and currently on a menstruation period. also i am an iud?
given your age and the location you provided this sounds like the effects of gastro-esophageal reflux (heartburn). if the pain is crushing and constant it could be something more involved but that would be rare at your age. avoid caffeine or nicotine don't lay down for an hour after eating and this may improve. consult with your doc for additional info.
my 26 yo son is very weak sleeps 2 -3 h at a time. his last temps at sleep measured in ear were 34. 3 upon waking rose to 41. 3. fainted many times.
with temps at 41. 3 it is very common to get dehydrated which can lead to fainting when upright and will also make him feel very weak. i urge you to push fluids by mouth to hydrate him but more importantly is to find out what is causing the high fever so have him evaluated by your doctor or urgent care.
male 83. bp flux 65/35 to 100/65 in a matter of minutes. pulse consistent between 60 and 65. blood oxygen level 95. medication for beta blocker?
low blood pressure can be life threatening. causes include poor heart function dehydration or too much medication to name a few. you should be examined immediately and find out if those measurements are correct. go to the er or an urgent care now.
normal blood pressure about 120/80 but my heartrate is consistantly above 105 35year old male. is it normal? iam a 35 year old male i came down with a clod /flu. i have been drinking plenty of fluids but felt a bit light headed. i checked my blood p
a heart rte of 105 is faster than average and not considered normal under most circumstances. the majority of the time a rapid heart rate does not reflect heart disease but the heart's response to some other condition. in the setting of flu especially if there is fever a heart rate of 105 or higher may be appropriate. if the heart rate does not settle down once the flu symptoms have resolved you should consider a checkup for further evaluation.
normal blood pressure about 120/80 but my heartrate is consistantly above 105 35year old male. is it normal? iam a 35 year old male i came down with a clod /flu. i have been drinking plenty of fluids but felt a bit light headed. i checked my blood p
physician for further evaluation.
not feeling very well. blood pressure is 145/105 and my chest feels weird head hurts. can i be having a stroke or heart attack. blood pressure fluctuates between 170 /102 to todays 145/105.
you are describing rather severe hypertension which is uncontrolled! you are at increased risk for heart disease stroke kidney failure and accelerated atherosclerosis. you really should seek medical evaluation immediately at an er or urgent care facility. you should be on aggressive treatment for your high blood pressure.
not feeling very well. blood pressure is 145/105 and my chest feels weird head hurts. can i be having a stroke or heart attack. blood pressure fluctuates between 170 /102 to todays 145/105.
seek care immediately in an emergency room.
nausea elevated heart rate at rest fluttery in chest sore ribs?
could be a lot of different things or nothing. you probably need to see your family doctor for a check-up.
pounding fast heart beat up to 140 after eating. feels like i need to burp and burns. can reflux cause this? holter monitor says normal rhythm
high for reflux and too high for normal and needs more work up
pounding fast heart beat up to 140 after eating. feels like i need to burp and burns. can reflux cause this? holter monitor says normal rhythm
would avoid using tom's is increase calcium can also increased symptoms of heartburn. also be careful of the type of foods you eat that may increase gastric acidity. you may want to work with the integrative medicine doctor who can look at your anxiety heartburn heart rate issues. s/he can create a plan for you to work at reducing your current symptoms faster by also integrating mind/body methods like meditation and lifestyle management.
palps chestpain left arm pain cough. negative ecg echo 7daymonitor stressecg mri x-ray. etc. but symptoms improve with diltiazem. what is it?
when you have a episode of palpitation go to er or doctors office to have ekg checked if normal it might be all in the head. . <positive_smiley> you might be suffering from anxiety disorder (perhaps too much stress in your life). avoid caffeine and alcohol in excess. drink plenty of fluids - remain well hydrated exercise and eat healthy. check thyroid hormone levels and blood work for anemia.
polar ft4 sitting here my heart is fluctuating between 69 - 74bpm. i am so confused. what is my resting heart rate?
22 years male having resting heart rate 69-74bpm. it is normal. heart is regulated by sanode in heart is a normal pacemaker & normally fluctuates between 60-100bpm. it may vary with anxiety depression sensory confusion thyroid disorder. evaluation by ekg 24 hour holter monitoring thyroid function tests urea breath test abdominal ultrasound.
polar ft4 sitting here my heart is fluctuating between 69 - 74bpm. i am so confused. what is my resting heart rate?
hi. your self-awareness of depression confusion and anxiety will help you in understanding what i say. become less self-absorbed. resting pulse 69-74 is so normal it almost hurts. your mental illness is driving your obsession. get treated for your depression & anxiety. good luck!
palpitations heart flutters like your heart drops in your chest likes its drowning and then goes back to normal what to do?
treatments include not using caffeine alcohol street drugs smoking and other stimulant substances. try to learn meditation and other calming techniques cut out herbal substances cough and cold medicines nutritional supplements see your doctor to be sure no direct heart problem and for treatment if the basics above don't help.
please pls help! is this heart attack or acid reflux?
with no information in your statement it is impossible to say.
palpitations can be caused by chronic tonsillitis hypothyroidism or gastroesophageal reflux?
none of the above. any association with them is coincidental. however you list panic attacks under "conditions" and there is an association between that entity and palpitations. trial of low dose beta blockade (like propranolol) help many with this condition - if they bother you enough to warrant use of a daily medication.
past week experiencing headaches fatigue trouble breathing chest path on left side stabbing pain ekg and echo ok?
do you have a fever or chills coughing? any history of asthma? any h/o reflux esophagitis? i'm glad your ecg and echo were done and fine. does your chest hurt when you push on it? it would be rare to still have a cardiac problem without family history and with your normal heart studies. is your trouble breathing due to chest pain hyperventilation wheezing or stuffy nose? breathe into paper bag.
please help. what's the best medication i can take for the flu or sinus infection that is safe with irregular heart beats and lupus and sjogrens?
a majority of illnesses you described are caused by viruses. since antibiotics only treat bacteria and not virus infections the immune system does the brunt of the work- recommend supportive measures such as drinking plenty of fluids and judicious use of pain/anti-fever meds. nb-lupus and sjorgren's maintain a low threshold to see your doctor especially if your difficulty breathing worsens
pulmonary embolism after beg d dimer normal ecg bp and oxygen?
with a negative d-dimer there is not further work up because it indicates no clot. so i would not worry. you can have sharp chest pain on breathing with costochondritis an inflammation of the rib junctions. press around the chest and you may find a sore sport. motrin/aleve can help with the pain. also consider reflux. discuss with doctor.
patient 75 yrs hypertensive diabetic with coarse crepitation and bilateral lower limb oedema ecg rbbb x_ray cardiomegaly with congestion?
hi what is the question it seems the patient has a chf exacerbation with fluid overload needs evaluation and treatment at the er or even hospital setting. also one needs to find out the cause of exacerbation which is usually is non-compliance with medication and diet.
pressure in waves in epigastric area 57 yr old fml (fluorometholone) for 5 days. normal ekg chest xray blood work. good blood pressure/pulse. heart issue unlikely?
a heart issue is possible but that description isn't typical so it's not high probability unless there's more to it. does she have diarrhea? i'd be more inclined to be thinking of gastroenteritis. if the symptom occurs with exertion is relieved by resting or is associated with unusual breathlessness it should be pursued as a possible heart issue.
reflux symptom starts off with nauseousness you want to throw up belching and burping then pain goes into the back causing the heart to flutter. had to have ablation to fix the arrhythmia. still have the attacks but the heart does not race now. stan
hello. i don't know what the cause of your symptoms is. possible symptoms of reflux include: regurgitation of acid into your throat or mouth. this can leave a bad taste in your mouth or even cause you to vomit. symptoms which fall under the category of dyspepsia include: nausea or burping after eating feeling bloated or uncomfortably full with possible pain in the upper abdomen after eating a big meal. the symptoms can be triggered after lying on your back eating too much or bending over; especially if lifting something heavy. heartburn can be experienced as burning that can rise from your stomach and ascend as high as the throat. here is the problem. sometimes when a person is having a heart attack they may think that they are having heartburn. the fact that your pain goes into your back and that your heart is fluttering is of concern. you didn't mention if you have any sense of tightness or issues with your breathing. also don't know if you have been having these events for years or if they just started. if there is pain in your neck shoulder jaw or teeth or you are experiencing shortness of breath that could be more suggestive of cardiac. cardiac events can lead to feeling dizzy nausea or having increased sweating. the pain from a cardiac source is often described as tightness fullness or "feeling like their is an elephant sitting on my chest. " it can occur intermittently for minutes at a time. if your symptoms are consistent with a heart attack then please call 911. regardless you need to have your symptoms medically evaluated.
risks during the ablation and pacemaker implantation?
mostly the risks are the same as for other procedures including infection and bleeding but also rhythm disturbances of the heart and the development of fluid around the heart. in addition the risks for pacemakers include pneumothorax or the presence of air around the lung. these are usually safe procedures which are performed by trained cardiologists.
recurrent sharp pains deep in my chest feels in center sternum left breast or left armpit. ekg fine a month ago. abd us neg. what else could it be?
might still be cardiac in origin; may need cardiac stress test/angiography to be sure. gi problems like reflux disease can also cause pain in that area especially if exacerbated by acidic/spicy/fried/fatty foods/alcohol/soda pop. other possibilities:aortic aneurysm; costochondritis. see pcp/internist for thorough workup & treatment regimen.
sob chestpain fatigue weak arms/legs lately swollen abdomen and legs/feets in the evening. ecg shows tachycardia echo was normal 6 months ago?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
should is the first step to take if a person has myocardial infarction?
18 year old boys don't have mi's almost ever. if they are feeling chest pain it is almost invariably reflux wherein stomach contents are being regurgitated up the esophagus and it is called heartburn. a key to diagnosing a true mi is that the pain is exercise induced-i. e. it gets worse when you're walking up the stairs or whatever and it gets better when you stop. if that is so get to er pronto.
so my heart is racing and fluttering my legs felt weak. sweating felt faint. some chest pain and its been 20 min (longer than usual times). help?
take your pulse per minute and if possible your blood pressure if it's low blood pressure then drink some fluids with sodium- salt and go to your doctor however if your pulse is too fast not feeling well go to an er or call 911.
sometimes heart beats hard at night before going to bed why?
it is difficult to be certain if the symptoms you are experiencing are from your heart or other issues. in general when you relax and rest before going to sleep you are less distracted by outside influence and focus on your body therefore being more aware of your heart. a monitor would be useful to define whether you have an arrhythmia or not. ask your health care provider to order one for you.
short of breath irregular heartbeat hight heart rate?
there are a few reasons for this but because of the high and irregular heartbeat you should be checked as soon as possible. i would recommend being evaluated at your doctor if you can be fit in now an uc or er. these could be symptoms of anxiety but also an "arrhythmia" such as atrial fibrillation or flutter. it needs to be checked out but don't panic.
squeezing chest pain on my left side about 6/10 pain (having chest pain for more than 6months) went to diff er and diff drs and no heart problem blood-echo-holter-ct-ekg all done and normal. yoga isnt helping my chest pain what can i do? 20y male
your particular case. without an exam i can only give general information. and irritation of the muscles/joints in the chest (costochondritis) would give pain that moving those parts would trigger. reflux disease or other gastrointestinal one is often triggered by cold/sharp/spicey/acidic/large volume foods. relieved by ant-acids.
skipbeats frequent when i chew gum spicy food (hr jumps 90-115bpm and acid reflux 5-12 skip/hr)is that normal? echo mvp/trmr 48holter 26 pac's 6 pvc's
small number of extra systolic beats. i don't know how you can say they increase when the total is minuscule. at your age heart rate variability is common as the autonomic system is highly responsive to many stimuli. nothing you describe is out of normal range or worrisome in any way.
shooting severe pain in the back of my ear bone and only other symptom is heart flutters. i had a pretty bad flu virus a few days ago and now this has started. should i be worried?
behind ear is the mastoid sinus. infection in this sinus can become serious (called mastoiditis) because so close to brain. must be evaluated. if a nearby major hospital best choice: go to er because ct scan may be required. otherwise go to ent doctor i recommend do so right away. a big hosp will have a fast low radiation ct. i'm not 100% sure this is diagnosis but you must get eval rt away.
taking potassium supplements as fludrocortisone lowers it to 3 on 70meq its 4. 1. if potassium intake was high would body excrete it effectively?
if you have normal renal function yes your kidneys will remove any excess.
tachycardia when eat or stand. echo ct angio ecg holter stres test all normal. mild reflux and acid dr say appropriate sinus tachycardia. what is this?
"sinus" means normal - your tachycardia arises from a normal area of your heart and conducts thru your heart normally. your tests confirm that you do not have heart disease. if you're bothered by your heart rate a betablocker (medication) can slow your heart to treat your symptoms but if you're not bothered other than when you measure your hr no treatment is necessary.
today i have felt very lightheaded when walking and almost fainted. i haven't had any palpitations or anything but it is odd. what could be the cause?
you may be dehydrated. adequate fluid intake and get some rest. get up slowly from a lying or sitting position. if symptoms recur see your doctor
toddler oximetry test-- o2 actually looks great. but i keep noticing heart rate spiking from 90-ish to 120-ish while laying still. is that weird?
it would be helpful to know why you are monitoring with a pulse oximeter for a more complete answer but acid reflux would be a consideration for this finding.
what are the chances of pericardial window closing done on left side vat. if it did close could it w/in a week or wold it take longer?
the pericardial window is not meant to close. it should provide a path for fluid that is building up around the heart to drain into the thoracic or abdominal cavity where large volumes can accumulate & be gradually reabsorbed without threatening life. if a window closes because of scarring or other problems fluid can accumulate again. even small amts of fluid around the heart cause big problems.
why would someone's chest hurt when he fasts? (i know he shouldn't be fasting; i want to know what causes it. )
if only went fasting this could be reflux or heartburn. with little food in stomach one tends to have extra acid production which can cause discomfort in the chest for some people.
why does my chest hurt during a drop on a roller coaster?
may be reflux or cardiac issues from underlying disease or new rhythms consider echocardiogram pfts to check for asthma may be a pneumothorax as well dissection is rare. f/u/ w/ doc this week before next ride gt cleared. <link> <link>
was in the er last night. heart rate keeps dropping to 40s& bp is low. still not feeling good. faint. flush. fluttering feeling in chest. go back?
also try a salty food and see if you feel better. your best bet is to see your provider and ask for a holter monitor.
what could cause lightheadedness tightness in throat along with palpitations and brief chest pain? sometimes low resting heart rate of 45-60 bpm.
your symptoms are curious but i would need more information about clinical context. if these symptoms are occurring with activity i would think of the heart. if they were happening after a meal i might think of reflux. if they're happening at rest i might even think of anxiety. clinical context is important. but regardless these symptoms should be investigated.
havng a fluttering sensation in upper chest 1 or 2 tyms a day. no pain or diziness just makes little worry. hve been observing this since 1 month.
i would not worry. if it only lasts a few seconds and is not associated with pain pressure in your chest difficulty breathing sweating nausea or vomiting it could simply be some abnormal beats which happens. mention it to your gp and they will check an ecg. <link>#1
havng a fluttering sensation in upper chest 1 or 2 tyms a day. no pain or diziness just makes little worry. hve been observing this since 1 month.
unless you're having symptoms like lightheadedness dizziness or fainting you are quite unlikely to have much to worry about. decrease your caffeine as that may help. only way to know for sure would be to wear a heart monitor for a day or two but honestly what you've described sounds not worrisome at all and is rather common.
hard run today@practice. after we did air squats. even 20 reps would shoot my hr to 170 felt very lightheaded. 2 1/2hr later hr still not below85. im17.
could be from fatigue and dehydration. drink plenty of replacement fluids and rest. resting tachycardia is a sign of overtraining and the likely culprit. tell your coach about is so they can adjust your program a bit.
how long can i eat after taking peptac for my acid reflux? i'm also taking a beta blocker propranolol how many hours do i leave between two meds.
two medicines do not "interact" thus you could take them together. it is usually recommended you take the pepcid one hour before you eat. hope this helps dr z
have pots syndrome. on florinef & midodrine. sometimes get nocturia voiding excessive clear urine hourly all night. get chills and worsens sx. common?
when you lie down renal perfusion increases resulting in more urine production. when you are upright this is reduced. you might try reducing your fluid intake in the evening and hydrating mostly in the daytime.
hello dr. allan i woke up worried today because i noticed a purple spot on my knee that doesn't hurt or itch. i also get chest pains.
without more details it is hard to tell if your chest pain is due to a cold or flu coughing or heart disease. a painless purple spot on the knee in the absence of other spots is also difficult to pin down.
hello i keep having digestive issues mainly heart palpilation after food seeing colorless floaters(shape of spot) after eating gas belly moving.
may be reflux/ gastritis with or without h pylori. may also be gallbladder- sometimes there are ekg changes even with gallbladder disease because it is not far from the heart but on the other side of the diaphragm. i have seen floaters in individuals who have a sinusitis which can be exacerbated by reflux. may also have an element of food intolerance-gluten/ soy milk. f/u w/ gastroenterology
have a fluttering heartbeat like movement below my right rib cage. when i push it i can feel it. it stops and then will start again later on.
f of unknown age or prior medical history notes/asks have a fluttering heartbeat like movement below my right rib cage. when i push it i can feel it. it stops and then will start again later on. ans is it the muscles in your chest wall that are fluttering or is your heart beat fluttering? check heart beat by feeling pulse at base of thumb at wrist. if it is fluttering call your dr.
had heart flutters since teens. scare me to pieces each time. have had ekg years ago and blood tests are perfect. should i continue to worry?
it is hard to confirm or ignore an issue without having enough data. what you mean by "flutters" is not clear. your condition can change over the years and my approach to such a comment would be an ekg and a 24-48 hr holter monitor. this study records your heart activity through many active & inactive settings & can catch rhythm disturbances with more reliability.
hi is it safe to take zantac for acid reflux and propranolol everyday? i take zantac 10 30am and 10 30pm everyday and propranolol 11 30am and 6 30pm
to combine these medications exactly the way you are doing.
hands swell at night pain is so terrible last night i also had tightness in my chest today i'm tired could it be flu or a cold coming on?
there are a lot of possibilities that can be in the realm of arthritis. you need to discuss with your physician. it is not characteristic of flu but could be viral bacteial allergic or even systemic
hands swell at night pain is so terrible last night i also had tightness in my chest today i'm tired could it be flu or a cold coming on?
the symptoms sound worrying. chest tightness and arm swelling may be unrelated however there is always a slight possibility of thromboembolism or clots in the deep veins and lungs. the simpler explanation may be that you are developing carpal tunnel syndrome in your hands. in any case you need to be seen by your doctors urgently to make sure there is nothing requiring urgent intervention
i have a stinging chest pain what causes the pain?
chest pain needs to be taken seriously. even atypical sided chest pain can mean a blocked blood vessel in your heart and can have serious consequences. other possible causes are reflux inflammation of the food pipe (oesophagitis) chest infection a clot in your lung and so on. you need to see your doctor immediately
i am 70. started 3 days ago with fluttering in my right breast. what could it be.
it could be time to call the doctor. one's primary care doctor can help or one's cardiologist or the er if one does not have a doctor. fluttering sensations in the chest may be from a heart rhythm problem. at age 70 one should get evaluated now because some rhythm problems are very very serious. that's bad. other rhythm problems are less serious but only an evaluation can find the problem.
i had chest pains yesterday i thought it was heart burn so i ignored it i woke up with it still hurting it went away but now my whole shoulder hurts a?
if sharp pain with motion not the heart if chest pressure or short of breath indigestion heartburn could be heart or reflux if smoke then high risk of heart so get to a cardiologist for testing to be sure. take asopririn for pain helps the heart too use heat pad or ice pack if strained the muscle rest it
i am experiencing cough (worsened by: lying flat) (quality: no phlegm or mucus) chest pain or discomfort (quality: feels sharp or stabbing sens.
cough + chest pain may need to consider the possibility of a chest infection. like dr pool says most are due to viral illnesses and will disappear with time however would be important to have a doctor examine and consider other causes such as reflux asthma or pneumonia depending on how you present. this should be done urgently if any breathing difficulties.
i just had a stomach attack. sharp pains ran to bathroom. got a wave of hot flash and light headed like i was going to pass out. quickly ran to bed t?
you need to drink a lot of fluid water ginger ale for example. small amount but often to avoid dehydration. lightheadness can be presentation of this. be careful with changing the position from prone to standing. even sitting to standing. and very light diet for first 24 hours. if stomach pain is severe you need to go to er.
i am experiencing diarrhea fainting nausea (severity: moderate) chills and night sweats. the following also describes me: tender abdomen. what.
even though this does not sound surgical with this limited history however because of the fainting i assumed you're quite dehydrated and may need iv fluids. i recommend further evaluation by a doctor.
i've been having chest pain for like 3 days now. it's the sort of pain i've felt before from drinking too much pepsi. is it something i have to worry?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms great vessel disease respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. it sounds like reflux or gastritis but if concerned discuss with your doctor.
i feel like i've had the body flu for awhile now. there's blood in my stool and mucus when wipe. i always feel light headed like i'm gonna pass out?
blood in the stool is a reason to get prompt medical evaluation. also if you have a gastrointestinal bug which causes bloody stools again is a reason to go in for an evaluation. only a few causes of gastroenteritis have bloody stool as a finding and may need antibiotics. lightheadedness/almost passing out could represent blood loss or more commonly significant dehydration.
i know normal resting hr is 60-90. i have had a sudden and consistent increase to 80 from 55 over 2 wks. also it spikes upwards of 120 with standing.
various conditions can alter resting heart rate- acute or chronic illness inflammation hydration status anemia thyroid conditions deconditioning-- just to name a few. given a sudden increase in hr with positional change one would initially consider a decreased intravascular volume ("dehydration") especially if recent. may consider increasing fluid intake. if no change may need evaluation.
i noticed short(1s) heart rate squizzes (not palpitations) followed by face flushing hot feelings and sweatings. what can cause this?
premature beats can cause theses sensations ; go see a physician & get examined and tested to a specific diagnosis & possible treatment
i noticed short(1s) heart rate squizzes (not palpitations) followed by face flushing hot feelings and sweatings. what can cause this?
i am not familiar with the term squizzes. please define more clearly what you are talking about. then we can get to the source of the problem.
lately after eating i get phlegm-like fluid in throat cough a bit and get palpitations sometimes not sure if related. any causes of these symptoms?
your symptoms are suggestive of gastro-esophageal reflux disease (gerd). speak to your physician (p) about it. if you have no physician consider taking prilosec 20 mg daily. if that does not help see a p for a diagnosis and treatment plan. good luck.
last yr i have had an ekg heart echo 24 hour monitor and this yr had another ekg still have some chest pains should i be worried?
if he finds no cardiac cause then it could be musculo-sckeletal pain or acid reflux among other causes.
low k last week (3. 0 mmol/l). taking chlorthalidon 25mg and added klor-con m20 20 meq 2tid. lost 6 lbs fluid. will bp improve? run 3x/wk hot weather.
talk to your doc. no one gould be taking these bp medications with these side effects which can be life threatening.
low k last week (3. 0 mmol/l). taking chlorthalidon 25mg and added klor-con m20 20 meq 2tid. lost 6 lbs fluid. will bp improve? run 3x/wk hot weather.
if indeed k is low a close f/u is needed despite taking k-supplement. for someone 48 with described scenario it's a good idea to check with your doc to decide how vigorous the exercise you should participate although exercise may help lower bp. next why are you taking this diuretics? besides practicing healthy lifestyle without overindulgence and obsession will help anyone to live. best.
low blood pressure lack of urination no appetite heart flutters and pounds at times tingling in left arm low heart rate 4 lead ekg showed fine?
you mention several symptoms. some all or none of them may be related. with regard to heart "flutters " "pounds " and "low heart rate " you should do a 30-day heart monitor so that your symptoms can be correlated to your heart rhythm. a "normal" ekg is not helpful if you were not having symptoms at the moment it was taken. other symptoms can be investigated after heart is sorted out.
lthead @stand up skin cold/clammy w/exercise hand+feet swell/hot@bed ice-cold@day random flushing freq cold intol. not 2/2 anx. nl ecg/echo. what?
the next "round" of testing woyld include a 24hour heart monitor to rule out any arrythmia. a full metabolic workup is necessary to exclude endocrine causes. ( cortisol sugar thyroid) a 24 hour urine should be done to rule out carcinoid and pheochromocytoma. lastly a neurologic evaluation to rule out autonomic dysfunction.
lately heart flutters when i lay down to go to bed. also sometimes when i bend over. all tests normal ekg/24 monitor/stress ekg. shud i get 2nd opin?
this is not uncommon -- and your evaluation showed no acute cardiovascular disease.
lately ive been having text book heart attack symptoms. im 29 with no history. i went to the er and was completely normal. what else could it be?
the condition that most closely mimics angina is acid reflux. that's why they call it "heartburn". btw unless you're diabetic or use cocaine the incidence of heart attacks in 29 year olds is
lately ive been having text book heart attack symptoms. im 29 with no history. i went to the er and was completely normal. what else could it be?
chest pain is difficult. some common non-cardiac causes are acid reflux esophageal spasms and anxiety. if your work-up at the er has proven to be non-heart related (in terms of blocked arteries) consider taking otc prilosec or nexium (esomeprazole) for a few weeks. no matter what i would recommend you seek care with your primary care physician for a thorough exam to discuss your other risk factors.
left shoulder ache. twinges of pain into left arm. left fingers cramp. happens on right side too. good ekg xray and heart enzymes. heart issue? 21yr
left shoulder & arm pain may be related to coronary artery disease mvl gerd reflux esophagitis costochondritis medications like aspirin bupropion advair disks. further tests like ekg cadiac isoenzymes x-ray chest echocardiogram pft ct angiogram ct chest with pe protocol upper endoscopy bursitis x-ray shoulder joints stress echocardiogram consider thallium stress test. consider treatment with subling
left arm feels numbish and heavy. upper back pain. good ekg heart enzymes chest xray a month ago. went for run today and was fine. heart issue? 21yr
if you're left arm is feeling numb and heavy right now its prudent to be evaluated now. if it always feel heavy then waiting is okay. left arm heaviness jaw tightness chest pain is cardiac until proven otherwise. although both left arm heaviness and numbness upper back pain may be caused by sleeping in awkward position or even reflux but its better safe than sorry
lower left chest cramp that i can sometimes feel shift through to my back. good ekg heart enzymes and chest xray a month ago. 21 active. heart issue?
more likely you have some acid reflux which can cause lower esophageal spasm and end up giving you symptoms similar to your heart attack. the worrisome thing here is it also responds the nitroglycerin. try gerd recommendations which include do not eat or drink within three hours of laying down. avoid alcohol nicotine and any particular spicy food that you know upset your stomach.
last night i felt flushed and my bp was 160/100. i panicked! i took toprol (metoprolol). this morning 150/95 with anxiety. i'm scared i'm going to die! will i?
seek medical care today from your primary care physician or your cardiologist. act don't worry!
last 3 days flutter/pounding heartbeat. last night woke with severe crampy sharp abd pain this am very watery forceful diarrhea. any possible cause?
gastroenteritis comes to mind. causes include food poisoning food intolerance malabsorbtion colitis medicines viral emotional and others. the cramps precede and predict the development of diarrhea as they reflect hyper-peristalsis. fluttering if related may reflect low potassium that diarrhea causes. the timing though may not be right unless you had some diarrhea beforehand.
light headed dizzy weak shaky tingling hands and feet trouble breathing heart fluttering. not diabetic or hypoglycemic blood panel normal.
i would check two main areas: the thyroid and the adrenals. they can both cause those symptoms you describe
lower than usual bp and heart rate. bp 95/65 normally 110/73. heart rate 58 normally 78. low iron. lightheaded blurred vision dizzy. no cold or flu.
first thing i'd wonder about is whether you're taking a beta-blocker for migraines or mitral-valve prolapse or some other reason. your symptoms are consistent with that. if not something else is slowing down your heart which would be no big deal if you had no symptoms. you should get this checked out in a timely fashion.
last night when i got home i started shaking i was nauseated and i had a headache. my heartbeat was fast. what could be causing these symptoms?
its tough to tell without a full history and physical. it could be the rate caused your symptoms its more likely the underlying problem caused the heart to go fast. this is called a reactive tachycardia. simply put when the body is "stressed" the heart reacts by increasing it rate. sounds like maybe you have a viral syndrome like the flu that set thing off. see your family doc.
my blood pressure is usually 115/83 first reading in morning to evening by late night it spikes to 130/90 after work again 115/83 next day. worried?
hi zahrat this sounds like a normal fluctuation in blood pressure and is nothing to worry about. our blood pressure can go up in times of stress(work) exercise after eating and at times when we walk into a doctors office (white coat syndrome). the fluctuation tells me the system is working just fine.
my heart rate stays around 100. just got out of hospital couple days ago from kidney infection. taking augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate). very anxious. is this normal?
if you were hospitalized you were pretty sick. rest take your medication and drink a lot of fluids. see how you do. hydrate a lot
my husband has fought conjestive heart failure and low soduim and low potassium is it safe to be 121 in sodium?
normal lab reference ranges may vary but a sodium of 121 is likely low regardless of lab. a low sodium and potassium in setting of chf is likely due to use of diuretics to help remove fluids from his lungs. his doctors should be able to help normalize his sodium and potassium levels provided his heart condition can be stabilized and kidneys are functioning normally.
my 19 yr old was put on 30mg prednisone for sinusitis. she is also on metronidazole for bac. vaginitis. she stopped taking prednisone after3days due to heart palpitations but stil on metronidazole. she has ache in pelvic and her urine was dark once!
again pelvic pain and dark urine need to be evaluated meanwhile increase fluid intake by mouth and keep her well hydrated good luck
my aunt passed away last month from sudden cardiac arrest. she had gotten a flu shot 1 week prior followed by bronchitis. could they have contributed?
most likely the cardiac arrest was not in any way related to the flu shot. cardiac arrest happens randomly - there's no way to predict when or where with precision (which is why it is feared by all). while we can treat underlying medical conditions sometimes the heart probs are undetected & sometimes treatment is inadequate. in any case i am sorry for your loss but don't blame the flu shot.
my aunt passed away last month from sudden cardiac arrest. she had gotten a flu shot 1 week prior followed by bronchitis. could they have contributed?
unless your aunt suffered from an anaphylactic shock due to the flu shot (which should have happened within a few hours of the injection) it is highly impossible that the flu shot contributed in any way to the sudden cardiac arrest.
my aunt passed away last month from sudden cardiac arrest. she had gotten a flu shot 1 week prior followed by bronchitis. could they have contributed?
multiple studies have shown the flu shot is safe and it has never been connected to causing heart attacks. it is a coincidence.
my heart flutters a lot. what can i do about it?
palpitations need investigations including bloods and ecg and depending on ecg you might need cardiology review.
my heart flutters a lot. what can i do about it?
when you feel it "flutter" tap it out on a table and count it and note if it is regular or not. this will help the doctor with the diagnosis. you will need an ecg for a true diagnosis. if you are feeling these frequently try to avoid caffine or energy drinks as these will make any symptoms worje
my heart flutters a lot. what can i do about it?
that symptom which we would generally term "palpitations" requires some investigation into cause. it doesn't mean there's something bad causing them but we wouldn't know unless we look
my heart flutters a lot. what can i do about it?
please see a cardiologist. this has the potential i'll to b quite
normekg stress test echo holter. age28 nofamily history nonsmoker. what would be another cause of mild chest pressure and numb chin feeling? still heart?
at 28 years old with no risk factors and all of those negative tests it is safe to say that it is not your heart causing those symptoms and you and your physician should look for other diagnoses. gastroesophageal reflux would be a more likely cause. i am sure somewhere in all of this work up there was a chest x-ray performed which would have taken several other diagnoses off of the list.
normekg stress echo holter blood work. age28 no fam hist non smoker. norm bp. chol220. weeks of mild chest pressure&numb chin. heart ruled out? anxiety?
it is unlikely cardiac with the tests being normal. anxiety is possible if your symptoms are intermittent. gastric reflux can cause chest discomfort but the numb chin is strange. underlying asthma could cause symptoms but you should have a cough or wheezing. hyperventilation could cause both (with fast breathing) but this would not be constant. lastly inflammation of the breast bone joints woul
normekg stress echo holter blood work. age28 with no fam hist. non smoker. doctor says heart is fine but i still have chest pressure. heart? other cause?
chestpain could be from other causes also. you may have reflux with esophageal irritation/ulcer or spasms ca cause pain. have it looked at by a gasteroenterologist
normekg stress echo holter blood work. age28 with no fam hist. non smoker. doctor says heart is fine but i still have chest pressure. heart? other cause?
just curious - were cardiac enzymes & crp part of the blood work? this is a good number of tests already. given your age & negative tests i doubt that you have heart disease right now; but about 70+% of americans will get it at some point in later life (50s). chest pressure can be related to acid reflux / ulcers or muscle strain which may be the next thing to investigate. talk to your doctor.
noticed 2nd time i took vitamin b2 my heart flutters. i have leaky valve and irregular beats normally. my heart doc says meds shouldn't cause it?
"larry" your heart doc is right on the money- your vitamins don't have a thing to do with your symptoms. any correlation you've noticed is random chance.
please help! given decadron (dexamethasone) at er for severe headache and meclazine for vertigo. ct is ok but since given decodron at 6am via iv my pulse is 120's and bp 150's over high 90's. rest and ride it out?
decadron (dexamethasone) is dexamethasone a corticosteroid which in its nature does not cause tachycardia. for someone who is 42 i would be between a supraventricular tachycardia or atrial fib/flutter. unless you are still having pain which could give you sinus tachycardia. obtaining an ekg will be helpful in determining the etiology. in these cases an alivecor could be beneficial.
pots my gp thinks i have this condition as a neurologist found when i get up and lie down my blood pressure drops why am i so tired and what treatment?
pots is characterized as abnormal increase in heart rate in response to change in body position that can be associated with a drop in bp as a result. other similar abnl responses include abnl drop in bp and/or hr w/ body position change. test is tilt table test. rx is incr fluids/salt and no caffeine/alcohol. sometimes meds needed. very rarely need a pacemaker. suggest cardiology consult
prescribed prozac (fluoxetine) (20mg) & metoprolol tartr. (25mg). but isn't there an interaction between the two? 19 female. sinus tach & anxiety/depression.
there is a moderate interaction between prozac (fluoxetine) and metoprolol. the prozac (fluoxetine) can make the effects of metoprolol more pronounced. if you should experience dizziness weakness shortness of breath or fainting notify your doctor. hope this helps.
previously seen at er. 40 times the normal count of liver enzymes back pain nausea vomiting. given two liters of fluids still trouble urinating tachycardia and fever. starts antibiotics two days later continued symptoms with the addition of diarr
you sound quite ill. i am absolutely certain that the er didn't release you without recommendation for followup? impossible for us to make a diagnosis without more info - no doubt you have testing scheduled or done? the key here is on-going care. please follow up as advised. this sounds serious and should not be taken lightly
patient 65 yrs old. vomiting diarrhea and dizziness. heart rate bpm 141. no fever. can it be food poisoning?
hydrate yourself ell if no improvements get some iv fluids
raynauds phenomenon. i also have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. can i take midodrine still? male 22
midodrine shouldn't make the raynaud's any worse. but that's a big 'shouldn't' because raynaud's is a tough problem to treat. a better choice for the pots might be fludrocortisone which would not interfere with the raynaud's (i would think).
resting hr 120; usually 80. got faintish yesterday. palps few times/day. headache. what is going on? i'm 32 and have never had heart problems.
you should avoid any caffeinated products. i would increase fluid intake. should these symptoms persist then you really need to see your pcp or a cardiologists and get a cardiac monitor ; thyroid function test. other tests might be warranted as well.
random little heart flutters last quite a while an a headache i'm starting to worry it was happening since earlier this afternoon how can i stop this?
this is not a valid format for diagnosing your particular condition but we can give some information. a few irregular beats of no significance happen to everyone. serious electrical abnormalities can occur at any age. tape recording heart rhythms with a holster monitor are needed to diagnose and treat
recent diagnosis pots/dysautonomia;new echoef 40% hypokinesia no chf;calling it cardiomyopathy;low salt/fluids but pots requires increased salt/fluids;treat?
treat pots first otherwise a very poorly understood condition that i do not have specific experience with. for whatever reason i believe pots is at the root of your overall hypokinesia and impaired ejection fraction.
recent diagnosis pots/dysautonomia;new echoef 40% hypokinesia no chf;calling it cardiomyopathy;low salt/fluids but pots requires increased salt/fluids;treat?
you have competing problems with the pots and low ef. one condition is improved with salt/fluids while the other is worsened by it. where you fall on that balance depends on the severity of symptoms of each condition. i think you need a thorough plan of action through your pcp and cardiologist with regular reevaluation of how things are going.
resting(sittng) bp - 117/75 heart rate is 75. while standing bp is 95/72 and heart rate is 98-105. why is it so?
this much change in bp between sitting and standing is known as orthostatic hypotension. orthostatic hypotension can be caused by some disease states or by certain medications. the most common cause is dehydration. you should drink plenty of fluids (without caffeine or alcohol). if you remain orthostatic you should see medical attention. in the meantime be very careful when standing up.
skipped heart beats with low blood pressure? sometimes 4 in a row. also awareness of heart beating hard. and rushing sensations like when u stand up
it's best you consult your primary care or a cardiologist specially if it's been going on for some time when heart beats too fast too slow or is skipping (irregular) rhythm it is called arrhythmia. a change in the heart's rhythm may feel like an extra-strong heartbeat (palpitation) or a fluttering in your chest. premature ventricular contractions (pvcs) often cause this feeling
suffering from severe flushing(or blushing). propananol worked great but stopped working after a few months. why did it stop working?
unusual to have "tachyphylaxix"a fancy term for the same dose of a medication not working after a while. two ways to "deal" with tthis 1. raise dose/or frequency of the medication (if tolerated) 2. stop medication for a week ("medication vacation") the restart. sometime switching to another similar medication will do it! speak with your prescribing provider hope this helps! dr z
sometimes it feels like there is water in my lungs but it happens randomly and i can breath the same. it just feels weird and i don't know what it is.
what sensation you are describing. of course there are serious problems that cause actual fluid build up in the lungs which can be diagnosed by physical exam or x-ray such as pneumonia heart failure etc. but most of these would also cause shortness of breath/coughing etc. you may have a patch of inflammation which sounds/feels like rattling. it is worth a visit to your doctor for evaluation.
squelching noises in my heart area. recent chest pain. had 2 blood tests for heart & other problems along with a chest x-ray. all clear. any ideas?
may be reflux would see if ranitidine /prevecid makes a difference rarely could be pericarditis and need an echocardiogram and ekg to assess for that. f/u/ w/ doc
should i be concerned about longterm side effects of florinef (fludrocortisone) 50 mcg daily taken for pots syndrome. need to take to function. i also have sle.
potential for electrolyte abnormalities hypertension and calcium metabolism issues in general florinef (fludrocortisone) is safe and effective long term for many pots patients. your health care professional should be monitoring your electrolytes and blood pressure and adjusting your dosage appropriately to avoid long term side effects. the alternative is poor treatment and recurrent syncope with potential harm.
sternum hurts all the time except when i sleep my meds aren't working celexa and xanax (alprazolam) and acid reflux meds all heart test normal and blood normal?
“sternum hurts all the time” is likely due to costochondritis - inflammation of junctions where the upper ribs join the cartilage that attaches them to the sternum. see physician for diagnosis and treatment. “celexa xanax (alprazolam) and acid reflux meds not working” discuss with psychiatrist: •diagnosis •benefits and side effects of celexa xanax (alprazolam) •decreasing the dose of medications •therapy •relaxation
stress really cause heart disease? i understand stress causing mi in person with underlying disease. but how can mood cause fat to deposit in arteries?
stress can affect your mood which can influence your immune and endocrine systems. negative emotions can increase cytokines and other pro-inflammatory agents making blood vessels more susceptible to disease caused by cholesterol deposits and other substances. poor diet smoking and lack of exercise can worsen the problem.
shoulder pain. no chest pains or shortness of breath. i'm a hypochondriac so i always assume the worse. i have acid reflux. trapped gas?
if indeed you are truly a hypochondriac that can be a serious condition. would encourage you to see a psychiatrist. in reference to your shoulder pain there's not enough information to make a comment.
shoulder pain. no chest pains or shortness of breath. i'm a hypochondriac so i always assume the worse. i have acid reflux. trapped gas?
good news is you have no shortness of breath! often times shoulder pain is just that - shoulder pain! it is a very complex joint and it is not uncommon to overstretch the ligaments by moving it beyond a comfortable range. sometimes pain can also be referred to the shoulder from a pinched nerve in the neck. best thing to do is have your dr examine it so that you don't worry! <positive_smiley>
sudden onset sweating lightheaded and shaky legs followed by incessant pvcs. do not feel like a flutter. only 2x in 3 weeks. lasted +_ 50 min. have app with ep in 4 months. ?
too nonspecific to be certain of an arrhythmia diagnosis without further investigation. ask the ep if your appointment could be moved up and you could be seen sooner.
there is always a cause for pots syndrome! why can't they find mine? it's been two years and they can't find the answer and i am still sick! help.
this is a very challenging not only in diagnosis but in finding the right treatment for you. usual recommendations go from increased fluid increased salt intake and midodrine some times which is a vasopressor. who is they and are you going to the right doctor? who has seen you? what tests were ordered?
to add neck pain it's like some of nerve function went away. correct me if incorrect even if i have palpitations i can't feel that. inhale right side of neck feels like pressure is put on it.
you probably have some sort of muscle strain in your neck. the spine up in the neck can cause problems in your arm as well. regarding palpitations people frequently do feel this as a fluttering sensation in their chest. sounds like you should see your primary doctor for an evaluation the timing of the appointment being based on the severity and duration of the symptoms. hope this helps!
took 1st dose of metroprolol 12. 5 &. 1 mg fludrocortisone. made me feel out of it. given for vasovagal. is it safe if i don't continue to take it?
dysautonomia syndrome causes different symptoms alleviated by avoidance of stimulants ensuring hydration using magnesium vitamin d & omega fish oils (www. cardiamin. com use code: cmc) low dose beta blockers e. g. propranolol 5 to 10mg 2 to 3 times daily and ssris e. g. citalopram 5 to 10mg daily. read dr. ronald hoffman’s mvp book (www. amazon. com) and visit www. dysautonomiainternational. o
took 1st dose of metroprolol 12. 5 &. 1 mg fludrocortisone. made me feel out of it. given for vasovagal. is it safe if i don't continue to take it?
i'm not familiar with the use of these medications for vasovagal syncope although florinef (fludrocortisone) is used to treat postural hypotension by helping the body retain sodium. your dose of metoprolol which lowers the blood pressure and slows the heart rate is quite low but if you feel intolerant of it consult your physician before stopping it.
trouble breathing dry mouth despite lots of water headache hot face heart palpitations throat tightness lymph near neck enlarged. any thoughts?
"trouble breathing" means one needs to see a doctor because it can be many things such as an allergic reaction a heart problem pneumonia etc. . trouble breathing can also be due to asthma-type symptoms if the person is prone to getting such problems with any cold flu allergy or strep symptoms. in some cases trouble breathing can be due to huge tonsils or a tonsillar abscess.
took 150 mg diflucan (fluconazole) how long would it take for side effects to hit? worried about qt prolongation since i have psvt.
psvt is not a qt interval dependent rhythm disturbance onset & magnitude of qt change is variable and requires ecg documentation.
these past couple days i've been having chest pain which is caused by my acid reflux but i read online that it could be gerd i just?
'reflux' = gerd (gastro-esophageal refulx disease. going simply by your age and known history of reflux your next step is to follow up with your primary care provider or gastroenterologist.
when lay on right side heart beats rly weird. either beats fast continuously or it will go two fast beats pause and repeat. stops if change position?
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj5
what is it? i have lightheadedness (worsened by: standing). the following also describes me: dizziness
feeling lightheaded when standing or moving is due to drop in blood pressure which decreases blood supply to brain. feeling dizzy when turning head also called vertigo is due to ears. for dizziness on standing it's recommended to keep fluids up get up slowly but please see doctor to get blood pressure checked and confirm the diagnosis.
weight gain dizzy spells syncope heat intolerance hazy head rapid bl. sug fluc. - neuro and cardio cleared- positive tilt table - pcos cause all?
your dizzy spells syncope and positive tilt table may indicate pots (postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome). if you have a positive tilt table how can you be "cardio cleared"? evaluation with an electrophysiologist (cardiologist specializing in neuro-cardiogenic syncope) may be revealing. if you have pots the prognosis is good - you'll get better in time and there are treatments.
hello i experienced minor shortness of breath and slight dizziness last night. my ecg shows sinus bradycardia at pulse rate 47. i am 22 and a smoker.
may be reflux (gerd) independently or causing a mild reactive airway response or may be pulmonary asthma or cardiac. would get an echocardiogram just to insure there is no cardiac abnormality.
hey i am 28 my blood pressure seems to fluctuate from a low130/89 to a high 149/100 my resting heart rate is about 93.
are you measuring your vital signs after complete rest for 10 minutes? 130/89 is slightly high (normal resting bp is <135/<85). 149/100 is high and if sustained should be lowered. while a hr of 93 is "normal" it's unusual to see that at rest in a healthy young man. there are many factors that could cause it including anxiety fatigue lack of sleep inadequate nutrition anemia pain fever etc
headache/nausea. later heart pounding then threw up. chest pain/tightness all the next day. soreness from vomiting? or concern? (26 y/o)
the chest tightness could be from reflux from the vomiting wiht or without reactive airways due to acid reflux into lungs. could try some over the counter zantac or prevecid or mylanta. if blood in vomitus go to er. since it is in chest f/u/ w/ doc
hi recently i have been having this flutter in my chest i've been to the doctoss had an ecg done and everything was normal. don't know why it's happ?
difficult to diagnose a flutter sensation with a single ekg which only lasts 10 seconds. address your concern with your health care provider and obtain a 24 hour or longer monitor to be able to correlate your symptoms with any arrhythmias that may be occurring.
hi i have headaches trouble breathing my chest hurts i feel dizzy nausea vomiting.
might have a viral infection. drink fluids and rest and use tylenol if you develop a fever. if the symptoms persist for more than 48 hours make an appointment with a health care provider for evaluation.
hello my neurone specific enolase level has come back high. (31. 7). with excessive hot flushing and tachycardia what should i do next/ ask for?
i doubt you have a neurodegenerative disease or are comatose since you posted this question. therefore the cause of high nse is most likely a neuroendocrine tumors like small cell lung cancer carcinoid tumors neuroblastoma or pancreatic islet tumor. a lot depends on your past history. flushing & symptoms points to carcinoid diagnosed by urine 5-hiaa test. use healthtap prime to discuss. gl.
heart flutter/skips beat stabbing incapacitating pains very tired mitralvalve regurgitation 1/6 high hr w/ little exercise cardiologist=noworry?
you definitely need to make sure you see a cardiologist and get appropriate testing ekg echo etc.
how does the flu effect people with heart conditions (i. e)angina?
assuming the heart conditions are under control then the flu should have little or no effect. however high fevers or low temperatures or high or low blood pressure associated with the infection can affect heart issues. as long as basic vitals are followed you should be good
how does the flu effect people with heart conditions (i. e)angina?
worse! people who get the flu who have chronic systemic illness or have decreased function levels or are frail and debilitated do much worse in general tolerating acute illnesses.
i am experiencing lightheadedness (worsened by: anxiety). walked into my kitchen and was suddenly overwhelmed by lightheadedness no other symptoms?
there are many possibilities such as blood sugar fluctuation blood pressure anxiety etc. please start by seeing your doctor. he/she will provide a diagnosis and then possible treatment and peace of mind can follow. peace and good health.
is there signs & symptoms for right ventricular mild hypertrophy? and if the pulmonary htn was42. 57mmhg 8months ago what will ecg+echo show now? please
in both cases the answer to your questions depends upon what is the cause. in general right ventricular hypertrophy can lead to symptoms of right ventricular failure- leg swelling right sided belly pain (from your liver becoming congested with blood) and abdominal swelling (from ascites fluid). it is impossible to predict your echo and ecg results. the only way to know is to repeat them
i have excessive burping indigestion heartburn and chest pain for 6weeks. what could be causing this? im in the middle of having a lot of tests.
your symptoms sound typical of gastroesophageal reflux disease on the surface. or at least something more generally related to the upper gastrointestinal tract. i hope that within your battery of test and egd is included. as well you should get an ultrasound of the abdomen as this might be related to gallbladder or pancreas issues.
if my chest pain nape pain stomach ache and bitter taste responded to mefracid does this mean that the cause of my chest pain is acid reflux?
this is most likely considering your age but it is important to get a good history and conduct a physical examination. see a physician and continue with the medication for symptoms
if my chest pain nape pain stomach ache and bitter taste responded to mefracid does this mean that the cause of my chest pain is acid reflux?
just pain is very misleading symptom and don't assume that it is nothing to worry about i have seen cases where the pain is typical for reflux and it turns out to be cardiac. if you have risk factors for heart disease like high blood pressure smoking diabetes high cholesterol and you have family history of premature heart disease then you should see your doctor
i get heart flutters randomly usually while resting. i have no thyroid and take westroid ( 1. 5 grains due to elevated rev t-3) & take only 10 mcg of?
your symptoms could be due to low thyroid hormone. if you have measured reverse t3 (if not get it measured) you may be hypothyroid functionally regardless of what your thyroid panel says (esp if it doesn't include reverse t3. more info at this website: <link>
i am having severe chest pain (along the sternum and up into my throat) especially after i burp. i was at the er yesterday and they eliminated a heart?
have a look at below for some general information see if it fits with what you are getting: <link> info/health/acid-reflux-and-oesophagitis for specific advice and diagnosis please consult a doctor licensed in your area.
i did about 10 lines of cocaine and a few days later have been having heart fluttering for the next three days. it frightens me. i'm not going to do i?
would recommend seeking medical care.
i am experiencing irregular heartbeat arm pain and chest pain or discomfort (better by: antacid medications rest) (side: left) (severity: mild) for around a week. ?
at 23 i would i=find it remote that you have coronary disease but you could have mitral prolapse. and irregular rhythm and other cardiac issues that should be investigated. antacids helping is a good sign this could be reflux but you must know for sure. the er can run a short battery of last chest film and egg in all likelihood you will be released and sent to your primary for follow up
i've been experiencing chest pain for a while now and i'm a 25 year old female. usually it's sudden or achy pains. sometimes it's accompanied by acid?
chest pain can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as esophageal spasms gastritis or reflux respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis infections) and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. at you age it is unlikely to be of a serious nature but if concerned discuss with your doctor.
i am experiencing throat swelling throat lump or bulge pain when swallowing and chest pain or discomfort spit up blood when i woke up (severity: moderate).
sounds like you experience the feeling of a ball or lump in the back of your throat that you have to swallow past? if so this is "globus. " alternatively you may have laryngo-esophaeal reflux without heartburn. sometimes the actual swallowing mechanism may be impaired due to "spasms" or dysmotility. certainly spitting up blood warrants evaluation asap please.
i am experiencing chest pain or discomfort (side: both) (quality: stinging or burning sensation) (severity: moderate).
i would have this checked out by your pmd. in the mean time try some mallox or mylanta to see if it helps. you chest pain could be due to heartburn and reflux. if it helps great. 'if the chest pain gets worse to the the er at the nearest hospital. good luck and feel better!
i have been feeling dizzy and have blurred vision or like i am going to pass out or feint. i have recently been told by my doctor to stop taking fluoxetine?
did you dr tell you to stop because of the symptoms or since you have stopped you been having these symptoms. there is a well described withdrawal syndrome that you could be experiencing. would see your doctor.
just started my midodrine for dysautonomia. when i feel my pulse i can't feel it as much is this from vasoconstriction? i feel better!
midodrine causes stimulation of the adrenergic receptors causing vascular constriction and increased blood pressure. it is particularly useful when used before eating or before standing for prolonged periods. just curious - did you try florinef (fludrocortisone) first?
just had my son 3 weeks ago today my heart flutters have been bad could it be the hormones? since i've had i ln depth heart tests and im heart healthy
your hormonal changes may be contributing but stress anxiety and sleep deprivation should be considered as well!
just suddenly woke up coughing and heart racing. feeling heart pounding in neck! hands shaky. it's so cold maybe that's why? phlegm now in throat
u may have had nightmare? u may have had reflux which activated your awake system &u came out of deep sleep. the heart pounding was it fast? good to have a watch nearby to meas rate. a hard beat can be from activ of symp nerv systom from reflux or dream. the phlegm in throat may have been reflux. make sure not to lie down w/i 2 hours after a meal. tell md about it if it happens again: holter
just had flu havr slight cough no pain/chest issues no stuffiness. do have seas. allergies. i feel like i must breath in deeply. is this allergies?
have trouble breathing in is from upper airway obstruction or anxiety. if this becomes a recurrent problem then you need to make sure that your anxiety is resolved (with psychiatric counselling as well as medications) and consult an allergist or ent to evaluate your upper airway area (vocal cord dysfunction is one possibility. )
just came back from er. was feeling burning pressure chest back fatigue. ck 183 ck mb 4. 35 troponine i es 0. 012 dr sent me home. should i worry?
most likely if the doctor sent you home they must have thought you fit into a low-risk category for cardiac risk if your ekg was "normal" and laboratory values were "negative" close follow-up is rec. and possibly even an outpatient stress test. there are many causes of chest pain for example gastric reflux muscle skeletal pain and of course cardiac disease. if your symptoms worsen return to ed
kristalose 20 grams 2 x daily for constipation. is this safe and a good dose? any side effects? i have svt/wpw syndrome.
constipation in an otherwise healthy person is usually due to inadequate fiber and fluid intake and is especially prevalent in western society due to the widespread use of processed foods combined with a high intake of non-vegetarian foods. adding fiber supplements e. g. benefiber metamucil konsyl and aloe vera helps. lactulose also helps by fighting the colon's effort to dehydrate the stool.
kidney function worsens on benicar (olmesartan) 20 mg (scr 1. 6 to 2. 6 in a month) but proteinuria improves. no stenosis in us. need mra? low aldosterone ok renin.
what and how the evaluation should be done for individuals should be based on the conclusion of detailed history physical exam and preliminary testing. as to yours which one you need can be deduced by your treating doctor & consultants. elevating creatinine suggests some impairing blood perfusion through kidneys by fluid contraction + already marginal renal function. more? ask your doctors.
left side chest pain with too much burps. pain is at one location. feels pain with movement. is it serious heart or lung disease? heart rate & bp normal.
you're most likely having symptoms related to acid reflux. get a thorough evaluation by your physician to rule out other causes. in mean time try acid lowering medicine like famotidine.
low qrs voltage in limb leads [qrs deflection 0. 5 mv in limb leads] atypical ecg. healthy 27 years old what does this mean?
low voltage on an electrocardiogram (ecg) can be a sign of cardiomyopathy (weak heart muscle) pericardial effusion (fluid around the heart) obesity lung disease. thyroid disease and others. in most cases you would already know that you have these conditions. it is possible that technical issues with the ecg recording created an error. i would repeat the tracing. glad to look at it for you.
low aldosterone ~3 normal renin and cortisol. which type of adrenal issue and remedy available? finding out reason for hyperkalemia and low hco3
you may have normoreninemic hypoaldosteronism. it can be treated by a daily dose of fludrocortisone under a physicians care. could be due to medications or primary adrenal gland failure (zona glomerulosa). additional tests could confirm this.
left side chest pain over 10 years daily n/a. chronic?
have you ever had chest surgery and the pain is following the procedure? or had chest trauma like a mva? or had shingles or herpes zoster? some causes • eophageal spasm • reflux • cervical spondylosis • prolapsed mitral cusp • da costa's syndrome • pulmonary hypertension • peptic ulcer • gallbladder disease • chronic pancreatitis • ankylosing spondylitis • tietze's disease • lesions of sternum • mediastinal tumor • spinal disease • spinal infection • spinal tumor • spinal spondylosis • chronic trauma • bronchial carcinoma • rib metastases • aortic aneurysm
left er went for heart fluttering chest pain short breath light headed. i was told that it was pac/pvc 20 year old is it common to have chest pain?
consider consult with cardiologist. er doctors tuned in to take care of serious acute problems - such as heart attacks significant arrhythmia so. you merit evaluation and comprehensive history to make a diagnosis or reassure you all is well.
last night after eating i had constant heart fluttering lasting through the night with pounding heart beat. i do have gerd. is this normal?
the symptoms you relate suggest a rapid heart beat- there are many different rhythms and causes and you must get checked out by a cardiologist with ekgs and 24 hr holsters and get a thyroid function test to determine cause especially if it repeats. likely it was a sinus tachycardia but sometimes people can get ventricular tachycardia. atrial fibrillation is also a possibility.
last night after eating i had constant heart fluttering lasting through the night with pounding heart beat. i do have gerd. is this normal?
or very cold (ice) liquids can cause extrasystoles (extra heart beats. . but this should be very transient and certainly not occur at night! sounds like you need a heart monitor at night and this is available quite commonly in the offices of cardiologists! ask your pcp for a referral! btw most all these "arrythmias" are treatable! hope this hepls dr z
last night i woke up all of a sudden with a fast heart rate and had diarrhea and sweats. and still hasnt went away. is it panic attack or stomach flu?
your persistent tachycardia is from dehydration from the diarrhea ash sweating. hydrate with electrolyte containing solutions.
my resting heart rate was 205 can this be caused by dehydration?
many things in life are possible but heart rates above the 170's usually mean something else is wrong. dehydration means different things to different people and comes in varying severities. teens and adults with a little bit of dehydration due to minor illnesses or moderate dehydration due to bad stomach flu are not likely to get up to the 200 heart rate range.
my son is experiencing chest pain or discomfort (quality: sensation of tearing pain) (worsened by: after exercise) (severity: mild) (side: right).
that he be seen/examined by his pediatrician. this could be muscular in nature but also could be pulmonary (lungs) or even gastrointestinal such as acid reflux. his doctor should be able to diagnose him and properly treat him if treatment is necessary.
my dad on bp meds has had normal reading. last wk had diarrhea episode. i noticed his bp reading is now quite low at 90/70. could diarhea be cause?
usually dependent on fluid volume status. diarrhea causes you to lose fluid (become dehydrated. ) the diarrhea has contributed to fluid volume loss and therefore the bp is lower.
my chest feels tight no pain and i think i have avid reflux. it got better last night but it's still happening today. is that a problem?
chest tightness can be a symptom of heart disease but may be may other things such as aortic problems respiratory disorders (asthma copd bronchitis lung collapse infections) esophageal spasms and muscle problems to name a few. it really depends on the clinical situation and other symptoms you may be having. depending on the duration it would be worth seeing a doctor.
my chest feels tight no pain and i think i have avid reflux. it got better last night but it's still happening today. is that a problem?
challenging to sort out chest issues. chest tightness in a 22 year old woman may be related to asthma gi problems like reflux heart issues etc. it actually would be unusual for acid reflux to cause tightness without any pain/burning discomfort. this requires collecting a careful history about frequency intensity character aggravating factors etc. see you doctor for the necessary eval<positive_smiley>
my chest feels tight no pain and i think i have avid reflux. it got better last night but it's still happening today. is that a problem?
might be reflux but if smoke or on birth control could be pulmonary emboli[blood clot ] much worse risk if do both. could be asthma too if wheeze. reflux usually has acid taste in mouth heartburn to lessen it eat 6 smaller meals to avoid overfilling stomach and thus reflux thru valave between stomach and esophagus elevate head of bed 6 inches on blocks to help gravity push food down
my blood pressure fluctuates but stays normal to low but gets high throughout the day. my doctor put me on metoprolol 12. 5 mg a day. is it too much?
hi as far as dosing metoprolol 12. 5 mg daily is an incredibly low dose. generally to see significant blood pressure lowering effects we use higher doses. i wouldn't worry too much about it unless you are getting dizzy or lightheaded because your blood pressure is too low. alternatively it may be worthwhile to consider more testing to see why your blood pressure is high only during the day.
my father had mitrovalve replacement a few years back and recently was diagnosed with having bicuspid aorta. what is the likelihood that i have it?
heart related birth defects like a bicuspid valve have some genetic influence but not direct. unless you were to have a genetic syndrome passed through a common mendelian pattern (you would know) the risk of any (not just the valve) heart related defect is about 5% when one parent has one 8% if both have one. a cardiac ultrasound could find it if present.
non st t waves changes issue with atrial flutter newly mitral regurgitation. are they all tied together somehow. history ofchest pain cabg stent. should more testing be done?
yes:: a flutter is an unstable rythm it may break or convert to afib. the t waves are flipped with flutter. given the brief hx you gave you probably had an mi from underlying cad if you had a cabg at such a young age it was either 3vdz or lm. the dilated cardiomyopathy that develops after an mi has likely created the mr. you should get copies records and get a second card consult thalium/tee
non st t waves changes issue with atrial flutter newly mitral regurgitation. are they all tied together somehow. history ofchest pain cabg stent. should more testing be done?
cad and infarct may cause dilation of left ventricle leading to mitral regurgitation. myocardial infarct might also precipitate arrhythmia including atrial fibrillation. advise regular follow up with your cardiologist to optimize your treatment
non st t waves changes issue with atrial flutter newly mitral regurgitation. are they all tied together somehow. history ofchest pain cabg stent. should more testing be done?
these changes may be associated with symptoms so i would suggest you let your cardiologist make the diagnosis as to whether these changes are of any consequence
nightly i lay down and feel fast pulsating in my arms legs or chest all over frequently. feels like heart but my heart rate doesn't seem to follow?
would consider reflux with or without h pylori. follow up with doctor urgent care. elevate head of bed by placing a pillow under the mattress. f/u with doctor urgent care
night sweats can't regulate body temp nausea heart flutters extreme fatigue. cough pain in stomach right below ribs?
many of your symptoms could be related to thyroid disease. please see you doctor and make sure a thyroid panel is ordered. best of luck.
nausea b4 sleep no food for 12h. wokeup to pvc then kinda paniced palpitation with pvc feet/hand tingle/numb faceflushed lightheadedness(faint) had juice felt betterafter then rusheder ekg/bp normal
given your young age and the history you provided this does seem like you had a potential anxiety response. your are using term "pvc" i presume you have had some evaluation to suggest you had this in the past. pvcs are very common and symptoms from pvcs are very variable. reduce caffeine take multivitamin consider further evaluation if symptoms recur: labs echocardiogram etc.
newly diagnosed with pots syndrome. is it normal to crave large amounts of salt? i sometimes feel i can't get enough. some days florinef (fludrocortisone) doesn't work.
florinef (fludrocortisone) is a long term rx that takes weeks to show effect. the expression of your autonomic dysfunction varies on an hourly basis. it is not the florinef (fludrocortisone) that is not working on a daily basis but rather the severity of your disease varying on a daily basis making it feel like the florinef (fludrocortisone) is not working that day. check out <link> and other dr. blair grubb sites.
no appetite feel hot and sick worse when eating. no energy. had chest pain but ekg troponin chest xray normal. i am guessing not heart? cause?
any fever/chills. other chest pain any body pain cough sore throat running nose head ache nausea vomiting diarrhea abdominal pain. viral syndromes can make you fell like this like flu or flu like syndromes. need more information to give you a better answer please.
nausea at night. heart beat in stomach. can't sleep.
nocturnal nausea with no symptoms during the rest of the time could be due to indigestion going to bed with too much food in your stomach or abnormally delayed emptying of the stomach. reflux doesn't seem like due to absence of heartburn belching or sour eructations but could still be a possibility. avoid eating late at night and avoid greasy or fatty foods which delay stomach emptying. see md
normal ekg echo holter thyroid&cbc checked last year for heart palps/chest pains. still have fluttering feelings in chest is it my heart or anxiety?
i may be wrong but i strongly recommend that you set up an appointment with a psychologist! please keep me informed.
other causes for my tachycardia? all normal causes seem to be ruled out heart structure is normal blood test shows normal ranges too thyroid fine.
depends upon the type of tachycardia - psvt / a fib/flutter / sinus tach? psvt is an electrical problem in the av node of the heart. in a young male afib is iikely related to alcohol use and sinus tach is likely related to anxiety.
out of breath palpitations heart vibration and acid reflux after eating (n. b lately discovered i have a 3rd heart sound. ) what could it be?
your symptoms could be caused by a number of things some physiologic some psychologic. you should get checked out by a doc to evaluate your state. the third heart sound in you could be 'physiologic' or abnormal another thing to check.
out of breath palpitations heart vibration and acid reflux after eating (n. b lately discovered i have a 3rd heart sound. ) what could it be?
a third heart sound in a 20 year old can be normal. while its hard to say not to go to the er with your symptoms (given the litigious nature of our medical system) i can say unless you have a significant family or personal history of heart problems or use drugs your risk of a significant heart problem is minimal at your age. i would go to the er if it got worse otherwise your regular doc asap.
okay so docs r saying my mom fluid retention is due to her being in and out of afib and hypertension. she's been in hosp for a month now and hasnt got better. dierutics dosage is low because kidneys act up if they increase it. what's the cure? how long c
controlling her heart rates in atrial fibrillation is the first step but if kidneys are impaired diuretics get dicey. chalk to her physicians caring for her.
on blood pressure meds. most of the time normal. some times drops to in mid ninety over mid fifties. have pacemaker and on warfarin?
your blood pressure constantly fluctuates so relying on one pressure reading out of many is likely not an accurate reflection of what is usual for you. more importantly pay attention to your blood pressure trends. if your blood pressure drops to the mid 90s/50s and you're not having symptoms such as light-headedness it's probably ok. consult your physician.
occasional random flutter type sensation in chest. not a racing feeling. it happens very quickly and is gone. ?
probably not a serious problem. likely extra beats or intestinal gas. can't tell from out here.
on florinef (fludrocortisone). 1mg potassium is now 3. 2 doctor given me 24meq per day 940mg. is this going to stop it going lower? scary don't want heart arythmia
you low potassium (k) is concerning. you do not list that you are taking any diuretics that would lose both k and magnesium (m). patients with m deficits have low k levels that cannot be corrected until their m is normal and your diet may not contain enough m to prevent a low level of it. ask you physician to check your m and if it is low its repletion will prevent further low k readings.
once in awhile i get a strange fluttering sensation in the heart and up into my neck. i have had an ekg which came back normal. what could this be?
palpitations are an awareness of extra heartbeats which most of us have. the sensation can be single or multiple and can sometimes last minutes. different people may feel other symptoms along with them such as dizzy lightheaded or short of breath. the palpitations are almost always atrial or ventricular premature beats. usually benign but they are also found with abnormal hearts.
other than drugs how can a teenager get a heart attack?
member710 first you have to define what you mean by a heart attack since people use the phrase differently. heart arrhythmias (funny beats/rhythms) can be caused by drugs structural defects trauma infections that lead to the heart (bacterial viral etc) loss of fluid too much fluid in the body electrolyte imbalances (too much or too little potassium) clotting disorders and many more thing.
occasional 'catches' of breath like all air has gone from my chest lasts 5 secs & with dizziness. light heart pain. flutters too. ecg bloods fine.
it sounds like you may be having short bursts of tachycardia (likely svt in view of your age). a heart rate of 180-220 is common may only last a few seconds and would produce all the symptoms you describe. ask your doctor for a 30 day event monitor exam to nail the diagnosis. it's easily treatable. meanwhile avoid nicotine and caffeine.
on bupropion sr 100mg once in the morning. on day 5 now and i'm having noticeable heart palpitations. will they go away? when? is it causing damage?
what is your caffeine intake? this side effect may occur with wellbutrin (bupropion) but you are much more likely to have problems with this medication if you have significant caffeine intake. i have some of my patients taper down their caffeine use before they begin wellbutrin (bupropion). using propranolol together with fluoxetine can cause irregularities in heartbeats. using wellbutrin (bupropion) with propranolol can increase
orthostatic hypotension. when i stand up i go blind. several times my whole body has twitched. failed table tilt test as well. low bp & high hr. help?
sounds like pots. . please see an electrophysiologist for counseling and treatment. other than avoiding dehydration medicines such as florinef (fludrocortisone) or midodrine or beta-blockers may be indicated. but you need to be evaluated and under the care of an electrophysiologist.
on lorazepam for 2 weeks for anxiety quit cold turkey went through w/d for a week seem normal now except when i stand up my heart rate gets to 100-120?
a temporary rise of your heart rate to 100+ can occur on standing especially if you are behind in your fluids. try drinking more water (especially important in the summer). if you feel light headed or faint on standing please see your doctor for an evaluation.
occasionally feel flutter or double heart beat. last less than one second. heart rate is normal before and after this happens. have anxiety as well. ?
this appears to be related to anxiety see your pcp
on metoprolol for ist/pots. the dose that's high enough to control it lowers my bp too much. what alternatives are there?
treatment of pots is not as simple prescribing a beta blocker. there are inherent problems with maintaining adequate circulation despite changes in posture. the rapid heart rate occurs in response to lack of vessel constriction upon standing. often pts with pots need a medicine such as midodrine or florinef (fludrocortisone) combined with a beta blocker. consult you cardiologist for evaluation and treatment
on potassium oral sando k due to fludrocortisone for pots. got sickness n diharea bug. is holding potassium down 2 hours enough for some absorption?
by 2 hours most of the absorption from the stomach is done
on 8g salt daily for pots to try to keep bp up. also on florinef (fludrocortisone) 50 mcg daily. is this combo terrible for my body (arteries kidneys etc). ?
person of unknown age and gender from wi has pots & on hi na and florinef (fludrocortisone). asks is this damaging my body? ans: not as much as fainting from low bp and banging your head or breaking a bone. i practice in wi and you can consult with me at healthtap if you like. i may be able to help you and team get you on right track but sounds like you r on right track.
orthostatic hypotension. cardio gave fludrocortisone 0. 1 mg. 1 month now& bp lower w/ sudden sob chest tightness/pressure nausea &weak. need advice.
of heart output (in combination with total peripheral resistance) determining what bp is at any given moment 24/7 is blood return from both body & lungs. a major determinant of blood return is blood volume (a percentage of body water). salt intake plays a major role in body water balance. thus? ing daily salt intake likely more powerful than florinef (fludrocortisone). other issues=more complex brain/body issues
on florinef (fludrocortisone) 100 mcg daily & high salt diet for pots & low bp. get very bloated in abdomen after salt &fluids which i need to not be lightheaded. help?
you need and will get help. i suggest you make an appointment to see a cardiologist. high salt diet needs care - perhaps more importantly you should see a hormone specialist (endocrinologist) as well. please let me know how things go.
occasionally i have hrs of ~ 55 during day dropping below 50 while sleeping. bp also heavily fluctuating (150/75 120/60 115/105). little activity
hi kevin at your age heart function can be quite dynamic as can blood pressure. athletes tend to have lower heart rates than non-athletes. also your heart will be slower overnight. the question is:" are you having symptoms? " if dizzy weak short of breath or palpitations see your doctor. otherwise be reassured that it is probably okay and stop checking it so often. hope thats helpful.
over the past two days i've had a lot flutter my heart. it makes me feel i cannot breathe. do i need to tell my dr?
you need a holter monitor
over the past two days i've had a lot flutter my heart. it makes me feel i cannot breathe. do i need to tell my dr?
yes i think you should mention that to the gp especially if you have had any prior heart or lung conditions. your gp may listen to your heart and lungs and possibly order tests to make sure everything is otherwise fine. best of luck.
ok so i got a colonos & endos today and my gi said the scopes didn't show anything and everything looked good but waiting for biopsy? can she tell in the scope if there's cancer fluids etc? my heartbeat feels like is becoming weaker i can't feel it
biopsies are usually performed when abnormalities are seen during endoscopies. apparently no evident malignancy or other definite pathology was seen. if your heartbeat is truly weak it would have caused low blood pressure and that would have been measured when you underwent the upper and lower endoscopic studies. we can assume your blood pressure was normal then.
ok i just want to feel better. past years and months been major headaches and like fluid is built up and closing in my heart and now when i workout i feel like my heart beat is weaker and vibrates. not eating not in mood. cancer? which tests to get
headaches and the other symptoms you describe need a full consult with an md. have you had a ekg echocardiogram holter monitor cbc? what is your diet like? do you have a history of smoking? what is your weight & diet like: depending on answers it can be due to as simple as a diet/nutrition issue to cancer (which is unlikely if all of the above are normal or negative). consult with us to help.
over the last few days i seem to be experiencing a level of light-headedness along with a "fluttering" heartbeat. i'm on medication for high bp. i generally seem somewhat fatigued / tired.
your heartbeat is meant to be regular but there are many things that make it feel like it is missing skipping or fluttering. most are benign but it sounds like you will need to get an ecg to diagnose the problem. the lightheaded feeling and fatigue may be a part of your problem. if symptoms are severe you should to the ed.
over the last few days i seem to be experiencing a level of light-headedness along with a "fluttering" heartbeat. i'm on medication for high bp. i generally seem somewhat fatigued / tired.
please contact your prescribing physician. your medication levels may have to be adjusted.
pseudohypoparathyroidism? i have "archibald's sign " chronic skin rash constipation heart flutter. come home asap from vet school abroad for dx/tx?
you present a number of medical complaints all of which need attention. please start with a visit to your primary doctor. your medical history will be taken you will be examined by the doctor and laboratory studies will be ordered. once the information is collected your doctor will decide where you might go for further care. please let me know what develops.
palpitation/flutter under left side ribs. stomach? palpitations takes my breath away and for an instant i feel faint
tachycardia. a cardiologist should do a holter monitor
palpitations? i get a flutter/twitch feeling in my chest towards the left center. followed by what feels like a skipped/paused beat. felt in pulse too
palpitations are an awareness of extra heartbeats which most of us have. the sensation can be single or multiple and can sometimes last minutes. different people may feel other symptoms along with them such as dizzy lightheaded or short of breath. the palpitations are almost always atrial or ventricular premature beats. usually benign but they are also found with abnormal hearts.
palpitations/fluttering/quivering in throat when breathing in and at rest dizzy lightheaded throat tightness racing heart. arrhythmia?
you need a holter monitor
pots syndrome affecting my life. salt fluids florinef (fludrocortisone) didn't help. now starting midodrine. missed days of work. how to get work to understand?
is to have a frank discussion with your supervisor(s) about your medical condition. days missed for medical care may be covered under fmla rules (family medical leave act) if your employer has a human resources dept or a eap (employee assistance program) all the better! hope this helps! good luck dr z
pain under rib cage. ekg blood work ultrasound & x-ray all clear. i have fibromyalgia & acid reflux. excruciating pain & no appetite. ?
the symptoms may lessen as the edema or swelling decreases but the disk tissue does not go completely away.
quick question what would fast heartrate for example 120 but normal bp like 121/81 indicate?
there are so many things that can cause tachycardia. first an ecg would determine if are there are sinus beats or abnormal heart beats. otherwise just a few causes: hyper thyroidism heart muscle ds atrial fib/flutter medications early withdrawal from alcohol drugs caffeine fever smoking exercise etc. a physical exam or labs may quickly determine the cause.
question for mds that have actually treated a patient with pots: what intervention did you see the best results from for symptom management? symptoms: fatigue brain fog memory recall exercise intolerance occasional swallowing/breathing issues;
pots or postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome is a condition characterized by a drop in blood pressure and a rise in heart rate with positional changes. compressing the peripheral circulation with compression hose is the 1st treatment i found preventing too much of a loss of circulating blood volume. there r occasional patients who need florinef (fludrocortisone) but the 1st line treatment is generally best
recovering from cold/flu. today at work noticed on many occasions my heart flutter above my left breast. it was visible and uncomfortable. lungs clear?
side effect of flu and cold is cardiac symptoms due to pericarditis. if symptoms and annoying see a physician
recently been getting random palpitations often no chest flutters or dizziness 30 sec ecg always normal could it be an arrhythmia?
it could be an arrhythmia and you may need a holter monitor to investigate this further. see your pcp for further management.
recently been getting random palpitations often no chest flutters or dizziness 30 sec ecg always normal could it be an arrhythmia?
palpitations can be part of normal extra beats for anyone. if they come and go lasting short time periods like less than a minute then usually at your age it's not serious. concerning symptoms with palpitations include dizziness fainting severe shortness of breath or chest pain. to help reduce them avoid excess of caffeine alcohol stimulants in cold medications and reduce stress.
recent ct scan indicated mild thickening of left adrenal gland unchanged. i get heart palpitations when i lie on my left side. is this serious?
ct findings and palpitations are unrelated. if you are otherwise well with no history of cancer the mild thickening is most often unimportant. palpitations are do to a sudden racing of the heart or to premature heartbeats that feel like a skipped beat or a quick flutter. these palpitations are usually not an indication of heart disease. see <link> but if they persist see your dr
rbcs count h 5. 42 millions/cmm ; mcv l 71. 8 fl ; mch l 22. 7 pg ; rdw-cv h 16. 2%and i complained of chest pain acidity and weakness. help me?
you may be bleeding with an ulcer. your numbers suggest an iron deficiency. when iron is not being absorbed it is often because acid is inadequate. when acid is too much it may imply blood loss. you should see your doctor and have your stool tested for blood. chest pain is another problem but could be due to acid condition and reflux (gerd) into esophagus. .
rapid flutter feeling (like heartbeat )in back flank area on right side (backside). it is more rapid and strong than the heartbeat. comes and goes. ?
this appears to be an irritable muscle causing twitching. if it is a pulsation from a large artery like the aorta the sensations would be synchronous with your pulse which you can check at your wrist neck or in front of your ear. i suspect that this will eventually resolve on its own. see your physician if you have any further concerns.
right chest pain when neck is flex or right shoulder shrug. also felt left side chest a few times right scapular and occasional gas sound in chest 1wk?
it is most likely due to reflux or you may have hiatal hernia.
recently had an echo stress test showed small amount of fluid around my heart. still having chest pain-short of breath-numbness. what can i do now?
may have a cardiac issue or a pericardial issue. make an appointment to see your cardiologist and discuss the findings on your test as well as reevaluation of your continued symptoms. without a thorough history and physical exam as well as reviewing the stress echo it will be impossible to make additional recommendations over the internet.
recently my mom had lung cancer. today she was taken to the hospital after some chest pain and there seems to be some fluids in her lungs ( i think it?
hi it sounds like you may be asking where this fluid is coming from. pleural effusions can come from different sources. it is possible that cancer or recurrence and spread of cancer can cause a pleural effusion. however they can also come from infections heart failure and liver failure to name some other possibilities. a full eval is warranted and may require draining and testing the fluid.
recently hospitalized w/rhinovirus & flu. it's been 1 1/2 weeks i was feeling better but now have chest pain again head ache o2 drops to 86%. ?
this definitely means that you still sick and need to see your doctor again. chest pain and pco2 86% is serious problem. call your doctor asap please.
rapid heart rate (95 at rest) continuing hours after several glasses of beer. nausea. should i be concerned? er?
just dehydrated. drink lots of fluids (electrolyte containing would be best) and if the symptoms persist for more than 24 hours then go for evaluation.
scared. get heart flutters out of the blue sometimes. got two this morning one right after the other making appt to see cardiologist again. concerned?
my only concern (curiosity may be a better term) would be that the cause of these flutters may not have been adequately investigated. blood testing? holter monitor or event recorder? stress testing? not all "heart flutters" are actually from the heart but a complete battery of testing is needed to be sure.
should i go to the er? i've had chest tightness almost every minute heart flutters upper back pain body aches and a slight fever. going on 5 days.
your symptoms warrant evaluation if going on for 5 days so you can still see your doctor first but if progressing fast er would be your first choice
should pvc's be a cause of concern after a normal echocardiogram and ekg? when they come and go should i be concerned when they come? everytime they act up it makes me want to run to the er
palpitations is the word patient use to describe a fluttering sensation in the chest caused by skipped heart beats or rapid heartbeats. patients with no heart disease can often experience palpitations. sometimes they are brought on by anxiety fatigue caffeine and cough and cold medicines. beta blockers are sometimes prescribed if the palpitations are annoying or very frequent. see bit. ly/1vlj
sort of heavy chest a little hard to breathe deep. not palps but feel a little strained beats bit dizzy tinnitus eps been going on 2 weeks or so?
i would get an ekg and a chest xray for this make sure it's not your heart. if you don't think it's that it could be a mild viral infection that caused inflammation of the lungs or created fluid around the heart or caused mild cardiomyopathy. is it worse with exertion? does the heaviness radiate somewhere when you exercise? can you still exercise? any cough? leg swelling?
starting diflucan 200mg/day for 4 weeks for candida in esophagus. from asthma meds and antibiotics. i take prozac. will it cause qt problems? healthy.
that is a lot of problems and meds for a 28 year old man. seems like you have a rough life. need to solve the environment you are living in. i hope no cats at home as this would make asthma worse. no smoking please. you can always have an ekg done midway or if having new symptoms to check for qt prolongation but this would be rare.
starting diflucan 200mg/day for 4 weeks for candida in esophagus. from asthma meds and antibiotics. i take prozac. will it cause qt problems? healthy.
the combination of diflucan and prozac is high risk for qt prolongation. your doctor needs to reassess this combination.
should i be concerned that i now have pleural thickening as a result of a perforated esophagus and a 5 centimeter abscess with pleuritic chest pain?
i would suggest cultures of the abscess fluid to include bacterial and tb tests. the thickening may be reactive scarring but the fluid should be analyzed to guide further management.
sometimes i can feel my heart stop for about 2 seconds and fluttering too. is there a test that can determine if i've ever experienced a heart attack?
yes a simple ekg will be able to give the information you are looking for
sharp pain left side chest. not going away. shortness of breath. all heart tests negative. also circular spot on right side. similar to ringworm.
if you did have negative work up and it seems that way give ct scan and such. however your symptoms persist. i would take fluids and nsaid regularly for a week. the likely cause would be pleurisy.
since waking up my husband is getting severely dizzy with increased heartbeat (goes up 30 plus bpm) when standing better when laying down; bp is ok.
this suggests either decreased blood volume (as in dehydration blood loss diarrhea) or effective volume (eg vessel dilated from infection food poison medications alcohol or poor heart circulation) see doctor asap if fluids like gatorade or soups did not help. urgent red flags include: chest pain shortness of breath other neural problems headache nausea blood pain or heart/ulcer history
since last week i have had what feels like acid in my throat and tight chest. i suffer anxiety and depression and it's making me anxious?
might have esophageal reflux. this would give you the sensation in your throat and a tight chest. make an appointment with a health care professional for evaluation diagnosis and treatment. it will probably be easy and inexpensive to treat.
started choking on food when eating/swallowing. throat full of phlegm. constant lump in throat feeling always swallowing. afraid to eat-there've been 2 times i almost didn't get food out of mouth/throat in time. cough rib/chest pain. ideas/help please?
what you are describing medically would be called dysphagia there are multiple causes. among the more common is chronic reflux disease leading to constrict ute of the esophagus. consider being seen. work up would likely include a swallowing study and an egd.
shallow breath and sharp pain in left chest 2 inch top nipple. comes and goes for about a month now. heart beat feels weaker daily. barely hold breathe anymore or walk my car without heavy. all tests normal heart lung every. click noise lump throwt?
sometimes difficult to detect best to go to pulmonary specialist for evaluation sometimes detected by ct of chest with pleural fluid and thickening chest x-rays sometimes negative make sure you have a tuberculin skin test done and ana many timesit it is viral
there's a temporary blackout whenever i stand up from lying down. it's happening more frequently. is this a bad sign? im scared.
feeling lightheaded when changing positions from laying down to sitting or from sitting to standing may be due to orthostatic (or postural) hypotension. check out <link> drink enough fluids (water) to make urine pale. see your familydoc for evaluation if symptoms persists despite adequate hydration.
these past few weeks i've experienced random heart flutters it never hurts i just feel a twinge takes my breathe away and is gone. is this normal?
most often what you describe is benign and requires no treatment just reassurance. your doctor can check you to be sure what your situation is. in the unlikely case some abnormality is present dr. can deal with it for you.
the docter prescribed me augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate) sr antibiotic for sinus infection it says 4 tablets a day i have fast heart beat on the second day is this bad?
fast hr is probably not related to taking augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate) sr. drink plenty of fluids and get plenty of rest as you currently have a sinus infection. if you are taking any pseudoephedrine (a decongestant) for your sinus congestion stop now as this is likely the cause of the fast heart rate.
throat constriction quite painful and chest pain full 10 mins causes please thank u?
chest pain may be an emergency. if so one can call 911 for an ambulance and not try to drive to the er. an ambulance can provide oxygen and monitoring on the way to the er. doctors will rule out heart attack pneumothorax (collapsed lung) rib cartilage pains (costochondritis) heartburn (gastric reflux) etc. throat constriction may be an allergic reaction emergency another reason to call 911.
taking florinef (fludrocortisone) 100 mcg daily & high salt diet for pots & low bp. how to control belly fluid retention i get since starting treatment? i exercise.
you should first start again with your primary doctor to make sure that some items are ok and possibly some items need correction. you did not include your age height and weight so i cannot give further information. i would appreciate it if you send me some more information.
taking fludrocortisone for a year (pots) and synthroid (thyroxine) for 4 (hashimoto) could any of these medicines could cause muscle pain n twitching side effect?
possibly more common would be secondary electrolyte changes due to the mechanism of fluid retention involved with the fludrocortisone. have these been checked recently. also with pots a mast cell activation syndrome could be considered.
tight chest coughing fever shakes and body aches what could this be im out of town for christmas and im so sick?
if you have headache especially behind the eyes flu is more likely and an urgent care or ht consult could help you get some tamiflu. however if there is any chest pain along with these symptoms pneumonia is possible and an exam is really needed. good luck!
top left chest pain got a cold and a cough been doctors said its not heart related but it is worrying me the pain comes and goes?
your are 28 year old male and it is unlikely to be a life threatening. it is likely pleurisy. i would recommend alot of fluids and take ibuprofen regularly for a week.
tightness in chest. lower throat/trachea is very sore. chest hurts a bit when i breath. trachea hurts when i swallow. any help?
chest tightness chest pain or shortness of breath can be due to minor problems or to very serious ones. a doctor can check to see what might be going on. sometimes tests and chest xrays will be done. possible causes include a partial pneumothorax (collapsed lung) asthma stomach reflux heart problems laryngitis other viral infections etc. sore throat can be tested for strep throat.
trying 2 conceive. last n. i passed out onway to bathroom. hus thinks i'm dehydrated. period due mar 5th. could fall or dehy have hurt baby this early?
dehydration can hurt you. the most important action you can take to protect your baby when you do get pregnant is to take care of yourself. i strongly recommend dequate fluid intake prenatal vitamins and a visit to your doctor to find out why you passed out. best wishes. dr. anne
upper body feeling tight tingling in face. normekg stress echo 24holt. age28 nofamhist nonsmoker. f/u cardio said heart is healthy. anxiety? still heart?
congratulations! . there is nothing wrong with your heart. time to move on and look for other causes reflux musculoskeletal anxiety etc. and correct me if i'm wrong but haven't you asked this question several times already?
unwell. chesty cough. no phlegm. had minor fever but heart rate between 110 -115. is it normal?
you should go into be examined. your heart rate points to either not getting enough fluid in or a significant illness like pneumonia.
uncontrolled hypertension in a 63 yo female. 220's/118. already on hyzaar (losartan and hydrocholorthiazide) 100/12. 5 and metoprolol xl 50 qday. what medication change would you make?
you have a bit of leeway in the dosage of your present medication. (addition or substitution should be done by your treating physician) try increasing the beta blocker (metoprolol) to 50 mgm twice a day and ask your physician if hyzaar (losartan and hydrocholorthiazide) can be changed to 100-25 (increasing the thiazide fluid pill) hope this helps!
ultrasound at 10wks pregnant. the tech told me it looked like there was movement of the fetus but no heartbeat. how?
the baby is in a gestational sac with fluid and moves freely because its like floating in water. however in this case i'm not sure i would do anything without a second ultrasound. you should have a heartbeat by now but based on the tech's comment as an ob i would offer a second ultrasound or do it myself to confirm no heartbeat.
upper and lower left side chest pain after drinking 20 beers 48 hrs ago?
pain in chest after drinking alcohol could be due to various reasons starting from gastric reflux ulcer pancreatitis or angina or heart attack. please see your doctor or go to emergency department.
victoza (liraglutide) and digoxin how do they effect one. another?
i treat nausea as "dig toxicity" in chf pt's until i can get further tests done. victoza (liraglutide) in new start ups is frequently nauseating. as a diabetic with heart failure you are a challenging pt. control of you blood sugar and fluid levels is critical. you need a close follow up with your doc.
very active 36 yr old female. at night i have a flutter in chest occasionally and heart skips a beat. could it be anxiety or true heart issues.?
you should be evaluated medically for any underlying cardiac abnormalities. once ruled out or in if you have symptoms of anxiety tha should also be assessed and treated.
vomiting rapid heart rate nausea 5 year old?
may be the onset of the flu. the tachycardia may be a sign of fever.
vomiting tightness in throat and fast heart beat?
are you having flu like symptoms? go to see a primary care doctor asap. .
visited er normal ekg and blood tests 99%bloodoxy doc says oh and you have a little fluid on lungs no big deal maybe up diuretic. need to worry?
a little fluid on the lungs is not benign especially since i see no mention of heart failure or of diuretic. seems as though you have had procedures to evaluate function of your heart. so. i am wondering on what evidence they deduced there was fluid in the lungs. sometimes this may be suggested by labs or x ray but neither of these is completely reliable. ask them directly.
visited er normal ekg and blood tests 99%bloodoxy doc says oh and you have a little fluid on lungs no big deal maybe up diuretic. need to worry?
sounds like there's more information lacking here without results of the echo et al can't say much. ask your doc what the story is.
very frequent infections/fatigue. some heart palpitations. flu-1wk-ciproflox. then: leukocytes 4. 4 lymphocytes 46. 2 neutrophils 2. 0 all else normal.
i'm not sure what your question is. please rewrite your question with a question.
vomiting diaherra dizziness heat intolerance light headedness chest pain shortness of breath fatigue rapid heartbeat stomach pain?
what you describe are symptoms of flu. take lots of fluids and monitor your temperature. if it gets high you will need medical attention. good luck.
vomiting bug throwing up every 15-40mins. on potassium supplement for florinef (fludrocortisone). how long do i need to keep it down to be absorbed(the potassium&water?
potassium irritates your stomach. you must have medication to control the vomiting! call the physician who is following you for you adrenal problem or go to urgent care clinic a s a p! hope this helps! dr z
very tired tight chest clammy hands palpitations bloated i have a slight cold but healthy i am only 30 what's wrong?
probably coming down with cold and mild viral syndrome. treat with resr asprine/tylenol plenty of fluids /chicken soup
visible heartbeat in stomach indigestion and gas after eating?
acid reflux is addressed differently depending on severity and symptoms. i suggest you visit your gp or get a referral to a gi doc for some advice and proton pump inhibitor medication
very fatigued heart flutters. neck feels like it swollen on the front only low iron. could it be signs of heart problems or thyroid?
would recommend some blood labs and possibly an ultrasound of neck.
very painful productive cough x2 days. thick yellow/green sputum. chest feels tight and hurts. no head cold sx. malaise fatigued. when to worry?
if you are experiencing trouble breathing or fever i would recommend being seen. drink fluids and please stay well hydrated.
very heavy heartbeat when waking up. not fast just very heavy pounding against chest even hurts a bit had to wait for it to normalize. ?
is it when standing or just lying down? could be postural tachycardia ( though you said not fast) if when standing or due to sympathetic hyper response may be thyroid or gerd/ reflux . woudl f/u /w/ doc for thyroid studies ekg checking heart rate while lying down and standing and reflux ((try ranitidine/ prevecid).
vomiting bright red and dark red sometimes coffee grounds in hospital for 2 days still npo and still vomiting with chest pain and abdominal pain?
they need an endoscopy. could be ulcer gastritis with or without h pylori stomach ca mallory weiss tear from vomiting varices from cirrhosis rarely z-e pancreatitis complicating the gastritis. check lipase amylase. the chest pain could be reflux/ gastritis or if risk factors cardiac complicating this serious situation. check troponin / ekg. a gastroenterologist should be involved.
what causes new occurring lbbb in healthy 17 year old. 4 yr ago i had a borderline ecg and my qrs was 103 and now it's 161. can lbbb be reversible? i've been to 2 drs and one also said all he sees is wpw and i've had heart flutters for 6 years.
believe that an 18 year old would develop 'new" lbbb. i believe i answered that specific question for you some days ago including potential causes. without seeing the various ekgs myself i cannot believe the interpretations. ventricular pre excitation with variable conduction characteristics could potentially explain the findings. you need to see an electrophysiologist for this.
why would my ears feel clogged and almost like i hear blood flowing in my head or my heart beat. i hear echoes when i turn my head and neck. ?
be from wax buildup in the ear canal or from fluid buildup inside the ear behind the drum. either way you should be evaluated by a health care provider (preferably an ent) to avoid potentially serious problems in the future.
while on bisoprolol 2. 5mg betablockers if had analphylactic reaction from allergens can epinephrine be used or would an aternative have to be used?
epinephrine /epipen is the major and primary medication for treatment anaphylactic reaction. other regular medicine like beta blocker or ventolin do not influence upon this procedure.
wheezing cough that causes vomiting constant chest pain severe headache fatigue 99. 5-100. 5 fever flushed face sore throat green mucus. ideas?
from the symptoms you describe fever chest pain headache sore throat and green mucus. it seems you have a respiratory infection. it could be a bacterial infection as you have green mucus. get it checked by your doctor as you may need antibiotics if doctor feels you need after your examination
wife has pacemaker/defibrillator she's at 10% ef. they said she had about 6 months she was in icu with influenza a she was 25% could her ef be off.
the ejection fraction (ef) as measured by echocardiograms muga scans cardiac mri etc. is a variable - it can fluctuate depending on the body's condition & depending on errors in measurement (of mri ultrasound etc). it can be suppressed (low) if there is volume overload (too much body water) or in an active infection. good treatment over time can improve the ef. tty cardiologist. good luck!
woke up with racing bpm 98-102 while still in bed. it went back to normal a min later. i've been having anxiety about my heart rate could this cause?
remaining focused on this may actually exacerbate it. 102 is a little bit elevated -are you have pounding or fluttering sensation. if you have the latter and it is occurring often - get evaluated. in the meantime- if you can find a quiet place - do so. breath in slowly & deeply through your nostrils. fill your lungs with air (but not to the point of discomfort). hold for a count of five then
any new study on pots syndrome? we need help what can be done to heal? horrible syndrome!
pots syndrome is a difficult condition to treat. treatments include increased fluid compression stockings and medications like beta blockers florinef (fludrocortisone) etc. one recent study suggests melatonin may help. see: cardiovasc ther. 2014 jun;32(3):105-12. doi: 10. 1111/1755-5922. 12067.
re lasix (furosemide) 4 ltrs out/2 ltrs in patient is 300 pounds w/ edema in r leg and scrotum. hydroceles in testicles. is 4 ltrs still too much?
if u have no chf i. e. no fluid in ur lungs do not take lasix (furosemide) it will make u dehydrated and pass out. just cut down ur fluid intake.
what can you safely take for silent reflux on warfarin. is gaviscon advance ok?
consult your drs
pain in chest that moves. pressure in left side. occasional heartburn. no nausea or sweating. good heart and lungs.
your symptoms could be due to acid indigestion aka reflux disease. you can try taking an over-the-counter anti-acid (ask the pharmacist) for 4 weeks and see if symptoms go away. you should also cut out alcohol chocolate peppermint citrus products tomato products and high carbs during this time and monitor symptoms. if no improvement see your pcp.
atrial flutter what effective treatment do you advice also with left brendle branch block thank you?
many meds can be effective -- talk with your cardiologist -- you also may need to be on anticoagulation.
what's a hypertensive crisis? if i notice a spike in my blood pressure what should i do?
extremely high blood pressure — a top number (systolic pressure) of 180 millimeters of mercury (mm hg) or higher or a bottom number (diastolic pressure) of 120 mm hg or higher — damages blood vessels. they become inflamed and may leak fluid or blood. as a result the heart may not be able to pump blood effectively. causes of a hypertensive emergency include: forgetting to take your blood pressure medication stroke heart attack heart failure kidney failure rupture of your body's main artery (aorta) interaction between medications convulsions during pregnancy (eclampsia). a hypertensive crisis is divided into two categories: urgent and emergency. in an urgent hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high but your doctor doesn't suspect you have any damage to your organs. in an emergency hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high and has caused damage to your organs. an emergency hypertensive crisis can be associated with life-threatening complications. signs and symptoms of a hypertensive crisis that may be life–threatening may include: severe chest pain severe headache accompanied by confusion and blurred vision nausea and vomiting severe anxiety shortness of breath seizures unresponsiveness. if you experience a severe increase in your blood pressure seek immediate medical attention. treatment for hypertensive crisis may include hospitalization for treatment with oral or intravenous medications.
sharp stabbing chestpain on hiccup cough. somewhat body postional but cause inconsistent. eating might provoke. bowel movement makes it easier?
you are describing esophageal spasm and acid reflux. try this - smaller bites chew very thoroughly sip fluid between bites take a few seconds between each bite smaller meals smaller portions softer foods. if no contraindication try omeprazole 20 mg otc twice a day for 2 weeks then once a day for 10 weeks straight. if you are heavy aim to lose some weight.
salt causes water retention why is syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone treated with salt tablets?
the syndrome of inappropriate antiduretic hormone (siadh) is not treated with salt tablets. the choice of therapy is dependent on the severity of the symptoms. agents used to treat siadh are either 3% or. 9% saline infusions fluid restriction loop diuretics vaptan and demeclocycline. the basic problem of siadh is fluid accumulation in the body causing a low sodium. salt tablets don't work.
could you have a chest spasm that is not heart related if all my test came back normal within a month echo ekg stress test?
esophageal spasm can cause chest tightness which can imitate the chest tightness of angina. if you are having reflux this could provoke these symptoms.
which is a better choice if you are psychiatric meds. bystolic (nebivolol) or atenenol. on seroquel(sleep). tegretol. lamictal. klonopin. luvox. vytoryn?
with complex metabolic profiles of your psych meds atenolol presents lesser risk of drug interactions. the interaction of carbamazepine and fluvoxamine make it unpredictable whether there would be sufficient 2d6 inhibition by fluvoxamine to inhibit bystolic (nebivolol) metabolism which is dependent on fluvoxamine-carbamazeine 1a2 interactions. there are genetic tests for these risks.
please tell me what causes bulging veins in your feet and hands?
the flow of blood can be impeded or backed up causing the veins the more elastic vessels to expand; raise arms and elevate legs to reduce the engorged vessels. long periods of standing working exercise and fluid volume intravascularly contribute to flow fluctuations and size of veins. long-standing expansion can cause vein weakness and chronic stasis or phlebitis.
please tell me the difference between pericarditis and bacterial endocarditis?
pericarditis is inflammation of the lining around the heart - the pericardium generally with a fluid collection between the pericardium and the heart. endocarditis is an infection of the inner lining of the heart generally on a valve surface either natural or artificial.
sensation in surface of chest as though shirt is clinging to skin. history of reflux-clear cardiac workup few years ago?
this does not appear to be a cardaic issue: the sensation of "clinging" may be due to chest wall nerve irritation. this isnot consistent with reflux. seek a medical workup for the cause.
pains in the heart after drinking alchohol?
you are not having a drinking problem. the cure of your problem is stop drinking. alcohol can damage your heart by increasing your o2 consumption and requirements creating chest pains. also can decrease gastroesophageal sphincter tone and cause reflux and chest pain. your body it's telling you to stop. listen to your body and stop and do not drink at all. my advice. good luck.
chest pain feels heart beating fast as if just ran a race throat feels tight her age is going on 13 yrs?
may have rapid heartbeats in association with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
what should my oxygen rate be with chf and how low can it get before it causes problems?
when someone with heart failure is stable their oxygen saturation as measured on a pulse oximetry (usually on their fingertip) should be greater than 90%. lower than that may indicate retention of fluid in the lungs and necessitate a visit to the er or the cardiologist to adjust medications and re-assess.
what is 24 hour diuretic screening used for what does it indicate?
mean. however supposedly taking a diuretic and drinking forced fluids can help you pass a urine drug screen the next day. . i am not suggesting nor confirming! hope this helps dr z
sle pt on prednisone. gained 20 lbs. but skin on legs doesn't feel like just fat. it is tight/swollen. gfr low 40s cr 1. 4. can i safely take diuretic?
fluid retention is a common side effect of prednisone. a diuretic can help with the swelling. the swelling itself is most likely water retention which is not dangerous. one option is to not treat it unless your legs hurt or it is causing skin problems. you should also have your urine protein checked. this is the earliest sign of lupus nephritis and could also be a cause of swelling.
what lab tests should be done to figure out the cause of orthostatic hypotension in a young adult?
the best place is to get a good history and physical exam. there is not single test for all patients. based on your history and exam test can be ordered and in some patients no test are needed. an ex is a person with diarrhea that stopped and have no major medical issues all they need is increased fluids. a good conversation with your md is needed.
symptoms of angina?
the typical description would be: heaviness pressure like an elephant sitting on my chest radiating to the shoulder. however in females and diabetics it could show up like reflux or an uncomfortable feeling in the chest. if you are worried about your symptoms it is best to be evaluated.
pain on the rift side behind breastbone. more like pressure than pain. none on left at all. something to be worried about?
any person with chest pain has to go to his doctor to be checked for a heart attack. that means not waiting at home to see if it becomes a bad heart attack. it may turn out to be stomach acid reflux a lung problem like pneumothorax or a bone or muscle problem like costochondritis but the heart attack kills people. as the saying goes "better safe than sorry" so a visit to the doctor is wisest.
since my abdominal surgery i've been retaining water horribly. what is the best/safest way to get rid of water retention and bloating? can you?
your fluid retention may be from the intravenous fluids you received during your operation and recovery. you may also be (relatively) malnourished with decreased protein stores which can also cause swelling. follow up with your surgeon. good luck feel better.
can a biventricular icd reading show if heart failure is worse in someone with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy? what would it show?
a biv icd is therapy for heart failure and poor left ventricular function. one of the types on the market has an impedance device in it which can predict changes in fluid status. all biv icds do not have this particular technology. changes in chest impedance can indicate changes in fluid volumes in the chest and heart failure status.
symptoms are pain in left side of stomach and chest pain. what could be wrong?
most people think their whole abdomen is their stomach but the stomach is in the upper middle or upper left of the abdomen. if your lower abdomen hurts that could be your skin muscles bladder uterus or intestines. if the upper part of your abdomen hurts it could be acid reflux pancreatitis or other problems. see a doctor for an assessment.
can the flumist vaccine cause heart palpitations?
generally no unless there is an anxiety problem.
can the flumist vaccine cause heart palpitations?
it would not be a common side effect.
was rxed tramadol for chest pains at er yesterday. i stopped taking prozac (fluoxetine) over 2 weeks ago. would i still be at risk for serotonin syndrome or seizure?
prozac (fluoxetine) usually clears from the body by two weeks. you are not likely to experience serotonin syndrome at this time. tramadol by itself however can lower the seizure threshold making you at risk to have a seizure. if you are not taking it on an ongoing basis you are safe. hope this helps. best wishes!
sudden onset of constant burping and bloated stomach. accompanied by nausea & shortness of breath that i have felt for the last week. no diet changes?
tion or reflux. try an otc antacid. if no relief then talk to your physician.
could i have cardiomyopathy? how is it checked for or diagnosed?
cardiomyopathy is a disease of heart muscle which may be weak (dilated cm) thickened (hypertrophic cm) or stiff (restrictive cm). there may be no symptoms. fatigue is a common early symptom but occurs in too many diseases to suggest cm. congestive symptoms like breathlessness at night or lying down and fluid retention are more specific. echocardiography is the diagnostic test of choice.
was in school &got brief tightness on lower section of skull. neck fluttered right underneath it. no pain but scared it's a tumor/aneurysm. i'm 18 <negative_smiley>?
this kind of symptom would almost certainly be from a muscle. none of my patients with tumors or aneurysms ever mentioned this. hope that helps!
can a defibrillator restart a heart that stopped?
by "stopped" it is implied a complete absence of any rhythm or electrical activity other wise known as asystole. defibrillation is the application of electricity to the heart to treat chaotic electrical transmission through the heart. this is seen in several rhythms atrial fibrillation/ flutter ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia. defibrillation does not treat asystole.
what could it mean if i have low platelets low inr high rbc csf? not on warfarin but i am on topamax (topiramate) prpanolol maxalt and omeporazole.
traumatic tap. if you mean csf as cerebro spinal fluid.
sharp squeezing pain in left side from sternum to waistline? feels sore around my chest and my stomach feels starving. had for past 24 hours.
get antacid or even bicarbonate (sodium bicarbonate). get medical evaluation to r/o an ulcervs gastritis vs reflux esophagitis vs else.
sometime i feel like a bubble expands and pops on my chest. what could this be?
these symptoms are somewhat nonspecific and can be the result of many things. it may be from extra heart beats hiatal hernia reflux disease or unexplained. you need to see your doctor to figure this one out.
why could someone's heart feel fluttery?
palpitations have many causes from anxiety through anatomic and physiologic abnormalities. the feeling of bounding usually relates to the volume of blood pumped with each palpitation. there is no simple single answer for the question. if you're bothered by the feeling should consult a dr. to see if the problem can be clarified.
sometimes my chest will hurt so bad i feel like i can't breathe how can i tell if this is anxiety induced or costochondritis something i've had befo?
chest pain can be due to many causes. left sided chest pain can be due to heart problem and can be associated with difficulty in breathing. it can come from lungs and pleura which is the covering membrane of lungs it can come from gastr esophageal reflux and of course chondrochondritis and sometime due to anxiety and panick attacks. you should see you doctor and find out what is causing and get treat.
strep throat doesn't cause respitory symptoms such as cough runny nose and trouble breathing right?
occasionally a patient shows up with stuffy nose symptoms a mild runny nose and tests positive for strep throat. trouble breathing can be due to asthma-type symptoms if the person is prone to getting such problems with any cold flu or strep symptoms. in more unusual cases trouble breathing can be due to huge tonsils or a tonsillar abscess. strep throat isn't always just a sore throat.
swollen feet & ankles whay dors it cm from?
swelling of your feet and ankles are likely due to excess fluid trapped in your tissues called edema. it has many potential causes including medications (calcium channel blockers etc) venous insufficiency arthritis heart failure liver disease or kidney disease. it would be a good idea to see a doctor for evaluation.
should i be concerned if my blood pressure drops in pregnancy?
we divide pregnancy into three "trimesters". the first trimester goes up to thirteen weeks the second trimester is 14-26 weeks. during this second trimester the blood pressure will normally drop a little. you may be extra sensitive to this change and feel light-headed tired or dizzy drinking extra fluids extra rest and wearing support hose may all help. make sure you are not anemic.
why does systolic pressure decrease during inspiration?
simple answer it doesn't always increase with inspiration. it is a complicated interplay of hemodynamics and respiratory physiology body position body fluid status cardiovascular condition and status and other factors.
what can cause extreme difficulty breathing?
heart (congestive heart failure blockage of arteries) kidneys (fluid overload) lungs (copd/ emphysema bronchitis) hypertension anemia anxiety and panic attacks alcohol to excess and drugs of any kind. smoking! and also complete lack of physical fitness (being out of shape) and several more!
what is an episode of pheochromocytoma?
findings of tachycardia elevated blood pressure headache! then flushing chest pain heart pain torn aorta and more! medical emergency!
what can you do for chest tightness after working out?
probably benign but you deserve a workup for asthma costochondritis (an arthritis bursitis of the ribs) acid reflux or less likely a heart issue. hrs md facc www. thepmc. org
what is the best diuretic?
the best diuretic is one that pulls off the most fluid. the stronger the diuretic the more likely one will face other complications such as low potassium sodium or magnesium levels. metolazone is perhaps single most potent oral diuretic but i use with great caution b/c can mess with electrolyte balance (mentioned above) in profound way. furosemide (lasix) and bumetanide are other potent ones
what causes pericarditis?
pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue covering of the heart. it is commonly caused by viruses and sometimes other infections or inflammatory diseases. there are other causes also. the viral form generally goes away itself but can recur. other forms may need special treatment like drainage of the pericardial sac to remove fluid if it interferes with heart function.
what could cause aching chest pain?
just kidding couldn't resist w/ that set-up! seriously there are many causes of chest pain (cp) but anterior cp is usually caused by 4 diff etiologies. 1. cardiac. heart etiologies are usually triggered by activity. 2. pulmonary. usually it is a sharp pleuritic pain w/ inspiration. 3. gerd. acid reflux usually causes burning. 4. chest wall pain. from aching muscles. so need details
why do i get chest pain while eating?
reflux ulcer esophagus spasm gas. . other possibilities. see your doc to be worked up
which heart drugs cause acid reflux?
blockers are chief among them. arguably any can.
why do medications cause water retention an this is causing trouble with my balance an making me anxious depressed. i already feel bloated without?
most actions have unintended (sometimes unknown) effects. drugs are a prime example - side effects. if you can solve your heartburn in another way that would be good. talk to the provider for alternatives. a juice 4oz glass of 1/2 tap water 1/2 organic cider vinegar w/ a pinch of baking soda at time of reflux symptoms works like magic. it has no side effects on balance mood or bloat. see comment
what could cause dull chest pain between breasts?
hi the pain is not worse with activity then unlikely to originate from heart then the pain could be from stomach (acid reflux) spasm of esophagus muscle pain rib pain.
why would glandular fever cause shortness of breath?
glandular fever (infectious mononucleosis) acts like flu. the virus can infect your lungs causing inflammation and breathing problems. it also can affect your berating muscles and nerves. it can be dangerous. please let your doctor know this asap. good luck!
what would cause a dull burning pain on left side of chest above breast line and below collar bone? 20 minutes so far. pcp says heart ok.
there are a few things that can cause that symptom. regurgitation and reflux probably being one of the more common ones. if your pcp has ruled out the heart and there's nothing else except that prolonged burning then i think it less likely cardiac. you may also have an entrapped nerve twig supplying the pectoral region or skin (perhaps trapped by the clavicle). sensory neuropathy.
woke to a 30 sec. burning squeezing pain between breasts. now same feeling in upper abdomen and ribs below bra line. pcp says heart ok. what causes this?
a heart attack is rare in a pre-menopause without underlying heart condition extreme obesity familial elevated cholesterol or triglycerides spasm marfan's use of cocaine amphetamines. causes of atypical chest pain are reflux h pylori elevated thyroid level mitral valve prolapse esophageal spasm anxiety food intolerances gallbladder. talk with a doctor consider antacid/omeprazole
what is causing my chest pain? the pain is in the middle chest not in the heart and what meds to take?
do you have costrochondritis? a pulled muscle? acid reflux? heartburn? esophageal spasm? pancreatitis? gallbladder disease? we cannot just guess from your short terse description. there are a lot of possibilities.
what is causing my chest pain? the pain is in the middle chest not in the heart and what meds to take?
could be acid reflux gas musculoskeletal pain. better to check with your doc.
what causes bulging veins in the thigh that leaves red bruises?
this is usually due to varicose veins. the veins are thinned out and sometimes you get spider veins. also over time the skinn is thinned out. that makes you more prone to bruising especially if you are using aspirin. keep the legs elevated and wear ted hose stockings. if problem persists see your doctor to do a venous ultrasound to check for venous reflux and treat accordingly.
what happens if you have postural hypotension what are ways to stop feeling dizzy?
get up very slowly always giving yourself time (at least 1-2 minutes) to equilibrate. wear tight fitting support hose. eat a lot of salt. drink lots of fluid. if you're still dizzy when you're lying down you don't have postural hypotension. reconsider the diagnosis.
what do you suggest if my mom is on dialysis for 5 yrs and now doctors say that she has water in her heart. what does that mean?
you should ask her physicians what is going on with her. i would suspect that according to your description of her problem she may have a pericardial effusion. that is when there is fluid in the pericardium which is around the heart. ask her physicians for a better answer to your question as they know her best of all. good luck.
what is diet to get rid of patulous ge junction disorder? this is causing heavy load in my chest near heart region etching kind of disturbance. thanks
the american diet consists of high fat sugar and carbohydrate loads. add to that our love of sauces sodas and salsas and we have a good recipe for indigestion and acid reflux. i commend your inquiry as small dietary changes over time will serve you well in the long run. check out: <link>
why are my ankles swollen like balloons? all blood work came back normal including heart kidney urine liver tsh. this is a sudden problem for me?
other causes of ankle swelling are arthritis/inflammation varicose veins salt/fluid imbalance. sounds like all the "bad" things have been ruled out which is reassuring.
what to do if i am suffering with constant chest pain and nausea please help!?
considering you are young and probably have no cardiac problems u probably are suffering with acid reflux. try taking over the counter prilosec x 14 days on empty stomach in am and avoid acid producing foods like tomatoes onions peppermint alcohol citrus fruits. if symptoms get worse u need a further evaluation! type a personality people suffer with gastric reflux problems more than others
why does my bp peak in late afternoon after being normal all day.
bp is hard to treat in some individuals and there may be no rhyme or reason why is fluctuates. if your noon time meal is high in sodium that could account for it or hormonal changes throughout the day could too. you may need one of your bp meds to be changed to a twice daily regimen to gain better control. ambulatory monitoring helps the dr. treat you best so f/u with dr and show your #'s.
will niacin flush free do the same effects as regular nician to detox from thc? please help me docs!
niacin doesn't flush anything out it just makes you turn red and warm but is not proven to eliminate any other drug. you should be more concerned about 1) having a drug problem 2) being subjected to drug testing when you have a drug problem and 3) being more concerned about getting caught than the harm your drug problem is causing. modern drug testing includes means to identify efforts to mask.
will niacin flush free do the same effects as regular nician to detox from thc? please help me docs!
yes flush-free niacin will do the same thing as regular niacin to detox from tetrahydrocabinnol which is to say nothing. neither form of niacin will do anything to clear marijuana from your system. nor will any over-the-counter dietary supplement much less prescription medication. time to get thc out of the body depends upon how often someone is exposed. best to just stop if need to pass test.
what to do if i have cough with phlegm mild chest pain but no fever what do i have?
those symptoms are nonspecific which means it could be anything from a 'cold' bronchitis gastroesophageal reflux heart disease allergic rhinitis etc. . see your doctor. if the pain just happens after coughing it would suggest cough is the cause if it is not related you should see your doctor more promptly.
what are reasons why we always measure blood pressure before hemodialysis?
hemodialysis (h) removes both wastes and fluid (f) that failed kidneys cannot. as f is removed on h bp decreases due to the volume of f lost from the bloodstream. if the h patient has a low bp before the prescribed amount of f is removed there may be problems with the bp during h. a low bp could also signify some occult blood loss or infection. taking of the bp before h can identify a problem.
what amount of your fluid intake is derived from diuretics?
diuretics account for no fluid intake. they induce urinary output only.
why do i almost never get a raised temperature? not even with crohn's endocarditis pneumonia swine flu central line sepsis. is this common?
some individuals have a low basal body temperature some may be hypothyroid some may have a defect in the body's "thermostat" in the hypothalamus. but not becoming febrile with the conditions you mention is quite rare.
what amount weight is water retention?
when you have pitting edema. if your finger leaves an indentation when your squeeze your ankle you're retaining fluid.
what would cause your chest to hurt and feel tight when you first get up in the moring and make your chest hurt sometimes in the evening time to?
the couple thing a that come to mind would be reflux disease (a burning type pain sometimes associated with a butter taste in the mouth) that would occur when lying down or asthma (a chest tightness sensation) that is worse at night or in the early morning in some patients.
why there are times specially when lying down it seems that my tummy is also beating? is it connected to my heartbeat?
as our great father of medicine william osler said "in the normal abdomen one sees only the movement of respiration and the throbbing of the abdominal aorta. " it's a really big tube moving a lot of fluid so it's easy to see even for first year medical students.
why there are times specially when lying down it seems that my tummy is also beating? is it connected to my heartbeat?
no direct connection between stomach and heart. however if lie down particularly if the stomach is full and you are overweight that can push on the diaphragm cause some uncomfortable sensation including palpitations at times. try to avoid eating heavy meals at bed times as this could be the beginning of reflux symptoms. as well avoid caffeine.
what is the effect of percutaneous mitral vavuloplasty on pregnant mother and foetus - a tertiary care hospital experience?
goal of perc mitral valvuloplasty is to relieve the degree of mitral stenosis which can cause right heart failure symptoms atrial fibrillation pulmonary hypertension in the mother often not well tolerated in pregnancy. the procedure is done with fluoroscopy (xray) and thus there is exposure to the mother and baby which should be minimal with judicious use of fluoro and shielding.
weight not increasing but water retention about 300 ml last 4 days swelling in feet. hepc n cirohsis hr fluctuating taking dytor 25mg. pl advice?
take dytor plus monitor your intake and output daily weight try and keep in negative balance. monitor your electrolytes and bun serum creatinine.
what to do if i'm fond of taking tea. these days i m suffering from heart burn. is it due to tea?
yes. caffeine nicotine chocolate (caffeine is present in chocolate) alcohol and natural mints are all known to relax the barrier between your esophagus and stomach allowing for reflux of gastric contents into your esophagus. be careful.
what to do if i have heart burn and wheezing?
in brief it is known that significant reflux and regurgitation of stomach contents can kick off and exacerbate an asthma attack. you need to get better control of your reflux if that is what it is. i would suggest to you that reflux is a structural disease and that surgery in the right setting by the right surgeon will offer much better control than medications.
what amount weight can you lose with a diuretic?
diuretics will only get rid of excess fluid. after that the body gets dehydrated and you could have serious kidney problems. diuretics are not part of any serious weight loss program.
will the niacin(20mg) in my bcomplex vitamin cause any redness or flushing?
we use niacin to treat low hdl. it can give your symptoms. take with food and asa may blunt these side effects. you are taking low dose but you describe same typical side effects.
will the niacin(20mg) in my bcomplex vitamin cause any redness or flushing?
it takes at least 1 000 mg (1 500 to 2 000 for some) to get flushing.
wt are early symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis apart trouble breathing?
difficuty breathing. cough. drs make the diagnoses. reflux can precipitate it.
what do you advise if i have chest pain. can it be a dislocared rib or a collapsed lung?
depends when u have chest pain. 1st make sure not cardiac most important. then other causes of chest pain r ones you mentioned but also reflux or noncardiac pain. need to see your md. at 43 yrs old and unknown risk factor have heart looked at. if all ok then look for other causes.
would pneumoconiosis hasten death by pulmonary edema?
pneumoconiosis or restrictive lung disease caused by environmental exposure to things like coal dust or asbestos causes serious progressive lung dysfunction. pulmonary edema is fluid buildup in the lungs usually from cardiac dysfunction. if a person has both it would be expected that their outcome would be worse than if they had either disease alone.
what cardiac problems can arise from untreated hypothyroidism?
hypothyroidism can cause high cholesterol levels high blood pressure fluid retention all of which can contribute to developing heart disease. if thyroid levels become very low it can cause the heart muscle tissue to become weak and swollen. if you have a low thyroid it should be treated.
why is it that i always have heart burn when i wake up?
you may have esophageal reflux discuss your symptoms with your doctor. you can try raising the head of your bed to 30-45 degrees and see if it helps prevent the heartburn.
which cold and flu meds are safe to use with zoloft and strattera (atomoxetine) and fish oil(efalex 50+ active)?
claritin loratiadine) allegra (fexofenadine) vist;ril atarax (hyrdroxyzine pamoate) has some benefit with zoloft (sertraline) ; strattera; tesalon perels are safe dextromethorpah and guaifensin (robitussin) are safe. avoid: chorpheniramin ephedrine pseudoephedrine ; dexchorpheniramine--can cause rapid heart and hypertension!
while sleeping i suffer from chest tightness mainly on the right chest and right elbow pain. i experience right knee pain too. what could be the cause?
pains at night can be a normal result of activities during the day and even arthritis which is commonly worse at night. chest tightness is a concerning symptom especially for a man in his mid 40s. it can suggest a serious problem like heart disease or more commonly reflux or something like asthma. you have several things that may or may not relate. as you are suffering best to get good exam.
what is the normal blood pressure for the average 20 year old woman?
blood pressure fluctuates for a variety of reasons even in someone twenty years old.
what immunizations would a non-invasive cardiovascular technologist need?
an annual flu vaccine. also is beneficial for people that are hospital staff to have hepatitis b vaccination. the osha department and your particular facility provide details about this.
what do i do? swelling of abdomen and shortness of breath. what could it be?
abdominal swelling could be from fluid accumulation. if so youn could be havingh fluid in thge lungs too. if not increased girth of the abdomen could impair movements of the diaphragm and causes shortness of breath. you need full physical exam and work-up. oplease consult your physician.
why does my heart hurt when i run?
if your "heart hurts" you need a stress test to determine if you have blocked arteries in your heart. at your age it's more likely that running is causing muscular chest wall pain or acid reflux (in your digestive tract).
what does it mean when a babie has a greens pots on tongue?
green tongue could indicates certain things. candida is one of them especially if the child had cold or flu and was given an antibiotic. or could be due to excessive growth of bacteria or yeast. sometimes they call it hairy tongue. have the pediatrician check it out.
when i get caught up cleaning or keeping busy sometimes i feel a flutter in my chest and i feel breathless. what is this?
go see your doctor and get an ekg for a better diagnosis. you will probably need some other cardiac tests as well. meanwhile lay off of coffee tea and drinks with caffene. cut out any smokes as well.
when i get caught up cleaning or keeping busy sometimes i feel a flutter in my chest and i feel breathless. what is this?
although a "flutter" invokes thoughts of an abnormal heart rhythm it would be unusual at your age. check your pulse and if possible your blood pressure next time this happens. asthma can also give similar symptoms. if you are menstruating you could be anemic and this could give you the feelings when you are exerting yourself.
what are the sharp pains in my heart every now and then?
there can be many reasons for sharp chest pain. it can costochondritis- muscle and none pain pleurisy - inflamed linings of lungs or gastrointestinal reflux. cardiac etiology cannot be ruled out so please see your doctor asap for history physical and examination.
why am i having collapsed lung after heart surgery?
several reasons: air in the chest is very common as the very delicate pleura may be entered anytime. this is called collapse- pneumothorax. the chest tubes drain fluid and air. post operative atelectasis is also called collapse and follows chest surgery pain poor cough and improves with incentive spirometry cough with pain control.
what does it mean if lasix (furosemide) doesn't work?
if your kidney function is normal it means you're not fluid overloaded. if you have swelling it doesn't mean that lasix (furosemide) will fix it - many forms of swelling are not due to volume overload. if you have kidney disease it could mean that the dose is inadequate - that's why it should only be given under the supervision of a doctor. rarely lasix (furosemide) is not properly absorbed.
what are the symptoms of vasodilation?
vasodilator ion can cause lowe bp flushing dizziness lightheaded ness ect.
which is easier to treat and has a better prognosis diastolic or systolic heart failure?
systolic failure is when the heart squeeze is too weak. diastolic failure is when the heart is thickened and stiff. another way to look at it is systolic failure is a problem of the heart emptying out and diastolic failure is a filling problem. treatment for both is blood pressure and heart rate control. also controlling fluid intake. prognosis for both is dependent on the severity.
will a diuretic cause weight lose?
hydrate we put the fluids back on. to lose weight : eat healthfully ; be physically active. calories burned must > calories consumed if you desire to lose weight. you can mix ; match different kinds of physical exercise. this site can help you determine calories burned for over 100 activities: <link>
will a diuretic cause weight lose?
yes. diuretics remove excess fluid from the body and causes weight loss. please be aware diuretics should not be used primarily for weight reduction.
will a diuretic cause weight lose?
only if the weight gain is from medical conditions (usually organ dysfunctions) that lead to excessive salt and fluid retention. if used inappropriately for body weight loss they could lead to potentially life threatening electrolyte disorders.
what type of heart flutter wakes you up at night?
any kind of cardiac arrhythmia can wake one up.
what is the cause of chest pressure when inhaling and gas? i get squeezing chest pressure when unhaling and gas and i am worried about my heart. <negative_smiley>
see you have acid reflux which can be a source of chest pain. but if you experiencing acute chest pressure (squeezing) and have difficulty breathing then please contact 911 to insure that you are not having a cardiac event.
what can cause chest pain that radiates after eating?
i don't believe it's your heart based on your age. there are a few reasons why this may happen. more commonly it can be acid reflux. a less common explanation could be esophageal spasms. do you eat very hot or cold foods? either way it's important you check this out w/ your doc to ensure it isn't your heart. if it isn't you many need an endoscopy to get a better look at your esophagus & stomach.
what does subtle diastolic septal bounce indicate. trace fluid in pericardium. resting pulse 95-104. winded walking 2 blocks. 3 months post window?
the septal bounce is a paradoxical motion of the interventricular septum initially directed towards and then away from the left ventricle during diastole. typically seen in constrictive pericarditis & cardiac tamponade due to ventricular interdependence but can at times be seen in right ventricular dysfunction. pericardial window was done presumably for drainage of accumulated pericardial fluid?
what could possibly be causing chest pain? i am a smoker and im actually hurtin so bad i don't want to smoke anymore. could it b my gallbladder?
there are multiple possible causes of chest pain in a young female smoker. heart problems blood clots reflux are just a few. i recommend you see your doctor.
what causes my face to turn red when i do physical work. happens when i get hot also. sometimes heart beats faster & get outta breath when working. ?
im not a big subscriber in looking for zebras when horses are present. however your condition merits that your physician look for neuroendocrine tumors which can a constellation of symptoms among which cutaneous flushing gastrointestinal hypermotility and cardiac involvement are the most common. castillo et al 2012 bronchospasm causes shortness of breath and another sign of these tumors.
what is chf and is it treatable?
chf=congestive heart failure. it usually means that a person has had injury to their heart muscle and the heart can no longer pump out blood in an efficient manner. blood pools in the heart and often backs up into the lungs. because less blood is pumped out kidneys see less blood and think the body needs more volume so it holds on to more fluid. symptoms are treatable stem cells may prove to be cure.
wat would cause light headed and dizzy when u stand up & walk around? dehydration? bp is 9<negative_smiley>57. p 110. standing. sitting its 106/61. p71. blood wrk ok
you blood pressure and more important your pulse change when you stand up. your pulse increases by about 50% and your bp falls. you may be dehydrated and if you were when you blood was taken you would not have normal labs. i would go to an er and get assessed. your rapid pulse when you stand could be the sign of some significant fluid volume deficit or some anemia.
wat would cause light headed and dizzy when u stand up & walk around? dehydration? bp is 9<negative_smiley>57. p 110. standing. sitting its 106/61. p71. blood wrk ok
how long have you felt like this? any recent illness like flu diarrhea vomiting etc. your numbers are suggesting that you body is not able to keep up with postural adjustment. decreased body fluid (volume depletion) is common cause but there are others. start with increased fluid intake electrolyte solution and see an md asap. if you feel really bad er is the way to go.
what is the prognosis for a stiff heart?
a stiff heart can result from uncontrolled hypertension a coronary blockage a heart muscle condition or aging. it can lead to backup of fluid on the lungs with shortness of breath. however if it just shows up on an echocardiogram with no symptoms and no other cardiac issues it may be at a very early stage and may never bother you if you keep your bp controlled.
will i still have baby after heart attack?
at 46 there are significant risks in addition to heart. cardiology can help define damage and left ventricular status and other lesions that could precipitate repeats with stresses of a nine month cardiovascular trial which is pregnancy in general. weight fluid etc.
what should i do when blood pressure goes low?
you can increase the fluids and salt in your diet wear support hose and pay attention when you are standing up to do it slowly. if this is something new for you should check with your doctor to be sure nothing else is going on.
what causes me to throw up all the time and have heart burn?
it sounds like you have reflux and possibly an other factor like an ulcer or diabetes. it's time for a checkup and possibly some blood work. it may just be complications of reflux but these symptoms should be evaluated & controlled.
what causes excessive fuilds around the heart and what happenes after it is drained out by a tube?
there are many possible causes of fluid around the heart. many infections can cause this. kidney disease thyroid disease and autoimmune diseases such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis can also cause this. draining the fluid may help your doctor find out what is wrong.
what should i do to help raise my blood pressure?
low blood pressure is generally desirable but if there is lightheadedness with position change or other symptoms of low blood pressure need to ensure no underlying problems- low thyroid or low cortisol or slow heart rate. need to ensure good hydration status consider liberalizing salt intake. compression stockings can be quite helpful. some medications may include midodrine or florinef (fludrocortisone).
what to do if i took 3 caps of 400mg no flush niacin am i gonna die?
well you won't die from taking 1200 my of niacin at once. truth be told recommended doses are as high as 1500mg twice daily for improvement of cholesterol and higher-level lipid parameters. so the dose you took is actually quite normal. thankfully you took the no-flush variety because if you took that dose of regular niacin you'd feel lousy with flushing and red face - again not fatal.
what to do if i took 3 caps of 400mg no flush niacin am i gonna die?
you are unlikely to die from that dose of niacin.
what to do if i took 3 caps of 400mg no flush niacin am i gonna die?
the no-flush niacin has been shown to not have the same effects on triglycerides and lipid profiles. don't use it. take niacin with a meal and after a couple of weeks the flushing sensation usually minimizes.
why as left atrial pressure increases does pulmonary vascular resistance decrease?
to accommodate an increased volume of blood and prevent increased pulmonary capillary pressures that would cause fluid to go from the capillaries into the lungs and cause congestive heart.
why does my heart race when i am lying down on my side? why does my asthma act up when i'm lying down which makes me cough for a long period.
reflux can trigger cough when lying flat especially after a fatty or large meal. the heart racing is not easily explainable. some lung conditions cause shortness of breath when lying on one side but not heart racing.
what are the causes of low blood pressure and how do i make it higher?
low blood pressure is generally desirable but if there is lightheadedness with position change or other symptoms of low blood pressure need to ensure no underlying problems- low thyroid or low cortisol or slow heart rate. need to ensure good hydration status consider liberalizing salt intake. compression stockings can be quite helpful. some medications may include midodrine or florinef (fludrocortisone).
what should be done next in a pt of congestive cardiac failure grade 3/4 with ejection fractions less than 25%? which drugs helps d most?
the cause of the low ef needs to be worked out. if ecm then we use a combination of beta blocker ace inhibitor and often other drugs like spironolactone. we use diuretics to help with fluid overload if needed. these drugs need to be tilt rated and monitored.
what can be done to make low blood pressure higher?
low blood pressure is generally desirable but if there is lightheadedness with position change or other symptoms of low blood pressure need to ensure no underlying problems- low thyroid or low cortisol or slow heart rate. need to ensure good hydration status consider liberalizing salt intake. compression stockings can be quite helpful. some medications may include midodrine or florinef (fludrocortisone).
what is the clinical difference between hypovolemic shock and amniotic fluid embolism during c section?
hypovolemic shock is blood and fluid loss usually from bleeding causing severe low bp and cardiac arrest from loss of perfusion. amniotic fluid embolism leads to low bp from allergic vasodilation and then bleeding from dic (disseminated intravascular coagulation) which results in hypovolemic shock and cardiac arrest. the mechanisms are similar but different.
what's a good way to get my blood pressure up?
low blood pressure is generally desirable but if there is lightheadedness with position change or other symptoms of low blood pressure need to ensure no underlying problems- low thyroid or low cortisol or slow heart rate. need to ensure good hydration status consider liberalizing salt intake. compression stockings can be quite helpful. some medications may include midodrine or florinef (fludrocortisone).
what are causes of sever heart burn radiated to shoulder associated with abdominal pain in patient on peritoneal dialysis(turbed fluid) in ihdpatient?
abdominal pain turbid fluid fevers during peritoneal dialysis can be due to peritoneal infection due to catheter contamination. see your doctor asap.
what are causes of sever heart burn radiated to shoulder associated with abdominal pain in patient on peritoneal dialysis(turbed fluid) in ihdpatient?
one relatively common cause of this discomfort is air infusion or bubble infusion thru the pd catheter into the abdomen. the air settles under the diaphragm and causes the pain syndrome you describe. another is acid reflux into the esophagus. a third is infection in the pd fluid. a fourth is a diaphragm leak of fluid into the right chest cavity.
what are causes of sever heart burn radiated to shoulder associated with abdominal pain in patient on peritoneal dialysis(turbed fluid) in ihdpatient?
if you have no signs of infection or bleeding then it may just be tube position. it may be irritating some structure or it may be compressing something. talk to your nephrologist and be sure to tell them what changes the pain (position breathing etc) and what it is like (starts at the beginning of pd end goes away with a full belly etc).
will influenza gradually lead to myocarditis?
unfortunately yes.
will influenza gradually lead to myocarditis?
yes.
what's up with my symptoms? i'm very cold but don't have the flu or a fever. body temp of 95. 18°f bloodpressure 112/88 postprandial bg 95. thoughts?
your vitals are stable as is your bg. depending on what you ate the post prandial bg may be even a little on the low side. i would try a different thermometer as that temp is very low and if persists you would be at risk for hypothermia. if it is indeed your true core body temp. than get into a warm bath to bring your temperature up and get checked by a dr. best wishes.
what can be done to reduce bad cholesterol ldl only not increase the good cholesterol hdl?
in general high ldl cholesterol is associated w/ higher risk of heart & artery disease while high hdl is generally protective. genetics is a major determinant of what your levels will be; diet has some influence. treatments include diet exercise & drugs including statins fibrates binding resins & recently some fancy biologic drugs. medical guidelines on who/how to treat are now very detailed
why would a water pill effect high blood pressure?
look at it this way: if you pee out more fluid there is less water floating around in your blood vessels. less water in the pipes means less pressure -- the same as water in your house coming out the faucet.
why would a water pill effect high blood pressure?
diuretics lower pressure both by removing fluid from the body and decreasing vascular resistance.
what causes congestive heart failure to produce heavy breathing?
heart failure causes elevated filling pressures in the heart which then reflect back in the lungs. the elevated pressures in thelungs causes fluid to extravasate into the parenchyma which causes shortness of breath and dyspnea.
what are signs and symptoms of heart burn?
heart burn many things to different people. usually it refers to reflux or gastritis. symptoms include pain or burning belching water brash (small amounts of vomit) and nausea. these symptoms can be worse after laying down or at night and are made worse with certain foods. it is difficult to distinguish from pain caused by other conditions including heart pain and worth seeing your doctor.
what works against swollen feet?
if the unexplained swelling lasts for more than a few days or is worsening it is a good idea to see your primary care doctor or an internist. swelling of the legs is usually due to fluid retention. caused by (heart kidney liver high bp salt intake etc) needs to be sorted out by primary care doc/internist. unilateral (one side) maybe due to a blood clot muscle or tendon injury or arthritis.
why am i still experiencing fatigue 6 weeks after the flu very weak had heart ct scan and blood work all normal. can't resume normal activity?
this could be multiple different things. whether you actually had influenza or an illness simulating it is the first of many questions that need answering. you are obviously seeing a doctor. let them get to the root of this. if you are not satisfied go see an infectious diseases expert. they are very good at working these things out. good luck.
why am i still experiencing fatigue 6 weeks after the flu very weak had heart ct scan and blood work all normal. can't resume normal activity?
prolonged especially if severe case. talk to your physician.
what can cause chest pressure and pain?
the most common cause of chest pains is stress. the next most common cause is stomach acid reflux next is musculoskeletal including costochondritis (inflammation of ribs and rib cartilage) next is heart disease (angina). other causes include pneumonia pleurisy pericarditis gall bladder inflammation etc.
what to do if i have no pain of any kind just a lot of fluid around my knees. should i take a diuretic?
see your doctor for evaluation especially before taking a prescription medication.
what might lead to low blood pressure and how to make it normal without medicine?
one of the most common in otherwise healthy people is dehydration. this is remedied be increacing fluids. i often tell people to drink a large gatoraid for a day or two. if your low bp is causing you to get dizzy or feel like you are going to pass out see your doctor.
why does my heart flutter when i eat beef i have high blood pressure.
processed beef that has various seasonings in it may affect blood pressure and perhaps cause palpitations. steaks and other unprocessed cuts when simply seasoned with salt/pepper probably do not cause much in the way of secondary bp or palpitations.
what make you're feet to swell?
the fluid pressure is higher down where the feet are. if there is excess fluid in the body weak veins obstruction to venous flow out of the legs decreased protein in the serum or other things too the feet can swell. a doctor can evaluate the situation in an individual.
what work best to treat pulmonary edema if the person has renal failure?
patients with renal failure on dialysis need to be ultrafiltrated (uf). here the patient is placed on dialysis and extra fluid is removed from the body through the artificial kidney. as dialysis patients make little urine diuretics are of no use. uf can remove 3 liters of fluid in 2 hours improving the patients symptoms of dyspnea. the real question is why is the patient in pulmonary edema?
what are the foods that are good for people with low blood pressure?
add fluids and salt to raise bp.
what can i do if my mom just passed away from pancreatic cancer. what makes your heart stop?
my condolences. there are many things that can make the heart stop beating which may or may not have been related to the cancer. a blood clot a large heart attack a lack of blood flow going through it electrolyte abnormalities too much fluid going through the heart or surrounding the heart ect ect.
why does gerd cause breathing problems?
one is that the acid reflux runs up the esophagus and then back down into the windpipes. the other is that since the esophagus and lung share vagal nervous system the acid could indirectly stimulate breathing problems.
what is the most common(usual) cause for hypotention? and proper medication?
drink enough fluids to quench u r thirst. don't postpone! recheck the bp. if low see md!
what is the very first signs of congestive heart failure. should i be taking imetoprolol tartrate & isosorbide monomitratate? if i have chf?
furst symptoms of heart failure include shortness of breath with activity and later shortness of breath while laying down or fluid retention. arrhythmias and chest pain might develop. meds like beta blockers (carvedilol in particular) and acei are important parts of treatment. if unable to tolerate acei/arb drugs isosorbide along with hydralazine might work.
what could cause chest pain under my right pec after eating(feels like an elephant sitting on me)?
this could also be gastroesophageal reflux disease with esophageal spasm. try taking over the counter antacids like prilosec otc.
which has less effect on liver immediate release niacin or fluvastatin?
both can affect liver. niacin is gentler on liver than fluvastatin but the preferred form of niacin is the delayed release (extended release).
what can i do to lower my cholesterol level?
niacin (nicotinic acid vitamin b3) is the cheapest safest most effective lipid lowering substance there is. niacin lowers total cholesterol triglycerides and ldl and raises hdl ("good" cholesterol)--thus optimizing the lipid profile. the usual dose to achieve this effect is 1 500-2 000 mg per day. a non-flushing version of niacin is inositol hexanicotinate (ihn).
what's the best thing to take for heart burn and acid reflux with no side effects? mine is bad food coming up and chest and throat burning
i would use an otc proton pump inhibitor such as prilosec. if these symptoms are frequent (more than once /week) see your doctor and consider getting scoped as it could be more serious (gastritis esophagitis even precancerous changes).
what could be causing me to get sharp pain in heart area after eating?
the pain you describe is felt in you chest right after you eat is most probably a spasm of your esophagus or a reflux of your gastric content back into your esopahgus. they both cause sharp pain in the middle of the chest. however you need to see a gi doctor (gastroenterologist) to check it out. the underlying condition causing all this may need specific treament or change of diet.
what is a lv systolic impairment e/f 40-45 with pericardialeffusion and rv hypertrophy of 1. 2cm can they do surgery are thier any treatments or cures?
seems you have a complicated problem with some decreased squeeze function of the left side of your heart some fluid in the sac surrounding your heart and a large right side of your heart. these results are not clearly related although they may be. i would suggest discussing with your ordering physician. surgery might be considered if the effusion is large progressive or causing dysfunction.
when i eat just a little bit i get so full but i'm still hungry so i eat then i feel like i'm going to vomit and then i get heart burn?
please call your pcp as soon as possible & follow his/ her recommendations. it seems that the food you are eating is moving very slowly through your esophagus stomach and intestine. that may be the reason that you are feeling full early and feel like vomiting. since the food is backing up it may be causing reflux leading to heartburn. thanks.
where in your stomach at 15 weeks would you feel a baby fluttering in your stomach and would you feel your own heartbeat or anything else low?
most women feel their babies sometime between 18 and 20 weeks. you're more likely to feel that baby flutter when you are quietly resting like right before you sleep. sometimes you can even see the baby push out your lower abdomen - you will certainly see this later! please don't worry if you are not feeling movement yet. even at 20 weeks you may not notice every day. lgromkomd.
where in your stomach at 15 weeks would you feel a baby fluttering in your stomach and would you feel your own heartbeat or anything else low?
most women do not feel their baby until about 20 weeks or 5 months. at 15 weeks the uterus is barely out of the pelvis so anything would be "low" on your abdomen.
while exercising i do not feel nauseous am not short of breath and do not perspire. i do have chest tightness and severe belching. what's up?
need to be evaluated by a physician. these can be s/s of coronary artery disease or acid reflux depending on your age and risk factors.
what is the racing feeling in my heart and in my chest and my stomach it's like a fluttering panicky feeling?
need to seek urgent care atrial fibrillation suspect. short circuit conduction system of heart over drives lower portion of heart. carries risk for stroke and heart failure has many causes.
what should i do if my bad cholesterol is 248?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what is good for water retention?
salt and fluid restriction. use diuretics if some other abnormality.
what is good for water retention?
restrict salt and fluids. use diuretics if still needed if there is some other abnormality.
what is the definition or description of: diffuse esophageal spasm?
is a term to define abnormal contraction of the esophagus during times that the individual is not eating. it could be triggered by food at temperature extremes and usually disappear spontaneously. when present on regular basis it should be an indication for evaluation of acid reflux connective tissue diseases and some neurological conditions.
what's the best way to lower cholesterol?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what is best to take to lower cholesterol? niacin niacinamide no-flush product? and how much?
no-flush niacin can either refer to a slow release preparation or inositol. slow release preparations are better tolerated than immediate release products but the lipid lowering effects are somewhat less potent than immediate or extended release niacin. for comparable efficacy a higher dose of slow release is usually needed. inositol and niacinamide not improve lipids and should be avoided.
what is best to take to lower cholesterol? niacin niacinamide no-flush product? and how much?
which lipid class you will be treating so it might not be niacin.
why my blood pressure rises everytime i go see a dr but when im home and test its normal?
fluctuations in bp like you describe is likely due to increased adrenaline levels due to anxiety. this however is more likely what your bp is doing throughout the day when you are rushing to a meeting someone cuts you off on the freeway you are struggling to meet a deadline etc. get a 24 hour ambulatory bp monitor to see what your bp is doing throughout the day you will be surprised.
what is the definition or description of: flutter?
atrial flutter is an abnormal heart rhythm in the top of the heart in which the top of the heart beats very fast but very regularly (as opposed to atrial fibrillation which is always irregular) and can lead to a rapid heart rate and increased risk for stroke.
what is the normal range of blood pressure fluctuation? e. g. is a spike of 140/90 but after a minute relaxing 120/80 still high & needing treatment?
like normal variation.
what is the normal range of blood pressure fluctuation? e. g. is a spike of 140/90 but after a minute relaxing 120/80 still high & needing treatment?
hypertension is defined as greater than 140/90. in diabetics greater than 135/90. stress physical or emotional can cause transient elevation. should generally not be treated.
what is the normal range of blood pressure fluctuation? e. g. is a spike of 140/90 but after a minute relaxing 120/80 still high & needing treatment?
no treatment needed.
what is the normal range of blood pressure fluctuation? e. g. is a spike of 140/90 but after a minute relaxing 120/80 still high & needing treatment?
no treatment required.
what is the normal range of blood pressure fluctuation? e. g. is a spike of 140/90 but after a minute relaxing 120/80 still high & needing treatment?
and does not require treatment.
what causes a tiny fluttering in my lower abdomen?
the small muscles around the bowel and muscles of the inner back and abdomen can spasm and twitch. just is just like the twitches you feel on your skin sometimes. but it's inside on the muscles around the bowels or inner back.
woke up at 3:00am with extreme chest pain in upper right side of body above my right breast. burping a lot too. ?
i think you have gastro esophageal reflux disease -- you may try taking prilosec over the counter -- if not better you need to see a gi specialist.
what is the urgent treatment of hypotension?
some common things that might be done are: lay down legs up and iv fluids. identify cause and treat that. urgent treatment for hypotension would be to go to the emergency room. really need more information to know best treatment.
what can cause the body to diurese fluids when blood sugar is high?
blood sugar in excess pours into the kidne urine to cause an osmotic diuresis.
what cures chest pain due to acid?
chest pain due to acid needs to be treated in many ways. your eating habits need to be addressed: how much you eat when you eat what you eat. there are medications that can reduce the amount of acid or counteract the acid. sleeping habits need to be addressed. this is complicated and you should see a gastroenterologist about gastro-esophageal reflux disease.
with chf does the fluid back up into the lungs (similar to pneumonia) or around the lungs?
both occur.
with chf does the fluid back up into the lungs (similar to pneumonia) or around the lungs?
chf can cause fluid to accumulate both in the lung tissue itself ( called pulmonary edema) and the chest cavity surrounding the lungs. this is called the pleural space.
what causes my 3 month old's eyes to flutter from side to side occasionally?
your baby probably has nystagmus. have her checked by a pediatric ophthalmologist.
what is ablation of the heart and is it harmful?
in some cases an area of the heart can cause dangerous or uncomfortable irregularity of the heartbeat. a special wire is used to destroy the offending area hopefully curing the problem. if the problem spot is in a critical area it may necessitate a pacemaker afterwards. infrequently there may be damage to the pulmonary veins or fluid may accumulate in the sac around the heart.
what causes daily fluctuations in blood pressure?
blood pressure fluctuates to accommodate normal stress of daily living -- it is a good thing!
what causes daily fluctuations in blood pressure?
so many factors: stress anxiety caffeine meeting deadlines too much salt intake. also it is normal for bp and heart rate to change depending up the situations you are facing : good bs bad day!
what specific birth defects could be caused by valsartan (diovan)?
oligohydramnios due to decreased fetal renal function may lead to fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal malformations. use is associated with anuria hypotension renal failure skull hypoplasia and death in the fetus/neonate. the exposed fetus should be monitored for fetal growth amniotic fluid volume and organ formation. infants exposed should be checked for hyperkalemia hypotension oliguria.
what causes enlarged lymph nodes of the lungs?
enlarged lymph nodes occur when the immune system is active in a part of the body (a regional factory and distibution site for inflammatory cells which travel from the bloodstream and into the lymphatic fluid). sources of inflammation in the lungs include infection autoimmune disorders injury of lung tissue chronic respiratory inflammation and malignancies.
why do i feel dizzy everytime i stand up followed by a headache and shortness of breath? could this combo be related to a bad anxiety disorder?
this confluence of symptoms sounds cardiac in nature. you should see a cardiologist to determine if your blood pressure drops when standing. it's called orthostatic hypotension.
why is the t-position a contraindication to a patient suffering from hypovolemic shock?
i hadn't heard of the "t-position" until i just googled it - seems to be favorable for sex. i can't think of any reason why someone in hypovolemic shock can't lie supine with their legs crossed (it actually is favorable) however rapid volume expansion with intravenous fluid should also be used. sex is contraindicated until the shock is reversed.
why is it that i can't breathe in this heat?
being 34 copd (chronic obstructive lung disease) is less likely but i would say you may have asthma. asthmatics often have trouble breathing with rapid weather changes extreme heat/cold dusty/smoky environment or when sick with cold/flu etc. since you are having trouble breathing with change of weather/heat consult doc for an evaluation and possible treatment. good luck.
what is chest pressure?
chest pain can be due to an heart attack esophagitis acid reflux musculoskeletal problems gall bladder disease pericarditis pneumonia pleurisy etc. check with your doctor.
what are the possible causes for the fluttering feeling in my stomach?
sometimes palpitations from the heart can feel like a stomach problem. the opposite is also true. so a n ekg and or a holter along with a gi work up such as an upper gi may be needed. the stomach and heart share nervous innervation and can have "cross talk". a thorough history and physical should be able to point your doctor in the right direction.
whats a good over-the-counter medicine for a head cold (sinus)?
drink plenty of fluids and rest if possible. to help with a stuffy nose try saline nasal spray as often as necessary. a good decongestant is pseudoephedrine taken orally - either liquid or pill.
what're the causes for chest pressure and pain?
causes of chest pain: emergent causes: needing immediate attention- heart attack aneurysm clot in the lungs pneumonia or pleurisy cholecystitis non urgent causes: esophageal spasm acid reflux costochondritis musculoskeletal causes intercostal neuralgia.
what are the side effects of niaspan (niacin)?
all medicines may cause side effects but many people have no or minor side effects. diarrhea; dizziness; headache; heartburn; increased cough indigestion or upset stomach; nausea; temporary skin redness itching tingling or feelings of warmth (flushing); vomiting.
what's the best way to reduce body water retention?
excess sodium causes retention of fluid. reduce sodium intake to reduce edema.
whats the lung condition cure rate for a 74 year old man who has emphysema?
there is no "cure" for emphysema. the damage that is done is permanent but with attention to smoking cessation and treatment ( inhaled medicine to breath easier vaccination against pneumonia and flu treatment of infections that involve the lung etc. ) most patients can live with the disease for many years and have symptoms controlled and quality of life improved.
what can lower blood pressure by extracting fluid form the vascular system and decreasing peripheral and pulmona?
a diuretic is a type of medicine that facilitates passage of fluid out the body through the urinary tract. by increasing urine output fluid is moved from the cardiovascular system out of the body. this needs to be used carefully in conjunction with your physician because it is not always the correct approach.
would drinking too much water affect pulmonary edema?
yes in person with kidney disease or a heart failure. you do have to follow you weight daily which reflect your fluid balance.
what could cause chills without fever body aches and shortness of breath?
it could be flu pneumonia bronchitis cold weather etc.
what could make my voice jittery and my heartbeats go crazy?
you might be hyperthyroid. thyroid hormone is very important for all functions of the body. too much can cause the heart to flutter and change the voice. you need to see your doctor for an exam and blood test.
what're the dangers of taking niaspan (niacin)?
many people get flushing which is a minor side effect. some people get an increase in hdl (good cholesterol) but the value of this change with niacin has recently been challenged by the aim-high study.
what are the effects of not consistently taking propanolol?
if taken for high blood pressure headaches and fluctuations in blood pressure occur. if taken for anxiety changes in pulse rate and some apprehension may occur. this is more likely if medication was taken on regular basis.
what causes hypertension after bilateral nephrectomy?
after bilateral nephrectomy you would need some form of dialysis or transplant as lack of kidney function leads called ckd leads to higher blood pressure besides salt excess increase hormonal influences like increase angiotension and catecholamines also cause hypertension.
what's the difference between a shunt and fistula?
basically fistulas are natural occurring abnormal communications between structures (e. g. between the trachea & the esophagus or between the bladder & the vagina) & shunts are man made communications between structures (e. g. between an artery & a vein for dialysis or between a cerebral ventricle & the peritoneal cavity for removing excess cerebrospinal fluid in hydrocephalus).
why would my chest and or heart hurt when i consume caffeine?
could be gastroesophageal reflux disease gerd or another problem in your esophagus - may be related to hot rather than caffeine? it is not likely to be heart although it would be reasonable to check a pulse and blood pressure with your symptoms to make sure you are not very rapid or hypertense. caffeine at normal doses is not known to produce a lot of cardiovascular problems.
what are? influences that can alter cardiac output?
cardiac output is influence by the amount of blood the heart recieves the resistance against which the blood is ejected the strength of contraction and the heart rate. for ex. co increases with heart rate increase in blood volume increase in cardiac contraction and less resistance to ejection because of lower peripheral resistance. clinical conditions that affects any 4 will alter cardiac output
what are? influences that can alter cardiac output?
high cardiac out put can be from sepsis thyroid disease arterial-venous fistulas anemia vitamin defiency etc. low out put can be from a heart attack and a weak heart muscle virus induced cardiomyopathy severe valvular heart disease. just to name a few.
what is cardiac tamponade?
of a chamber of heart by extrinsic compression such as from fluid or clot in the pericardium compressing on a ventricle or atrium.
when is it safe? to take a scuba class? after i previously had acute pericarditis?
pericarditis is usually an acute and self-limited illness. most people are sick and then recover. if your symptoms have resolved and you either never had or have resolved any pericardial fluid (effusion) it's safe to resume normal (and even athletic) activity.
what are steps a person can take to cure the common cold?
the average common cold last 10 days measures such as increasing fluids getting appropriate rest blowing your nose sucking on candy using a humidifier can help make you more comfortable. if the symptoms really interfere with eating sleeping normal activity saline washes or otc decongestant sprays/tabs/or syrups can provide short term relief.
what is the difference between deep vein thrombosis (dvt) and chronic veneous insufficiency (cvt) problems?
dvt indicates a clot whereas chronic venous insufficency usually is caused by reflux though it can also occur as a result of an old dvt
what are pericardial tamponade myocardial contusion flail chest?
pericardial tamponade is a serious emergency problem of fluid or blood collection in the sac around the heart causing heart dysfunction. myocardial contusion is a potentially serious condition of direct trauma and bruising of the heart muscle. flail chest is a serious problem of multiple rib fractures in several locations on one side of the chest resulting in the lung to not expand correctly.
what are the causes of syncope in youngsters?
syncope (fainting) is a relatively common occurence particularly in teens and pre-teens. ultimately it is due to low blood pressure to the brain but has many triggers (standing too long getting up quickly sight of blood sudden trauma etc). kids who faint should be evaluated but the cure is usually increased fluid and sodium intake. in some medications may be used to help.
why after cup of coffee or stress some peoples without known heart illnesses have heart pain?
is it because they never have been checked out to find that they really do have heart disease or an abnormal heart rhythm or is it do to something else like esophageal reflux or spasm? see md to find out.
what are the common symptoms of truncus arteriosus?
the more common symptoms associated with truncus are heart failure related. basically since the pulmonary arteries are coming off directly from the aorta the lungs are receiving more blood than they should. this causes the left side of the heart to have to work more to pump the extra blood and at the same time the lungs to be more fluid filled and more stiff. breathing becomes more labored.
what are the benefits of low cholesterol?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what are the first clinical symptoms of heart failure?
it could be related to fluid overload like short of breath fulness in neck vessels or swelling feet or signs of reduced cardias output like fatigue or later orthopnea paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.
what are the possible symptoms of scleroderma?
in scleroderma autoimmune inflammation leads to fibrosis thickening and tightening of the skin. in some cases only the hands are affected making fingers appear claw-like. in other cases the arms legs upper back and face can also be affected. other symptoms include raynaud's acid reflux from esophageal dysmotility; shortness of breath from lung fibrosis and increased pressure on the heart.
what is the treatment for topamax (topiramate) overdose?
if the overdose was recent a healthcare provider may give certain medicines or place a tube into the stomach to "pump the stomach. " treatment also involves supportive care. this type of care consists of treating the symptoms that occur as a result of the overdose. for example supportive treatment options may include: •fluids •dialysis •medications to prevent seizures.
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure due associated with pulmonary congestion?
breathlessness especially with exertion. easy fatigability. impaired exercise capacity. these are early signs. without treatment one becomes short of breath resting especially when lying down (orthopnea) and at night (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). eventually the right heart also fails leading to swelling (edema) abdominal fluid (ascites and effusions) and cachexia (wasting).
what is the difference between pulmonary edema and pulmonary congestion?
a matter of semantics to some physicians. the terms are often used interchangeably to describe fluid build-up in the lungs regardless of cause. more descriptive terms that are used include cardiogenic pulmonary edema and non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema.
will using lozol help get rid of water?
no water pill will get the job done if the patient does not stop excess fluid and salt intake. lozol and other water pills are like the plunger that you use for stopped up sink. it is very important not to pour much fluids in that sink or else the plunger may not be enough and flooding will take place. you got it! our body is the sink and the kidneys are the drain that may be stopped up sometimes.
what is the treatment for blood around the heart?
is fluid or blood between the heart & its surrounding sac the pericardium. a needle may be introduced into the space to remove fluid or a window may be made in the pericardium. fluids &/or pressor agents may be given to maintain bp until fluid removed. oxygen is given to reduce the heart's workload. tests are performed to determine the cause. see comment for source of more info—>.
what is the management for a client with post-partum hemorrhage and hypovolemic shock?
post-partum hemorrhage is the loss of morethan 500 ml of blood after vaginal delivery or 1000 ml of blood after cesarean section. it is the most common cause of perinatal maternal death in the modern world. the management is similar to shock since fluid loss occurs. first crystalloid solution then blood units if loss is >2000 ml or shock progresses despite aggressive replacement.
what are the tests for hypovolemic shock?
hypovoemic shock is due to loss of circulating blood volume- may occur in severe dehydration acute blood loss severe sepsis. symptoms/ signs are dizziness fainting low blood pressure. treatment- fluids blood or antibiotics etc depending on the cause. tests depend on the cause blood work monitor bp swang ganz catheterization in some case.
what is the best most specific way to take supplements to lower bad cholesterol and increase good? can you be specific about what dosages?
best currently available agent is niacin to both lower ldl cholesterol and raise hdl-cholesterol. not niacinamide and not no-flush niacin. there are known adverse effects that need to be followed and strategies to minimize them but need professional follow up. fish oils ala resveratrol coq10 are not useful.
what is chest pressure on right chest when inhaling deeply?
could be related to chest wall muscle and rib cage problems. . could be pleurisy or lung problems. could be tumor or fluid in or around the lungs. should see md if persists or worsens.
what is cause of chest pain in child?
chest pain most commonly is musculoskeletal in children (it comes from the muscles and bones of the chest). it can also be caused by gastroesophageal reflux (heartburn) pleurisy (pain from the lining of the lungs usually from infection) or less commonly from the heart of large blood vessels. if the pain involves fever weakness or difficulty breathing medical help should be obtained.
what could be the cause of my sudden chest pain? i am just lying down. something like a tightened rubberband pressure in center
could still be heart. could be heartburn (esophagus with reflux). could be lungs and pulmonary embolus. could be muscle spasms. if persists or worsens see md or call 911.
what could be the cause of my sudden chest pain? i am just lying down. something like a tightened rubberband pressure in center
i am amazed you are asking me this question. i do not know your age but any chest pain serious because you have to make sur it is not cardiac. by which i mean you may be getting a heart attack even if it is not heart attack but you need to be evaluated to rule it out. other causes of chest pain can be esopahageal teflux or chest wall pain. so if you have already not done see your doctor or go to er.
what is right side heart failure vs. left sided?
fluid accumulates during congestive heart failure. when the right side of the heart fails fluid accumulates in the legs and abdomen. when the left side of the heart fails fluid accumulates in the lungs and makes the patient short of breath. not infrequently both sides of the heart fail at the same time.
what's the difference between left vs right heart failure?
in a nutshell left heart failure causes congestion in the lungs: breathlessness with exertion when lying down interfering with sleep cough coughing blood. right heart failure causes congestion in the abdomen and legs: enlarged liver fluid in the abdomen (ascites) swollen intestines with loss of appetite nausea swollen genitals swollen legs/ankles. they often occur together.
which high blood pressure patients can do fine without diuretics?
if the bp can be controlled without a diuretic then none need be used. however normal physiologic response to bp lowering is to retain fluid so a diuretic makes great sense acting synergistically with other bp meds. moreover diuretics complement the potassium retaining effect of some bp drugs by clearing potassium in the urine. hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) is so gentle you won't even know it's working-i promise!
what are some reason why your feet to swell?
fluid retention is the #1 cause. see your physician for further evaluation & treatment.
what does it mean if i have some chest pain between my boobs?
there are many reasons for chest pain in that location. reasons include primary breast infection musculoskeletal pain (costrochondritis) angina (heart related chest pain) and reflux. your doctor should be able to help evaluate.
what symptoms typically go along with coronary artery disease?
coronary artery disease will generally cause chest pain often described as pressure or felling like someone is standing on your chest. the pain or pressure may radiate down the left arm or give you feeling of numbness. other symptoms include shortness of breath increase fatigue or symptoms often attributed to gi upset like nausea or reflux.
what are the tip-offs that you might have coronary spasms?
coronary spasms are not common. sometimes anxiety and caffeine can cause them but reflux is a much more common cause of angina pain. try heartburn treatment first. if you still have pain see your doctor. medication called calcium channel blockers are used to treat the spasm.
what is the condition called? my mother had a mri and they are suggesting she see s neurosurgeon to have a shunt implant to remove fluid/water from the brain. there is a name for her condition but can't remember the initials it goes by. she has memory los
as described in the answer of my colleague normal pressure hydrocephalus (nph) is a rather common condition afflicting many patients. the patient should be evaluated by a neurologist and often a spinal tap can be performed to remove some fluid-volume in assessing the patients probable response to a shunting procedure. if the patient does well after the tap the chances of a favourable outcome after shunting are very good. the shunting procedure as such is in most cases very low risk and requires only a short surgical procedure and commonly a 1 night hospital stay.
what is the condition called? my mother had a mri and they are suggesting she see s neurosurgeon to have a shunt implant to remove fluid/water from the brain. there is a name for her condition but can't remember the initials it goes by. she has memory los
nph or normal pressure hydrocephalus is a condition thought to be related to the aging brain's inability to resorb the cerebrospinal fluid normally produced. this results in dilation of the ventricles ( or fluid filled cavities within the brain) ultimately resulting in the triad of incontinence gait disturbance and dementia ( memory loss most likely). ventriculoperitoneal shunting is an effective treatment with a reasonable outcome. many surgeons will perform trial lumbar punctures or spinal taps to confirm that reducing the fluid will help at least temporarily which is thought to increase the likelihood of a good outcome with shunt surgery. different types of shunt devices are used and in recent years "adjustable" shunt valves have become popular in this application. the normal pressure as opposed to hydrocephalus with high pressure is believed to be due to a relatively slow and insidious course of development of the problem which allows the brain to adjust and change in response to slow build up of the fluid.
what is the condition called? my mother had a mri and they are suggesting she see s neurosurgeon to have a shunt implant to remove fluid/water from the brain. there is a name for her condition but can't remember the initials it goes by. she has memory los
the condition goes by several names but when it affects adults it is called normal pressure hydrocephalus. the brain cannot absorb the spinal fluid at a normal rate. the ventricles of the brain expand giving the symptoms that you describe. the good news is that the shunt can improve the situation in over 70% of cases when patients are selected correctly.
what is the condition called? my mother had a mri and they are suggesting she see s neurosurgeon to have a shunt implant to remove fluid/water from the brain. there is a name for her condition but can't remember the initials it goes by. she has memory los
you are describing normal pressure hydrocephalus.
what can i do for my emphysema without going to a doctor?
stop smoking if you have not done that daily moderate exercise and increase intake of fresh fruits and vegetables. see your doctor for up to date vaccination pneumonia and influenza. of course you need more than that but that is your choice to make.
what could cause chest pains and nasuea?
chest pain and nausea are both symptoms of cardiac disease and should be evaluated. you should see your doctor and if the pain worsens you should go to the er immediately. it could be reflux or many other things but heart disease is the most significant.
why my neck veins feel dry? like poor circulation. how to improve veins/circulation?
by dry i am assuming you mean empty. if you don't notice any bulging neck veins while standing up that is pretty normal. you may see more bulging while lying down or especially if you are upside down. we look at neck veins to see if someone is fluid overloaded. this is not a very accurate/sensitive test. if you feel you are dehydrated drink more fluids.
why my bp is a bit high when i get flu?
a fever may cause your bp to fall. the only reason i can think your bp might rise is that it might be caused by a medication you are using such as sudafed.
why my bp is a bit high when i get flu?
raises the adrenergic state and can affect blood pressure same as physical stress. additionally if you take o/c medications such as pseudophed the bp can be raised.
what does it mean when u have constant heartburn?
you probably have a bad case of acid reflux hiatal hernia ulcer or esophagitis. please see your doctor. you may need to also see a gastroenterologist.
what could pain in the chest lead to?
it is rather what could lead to pain in the chest. serious conditions that have to be considered and ruled out include angina or heart attack blood clot in the lungs and rarely tearing or enlargement of the large blood vessel in the chest (aortic dissection or aneurysm). gall bladder disease neck or rib arthritis acid reflux esophageal spasm pleurisy or pericarditis lung disease are some others.
what would cause my right foot to swell? congestive heart failure has been ruled out. no injury to this foot.
other possibilities: chr. venous insufficiency lymphedema unlikely small clot below knee fluid in the ankle 2 to arthritic process (gout) urticariai allergic to shoe or 2nd to compression of footwear insect bites cellulitis ( infection) raynaud syndrome suggest to see a podiatrist.
what would be the cause of my 27 yo husband being diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis? we went to the local er because my husband was having trouble with his acid re-flux. while there they had ran a couple of test and found his cpk (? ) levels were extremely el
if the er could not uncover the reason why he went into rhabdomyolysis then you may never know. i will list some common causes for you maybe this will help: muscle trauma or crush injury burns(severe) physical torture prolonged lying down prolonged coma severe muscle contractions from seizures cocaine use increased body temperature extreme physical activity drug and alcohol intoxication low electrolytes genetic muscle diseases near drowning low body temperature) medications: most commonly statins which are used to treat high cholesterol; psychiatric medications anesthesia medications hiv medications colchicine(used for gout) viruses and some bacteria untreated hypothyroidism (low thyroid level) myopathies(muscle diorders) snake venom best of luck.
what would be the cause of my 27 yo husband being diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis? we went to the local er because my husband was having trouble with his acid re-flux. while there they had ran a couple of test and found his cpk (? ) levels were extremely el
as you probably know there are different types or isoenzymes of cpk circulating in your bloodstream. cpk-mb is primarily found in your heart (it's the isoenzyme that's elevated during a heart attack). cpk-mm comes mainly from skeletal muscle and cpk-bb is found chiefly in brain and lung tissue. differentiating among the various isoenzymes helps focus the search for the cause of an elevated cpk level. since your husband was told he had rhabdomyolysis it was apparently his cpk-mm that was high. there are a number of conditions that can lead to elevated cpk-mm levels including muscular injuries (bruises contusions etc. ) vigorous exercise and inflammatory disorders that affect muscle such as polymyositis or dermatomyositis (see links below). another condition called "macro-ck" is sometimes associated with certain cancers (e. g. non-hodgkin's lymphoma) or liver disease but macro-ck rarely causes your cpk to rise above 2 000 or so. clearly your husband should be evaluated to rule out an occult cause for his elevated cpk. a repeat reading in a week or two would indicate whether this is a persistent problem that demands further investigation or a transient phenomenon related to a muscle injury or exertion. i hope things go well! <link> <link>
what is the risk of having a lot of fluids around your heart?
if the fluid is in the (intact) sac surrounding the heart the buildup can cause a pressure driven cut off to blood trying to get back to the heart (tamponade) and cause cardiovascular collapse and death. this can be alleviated by intervention (needle aspiration or open pericardiectomy or window) but the underlying cause dictates the eventual prognosis. physical exam & echocardiography critical.
what are the causes of blood pressure to fluctuate many times during the day from "high" to relatively "normal"?
the blood pressure even when normal varies from minute to minute even. it is not uncommon for a patient in the dr. 's office to have a high blood pressure when that patient first comes in and for it to be lower later. stress and activity will effect it. it is normal for the blood pressure to go up during and right after exertion. some patients have more labile bp than others.
what are the causes of blood pressure to fluctuate many times during the day from "high" to relatively "normal"?
your blood pressure will normally very over the course of the day. this depends on many factors such as fatigue exercise dietary intake including salt smoking for people who do smoke. patients who have uncontrolled blood pressure variation can be worse.
what is the most common cause of heart flutter?
abnormalities or damage to the structure of your heart are the most common. however there are other causes: heart attacks high blood pressure stress an overactive thyroid gland medications caffeine lung diseases viral infections and/or previous heart surgeries.
what is the most common cause of heart flutter?
tachycardia (rapid heartbeat) causes one to feel palpitations in the chest. it can be caused by exertion fever or a cardiac arrhythmia such as atrial tachycardia atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation.
what are the signs of congestive heart failure?
symptoms & signs of chf are shortness of breath with minimal exertion or at rest getting tired or fatigued easily sleepin on more than one pillow getting up at night short of breath swelling of both legs retention of fluid in abdomen.
what does the pericardium have in it?
the pericardium is the space between the surface of the heart and the pericardial lining. inside this space is usually a small amount of fluid the pericardial fluid. since the heart is constantly moving with each beat the sac protects the heart and the fluid functions like oil on a piston to allow smooth effortless movement.
what does the pericardium have in it?
called pericardial fluid to keep the moving heart lubricated.
why would a patient need a cardioversion?
symptomatic arrhythmia including vt afib aflutter or even svt.
why would a patient need a cardioversion?
cardioversion is an electronic technique used to convert an abnormal rhythm back to a normal one. the procedure is performed in a hospital under light anesthesia. various rhythm disturbances such as atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter among others are treated with cardioversion. the results are usually successful and apparent immediately.
why did my heart flutter multiple times? should i be worried?
these are caused by many things. stress excitement irritants both physical and chemical pressure like a hiatal hernia or esophageal push or pull and primary heart things the causes are very many in number.
why did my heart flutter multiple times? should i be worried?
are common and usually not much cause for concern unless symptoms result. . stress can be a major cause.
why did my heart flutter multiple times? should i be worried?
people feel their "heart flutter" very commonly. and when no other symptoms or cardiac diseases are present this is extremely rare to be something serious. many times it is not even the heart you are feeling rather the esophagus peristalsing or being dilated by gas or chest muscle fasciculating. if you have dizziness chest pain shortness of breath or fluttering lasts long always see doctor.
why does your blood pressure fluctuate?
if it didn't you would faint every time you stood up. it needs to adjust to gravity and temperature as well as other conditions.
why does your blood pressure fluctuate?
need for bp fluctuates. more for activity & less for rest.
what is a medical response to low blood pressure?
fluid resuscitation.
what is a medical response to low blood pressure?
if you mean low blood pressure in a seriously ill hospitalized person (i. e. septic shock) then generally we give fluids and sometimes certain medications to support the blood pressure and we try to treat the underlying cause. if you mean a low-ish blood pressure in say a healthy person with no symptoms or signs of ill-effect then often we don't do anything. in between? probably further eval.
what are the systems affected by congestive heart failure?
the lungs see increased pressure backing up causing fluid accumulation. chronically decreased forward flow from the heart often causes kidney damage. rarely if there are high enough pressures backing up to the lungs this transmits from the lungs to the right side of the heart and you can get back up from there to the liver causing passive congestion and sometimes even cirrhosis.
where is the pericardial fluid usually located?
pericardial fluid is located in the pericardial space.
where is the pericardial fluid usually located?
the pericardial fluid usually a straw colored fluid of between 10-20ml in volume lies in the pericardial sac. this is a lining that covers the outside of the heart. the fluid is in the sac and as the heart moves with each beat provides lubrication for the heart much like oil on a piston in your car.
what is cardiac output influenced by?
congenital heart disease vitamin b1 defiency anemia thyroid problem renal disease liver disease brain disease vascular disease blood disease atherosclerosis valve disease - these are the biggest influencers of cardiac output.
what is cardiac output influenced by?
stroke volume times heart rate equals cardiac output. stroke volume relates to myocardial contractility vascular resistance vascular volume anemia and metabolic state. there are subcomponents to all of these.
what to do for low blood pressure?
low blood pressure might be a good thing. people live longer. it's just a number. if you feel fine it is unlikely a problem. now if you are sick and it is low the treatment depends on the cause. for instance bleeding. stop the bleeding and give blood transfusion. dehydration. give fluids by mouth or intravenously. infection. give antibiotics. adrenal insufficiency give hormone replacement.
what to do for low blood pressure?
to treat hypotension it is necessary to increase the intravascular volume with fluids or decrease the intravascular space by using vasoconstrictor drugs. giving fluid volume is generally more physiologic. sometimes hypotension is due to inadequate impelling force by a failing heart and this has other treatment modalities. for all knowledge of the cause of the hypotension should guide therapy.
what factors in the body affect the cardiac output?
congenital heart disease vitamin b1 defiency anemia thyroid problem renal disease liver disease brain disease vascular disease blood disease atherosclerosis valve disease - these are the biggest influencers of cardiac output.
why could your heart flutter when you yawn?
because in young people flutter or atrial fibrillation could be activated by the structure in the right atrium and at the superior aspect of the inferior vena cava and yawning is usually a symptom of vagal tone and may lead to arrythmias through the same process. cold drinks with ice can lead to acute atrial fibrillation through the same process.
why could your heart flutter when you yawn?
flutter in your chest can be related to change in rhythm and you should wear a monitor called a holter to see if this indeed is a rhythm issues. the coincidene to when you yawn is harder to explain.
what does an angiogram test for?
an angiogram is an invasive diagnostic test perfomed in a catheterization laboratory using fluoroscopy (the x-ray) and an injected contrast dye. it is possible to perform angiograms for different parts of the body such as the left and/or right heart the aorta selective veins such as the subclavian the renal artery and peripheral angiograms (the limbs) as well.
why is an angiogram performed?
an angiogram is an invasive diagnostic test perfomed in a catheterization laboratory using fluoroscopy (the x-ray) and an injected contrast dye to evaluate the vasular system. it is possible to perform angiograms for different parts of the body such as the left and/or right heart the aorta selective veins such as the subclavian the renal artery and peripheral angiograms (the limbs) as well.
what are treatments for hypotension?
in surgical practice the 2 most common causes of hypotension are fluid/volume depletion (e. g. dehydration) and acute blood loss. these can be treated by the administration of intravenous fluids and blood transfusions respectively.
what are treatments for hypotension?
to treat hypotension it is necessary to increase the intravascular volume with fluids or decrease the intravascular space by using vasoconstrictor drugs. giving fluid volume is generally more physiologic. sometimes hypotension is due to inadequate impelling force by a failing heart and this has other treatment modalities. for all knowledge of the cause of the hypotension should guide therapy.
what can i do about my orthostatic hypotension?
if you have orthostatic hypotension it can be caused by decreased blood volume or an inability of the nervous system to compensate for blood pressure changes upon standing. i would recommend making sure to drink enough fluids and when you are lying down for a long period of time make sure to sit up and stand slowly. this slow change in position will help give your body time to adjust.
what can i do about my orthostatic hypotension?
you can increase the fluids and salt in your diet wear support hose and pay attention when you are standing up to do it slowly.
why shouldn't you lay a chf patient supine?
when a person lies flat blood that has pooled in the legs and abdomen (from gravity) returns to the heart. the extra volume typically causes no problems for healthy persons. in pts with heart failure (chf) however the failing heart cannot pump the extra fluid so the pressures in the chambers increase. blood backs up into the lungs causing trouble breathing. this is relieved by sitting up.
what are some of the factors that influence hdl concentration?
the most common cause of low hdl cholesterol is high triglycerides. in addition anabolic steroids can lower hdl. smoking obesity and inactivity can lower hdl and estrogen and alcohol can raise it.
what are some of the factors that influence hdl concentration?
smoking alcohol exercise diabetes are the main factors influencing hdl concentration.
why do hearts flutter?
when someone's heart rate is fast (more than 100 beats per minute) it can feel like heart fluttering. it can have different causes from very benign no needing treatment to life threatening. the term 'atrial flutter' describes an abnormally fast rhythm where the electricity in the upper chamber of the heart goes round and round a large circle.
why do hearts flutter?
reason is premature atrial or ventricular contractions which are generally benign but other arrhythmias not so much.
why do hearts flutter?
usually for various reasons the rhythm of the heart changes and the patient feels a flutter. typical reasons are supraventricular or arrhythmias from above the ventricle. these include atrial flutter and fibrillation.
what is the nursing intervention of chf?
chf is usually manage with iv lasix followed by oral lasix to offload the heart by reducing preload and getting fluid out of the body. one should get an echocardiogram to evaluate if it's systolic or diastolic or a combination of both leading to the heart failure and optimize a heart with medications such as coreg lisinopril lipitor (atorvastatin) aspirin.
what are some of the symptoms of a heart flutter?
if you mean atrial flutter that is a specific rhythm where the heart skips or beats fast causing a fluttering or skipping sensation in the chest which we call palpitations. this can eventually lead to shortness of breath dizziness even chest pain if the heart is beating fast enough.
what are some of the symptoms of a heart flutter?
skipping or racing of the heart is often described as fluttering or palpitations. many people have premature (early often called extra) beats which are not always felt. if extra beats were noted without symptoms in the absence of heart disease(after testing) usually no intervention is needed.
what types of patients gets congestive heart failure?
patients with heart attacks and chronic coronary artery disease; patients with severe chronic valvular heart disease; patients with structural heart disease like hypertrophic cardiomyopathies; renal failure patients with fluid overload; connective tissue disease like lupus just to say few.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
because the heart doesn't pump blood well enough when it is "failing" fluid tends to back up in the legs and lungs. this can cause weight gain and difficulty breathing.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
it is called heart failure because the heart fails to pump the blood effectively. because the blood is not pumped out of the lungs effectively the fluid backs up in the lungs so the lungs become congested with this excess fluid build up. thus the name.
why is it called congestive heart failure?
when the heart isn't able to pump effectively pressure builds up behind the heart and causes fluid to build up in the lungs causing "congestion".
why do i need to lie down for 24 hours after hydrocephalus shunt surgery?
shunt surgery is performed to divert spinal fluid from the brain compartment to the abdominal or lung cavity to increase the body's ability to absorb excess spinal fluid. staying flat for 24 hours will minimize excessive drainage immediately after surgery and hopefully will prevent severe post-op headaches.
what foods should people with copd and heart disease completely avoid?
in the short term salt and lots of fluid makes you retain fluid and if it goes to your lungs you will be more short of breath. long term foods that have high cholesterol are going to be harmful to your heart and you should avoid. the lungs tend to be less affected by food than the heart. some people think that milk products make their pulmonary symptoms worse.
what foods should people with copd and heart disease completely avoid?
i am not sure there are any foods you should avoid. acid reflux would not be good in copd so maybe avoid those foods that can cause heartburn. but i am not sure there are specific foods to avoid in copd.
why do people with lung disease often die of heart failure?
copd / emphysema patients develop right heart dysfunction late in the disease (called cor pulmonale)- this can result in fluid gain edema and heart failure.
what are the signs of heart disease?
signs of heart disease can be many. and the signs can be similar to other conditions. some of the possible warning signs are: chest pain or discomfort often radiating to the neck teeth or both arms or back shortness of breath especially on effort fluid retention with swelling of the ankles palpitations irregular heart rhythm high blood pressure black out spells profuse sweating.
what are the causes of high cholesterol?
healthy gallbladder and liver uses cholesterol to make bile so normalizing them will normalize cholesterol. cholesterol is formed in liver under influence of thyroid. cholesterol is needed to make hormones in body if hormones are unbalanced (high estrogen states) stresses thyroid which slows down increasing cholesterol and if gallbladder does not work and thin bile liver backs up cholesterol.
what is meant by congestive heart disease?
i am asumming you mean congestive heart failure. when the heart muscle is too weak to pump fluid gets accumulated in the lungs the legs and under the skin even intraabdominally and even in the scrotum. pts. get difficulty to breath and intolerance to physical effort that is progressive associated to general fatigue. has multiple causes.
what is meant by congestive heart disease?
congestive heart failure is a complex syndrome of inadequate heart function leading to retention of fluid which may be in the lungs and cause breathlessness or may be in the legs and cause swelling. there are many causes such as blocked arteries valve abnormalities weakened heart muscle abnormal stiffness with poor filling. high blood pressure is a common cause. most patients are fatigued.
would a posterior pituitary tumor cause high blood pressure?
pituitary tumors are complicated. most produce excess hormone but some interfere with hormone production. hormones from the pituitary many body fluids thyroid levels steroid levels salt management kidney function all of which can cause changes in blood pressure. careful adjustment of pituitary hormones is very important with any pituitary pathology.
why is it that corticosteroids can increase blood pressure?
fluid retention weight gain affects from the adrenal glands and this by-product trigger increased salt retained which increases blood pressure and many other mechanisms.
what happens if someone has left heart failure?
this is a very complicated question and we only have 400 characters but it generally involves inadequate pumping function of the heart. this ultimately manifests with the buildup of fluid usually in the lungs belly and legs and (in severe cases) decreases in blood pressure and the blood flow to vital organs like the kidneys. the whole process is called decompensation.
will slouching cause chest pain?
chest pain can be due to- heart attacks aneurysm pericarditis pleurisy pneumonia acid reflux 'gas' esophagitis pulmonary embolism gall bladder disease costochondritis rib fractures cancers etc. get evaluated.
what is portal hypertension?
this is an obstructive condition of the venous outflow from the liver often associated with cirrhosis. it causes abdominal distension and fluid leak into the legs and abdomen.
what is portal hypertension?
portal hypertension is a complication of cirrhosis. scarring in the liver decreases venous blood flow from the intestinal veins through the liver to the heart. this leads to increased pressure in the intestinal veins. this can cause dilated veins in the esophagus (varices) which are prone to bleeding an enlarged spleen low platelets and fluid accumulation in the abdomen (ascites).
why are headaches associated with hypotension?
there is a rare cause of headaches related to low pressure in the spinal fluid. it can occur spontaneously or follow a spinal tap. the headache is better lying down and the bp idsnormal. the hypotension is just in the spianl fluid. it is possible that if the bp is low on standing (orthostatic hypotension) the body produces more adrenaline which could cause a headache. (also worse on standing. ).
what are some natural remedies for low blood pressure?
no need to treat unless you are dizzy or black out with low blood pressure. the treatment is to increase fluid and salt intake in those instances.
what are some natural remedies for low blood pressure?
your doctor may have you increase salt intake for symptomatic low bp especially if it drops a lot upon standing. using thigh high support stockings may also help. your doctor may also use medications such as mididodrine and fludrocirtisone in which case careful follow up is essential.
what are possible reasons for chest pain?
chest pain causes: heart attacks pericarditis aneurysms pulmonary embolism pneumonia pleurisy costochondritis acid reflux esophagitis muscle spasm to name a few.
what should i eat to avoid chest pain?
eating does not affect chest pain. first you need to identify the cause of chest pain. for eg. chest pain due to acid reflux it better not to eat spicy foods caffeine containing beverages stop smoking less of citrus juices etc will help.
what is the difference between angina coronary artery disease and heart disease?
angina and angina equivalents are symptoms of cad: coronary artery disease - which is often pooled with other heart aliments and described as heart disease. heart disease could potentially encompass other conditions such as congestive heart failure chf atrial fibrillation or flutter af kinds of cardiomyopathy bundle branch block and valve disorders and potentially more.
why would a pericardium be swollen?
many things can cause inflamation of pericardium or pericarditis. virus like h influenza and coxsacki virus. bacteria blike staph or strep. autoimmimune dz like lupus. connective tissue dz. pts with renal failure can have uremic pericarditis. post heart attack pts can have pericarditis as well. just to mention a few.
what is best to eat after open heart surgery?
usually a low salt low ft diet is prescribed. it is also important to limit your fluid intake early after surgery.
what is involved in a pericardium removal? what happens after?
the pericardium is the lining sac that surrounds the heart. if the lining itself is diseased or the sac is filled with fluids with the net result being compromised cardiac function then removing the pericardium or simply creating a "window" or a drainage outlet that allows fluid to be absorbed by the lung's pleural space is needed. it then relieves the underlying problem improving function.
what technology is used to treat pericarditis?
anti-inflammatory medications are the first line treatment - ibuprofen and others colchicine and steroids may be needed. rarely fluid may need to be drained with a pericardiocentesis. surgery is rarely needed - a pericardial window or pericardiectomy if the heart is constricted by scarring.
which viruses cause pericarditis?
echo and coxsackie or less commonly influenza or hiv.
which viruses cause pericarditis?
pericarditis is often a complication of a viral infection – usually a gastrointestinal virus or rarely the flu virus or aids. it may also be caused by a bacterial infection fungal infection or parasitic infection. certain autoimmune diseases such as lupus rheumatoid and scleroderma also can cause pericarditis.
what is constrictive pericarditis?
the heart is wrapped in a double layer of thick fibrous tissue called the pericardium. normally only a few drops of lubricating fluid is present in this potential space. following an infection or radiation or trauma (or a few other causes) the two surfaces scar down and don't allow the heart to fill with blood during diastole which "constricts" it and causes a form of congestive heart failure.
what are signs of high cardiac output?
assuming a true high cardiac output syndrome patients may feel flushed with a fast heart rate. most are transient situations but some illnesses and conditions may cause a sustained high output state e. g. hyperthyroidism anemia arterio-venous malformations (congenital or acquired low resistance connections between arteries and veins) or disease like paget's. requires confirmation by doctor.
what caused sharp pain in esophagus near heart when food is swallowed after severe reflux episode overnight? had a an episode of what i believe was reflux overnight 3 days ago. i woke up in the middle of night with severe pain in throat and chest (heartb
you may have esophageal tear! go see your doctor asap.
what caused sharp pain in esophagus near heart when food is swallowed after severe reflux episode overnight? had a an episode of what i believe was reflux overnight 3 days ago. i woke up in the middle of night with severe pain in throat and chest (heartb
a stricture in the esophagus caused by reflux or a tumor can cause pain when swallowing and dysphagia (difficulty swallowing).
what are factors that influence the cardiac output?
in strict physiologic terms cardiac output is determined by something called stroke volume and heart rate. heart rate is self-explanatory. stroke volume is the amount of blood that the heart pumps out with each beat. this in turn is dependent on blood pressure total blood volume and how strong the heart contracts.
what are factors that influence the cardiac output?
cardiac out put is the product of stroke volume (the amount of blood pushed out of the the left ventricle with each cycle) multiplied by the heart rate giving a number measured in liters per minute. factors including how well the heart is working and resistance to flow will affect cardiac output.
when do you use dobutamine when treating congestive cardiac failure?
typically when patients are decompensated such that the physicians cannot remove the fluid without an added squeeze from the heart. it can also be used in cardiogenic shock.
why does some chest heart pain only occur at night while lying in bed?
on occasion one might have an inflammatory process around the outside of the heart called pericarditis which can cause chest pain that is worse when lying flat on your back. this is related to increased contact between the two layers of inflamed pericardium in this position. however it is far more common for musculoskeletal chest pains or acid reflux to cause this type of symptom.
what is water retention? what are the symtons of water retention and what are the preventions?
water retention or edema occur in variety of conditions including kidney liver heart problems. also could be there with low protein levels in blood. there are other causes too. treatment depends on underlying cause along with salt and fluid restriction using diuretics ( water pills).
what is water retention? what are the symtons of water retention and what are the preventions?
mild water retention may just cause slight puffiness of the hands or feet and can be a consequence of indulging in too much salty food. in this circumstance the kidneys are easily able to get rid of the excessive salt and water and the symptom resolves rapidly. more substantial water retention is called edema and is generally a result of heart or kidney disease. if you have this symptom you should see your doctor. in patients with poor heart function lack of adequate blood flow to the kidney stimulates the kidney to retain excessive salt and water. this results in weight gain swelling of the legs and abdominal bloating. if left untreated the excessive fluid causes further deterioration in heart function and a vicious cycle perpetuates the problem. diuretic medications are used to rid the body of the excess fluid through the kidney and restore a good balance. conversely in the circumstance of the failing kidney the kidney is unable to excrete the normal amount of salt and water. initially diuretics may be able to overcome the dysfunction but if the condition progresses dialysis might be necessary.
what are the dangers of cigar smoking? i smoked a cigar or two a day for ten years and have recently quit. am i in danger of getting emphysema?
congratulations on quitting tobacco! this is by far the best medical decision you have made in your life --guaranteed! there are many factors that can influence your chance of getting emphysema including the type and quantity of tobacco that you smoke as well as the length of time that you smoked. however your genetic profile or the inherited set of genes from your mother and father is also very important and highly influences whether you are going to develop emphysema. some people who have a strong family history of emphysema or just even if you happen to be unlucky to inherit a set of emphysema-prone genes the amount of smoking that you did can easily be enough to cause emphysema. other factors such as environmental dust and fume exposure the development of other lung diseases and passive smoking can also lead to the development of emphysema. it is sensible to just to go and see your doctor who can order a simple pulmonary function test and see if you have emphysema.
what is angina vs. heart burn? how do you tell the difference between angina and heart burn?
angina and heart burn can feel very similar but there are important differences that can help you discern between the two. heart burn is caused by the reflux of stomach acid into the esophagus. it is more common after meals especially with acidic or spicy foods and can also be increased by alcohol. heart burn also is more likely to occur if you lay down shortly after your meal. heart burn usually improves with antacids. angina is caused by reduced blood flow to the heart muscle and is more likely to occur with exertion. except in advanced stages angina is usually not precipitated by meals. angina not does improve with antacids but instead gets better with nitroglycerin or rest. sometimes people who have a condition called gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) have acid reflux so frequently that they can heart burn that can be confused for angina. conversely some people have atypical angina that feels so similar to heartburn that nobody recognizes their heart disease. if you are not sure about your symptoms be sure to discuss them with your doctor.
what is diabetic heart disease? are dizziness shortness of breath cold tips of finders and chest pain strong indicatros of diabetic heart disease?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
when is it safe to give my child aspirin?
a rare condition leading to liver failure and death emerged in the 60's peaked in the 70's and has declined after we linked it to aspirin use during chickenpox/flu. since that time we have developed and tested better products and aspirin is rarely used and then only for specific conditions in kids. i would just never use it in kids though it might be safe after the end of puberty.
what are the symptoms of the common cold?
the common cold viruses cause upper respiratory tract infections typically that can present with runny nose sneezing occasionally with fever nasal congestion and cough. symptoms usually last 7 to 10 days but can last as long as 14 days. extra rest fluids and symptomtaic treatment are usually all that is required. antibiotics will not help colds.
what are the effects of preeclampsia in pregnancy?
preeclampsia is a serious complication of pregnancy. it consists of retained fluids high blood pressure and the kidneys not being able to control protein loss. delivery is the cure. medications can be used to stabilize the event and to gain a little lung maturation time. the greatest complication is a seizure and transient liver damage.
what are the complications associated with pregnancy-induced hypertension?
pregnancy-induced hypertension (pih) has several risks associated with it. because of decreased blood blow to the uterus babies can be small or have low amniotic fluid levels this increases their risk of distress. placental abruption or stroke can occur if blood pressures are very high. pih is also a risk factor for developing pre-eclampsia or eclampsia.
what is the treatment for the common cold?
colds are caused by viruses and antibiotics of of no help - at all. lots of fluids rest nasal suctioning if needed saline nose drops to help clear the nose ibuprofen or acetaminophen for fevers or aches/pains and (yes grandma was right) chicken soup can actually help too. raising the head up some at night and using a cool mist humidifier can help too.
will my pregnancy be adversely affected by my high blood pressure?
women with chronic hypertension have higher risk of preeclampsia abruption. fetuses of women with high blood pressure have greater chance of poor growth decreased blood flow and/or amniotic fluid sometimes fetal distress or other serious problems. with bp control frequently checked and stable bp values and fetal evaluation the risk of problems for baby can decrease. see internist before ttc.
why can’t i give my baby aspirin?
aspirin was used for a long time to reduce fever in children that is until doctors found an association between the use of aspirin and reye syndrome. this condition happened in children who had the flu and received aspirin for the fever. reye syndrome is a potentially fatal illness that affects the brain and the liver. you should not use aspirin to reduce your baby's fever.
why can’t i give my baby aspirin?
in the 60's & 70's a dredfull problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. it hasn't been recomended for kids
will he need surgery to relieve heart burn?
surgery is rare in children with gastroesophageal reflux disease the usual cause of "heartburn. " nearly all cases of reflux can be treated with special feeding techniques or medicine. surgery is only used in very rare cases of severe chronic reflux or in children who are neurologically impaired (in these cases reflux can lead to pneumonia). a healthy baby with reflux won't need surgery.
will he need surgery to relieve heart burn?
surgery (called a nissen fundoplication) used to be a commonly accepted treatment for heartburn or reflux but is rarely used nowadays except in extreme cases. more common treatments include specialized formulas anti-acid medications positioning of the baby and thickening feedings.
will he need surgery to relieve heart burn?
in most cases heartburn is a transient problem due to reflux of stomach acid into esophagus. in many babies this resolves with age. there are a number of medications that can be prescribed to help alleviate the reflux. it is only in very rare circumstances (including neuromuscular disorders or severe failure to thrive) that a surgery is medially required for this otherwise common condition.
what should i do if my newborn is vomiting and seems to have trouble breathing?
if your baby is vomiting & has trouble breathing you should take baby to er asap he probably choked while vomiting from gastroesophageal reflux or any other causes of vomiting. you can call 911 if you don't have transportation. please don't feed the baby if still with difficulty breathing only small sips of pedialyte. good luck.
why do people with emphysema sometimes have problems with fluid retention and ankle swelling?
this is usually related to right heart strain from lung disease or from pulmonary hypertension (high pressure in the pulmonary vascular bed). patients with advanced copd/emphysema develop increased pressure in their lungs which causes the right side of the heart to dilate/enlarge. this in turn causes fluid retention in the legs/ankles (known as edema).
why do people with emphysema sometimes have problems with fluid retention and ankle swelling?
the right side of the heart pumps blood into the lungs to be oxygenated and for carbon dioxide removal. if the pulmonary vascular pressures are high as sometimes happens with lung disease like copd the right heart may not be able to effectively pump the blood into the lungs. this blood then is the reason for fluid retention including ankle swelling.
why do people with emphysema sometimes have problems with fluid retention and ankle swelling?
sometimes people with emphysema had elevated pressure in the lungs due to the destruction of lung tissue. when this happens it is harder to pump blood through the lungs and it backs up in the legs and ankles. but there are also other reasons why this would occur including heart conditions and even side effects from medications. definitely get checked out.
why is the vascular system important?
the vascular system includes the circulation of blood plasma oxygen and nutrients to and from all parts of the body. it has multiple parts- but the arteries and veins and lymph channels are very influential in survival.
why should i not give aspirin to a child with chickenpox?
back in the late 60's & early 70's a devistating illness called reye's syndrome started appearing. kids with chickenpox or flu would appear to get better before lapsing into coma & dying of liver failure. after a link with salycilates(aspirin) was made we stopped giving it to kids under 16. reye's has almost disappeared. it didn't happen to all kids but we never knew how to predict who would.
why can't i give aspirin to my child with chickenpox?
in the 60's & 70's a dredfull problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. it hasn't been recomended for kids <16 in 20+yrs. not all kids that were given aspirin got it but we couldn't predict who would.
will the common cold exacerbate my asthma?
if your asthma is well controlled using the appropriate medication and with rare need for a rescue inhaler you should be fine. if asthma is poorly controlled or if you are unlucky common colds particularly chest colds (para-influenza viruses) are certainly capable of triggering an asthma attack. if it seems that an asthma attack is imminent see a doctor sooner rather than later.
what causes fluid retention?
there are a lot of reasons to retain fluid but one of the most common is due to eat too much salt. it's important to limit your salt intake to 1500mg a day or less.
what causes fluid retention?
most common is salt. where ever sodium goes water will follow.
what is a shunt?
a shunt is a structure or device that transfers body fluid or blood from one area of the body to another area. for example shunts are fashioned to relieve high pressure areas of cerebro spinal fluid by shunting the fluid away to low pressure areas.
what is a shunt?
it is a short circuit or detour for flow of blood or other fluid either natural or artificial.
what is the prognosis with a pheochromocytoma?
they are known as the "10% tumor" as approximately 10% are inherited 10% involve both adrenals 10% are cancerous and 10% seen in children. if treated properly they have a very favorable outcomes. untreated they can cause rapid fluctuation in blood pressure shock stroke heart attacks or kidney failure.
what is the difference between a regular lymph node and a cancerous lymph node?
lymph nodes drain a region of a body of its toxins pathogens & dead cells through the lymphatic system. this parallels the venous system. once the lymphatic fluid from distant cells reaches a node white blood cells either kill or process the contents. cancerous nodes simply collected cancerous cells that drained from its territory. the cells then were able to multiply in that node as well.
why do so many people with diabetes also have high blood pressure?
one of the big causes of diabetes also happens to be obesity. obesity is a known cause of high blood pressure as well. so it's the underlying cause of both diseases as well as hyperlipidemia or high cholesterol. we call this syndrome x or metabolic syndrome. the high sugars in the blood stream also lead to shift of fluids into the vascular space causing high blood pressure as well.
what is the lymphatic system?
the lymph system is the part of the immune system comprising a network of conduits called lymphatic vessels that carry a clear fluid called lymph unidirectionally toward the heart. lymphoid tissue is found in many organs particularly the lymph nodes and in the lymphoid follicles associated with the digestive system such as the tonsils. it is part of your body's infection fighting system.
what is the lymphatic system?
the lymphatic system is part of the circulatory system comprising a network of vessels called lymphatic vessels that carry a clear fluid called lymph towards the heart.
what is the lymph system?
the simplified answer is that it is the drainage system for non-blood fluid much the same way that veins are the drainage system for blood back to the heart. however the lymphatic system also has important roles to play in the immune system digestive/nutrient system and other physiologic systems.
what does sharp chest pain signify?
cp may be due to several reasons: just with quality of pain like sharp chest pain may not indicate anything specific. you may have to rule out heart attack angina pericarditis aneurysms pneumonia pleurisy acid reflux etc.
what causes high blood pressure spikes?
hbp rises due to eating a diet full of salt and water. people with hbp have difficulty excreting excess salt and water. if a person with hbp eats a diet filled with salt (hamburgers or steaks) and fluids (excessive coke or beer) then they will see a spike in their blood pressure because they can't get ride of this extra salt and fluid normally. not taking your meds will lead bp spikes as well.
what is synchronized cardioversion?
this is important because if the heart is depolarized externally during the wrong portion of the cardiac cycle it can actually induce worse heart rhythms than it was intended to treat. synchronized cardioversion is typically used to treat atrial fibrillation atrial flutter stable ventricular tachycardia.
what does the abbreviation chf mean?
chf = congestive heart failure = a condition where the heart muscle is weak and fluid backs up and leaks into the air spaces in the lungs causing shortness of breath.
what is the typical treatment for right side heart failure?
unfortunately our understanding and treatment of right heart failure is not at the level of left heart failure. one has to be careful with fluid management because in the case of right heart failure you're actually dependent on volume to keep the function of the heart going therefore overly aggressive fluid management treatments often backfire. the balance is much more important here.
what is the connection between renal function and hypotension?
low blood presure to the kidneys causes the kidneys to malfuntion. the kidneys need a large blood volume with an adequate pressure to perfuse and function properly. when the bp is low the kidneys hold on to fluids and urine out put drops. the bun and cr are elevated indicating a back up of waste and when it goes on longperiod of time its called atn or acute tubular necrosis. if no relief dialysis.
what happens if there is an infection in the pericardium?
needs to be treated with antibiotics. sometimes fluid can accumulate in the pericardium at dangerous levels and cause pericardial tamponade. some times this fluid needs to be drained for diagnostic and or therapeutic purposes. if the infection is tuberculosis the pericardium needs to be biopsied.
what does spironolactone do to help heart failure?
the medication is a diuretic and helps to remove fluid in those that are congested due to heart failure. however it not only improves symptoms but actually reduces risk of dying in chf patients probably due to inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system which is dysregulated in heart failure patients and felt to have adverse consequences on the heart and vasculature.
what causes heart pain when you use the restroom?
there is nothing about using the restroom to cause heart pain. if you have pain from your heart (aka "angina") it will occur with any form of exertion. pain in your chest with valsalva ("pushing" like with a bm) can be due to acid reflux and is the more likely cause of your chest pain.
what is the duration of open heart surgery?
many factors like the type of operation previous surgery and patient body habitus to name a few influence the duration of surgery.
who can have cardioversion?
somebody who has a fib-flutter svt or ventricular tachycardia!
what do peritonitis pleurisy and pericarditis have in common?
they all mean inflammation and often fluid accumulation in different bodily cavities (abdominal chest and heart).
what should i avoid eating before and after an open heart surgery?
there are really no dietary restrictions before heart surgery really. after you will have to follow a low salt low fat diet with limited fluid intake.
what are the consequences after an open heart surgery on a patient?
hopefully improvement in symptoms. if the surgery is for coronary disease and chest pain doing away with the pain. if it is for a leaking or too tight valve improvement in things like fatigue and shortness of breath. there of course can be bad consequences such as rhythm problems kidney failure anemia fluid around the lung pain in the incision stroke and even death.
what is heart pain that feels like heartburn?
heartburn is not heart pain at all - the term is a misnomer. it is due to acid reflux in the esophagus and is called "gastroesophageal reflux disease". on occasion actual angina (true pain arising from inadequate circulation in the heart) is mistaken for heartburn because some people can't tell the difference and/or the two conditions can feel similar. a stress test can separate them.
what influences the development of coronary heart disease?
smoking cholesterol (ldl hdl triglycerides) genetics diet (for cholesterol) daily exercise/good fitness level diabetes (know and control your blood sugar) medications - these are the main factors influencing the development of cad other than other diseases that could have a tremendous impact on the progress of cad.
what influences the development of coronary heart disease?
smoking diabetes hypertension high ldl cholesterol and low hdl cholesterol are the major ones. age and family history of premature chd are also important risk factors but are not modifiable.
what is a peripheral edema in the body?
leg or arm swelling ( leg is more common because gravity pulls down the fluid to the lowest part of the body).
what causes chest pain while breathing in after eating?
cp may be due to several reasons: you may have to rule out heart attack angina pericarditis aneurysms pneumonia pleurisy acid reflux etc.
why does my heart flutter when i cough?
cough and palpitations may be mediated by the same nerve in the body (called the vagus nerve). with significant coughing irriation of the nerve can take place resulting in palpitations or tachycardia (fast heart beat). usually palpitations associated with coughing are safe but you should be evaluated by a health care provider to be sure.
why does my heart flutter when i cough?
sometimes when we cough the changes in intrathoracic pressures will trigger extra heart beats. in general this isn't something worrisome.
what are medications used for chest pain?
medications for cp depends on the cause. for example: costochondritis-- antiinflammatories acid reflux-antacids pneumonia/ pleurisy-antibiotics heart attack/ coronary artery disease- nitroglycerine morphine.
what happens in congestive heart failure?
when the heart is not functioning normally neurologic and endocrine signals are sent to the kidney to retain salt and water. fluid buildup in the body causing shortness of breath and swelling of the lower extremities.
what is the difference between left heart failure and right heart failure?
left heart failure reduces the ability of the heart to pump bold to the body. it is mainly caused by chronic hypertension coronary artery disease or valve disease. it causes fliuid to build up in lungs. right heart failure is the inability to pump blood to the lungs. it is mainly caused by lung disease or by pressure in lungs from left heart failure. fluid then builds up in the bodies veins.
what is the difference between left heart failure and right heart failure?
when the left heart fails the lungs become congested and the most prominent symptom is breathlessness. when the right heart fails all other organs except the lungs become congested and it is not unusual to get fluid in the liver back genitalia and legs. very often the 2 are present together with all of the above and fluid in the pleural spaces and abdomen as well.
why would seroma develop after open heart surgery?
any incision may have some bleeding- -and a hematoma may develop. this can become a seroma over time as the blood is resorbed. or some lymphatic s are disrupted and fluid escapes into tissue. tissue juices and serum can remain in a wound as well. most are temporary. all are resolvable. see the surgeon.
why would seroma develop after open heart surgery?
a seroma is a collection of clear fluid that can develop after surgery but is most commonly seen following breast surgery and some types of plastic surgery. serum leaks into tissue causing swelling. it is different from a hematoma which is blood and contains red blood cells. i can't recall seeing this as a significant complication of open heart surgery except when fluid accumulates in the legs.
when should a heart flutter be a cause for concern?
it depends under what circumstances they occur and if you have a history of heart disease. start with a visit to your primary care md and then proceed on to a cardiologist if appropriate.
when should a heart flutter be a cause for concern?
atrial flutter predispose a patient to hev a strok therefore it is always a cause of concern.
why can pericardiocentesis be used to diagnose pericarditis?
the fluid identified on echo is aspirated( that is the pericardiocentesis) it is examined for blood infection cellular contents malignant cells tuberculosis bacteria fungus or other causative agents can be identified or grown in cultures.
why can pericardiocentesis be used to diagnose pericarditis?
the fluid which is removed will give information about the cause of the pericarial effusion. it may contain bacteria or give evidence for tb for instance. examination of the cells in the fluid could indicate a malignancy. so the fluid is examined to try and find the reason for the pericarditis. removing the fluid may also improve the function of the heart.
what is the significance of labile hypertension?
get and/or use a home bp cuff. get a good one and check it against your doctor's. be sure you've rested for 5-10 minutes before checking your bp. keep your arm at heart level. don't go looking for your bp cuff just before checking keep it on your lap (like when you watch tv). some fluctuation is normal. if the average is still high you need medication to keep the average under control.
what does heart pain feel like?
pressure [like someone sitting on your chest] when you are active moving fast exercising. pain moving to your left jaw and arm. but sometimes it's very different especially for women. you can feel nausea flu-like sweaty shortness of breath unusual tiredness for you.
what should i expect from having an angiogram done?
there will be some pressure at the arterial access site. several times during the test dye will be injected which can result in warm flushing and possibly nauses lasting perhaps 15 to 30 seconds. in some cases the heart briefly slows. you may be instructed to hold your breath at times or to cough. usually there really isn't much pain at all. after the test the main concern is arterial leakage.
what is the common reason for frequent chest pain?
muscle and bone pain common cause of chest pain next may be acid reflux.
what are the most common conditions that are treated by pericardiocentesis?
there are only 2 reasons to do pericardiocentesis: to relieve tamponade and to diagnose fluid by retrieving some for the lab. conditions that cause pericardial effusion are: trauma (e. g. blood) infection (e. g. tb or viral) malignancy (e. g. breast or lung cancer) thyroid deficiency uremia collagen vascular disease (e. g. lupus). this is not a complete list but covers the most common causes.
what are the most common conditions that are treated by pericardiocentesis?
pweicardiocentesis is utilized for removing fluid in the pericardial sac when the fluid is pressing on the heart and restricting flow. the fluid is analyzed to find the cause thus future treatment of the fluid.
what are activities to avoid for an aortic aneurysm?
anything that causes a sudden increase in heart rate and blood pressure is bad. but what kind of life will you have that will prevent you from physical mental and emotional influences? even while resting or sleeping aneurysm can break. since no one knows when rupture will occur repair of aneurysm is indicated depending upon size and location. please see a vascular surgeon.
what factors can affect cardiac output?
drugs volume of fluid in your body infection other illnesses etc. the list is extremely long.
when is synchronized cardioversion used?
mostly for flutter and atrial fibrillation.
when is synchronized cardioversion used?
atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter.
why does blood pressure fluctuate while someone is on blood pressure medicine?
it fluctuates in everyone; it has to to adjust to changes such as gravity. if it didn't you wouldn't be able to stand after lying down.
why does blood pressure fluctuate while someone is on blood pressure medicine?
blood pressure always swings but the body has some pretty clever ways of regulating that sort of thing. blood pressure meds work by blocking 1 or more of the mechanisms the body has of raising blood pressure so swings can be more pronounced.
what are the worst consequences of heart bypass?
the worst consequence of all would be death but others would include heart failure (a weak heart) infection (mediastinitis) pericardial effusion (fluid around the heart) stroke heart attack and others. fortunately in good hands these are pretty rare.
what should someone do if he or she feels their heart flutter and race?
everybody gets skipped beats but a run of flutter or racing especially if it takes your breath away is reason to get seen for a thyroid check ekg rhythm study and whatever else. usually these are mild nuisances easily managed but occasionally they warn of something dangerous. good luck.
what should someone do if he or she feels their heart flutter and race?
on severity & duration of symptoms. if fleeting probably just pacs or pvcs. in which case adequate hydration can be quite beneficial. if sustained may be an arrhythmia such as svt & evaluation required.
what are the interventions for congestive heart failure?
therapy for congestive heart failure can be divided into 3 categories: 1) medications which remove fluid (diuretics) making it easier for the heart pump (afterload reduction) or protect the heart (beta blocker) 2) devices such as biventricular pacemaker is which makes the heart work better and 3) surgery to repair structural heart problems such as a leaking valve or a blocked coronary.
why does my diastolic pressure drop sometimes when i work out?
one can lose a significant amount of body fluid during a workout. the result can be a reduction of blood pressure; it could be a fall of one or both the systolic and diastolic blood pressure.
what causes the heart to flutter?
the feeling of heart fluttering (palpitations) actually may not be related to the heart at all. palpitations that are related to the heart are usually due to aberrant electrical activity in the heart otherwise known as arrhythmias. there are multiple kinds of arrhythmias the more common ones are not life-threatening but need to be evaluated. a heart monitor (holter) is used for this purpose.
what causes the heart to flutter?
generally speaking the heart fluttering sensation is a response to heartbeats occurring at a rate or time when the body is not expecting them. there are a number of explanations for this ranging from isolated extra heartbeats (pacs or pvcs) to sustained rhythms we call supraventricular tachycardias. a cardiologist or electrophysiologist can help you better evaluate this complaint.
what can cause heart flutter with arm numbness?
the two are not necessarily related. heart flutter if you mean sensations of fluttering in the chest can be caused by an abnormal heart rhythm. but palpitatios can occur even if the rhythm is regular. numbness of an arm is commonly caused by pressure on a nerve which can occur in the neck elbow or wrist. occasionally arm numbness can occur with heart chest pain. also can occur with stroke.
what can cause heart flutter with arm numbness?
they are not necessarily connected. if they always happen together see your doctor to be evaluated.
what post-op care is recommended to patients of cardiac catheterization?
post cardiac cath. pts should rest and not lift greater than ten pounds or drive for 48 hrs. drink plenty of water to flush out the dye and keep an eye on the access site for pain or color change. after 48 hrs if no isues are noted patient can resume normal activities. meds such as glucophage or coumadin (warfarin) special instructions for restarting will be given. notify your dr if pain fever numbness etc.
what are some of the nursing interventions for hypotension?
basically they can give fluids and call md.
will dialysis help a patient with end-stage chf?
if concomitant kidney failure then dialysis will get rid of fluid overload symptoms.
will dialysis help a patient with end-stage chf?
multisystem organ failure is difficult with poor outcomes but dialysis can relieve fluid overload but if we're really talking about end stage chf prognosis is poor. . sorry.
will dialysis help a patient with end-stage chf?
it can help remove the excess fluid when diuretics no longer work but it doesn't change the prognosis or fix the underlying problem. it's used as a last resort for symptom relief and comfort.
what are the risks involved in congestive heart failure and pregnancy?
if a person is predisposed to congestive heart failure pregnancy can be tricky. blood volume is increased in pregnancy and this may not be tolerated by those with underlying heart disease. during labor fluid shifts can occur with placental bleeding iv meds/fluids etc. and close observation is warranted. some of the standard chf meds can harm the fetus and may need to be stopped.
why am i having chest pains? i'm a 27 year old female with no prior history of heart problems. but for the last three weeks i've had chest pains everyday sometimes the pain is sharp and sometimes it's more of a dull ache. sometimes the pain goes into my
chest pains can be related to your heart your digestion or your lungs. chest pain should be taken very seriously and it is crucial you see your health care provider. in your case where pain is radiating to your back and feels strange when you breathe could be related to fluid building up in your lungs. have you experienced bronchitis or other allergens that affect your respiratory status? another reason you may have a constant pain in you chest could be a stomach ulcer. note whether or not you have been coughing up blood or feeling a burning/warm sensation in your chest. is this pain relieved by antacid? lastly this pain could be cardiac related. cardiac related chest pain can radiate to your neck arms and back. the pain in your chest is a sign that your body is stressed or that there is tissue injury. see your health care provider as soon as possible to get this resolved.
what does it mean when i feel like i have butterflies in my heart? i cough a lot when it happens/ i can not sleep laying down i need to sit up or i can't breathe
being short of breath lying down is called orthopnea often associated with paroxysmal dyspnea - awakening in the night short of breath and having to sit up to catch your breath. cough can also be a sign of heart failure with buildup of fluid on the lungs. get in to see your doctor. a echocardiogram may be needed.
what is meant by pulmonary heart disease?
pulmonary heart disesase (also called cor pulmonale) is when pressure is high in the lungs causing the right heart to dilate and fail. pulmonary hypertension can occur in a variety of lung diseases or by itself. when the right heart enlarges it does not pump effectively and fluid builds up in the legs and abdomen (right heart failure). this is what is meant by pulmonary heart disease.
what are some common symptoms of advanced congestive heart failure?
shortness of breath at rest inability to stand up from bed and walk ( ny class iv) accumulation of fluid starting with the legs up to the whole body and lungs causing crackle sounds in the chest lowering of blood pressure tahycardia ( unless taking beta blockers)and worsening of the kidney function and sometimes even worsening of the liver function ( because the congestion).
what are some common symptoms of advanced congestive heart failure?
advanced heart failure symptoms include difficulty breathing (particularly if lying flat) and swelling (usually of the legs). the difficulty breathing and swelling are both related to fluid that "backs up" into the lungs and legs because the heart is not pumping blood effectively.
what herbs will lower cholesterol?
yeast/statins. cholesterol: fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) fundamental to survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
will dialysis help someone with end-stage chf?
i've seen it relieve symptoms of fluid overload in patients with end stage chf and kidney disease but it does not prolong life much and some patients think it reduces the quality of life too much.
what is the difference between serous fluid and pots?
perhaps you should rephrase your question? serous fluid is the protein rich fluid like lymph. pots are made of metal for cooking plastic or ceramic for plants.
what is the difference between serous fluid and pots?
serous fluid is normal clear yellowish body fluid that may weep out of an open or healing wound. pus is infected cloudy fluid with bacteria & white blood cells & can smell badly. don't know if that was your question though.
what is the difference between serous fluid and pots?
am not familiar with this acronym - only one i know for it is postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome which has nothing to do with serous fluid which is fluid that is a result of mild inflammation or allergy without infection. medically we refer to fluid as either serous or exudative with the latter meaning something more serious - infection cancer or severe inflammation.
what type of vegetables and fruits contains hdl cholesterol?
first cholesterol is essentially only found in animal products. next cholesterol is cholesterol. in each person your liver "decides" if your cholesterol gets packaged in to hdl's (good) or ldl's (bad) carriers. many things can influence the amount of hdl you have. the big 3 are genetics lifestyle (being overweight not exercising regularly) and high triglycerides (cause hdl to go down).
what is the rate of survival of heart cancer?
true "heart cancer" is extremely rare. most cancers involving the heart are other types of cancer that have spread. all the blood in the body flows through the heart. if the blood contains cancer cells those cells can get stuck inside the heart and grow. some types of cancer grow in the fluid around the heart (pericardium. ) usually once cancer involves the heart patients can't be cured.
why exactly is bp and temperature checked before and after performing hemodialysis?
blood pressure and temperature are checked because changes can be associated with infection. blood pressure also can drop related to fluid removal. especially in patients with a permcath temperature changes may be due to transiet blood stream infections.
what is the difference between pneumonia and pulmonary edema?
accumulation. pneumonia means you have an infection in your lungs. where as pulmonary edema reflects fluid accumulation in your lungs.
what is the difference between pneumonia and pulmonary edema?
pulmonary edema is fluid in the lung from any cause sometimes related to impaired heart function but also seen with a number of other causes of inflammation in the lung such as smoke inhalation trauma and severe infections including pneumonia. pneumonia is a lung infection. the two entities can coexist and may look similar on chest xray.
what does it mean to go into hypovolemic shock?
is an emergency condition in which severe blood and fluid loss make the heart unable to pump enough blood to the body this type of shock can cause many organs to stop working anxiety or agitation cool clammy skin confusion decreased or no urine output general weakness pale skin color rapid breathing sweating moist skin unconsciousness the greater and more rapid the blood loss the more severe is.
what are good tips for dvt prevention in over the road truckers?
as dr. milstone said making frequent stops is helpful. drink lots of fluid. this also helps to encourage frequent stops. don't smoke and if overweight shed some pounds.
why might someone faint when playing sport?
while playing sports a person could faint for several reasons. he could be overheated or maybe was not drinking enough fluids. in those two situations he will feel faint while standing or when quickly rising to a standing position. he could have a heart malformation or an abnormal heart rhythm. in these two situations the symptoms may occur more randomly. a cardiologist's evaluation is helpful.
what can my family member do to live a longer life with pulmonary hypertension?
pulmonary hypertension (ph) has a variety of causes and the life expectancy may depend on the cause. your relative should speak to their physician regarding specific therapies for ph. general recommendations may include ph medications diuretics salt and fluid restriction and oxygen if the blood oxygen levels are low. bottom line encourage your family member to work with their doctor.
what is the best treatment for a pulmonary edema if the person has renal failure?
the best treatment in the presence of renal failure may vary by patient. some patients respond to high dose diuretics and preload reduction many need dialysis or hemofiltration. when dialysis or hemofiltration isn't available and the situation demands one can even remove large volumes of fluid by inducing osmotic diarrhea.
what causes feet to swell?
gravity pulls "excess" fluids to the lowest point. excess fluid is caused by increased sodium intake low blood proteins inability to pump fluid forward and this is all made worse by keeping feet lower than heart.
why do i feel faint when i get up quickly when its hot?
when you get up quickly many times the blood in your feet take time to get to the heart. so you can feel faint for a bit until the blood goes to your heart and then your brain. add heat and it can be worse because you are probably dehydrated. so if this happens make sure you have enough fluid. if it is persistent see your doctor.
why does hydrochlorothiazide help treat hydroceles?
there is no reason to believe that hydrochlorothiazide helps treat hydroceles. if a patient has scrotal edeam due to fluid overload then a diuretic such as hydrochlorothiazide may help improve the condition by removing extra fluid from the patient.
why does hydrochlorothiazide help treat hydroceles?
hydrochlorthiazide is a diuretic & used to control tissue edema hypertension (can help to control & reduce elevated blood pressure) or control urinary calcium excretion in patients with hypercaluric metabolic stone disease. does not cause hydrocele fluid to be absorbed. subject needs to see a urologist if he has a hydrocele large enough to cause discomfort. ? needs scrotal sonogram to r/o tumor.
what are the indications that a heart is failing?
one of the must common symptoms of a heart failing is dyspnea but other symptoms like chest pressure fluid retention in the legs rapid weight gain abdominal girth are also common.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
in chf the heart cannot effectively pump blood from the lungs to the systemic circulation. so the fluid cannot move forward and it thus remains backed up in the lungs. the fluid stays in the lungs because the heart is unable to do its job of pumping that from the lungs to the rest of the body.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
when a pump like the heart is failing fluid backs up behind it. in the body that's where the lungs are. fluid cannot go through the heart fast enough and so blood accumulates in the lungs causing them to be congested with too much fluid. air spaces have fluid in them instead of air making the performance of the lungs impaired.
why does fluid build up around the lungs in congestive heart failure (chf)?
the heart is actually 2 pumps. the right side pumps blood to the lungs. this is generally low pressure system so unless there are other reasons the right ventricle tends to function pretty effectively. the left side is the workhorse pump. the left ventricle is a muscle that can pump a large amount of resistance. when it fails the blood backs up into the lungs because the two pumps are in series.
what are the most common complications of shunt placement in adults?
infection draining too much fluid bleeding in brain are rare but possible complications. there are a few others that are extraordinarily rare as well.
what are the most common complications of shunt placement in adults?
aside from shunt infection mechanical shunt malfunction the most serious complication occurs when there is overdrainage of spinal fluid by the shunt. there is brain shrinkage which causes small veins to break and bleed. subdural hematomas can occur which may need surgery for evacuate or drain the clot.
what is the care of a patient on dobutamine for chf?
salt and fluid restriction is the mainstay to help a patient with chf on dobutamine drip whether outpatient or inpatient. in the hospitalized patient close monitoring of blood pressure and rhythm are required.
what are reasons for possible abnormal results of a pericardiocentesis?
pericardiocentesis is a technique where a sample of pericardial fluid is removed from the sack around the heart. the fluid can be abnormal if its an infection with bacteria or fungi. cultures would be performed to asses this. if the examination of the cells are abnormal cancer may be the cause. other causes of autoimmune diseases can be found as well.
what happens in the body with congestive heart failure?
heart failure occurs with pump failure for whatevere reason. when the heart fails to pump enough blood out on the left side it is systolic dysfunction and the ejection fraction is less than 40%. when the heart muscle is stiff they call this diastolic dysfunction because it does not fill properly. with pump failure oncotic pressue increases in the vascular system forcing fluid out- lung/feet.
what is the function of pericardium?
we probably don't realize the complete function of pericardium but among others -- we know that pericardium plays a major role in the hemodynamics of the organs -- in this case the heart and the lungs the fluid exchange and the intrathoracic pressure regulation pertaining to that internal organs -- ad mechanical protection to the heart against trauma infection and metastasis --.
what is a visceral pericardium?
the visceral pericardium is a very thin membrane attached to the surface of the heart. the parietal pericardium is a thicker tougher membrane that also surrounds the heart. when we refer to "the pericardium" we are mostly referring to the parietal pericardium. a very small amount of fluid usually exists in between these two layers. when the amount of fluid is called a pericardial effusion.
what is a visceral pericardium?
the pericardium is the tough fibrous sac that encloses the heart. it is made up of 2 layers: the outer layer is called the parietal pericardium and the inner layer which is in contact with the outer heart muscle is the visceral pericardium. under normal circumstances there is no space between these 2 layers just a "potential" space. fluid can separate the layers in certain diseases.
what is fluid of the pericardium?
there is normally a tiny amount of fluid there but if it increases it can compress the heart and cause problems. finding the reason for the fluid such as bacterial infection tb tumor or certain inflammatory disease is necessary to determine the treatment and the prognosis.
what is fluid of the pericardium?
in health there is scanty lubricating fluid between the 2 layers (visceral and parietal) of the pericardium. when the pericardium becomes inflamed (pericarditis) more fluid is made (think of the weeping that occurs in a burn) and the pericardium may fill witih fluid (pericardial effusion) and eventually interfere with cardiac filling (cardiac tamponade) which is a life threatening emergency.
what are the risks for not having pericardiocentesis for pleural effusion?
the main risk is if infection is present in the space between the lung and the chest wall (pleural effusion) or the heart and the lining of the heart (pericardial effusion). if the patient is having fever chills or night sweats the fluid should be drained to exclude active disease/infection.
what are the risks for not having pericardiocentesis for pleural effusion?
thoracentesis is the aspiration of pleural effusion pericardiocentesis is for pericardial fluid. either way if there is abnormal fluid collection making the diagnosis is very important and in general the risks are lower than not doing it. infection heart failure cancer are possibles.
what are normal results for pericardiocentesis?
in the first place it is not normal to have a build up of fluid around the heart. when the fluid is removed it would be abnormal to have bacteria growing in the fluid. there may be also abnormal cells in the fluid indicating infection inflammation or tumor. the fluid should normally be clear and straw colored.
which diseases are related to chest pain?
cp causes: heart attack pulmonary embolism aneurysm pericarditis costochondritis gall bladder disease esophageal spasm esophagitis acid reflux pneumonia pleurisy tumors etc.
what is the significance of stenosis of the mitral valve?
mild stenosis may casue no problems. severe stenosis causes the pressure to increase in the left atrium the lungs and eventually the right side of the heart. the left atrium enlarges in response to the higher pressure and the likelihood of atrial arrhythmias increases. fluid can accumulate in the lungs causing shortness of breath and exercise intolerance.
where in the body is a pericardiocentesis conducted?
just below the bottom of the sternum a needle is inserted and aimed at the right shoulder. then it is slowly advanced until fluid can be withdrawn.
where in the body is a pericardiocentesis conducted?
peri=around; cardio=the heart; centesis =puncture this is a procedure where a needle is introduced in to the chest wall between the heart and its protective envelope to take out fluid.
what is and what causes cardiac tamponade?
the pericardium is a "skin" surrounding the heart. it is usually empty though can fill with fluid -from heart failure autoimmune dz cancer or infection- or blood from trauma. when the fluid builds up enough pressure to prevent the heart from expanding to fill with blood tamponade results. this is life-threatening and requires immediate drainage to prevent cardiovascular collapse.
what is and what causes cardiac tamponade?
the heart is surrounded by an envelope called the pericardial sac. when fluid develops in the sac it can build up pressure resulting in what's called a cardiac tamponade. the heart being a pump cannot effectively perform its function against this pressure unless the fluid is removed.
what does chf stand for?
congestive heart failure meaning fluid congestion in various organs such as lungs liver gut and limbs due to inadequate heart function.
why is there often hypertension in pregnancy?
during pregnancy there are great increases in the the volume of blood and other fluids in the body along with the increased weight. dilitation of the blood vessels at least in part due to the tremendous surge in hormones allows the body to accomodate this increased volume without an increased pressure. in some woman this dilitation is not enough vasoconstiction occurs and pressure rises.
what factors does the final result of a cardiac rehabilitation program depend on?
important patient factors in determining success of cardiac rehab are motivation to make healthy lifestyle changes and compliance with advice from medical professionals. psychological factors e. g. depression and anxiety are critical factors that influence this. having a personable and invested therapist who takes an interest in you as an individual is paramount as well.
what are causes of a heart flutter?
the heart can flutter with premature ventricular contractions ( pvc) premature atrial contractions (pac ) atrial fibrillatrion etc. fluttering also known as palpitations is basically a symptom and further work up is needed.
what are causes of a heart flutter?
hypertension heart attacks cardiomyopathy with chf mitral valve disease hypertrophic cardiac disease hyperthyroidism pulmonary embolus severe copd/emphysema with pulmonary hypertension cocaine and amphetamine addiction alcoholism anorexia congenital heart disease like wpw.
what does pericardiocentesis show?
the pericardium is the sac around the heart. it has a small amount of normal clear fluid. if there is more fluid then one needs to find the cause. blood heart failure renal failure pus can be identified with the "centesis" is drawing the sample of fluid.
what does pericardiocentesis show?
the fluid which has built up around the heart is removed. examining the appearance grossly and under the microscope of that fluid and culturing it will lead to diagnosing why it formed in the first place. it could show infection tumor cells inflammation or point to a hypoactive thyroid as the reason for the fluid collection.
what heart disease can someone get?
the most common heart diseases are atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries and hypertrophy or thickening of the heart muscle leading to stiffness and abnormal muscle function. at their worst these both can lead to congestive heart failure or the inability of the heart to pumps the blood adequately with a resulting pressure buildup causing fluid to leak back into the lungs.
what does a echocardiogram show?
the heart muscle the valves arteries such as the aorta the four chambers of the heart fluid around the heart if present how hard the heart is contracting whether it is too weak or too thick.
what occurs during a pericardiocentesis?
typically an imaging modality commonly echocardiography is used to image the heart and the pericardial space. after local anesthesia is given a long needle is inserted under the guidance of the echo to the pericardial space and the fluid will be withdrawn with a syringe. typically a plastic tube will then be inserted and left in place to drain into a bag for a few days.
why do people die from heart failure?
with reduced cardiac function the lungs fill with fluid filling the air spaces and impairing gas exchange (backward failure). in some cases of heart failure the blood pressure can't be supported resulting in shock and poor perfusion of vital tissues (forward failure). often both processes are present simulataneously at the end.
what is a nursing diagnosis for chf?
although this could be caused by other diseases chf is the first thing that should come to your mind if you have a patient with increasing leg edema and shortness of breath and crackles in the lungs with congested neck veins. these patients need prompt medical attention including diuresis salt and fluid restriction and work up for the reason for the development of chf.
what causes hypotension?
lack of blood (bleeding) lack of fluid (dehydration) dilated blood vessels (drugs toxins venom poisons sepsis and certain nervous system disorders) or poor pumping (for example a heart attack).
what is the nursing care for abdominal aortic aneurysm?
the most critical part of nursing after a aaa repair is the immediate post-operative period- especially if the repair is done in an open fashion. there are dramatic fluid shifts that occur and close monitoring of acid-base status blood pressure blood counts and breathing are critical. once the breathing tube is out and the patients starts to eat the focus becomes pain control and slow rehab.
which medicines control blood pressure?
there are many different types of medications to control blood pressure. diuretics decrease sodium and fluid retention. beta blockers decrease the force of heart contractions. vasodilators relax blood vessel tension. ace inhibitors block chemicals that raise bp. alpha blockers adjust blood vessel tone. many patients need more than one drug to achieve ideal control. combination pills are available.
what are side effects of rogaine/minoxodil?
if you are taking it for alopecia the most common side effect is hypotension or low blood pressure especially when changing position (i. e. sitting to standing). it is also associated with ankle edema (swelling) due to fluid retention. some people may experience tachycardia (rapid heart beat or palpitations).
what happens if i have low blood pressure?
blood pressure is a number and there is no absolute "normal. " many young people especially females can be perfectly healthy with a systolic bp of 80-100. if you are completely asymptomatic there is no cause for concern. if you feel dizzy as a result it is important to maintain oral hydration especially with electrolyte-rich fluids. gatorade and coconut water (contains lots of potassium) help.
why would a heart flutter sometimes like it got off beat?
many times the heart skips or beats irregularly in people who are otherwise normal. so most of the time we don't know. there are certain types of heart rhythm problems which are associated with actual abnormalities and disease in the heart. examples are thyroid problems anemia heart muschle problems and valve problems.
why would a heart flutter sometimes like it got off beat?
premature beats is most common & benign cause or other less benign arrhythmias.
what are the medications for chest pain?
medications for cp depends on the cause. for example: costochondritis-- antiinflammatories acid reflux-antacids pneumonia/ pleurisy-antibiotics heart attack/ coronary artery disease- nitroglycerine morphine.
what is the effect of albumin on blood pressure?
albumin is protein the blood and is very important in controlling fluid shifts in the body. it helps maintain fluid within the vessel and prevents it from seeping into the tissue and causing swelling. if the albumin is low the volume of fluid inside the blood vessel is usually low causing low blood pressure even though the patient maybe swollen with excess fluid in the tissues outside the vessels.
what are symptoms of hypertension?
usually there are no symptoms. every person's body reacts to elevated blood pressure differently. you can feel generalized weakness and fatigue dizziness or vague fuzzy-headedness headache blurry vision and flushing. people commonly feel vague chest pressure or discomfort as well which most often does not indicate any heart damage or dysfunction.
why could my systolic pressure change but not my diastolic pressure?
but your systolic blood pressure can vary more based on your activity stress and the volume of fluid in your vessels.
what can i eat if i have low blood pressure?
salt and increased fluid intake are recommended to healthy patient with normal heart function and no evidence of hormonal imbalance to help with low blood pressure 20-30 mmhg compression stockings are also helpful in certain situations.
what is a partial pericardium?
you must have a typo and be asking about the parietal pericardium. it is an incomplete envelope the wraps around the heart: a thin membrane lining the closed cavities of the body; it has two layers with a space between that is filled with serous fluid.
what are some recommendations for food allowed on water restriction diets for chf patients?
salt restriction is more important than fluid restriction in most patients. fluid restriction might be appropriate in a patient with low sodium. salt restriction is important in all patients with congestive heart failure. a typical recommendation would be 2000 milligrams of sodium daily.
why do people with cardiac tamponade get very short of breath?
the fluid around the heart compresses the heart so that it cannot fill properly. therefore the output of blood decreases so that less blood is pumped to the lungs and less to the resto fo the body. thre is just not enough space ofr the heart to function normally and that will make you short of breath. also whatever caused the effusion may also affect the lungs such as lung cancer.
why do people with cardiac tamponade get very short of breath?
tamponade is by definition a constriction of the heart. the heart can not pump normally. since bloodflow is decreased so is the amount amount of oxygen delievered. additonally blood pressure in the lungs accumulates since it is upstream from the problem causing the lungs to engorge with fluid leading to increased lung stiffness and difficulty beathing.
why could the heart flutter at night?
palpitations or fluttering sensations in the chest most commonly mean that the heart is actually beating irregular with some early beats and some pauses. this can occur at any time of day but not uncommonly the patient is more likely to notice the sensations at night when lying still or on the left side. also in some cases the skipping is more likely to occur when the pulse is slower(lying down).
why could the heart flutter at night?
the likely reason that your heart flutters at night is that as you are falling asleep you are most aware of your heartbeat so you feel it more. there is little noise or sounds to distract you.
why could the heart flutter at night?
this could be secondary to being aware of heart beating because it is quiet or due to extra heart beats which are for the most part benign. other causes include fast regular and fast irregular heart rhythms your doctor and a holter monitor can help with the correct diagnosis.
what happens during heart failure?
because the heart is weakened it cannot pump the blood forward normally. this produces symptoms such as fatigue. also the pressure rises within the heart resulting in a build up of fluid in the lungs and eventually involving the right side of the heart so that there is leg swelling. the body responds to the low output by releasing certain hormones which worsen the swelling. it is complex.
what happens during heart failure?
heart failure means the heart is not pumping adequate output to satisfy the bodies needs. usually this results in fluid retention fatigue edema and shortness of breath. there is a form called diastolic failure in which the heart pumps adequately but to do this requires high intracranial pressures and fluid retention.
what are the structures in the pericardium?
the pericardium is a 'sack' around the heart. technically the pericardium has 2 layers. the visceral layer that lies against the heart and the parietal layer that is on the out side of the heart. there is a small amt of fluid in between. this protects the heart and acts as a physical barrier. also acts as a buffer for the heart and insulates it. it can become inflamed and is called pericarditis.
what are the structures in the pericardium?
the pericardium is made out of two layers the parietal and visceral. between the pericardial layers there is a potential space called the pericardial cavity. it is normally lubricated by a film of pericardial fluid.
what is the cause of hypotension in surgery?
surgical hypotension may be from fluid or blood loss anesthetic effect on vasculature or from obstruction of venous return. other less common causes also exist.
what are signs and symptoms of chf?
symptoms: breathlessness especially with exertion or lying down awakening short of breath easy fatigability weight gain swelling. signs:elevated jugular venous pressure sinus tachycardia or atrial fibrillation an s3 gallop dullness and decreased breath sounds at the right base rales hepato-jugular reflux shifting dullness (late) peripheral edema.
what are the effects of pulmonary hypertension?
phtn is a progressive disease that affects the blood vessels of the lungs causing them to become narrow. over time the right side of the heart starts failing causing dyspnea fatigue edema fluid retention passing out spells and can even cause death. if you or a relative has this disease you should be seen by a phtn specialist.
what influences cardiac output?
cardiac output is the product of heart rate in stroke volume. thus an increase in heart rate results in an increase in cardiac output. stroke volume can be affected by changes in preload afterload and contractility (strength of contraction). preload is "priming the pump". afterload is the resistance to ejection during systole (contraction).
what influences cardiac output?
stroke volume times heart rate equals cardiac output. stroke volume relates to myocardial contractility vascular resistance vascular volume anemia and metabolic state. there are subcomponents to all of these.
why does my heart flutter after i had a triple bypass?
it may feel like fluttering since heart sac disrupted. it may really have flutter or atrial fibrillation or pvcs or other arrhythmias after heart surgery. about 1/3 of patients do and most get over it by 6 week followup.
why does my heart flutter after i had a triple bypass?
bypass ptshave a irritable heart after surgery this can cause irreg heart rythm called atrial flutter or atrial fib. this is usually transient but can be permanant.
what should i do if a patient has chest pain?
chest pain can be due to- heart attacks aneurysm pericarditis pleurisy pneumonia acid reflux 'gas' esophagitis pulmonary embolism gall bladder disease costochondritis rib fractures cancers etc. get evaluated.
why does the heart flutter at rest only?
i read your question as "i only feel my heart flutter at rest". there are many causes of what you may be feeling but most likely these are benign "skipped beats" most people have them some people feel them and then only at certain times. classic is rest coming home after a busy day and sitting down or lying down in bed. discuss with your doctor <positive_smiley>.
why does the heart flutter at rest only?
when you are up and active the heart is beating more rapidly and there is less time between beats for funny events to occur. secondarily there is less awareness and more distraction when you are up and moving.
what are treatments for heart failure?
then diuresis i. e. water pills by mouth or iv then some medicines may help like ace inhibitors or arbs or iv drips like dobutamine melrinone or nesiritide in severe cases. in severe selected cases heart transplant may be an option. note if no fluid overload happens using salt & fluid restriction the overwhelming majority of these patients will stay away from hospital and it's complications.
what is the benefits of having the heart enclosed in a sac that has pericardium?
the pericardium isolates the heart from surrounding organs prevents the heart from over expanding when blood volume increases limits heart motion and keeps a small amount of fluid around the heart that severs as a lubricant which reduces friction with surrounding tissue as the heart beats.
what are the consequences of congestive heart failure?
fluid accumulation shortness of breath pulmonary edema arrythmia cardiomypathy sudden death.
what is the progress or timeline for a heart failure?
the majority is related to coronary disease (angina or heart attack) the degree of coronary disease determine progress of failure of the heart. but salt and fluid restriction goes long ways in keeping heart failure compensated (controlled) and that has a good effect on progress of disease.
what are treatments for congestive heart failure?
the categories of medicines used are called ace inhibitors arb's beta blockers diuretics and digoxin. other things can be done such as salt and/or fluid restriction. control of the underlying cause of the heart failure also needs to be considered. that might require repairing a valve removing a blockage in an artery or treating high blood pressure.
what are treatments for congestive heart failure?
1 improve heart function with medications such as beta blockers acei/ arb aldactone (spironolactone) good blood pressure and diabetes control correct valve problems blockages&arrhythmia 2. remove excess fluid or prevent accumulation by salt restriction and diuretics 3. improve the efficiency of the skeletal muscles as by exercise program 4. improve the capacity of blood to carry oxygen by treating anemia.
what is the epidemiology of atherosclerosis?
coronary artery disease is largely a disease of western civilization. as countries become more affluent they exercise less consume a diet with higher fat content and gain weight. the prevalence of diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease increases. thus coronary disease will become more frequent emerging countries such as india and china.
what is the surgical procedure to fix a heart flutter?
ablation is a technique performed in in electrophysiology laboratory where the electrical behavior of the heart is mechanically altered. although this is an invasive procedure it is not technically surgery. early in the history of ablation surgical ablation was performed. now that the percutaneous techniques have been refined surgery is rarely performed for atrial flutter.
what is the surgical procedure to fix a heart flutter?
catheter direvted ablation is very successful surgery is invasive as well as open procedure usually dpne during sx procedure.
what is the job of pericardium?
there'ss no definite agreed-upon function. it generally is a passive structure two wisps of tissue wrapped around the outside of the heart with a tiny amount of fluid separating them. its role is usually just to be there passively stretching as the heart expands so that it doesn't meet resistance. when pericardium stiffens of fills up with fluid it can restrict this normal expansion.
what is used to treat congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure is treated by altering the environment in which the heart works and altering the function of the heart itself. changing the environment can include lowering blood pressure removing fluid from the body or fixing a hyperactive thyroid. fixing the heart itself can include controlling an arrhythmia fixing a valve or opening up a coronary artery.
what are the post op suggestions for pulmonary valve stenosis repair in infants?
of course after a pulmonary valve replacement or repair your child is going to be in the cardiac icu for a period of time and on the floor. there's going to be ample time to get advice on what to do. make sure they get the flu shot and more than likely your child is going to need antibiotics before dental cleanings and certain medical procedures. make sure they always get that taken care of.
what can i do to prevent low blood pressure?
you can increase the fluids and salt in your diet wear support hose and pay attention when you are standing up to do it slowly.
when is pericardiocentesis performed?
the surgeon or cardiologist may do this with local or additional anesthesia depending on the issue. fluoroscopy ultrasound or ct can be used to help guide the needle and / or/ catheter introduction through the skin soft tissue pericardium to get to the fluid or blood identified on the original test-echo. the goal is to relieve tamponade and make a diagnosis.
when is pericardiocentesis performed?
if the sac surrounding the hear tills with fluid it is sometimes drained off by placing a needle into that sac. there are two reasons to do a pericardiocentesis. (putting a needle into the sac and removing the fluid. 1. to examine the fluid so that the reason for the fluid being there can be found 2. to improve the patients symptoms. (the fluid compresses the heart causing symptoms).
what is the etiology of chest pain?
sometimes it's due to muscular pull or strain. can also be due to a cracked or bruised rib. digestive causes include gerd (acid reflux) & motility problems with the esophagus. lymphomas and solid cancers of the lung (primary or metastases) heart stomach or spine can cause chest pain too.
what is the etiology of chest pain?
common cardiac causes include ischemia (blockage of a coronary artery causing starvation of a piece of the heart) vasospasm of the coronary arteries (quivering) pericarditis (inflammation of the outer sac of the heart) heart failure (decreased pump efficiency). pulmonary causes include pneumonia or bronchitis embolism (clot usu. blood) asthma or copd fluid build-up and others.
what is the tpn energy ratio for chf patients?
energy ratio is an imprecise term. maybe you mean the energy/nitrogen ( or protein) ratio. as an estimate most patients need about 25 kcal/kg body wt /day and about 1-2 grams /kg /protein/ day. these numbers are estimates and vary based on how "stressed" a patient is. for example after surgery some patients need more calories. so the exact ratio varies. chf affects fluid needs > calorie needs.
what can be used for low blood pressure?
depends on the cause of your low bp. dehydration? blood loss? diabetes? medications? check with your doctor but if you are symptomatic and all major problems are ruled out then increasing salt intake or taking a steroid that increases salt and water retention like fludricortisone (florinef) can help just don't stop taking it abruptly! and take it under doctor supervision w/ a prescription!
what are treatments to aid postural hypotension?
this can be due to meds nervous system disease heart disease dehydration aging or other. treatment for each of these can be different. postural hypotension occuring after eating can be avoided by eating small meals low in carbohydrates. for all causes stand up slowly rather than quickly to allow the body to adjust. fludrocortisone can be used in some cases. please check with your doctor.
why could someone's heart flutter when he or she lays down?
change in position affects the brain regulation of heart rate. it also may cause stretching of certain chambers. these can result in premature beats or other arrhythmias. those same arrhythmias may be more easy to feel and notice when lying as opposed to walking around.
why could someone's heart flutter when he or she lays down?
can be due to irregular heart beats.
what are some congestive heart failure symptoms?
1. shortness of breath with activity 2. lower extremity edema / fluid retention 3. weight gain secondary to #2 4. sleeping on several pillows or upright due to shortness of breath laying flat 5. waking up in the middle of the night due to shortness of breath. 6. fatigue with exertional activity.
what are some congestive heart failure symptoms?
heart failure often leads to excessive fluid in the system causing shortness of breath swelling or increased abdominal girth. also patients may feel more short of breath lying down or wake up at night gasping for breath. people may also feel fatigued washed out lightheaded or without appetite.
what is the survival of someone with pancreatitis who develops ards?
on the cause of the pancreatitis and the severity. there are predictive models that give you an idea of the expected mortality. ards per se is not factored in oxygenation is. other parameters include fluid requirement degree of anemia liver enzyme changes. etc. the mortality can be as high as 90% or as low as 10%.
why could your heart flutter when you wake up?
from premature beats.
what are the precautions taken with pericardiocentesis?
pericardiocentesis is done in a cardiac catheterization laboratory under sterile conditions with high-quality x-ray equipment. before performing the procedure the cardiac ultrasound will indicate whether the fluid collection is accessible to the cardiologist by way of a catheter. telemetry is monitored and contrast is periodically injected to assure that the heart is not perforated.
what procedure is involved in cardiac catheterization?
where contrast is injected into coronary arteries for visualization under fluoroscopy.
what are treatment options for orthostatic hypotension in an elderly male?
medications such as midodrine or fludrocortisone may be utilized. they require special care in patients with hypertension. support stocking kown as ted hose may be worn when out of bed. patients should be cautious with positional changes.
what is a heart cathertor proceedure may need stints
heart catheterization is the insertion of a catheter in to the vessels of the heart. it is performed to visualize the the vessels diagnose blockages (artherosclerosis) and implement intervention (baloon angioplasty or stents) if needed. traditionally physicians will access the vessels of the heart throught the groin via the femoral artery. once the vessels of the heart are reached the vessels can be visualized by injecting contrast which allows the vessels to be visualized under xray fluoroscopy. the indications for heart catheterization include investigation of chest pain and shortness of breath (or other symptoms of cardiac insufficiency) to confirm the presence of an ailment and to determine the extent of cardiac disease.
what is the treatment for a heat stroke dr. gave me mag oxide and potassium. should he have done a blood before giving the meds? i meant blood panel
treatment for a heat stroke include cooling the body to normal tempurature by either immersing the person in cool water or applying ice packs to the skin. also dehydration is one of the clinical manifestations of heat stroke. it is importnant to hydrate the patient with iv fluids and replace fluids. the hydration fluids may have been given intravenously and contained the electrolytes you mentioned (magnesium and potassium). if dehydration was suspected by the physician it is because you were experiencing physical signs of dehydration such as hot skin rapid breathing and heart rate and poor skin turgor. it is not always necessary to do a blood test to detemine a need for hydration and need for electrolyte replacement. however if you have questions about your medical treatment call the hospital or risk mamagement department in the hospital to help facilitate medical record review.
when i have an alcohol beverage my heart beats a lot faster is this a serious issue?
your may have an allergy to alcohol this could be genetic your body does not metabolize the alcohol normally. do you also get flushed? many people who drink too much will notice their heart beating faster when they withdrawal or have a hangover. some ethnicitys such as asians have a higher incidence of an intolerence to alcohol.
what can sweaty palms salt cravings headaches tiredness chest pains flu-like symptoms indicate?
lot depends on hx of these symptoms (history leads to over 95% of the diagnoses most of the time testing adds little or confirms the dx of an experienced clinician taking time to listen. within these parentheses lies the answer to a failed health system at double the cost). here the answer is in the hx. is it acute recurrent chronic etc. diangosis is in doc's brain add compassion give all a good 'gp'.
what can sweaty palms salt cravings headaches tiredness chest pains flu-like symptoms indicate?
you are most likely having a panic or anxiety attack. alternatively you could be having flu too. try to relax take a few deep breaths. if you are not able to call your pcp for guidance.
what cold medicines are good and don't affect blood pressure?
as long as you are not allergic the following are good for most people: discomfort/fever: tylenol (acetaminophen) congestion: mucinex (plain) nasal saline vicks vapor rub drinking lots of fluids runny nose/sneezing: claritin allegra benadryl cough: robitussin dm mucinex dm delsym you can often find combo products with the active ingredients of the above if necessary.
what do i do if i get light headed a lot?
some people become lightheaded when changing to standing from a sitting or laying position. move so slowly to let your body adjust to blood moving away from your head. drinking plenty of fluids and maintaining a well balanced diet are helpful in preventing lightheaded feelings. if you are still noticing these episodes see your doctor to have the problem investigated further.
what causes a salty taste in the mouth? this started about 3 weeks ago. i am hypertensive and take generic medications for all my prescriptions except one. i take aldactone tabs hydrodiuril tabs cardura tabs . norvasc tabs tenormin tabs and tekturna t
many possible causes: dehydration. review your diet. excessive intake of alcohol or caffeine can cause fluid loss resulting in dehydration which can make saliva saltier. side effect of certain medications such as anti-thyroid medications and chemotherapy drugs. salivary gland diseases such as sjogren's syndrome or bacterial infections or post nasal drainage.
what is fluid around the heart? what can a valve complication be? is the fluid and valve problem life-threatening? my dad has fluid around his heart and there's a problem in one of his valves (not working properly). he won't tell the family exactly what t
valve problems often cause congestive heart failure and fluid collectin in and around lungs. an echocardiogram will ususlly provide the answer. fluid around the heart heart can produce excessive pressure on the heart and can have serious consequences. again an echocardiogram will diagnose the problem.
what is fluid around the heart? what can a valve complication be? is the fluid and valve problem life-threatening? my dad has fluid around his heart and there's a problem in one of his valves (not working properly). he won't tell the family exactly what t
valve problems often cause congestive heart failure and fluid collection in and around lungs. an echocardiogram will usuaslly provide the answer. fluid around the heart heart can produce excessive pressure on the heart and can have serious consequences. again an echocardiogram will diagnose the problem.
when i feel my baby flutter around i get nauseous is that normal? it happens all the time
if you are referring to symptoms while being pregnant then yes this is a common complaint. movement of the fetus does make some expectant mothers nauseated.
when i feel my baby flutter around i get nauseous is that normal? it happens all the time
yes. nausea is a very normal and common symptom of pregnancy. as your pregnancy grows the uterus can press against your stomach and intestines and cause generalized gastrointestinal discomfort which can manifest as nausea. this can be especially pronounced when your baby's moving around.
why does my child have heart pain?
most children have "heart" pain from something other than his/her heart. bones can hurt there can be reflux or even breathing problems. but complaints of heart pain need to be taken seriously as some very rare but often deadly heart conditions can cause pain in a child. please discuss your specific case with a physician to determine the best course of action.
what is a safe male enhancement pill? alot of the ones i tried gave me an increase in blood pressure or i felt nothing what's the safest that works
the medications at present for erectile dysfunction include viagra levitra (vardenafil) and cialis. they do work but as expected can also have side effects such as flushing stuffy nose back pain elevated bp. in general the side effects are mild and uncommon. you would have to discuss this with your physician and get a prescription from him for these. they do work well.
what can i do if my doctor says i have borderline pulmonary hypertension. what can i do to avoid getting it?
modifiable pulmonary hypertension (ph) risk include avoidance of stimulant medications such as fenfluramine and treatment of co-existing lung and heart disease sleep apnea and thyroid disorders.
what would keep a pulse ox low on a hospital patient with emphysema who is on all the necessary meds.?
sometimes despite all the right treatments the lungs of a patient with emphysema just can't deliver the necessary oxygen and needs help with extra oxygen. also if a patient with emphysema gets pneumonia or heart failure or fluid in the lungs this will also cause the oxygen to go low. further it is quite common for oxygen levels to go down when pts with emphysema sleep.
will it be advisable for her to take 20mg lasik. i know a family member she is holding so much fluid in her body and is so badly swollen that she has a real seepage problem in her hands and feet she is short of breath which indicates she has fluid in he
hello you might have entered your question by mistake into ophthalmology forum instead of cardiology or internal medicine forum. lasik in eye doctor terms is a laser vision correction procedure. lasix or furosemide is a diuretic that removes excess of water from a body. your relative would need to see a doctor to get a prescription and you might be right about lasix but she may need more than one med to help her condition. finding out the reason why your relative is resisting getting medical help may help you persuade her to see a doc. hope it helps! best wishes irina ganelis m. d. los angeles eye institute <link>
will it be advisable for her to take 20mg lasik. i know a family member she is holding so much fluid in her body and is so badly swollen that she has a real seepage problem in her hands and feet she is short of breath which indicates she has fluid in he
20 mg is a reasonable dose of lasix (furosemide) but you should discuss this with your doctor.
will it be advisable for her to take 20mg lasik. i know a family member she is holding so much fluid in her body and is so badly swollen that she has a real seepage problem in her hands and feet she is short of breath which indicates she has fluid in he
lasik is a surgical procedure to correct the vision. lasix (furosemide) is a medication to lower the blood pressure by removing excess fluid in your body. you must be talking about lasix (furosemide). if your family member is short of breath this can be medical emergency. she should be seen by her internist asap.
what could cause you to have body aches/headaches fever bright red to rusty color sputum sleepy not wanting to eat or drink? i am a 33 year old female with 3 children. my mother passed last year from a massive stroke. the majority of my family are diab
the most worrisome symptom here is bright red to rusty colored sputum. things such as tuberculosis influenza (flu) brochitis and pneumonia are all possibilities. you should be evaluted by your doctor right away. if not an urgent care or emergency room visit is in order. lastly all the family history you mentioned is important information to pass onto your doctor so appropriate screening tests can be done. good luck.
what can cause pain in the lower right side of abdomen? i recently been having pain in my lower right side of abdomen and now i feel the pain in my whole entire stomach abdomen area. and experiencing chest pains and occasional weakness in the left arm mos
most people think their whole abdomen is their stomach but the stomach is in the upper middle or upper left of the abdomen. if your lower abdomen hurts that could be your skin muscles bladder uterus or intestines. if the upper part of your abdomen hurts it could be acid reflux pancreatitis or other problems. see a doctor for an assessment.
will patients with congestive heart failure die within 5 years?
with good healthcare and good lifestyle choices (limit salt weight loss no smoking etc) people can live long lives even with a history of chf. there are excellent medications to help the heart beat more efficiently decrease fluid and help people feel much better.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is in many ways a generic term - it is more of a symptom than a diagnosis. someone suffering with chf typically has shortness of breath fatigue and fluid build up in the lung tissue. the root cause of chf will determine the prognosis. some causes of chf include inherited muscle diseases (cardiomyopathy) coronary artery disease (heart attacks) kidney faliure etc.
what is the longest you know someone who has survived with congestive heart failure?
i personally have many patients who have survived for many years with congestive failure. however this disease is very serious and must be treated and monitored very frequently. diet fluid and weight management and proper lifestyle make a huge difference for patients with this diagnosis.
what symptoms would someone with very low ejection fracture number(12%) show? possible they can seem healthy & do normal activities until heart fails?
people with a 12% ejection fraction (ef) are considered to be in severe heart failure. the symptoms of heart failure are shortness of breath fatigue swelling of the lower extremities fluid build up in the abdomen (ascitis) chest discomfort occasionally cough weight gain due to fluid retention decreased urinary output intolerance of physical activity etc.
why im so dizzy?
look my previous answers. check all medicines. make sure your circulation of vertebral and carotid arteries is ok. if you have issues with your ears is most likely related to that (neuronitis o laberintitis or benign positional vertigo or menieres disease). get good hydration drinking fluids unless contraindicated. do not expose to the sun. make sure heart is ok. there are many dizzyness w/o cure.
what causes fullness feeling in throat and shortness of breath?
if this occurs with eating this may be a symptom of reflux and esophageal spasms. it would help to know when your symptoms occur.
what does the fluttering in my lower abdomen mean?
my first thought is to check a pregnancy test.
why do i get chest pain(like if it was my heart that hurts) when i take a deep breaths?
cp can be due to heart attacks pleurisy aneurysm pulmonary embolism acid reflux esophagitis costochondritis rib fractures gall bladder disease etc.
what can cause you to have fluttering in your belly nasuea and pain in your breasts and headaches?
from the number of issues that you have stress could be the cause. are you encountering any unusual events in your life? you will get to the bottom of this by visiting your doctor and letting them explore the causes with you.
what is intercranial hypertension?
intracranial hypertension means that the pressure of cerebrospinal fluid within the skull is too high. brain has the fluid inside and is also surrounded by the fluid. since the skull is closed any increase in this fluid will cause the pressure to go up. this is very serious. intracranial hypertension in adults is generally defined as intracranial pressure that reaches 250mmh2o or above.
why would i have such a dramatic spontaneous fluctuation in my blood pressure? what could be my problem? i' am a 28 year old male in fairly fit condition but for the last three years i have had episodes of dramatic fluctuations in my blood pressure. my no
the most important cause to rule out in situations like this is the presence of a tumor of the adrenal gland called a pheochromocytoma. even with these symptoms such a tumor is rarely found. the diagnosis can usually be made by analysis of a 24 hour urine collection or by blood tests. other possible causes of these types of symptoms include: panic attacks labile hypertension anxiety hyperthyroidism migraine headaches central nervous system lesions seizures carcinoid syndrome drugs (including cocaine lsd amphetamines and others) and tyrosine ingestion combined with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (which are a type of antidepressant drug). in many patients with episodic hypertension in whom a pheochromocytoma is not found the cause remains unknown and treatment is difficult. the symptoms most likely involve activation of the sympathetic system but the cause of sympathetic activation is unclear. it may stem from emotional factors that are repressed from conscious awareness. this condition is sometimes called pseudopheochromocytoma and most often includes rapid elevation of blood pressure; sudden onset of physical symptoms such as headache chest pain dizziness nausea palpitations flushing and/or sweating; and a lack of emotional causes such as fear or panic although fear can occur as a result of the worrisome physical symptoms. episodes can last from ten minutes to several hours; they can occur several times per day or only once every few months. between episodes the blood pressure may be normal or mildly elevated.
why do i have chest pain after i drink?
the details of what type of drink is unclear from your question. but caffeine containing drinks or alcohol can lead to or exacerbate reflux of stomach acid which can irritate the esophagus. also some people develop a spasm of the esophagus essentially a "charley horse" which causes pain. get it checked by a doctor.
why do i have chest pain after i drink?
chest pain after drinking alcohol can be from reflux esophagitis (alcohol increases reflux from stomach); may have esophageal inflammation or ulcer. after any liquid may reflect muscle or nerve abn. affects peristalsis (coordinated contractions) as well as above. arguably cardiac causes can do this too. unlikely pulmonary see your doc make sure heart is ok firs (if you have risks) check gi.
what causes swollen ankles?
none pinfull ankle swelling is due fluid retention in lower extremities. it has many causes. too much salt high blood pressure kidney gout liver andthyroid problem also arthropatthy. if problem persists refer to your physician.
why do ii have chest pain after ii drink anyrhing?
cp can be due to heart attacks pleurisy aneurysm pulmonary embolism acid reflux esophagitis costochondritis rib fractures gall bladder disease etc.
what is pain around upper abdamen?
could be gastritis acid reflux ulcer or rarely pancreatic problem. however sometimes heart pain may be experienced in the upper abdomen along with nausea. it is important you talk to your doctor about it.
what type of doctor should i see for recurring chest pain which does not seem to be heart related? i have been having recurring chest pains for the past 4 days. the pain is hard to describe. it is kind of like a stabbing pain. it first occured on the l
thought the location of your pain would be consistent with a heart problem the type of pain (stabbing) its onset at rest and your age and gender all argue against that. i think the most likely etiology is gastroesophageal reflux (acid flowing up from your stomach into the unprotected esophagus). that's more typically burning in character but could certainly occur when you're in bed and lying flat. esophageal spasm can also cause the type of pain you describe as could other less likely things like pancreatitis. a family medicine doctor or internist would probably be the best person to sort through your history and do a detailed physical exam. he or she could then direct you to the appropriate specialist if one is needed. while you're waiting to see a doctor i suggest that you try some over-the counter antacids to see if you get some relief. if the pain is accompanied by shortness of breath sweating or other symptoms then you should probably go to an er rather than waiting for a scheduled appointment.
what could be wrong if i'm having mild chest pain on the left but my arm isn't num?
cp can be due to heart attacks pleurisy aneurysm pulmonary embolism acid reflux esophagitis costochondritis rib fractures gall bladder disease etc.
what is thw best diet for scleroderma patients?
no simple answer. scleroderma patients can have problems with chewing (soft diet helps) esophageal issues (poor contractions lots of reflux-avoid fried greasy fatty spicy foods large meals lying down after eating chocolate minimize coffee); can have diverticula and bacterial overgrowth in small bowel-causes diarrhea-may need episodic antibiotics; probiotics may help. c doc and dietician.
which are the risks in a fallot correction surgery?
repair of tetralogy of fallot like other congenital heart defects is a complex matter. many different factors may influence the outcome including the initial diagnosis the anatomy of the defect the surgeon and institution capability. having said this the current outcome form surgical repair is quite good. long term outcome may also be depend on diligent follow up.
why do i feel so dehydrated lately?
you are dehydrated. drink more fluids.
why am i going pale and passing out for no reason?
if you are pale and passing out you should have your blood pressure checked and blood checked for anemia. anemia can be caused by many things including iron deficiency. if your blood pressure is low you should consume more fluids. however the best thing is to get checked by your doctor.
what causes swollen feet?
this could be edema fluid in the soft tissues. that can occur from fluid overload salt retention kidney disease heart disease liver disease certain medications etc also joint swelling can do this. there can be many reasons for that. your evaluation will look at many of these possibilities to help discern why you have he swelling.
what are possible conditions when your heart hurts time to time on a daily base?
heart disease acid reflux blood clots muscle soreness in the chest etc . if you have chest pain it's best to see a doctor. you won't get the answer online.
what are the signs of high blood pressure?
most hypertensives have no symptoms. once they start treatment begin to feel the side effects of the medicines and hate it. when pt feels headache lightheadness dizziness nausea or vomiting earlobe flush erythema facial flush blurred vision pt must check the blood pressure. signs of stroke:language change weakness of limbs asymmetry of face changes in sensation or chest pain: complicatio.
why does my blood pressure go from really high to really low within min all day everyday?
blood pressure does fluctuate but shouldn't fluctuate greatly if the activity level is the same. more likely is the accuracy of the measuring device. bring this in to your next doctor's appointment to check its accuracy.
why does my blood pressure go from really high to really low within min all day everyday?
a normal and healthy response to exercise is for bp to rise. if you measure your bp at random times during the day without resting 15 minutes you'll see wide fluctuations. you should always rest before checking your bp. measure it 3 times in a row. if it drops significantly on the subsequent measurements you've conditioned your self to become apprehensive with the measurement.
what's wrong with my stomach? i just had five inches of my left tenth tib removed by cardio thoracic. two days later (now) my entire belly is swollen. i also have not been able to produce any poop and have not felt the need to poop at all. i have passed
not knowing the reason you had your 10th rib removed or your other medical conditions the post-operative period is usually characterized by alterations in bowel habits incisional pain treated with narcotic analgesia (which worsens the alteration in bowel habits also known as post-operative ileus). this can cause abdominal bloating nausea cramping and pain. this can be assisted by reducing narcotic use ambulating and drinking plenty of fluids. on occasion an oral laxative or suppository is needed. however other factors can also cause swelling including fluid retention bleeding and infection. these are usually diagnosed by other means such as swollen legs drop in blood count fever and elevated white count. in addition the latter three symptoms are usually associated with other constitutional symptoms fatigue paleness weakness dizziness.
what could consant pain in the center of my chest that has lasted foir several weeks be?
cariac pain is usually intermittent comes on with stress or exertion and lasts for several minutes and subsides with rest or sublingual nitroglycerine. if the pain lasts longer than that then one start thinking of possible heart attack or other causes of chest pain such as musculoskeletal pain or gastric reflux. it's very unlikely to have a heart attack pain for wks and cont. working at the same tm.
what could consant pain in the center of my chest that has lasted foir several weeks be?
chronic chest pain has a long differential. most worrisome is a cardiac problem such as unstable or stable angina. more commonly chronic chest pain can be musculoskeletal acid reflux esophageal spasm peptic ulcer disease costochondritis. further evaluation such as associated symptoms your medical history and an ekg is needed to be performed by a physician to clarify the diagnosis.
what are some preventative test you can take to prevent congestive heart failure? what are the signs? what is congestive heart failure and how is it caused and what is the result of the body after congestive heart failure?
congestive heart failure (chf) is a condition in which the heart is unable to move blood efficiently and fluid builds up in the lungs and the tissues of the body (especially the legs). it is the common end result of a variety of problems including direct injury to the heart kidney failure and lung disease among others. the best way to prevent chf is to eat a healthy diet avoid tobacco exercise regularly and keep your cholesterol and blood pressure under control. if you already have problems with your heart kidneys etc then it's important that you take whatever medications your doctor has prescribed and try to control the other items mentioned as much as possible.
will the green laser prostate treatment eliminate bladder fluid retention? i'm due in surgery next tuesday.
green laser should remove obstructing prostatic tissue so the bladder can empty more easily this in turn should correct the urinary retention.
will the green laser prostate treatment eliminate bladder fluid retention? i'm due in surgery next tuesday.
if you have significant urinary retention laser treatment to the prostate may not remove enough tissue to relieve the obstruction. at 83 yrs of age i would recommend traditional turp.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
the cornerstone of therapy is a diuretic ("fluid pill"). drugs that dilate the blood vessels (vasodilators ace inhibitors) and drugs that reduce the work load of the heart (beta blockers) should always be included unless there is a specific contraindication. a drug that blocks the hormone aldosterone (spironolactone or inspra) should also be used if possible. the underlying cause should be sought.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for congestive heart failure?
there are multiple kinds of heart failure. systolic which is due to a weak heart. diastolic which is more related to excess fluid and stiff heart walls or kidney failure. another way to break down is left sided which causes fluid in lungs vs right sided which engorges veins but not lungs. common meds used are diuretics ace inhibitors inotropes-drugs that help pump etc. and even dialysis.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for emphysema?
there is a lot you can do 1) smoking cessation ( this will slow how much lung function is lost over time. 2) inhaled medicines can help shortness of breath and decrease the risk of symptom flare ups specifics 3) oxygen if advanced disease 4) vaccines for flu & pneumonia 5) pulmonary rehab 6) in select cases "lung volume reduction surgery". all of these merit a talk with your dr. to discuss.
what kind of pills or treatment can somebody get for pedal edema?
fluid pills can be used but i would first try compression stockings or ace wraps to push the fluid out. if present for a long time i would first consult a doctor.
what can i do to make my bm's smaller in size? i usually go once a day and most of the time they clog the toilet. i am a high fiber diet because of high cholesterol. i also take chitosan to help absorb the fat molecules of the food. i do have fresh or can
if you have a diet that is high in fiber but there is not adequate fluid intake it is likely to make your feces harder and drier. you should drink at least 64 ounces of water per day which will help the fiber to move wastes through your intestines.
what causes heart conjested failer?
is inability of the heart to pump blood forward resulting in congestion or fluid build up in the lungs and fluid leakage in the periphery or the legs. it can be systolic or related to weakening or diastolic or related to stiffening of the heart.
what is the best thing to clear out your lungs if you have shortness of breath/?
on why you have shortness of breath. pneumonia? antibiotic. bronchitis? steroid. asthma? steroid and albuterol inhaler. copd? antibiotic and steroid. foriegn body? removal. chf? fluid pill.
what causes sharp chest pains on the right side?
cause right sided chest pain. just because it occurs on the right side does not mean that it is not the heart. this should be discussed with your doctor asap to make sure that this it not something life-threatening. a lof of things can cause right sided chest pain though including heart disease reflux musculoskeletal pain pleuritis pneumonia trauma gallbladder problems etc.
which treatment works the best and fastest for foot swelling?
elevation is the best. if both feet are involved you may be retaining fluid from a medical cause and should be checked. sometimes a diuretic is needed.
what can prolonged heart burn do to my body?
heartburn is a symptom and can indicate a number of problems. if reflux is the cause there is risk of esopageal erosions and cancer. if the stomach or small intestine is the source then peptic ulcer diease is a possibility. ocassional heartburn is generally not a concern. persistant symptoms however suggest an underlying problem which may be serious. it absolutely requires further evaluation!
what is the best treatment for emphysema?
emphysema is treated with the following measures: 1) quite smoking. this is a must will preserve lung function. 2) inhaled medicines. the exact ones vary but they help open airways and/ or decrease inflammation in the airways making it easier to breath. 3) flu and pneumonia vaccines. 4) pulmonary rehab ( an exercise and teaching program that helps breathe 5) severe disease has surgical options.
what is the best treatment for esophageal spasm?
if esophageal spasm is caused by acid reflux then antacids may help. sometimes calcium channel blockers and nitrates. botox injections have been used in severe cases.
what symptoms does someone with congenital heart disease always have?
most congenital heart disease is accompanied by a dusky appearance because blood from the right side of the heart (blue beacuase of low oxygen) mixes with blood from the left side (red because it is saturated with oxygen). also increase respiratory rate can accomany congenital heart disease because many of these heart malformations cause the lungs to flood with fluid.
what are the most effective home remedies for congestive heart failure?
patient with congestive heart failure can do certain thing to avoid worsening of symptoms by reducing the salt intake watching their weight and monitoring the blood pressure. they should also contain their fluid intake and most important take their medications regularly.
what can i take for nasal congestion and cough when taking meds for heart disease i caught a col and do not know what i am safe to take
it's an over-the-counter cold ; flu symptom- relief medication that does not contain decongestant. decongestant is found in other cold ; flu remedies and it can cause blood pressure to go high which may cause more pressure on the heart. hope it helps!
wt 2 dr 4 fluter short breath rap hrt beats said need <3 dr bn 16dys no cal fm dr ecgnorm it worse no ins concerned advice please?
the next time you have shortness of brwath and rapid heart beat go to the emergency room. in the meanwhile call your doctor and see how they can help you to see a cardiologist. are there any clinics for the inibsured in your area? perhaps there is a cardiologist near you who may read your question and arrange to see you. in the meanwhile avoid excess caffeine nicotine alcohol.
wt 2 dr 4 fluter short breath rap hrt beats said need <3 dr bn 16dys no cal fm dr ecgnorm it worse no ins concerned advice please?
i understand that you have no insurance but you need a diagnosis. this cannot be treated in a vacuum. clearly you're having some kind of heart rhythm disturbance. some are serious many are not - but regardless you aren't feeling well. you will need to wear a 24 hr (holter) recorder have blood work and get an echocardiogram at a minimum. you may need a stress test. treatment depends on results.
what leads to constrictive pericarditis?
this is a stiffening of the normally pliable sac that holds the heart. infections in the fluid around the heart and scarring conditions that have no known cause can cause this sac to stiffen and this results in incomplete filling of the heart between beats. this lack of filling can lead to heart failure as the heart is incapable of pumping blood as efficiently. it is a rare condition.
why every morning when i wake up my legs begin to swell and remain like that all day i have high blood pressure and im diabetic
you need to be evaluated by your physician immediately for these symptoms. please call your doctor and be seen today. having new onset of leg swelling (peripheral edema) is concerning and could represent fluid overload caused by worsening renal failure or poor circulation from your heart. please call and seek out an immediate medical evaluation. you may need treatment for this condition.
what leads to diffuse esophageal spasm?
this is a true abnormal condition or physiomechanics of the esophagus -- it is a rare condition-- and what most people experience is not a diffuse esophageal spasm but reflux esophagitis with spasm or cold induced transient esophageal contraction.
what t benefits of baby aspirin n at what age dhould adults take them?
it's actually a misnomers bc aspirin should not be given to babies. since the 1980's it's known that a serious condition called reyes' syndrome can occur if toddlers are exposed to aspirin. the cdc had since warned pediatricians to avoid aspirin & aspirin-containing products in flu and chickenpox and later in other viral febrile illness. the term now denotes the 81 mg rather than the 325 mg.
what is a recommended dieuratic?
there are many diuretic available for use most often of course to control excess fluid accumulation. depending on the cause and the urgency doctors have very mild to very powerful diuretics available that can be administered orally if elective or intravenously if more critical. monitoring of the bp blood volume electrolytes and other minerals and kidney function are critical for safety.
what are typical symptoms of blood around the heart?
substernal chest pain is one of the commonest complaints. faint feeling may be presant fluttering sensation may also be present. serious condition requires immediate attention.
what are typical symptoms of blood around the heart?
pericardial effusion or a collection of fluid around the heart fluid may be blood or other fluid. symptoms can include chest pain or pressure and shortness of breath. often patients feel fatigued or lightheaded.
what causes swollen feet and ankles after binge at bar?
just the increased in fluid whil binging could cause swelling but most likely it is the increased sodium.
what causes swollen feet and ankles after binge at bar?
binge denotes lots of fluid intake. if you have congestive heart failure this will happen. note dangling feet in the bar for hours will make the swelling more apparent since water runs downhill. history of alcohol intake could be associated with heart failure called alcoholic cardiomyopathy. other causes like liver disease for the same exact reasons are possible. kidneys also need checked.
whats going on? in hospital for pneumonia and was diagnosed with chf also have copd?
chf congestive heart failure occurs when the heart is unable to effectively pump blood out of the heart to the rest of the body. as a result fluid backs up into the lungs resulting in the "congestion. " chf is due to something else like disease in the heart itself but lung disease like copd can also result in heart failure especially when the pulmonary pressures elevate. there are treatments.
what kind of lung problems can result from open heart surgery?
early complications can be as minor as a little "shrinkage" f the lung from the anesthesia and your doc will give you an "incentive spirometer" to encourage you to breath. still some people get pneumonia and this is more serious. during or shortly after surgery you can get fluid backed up into your lung. late complications include blood clots and pleural reactions (fluid around the lung).
what kind of lung problems can result from open heart surgery?
common issues are collections of fluid under the lungs especially the left lung (effusion) mucous plugging bronchospasm atelectasis (collapse of alveoli - small air units) and pneumonia. an uncommon complication is pulmonary embolism (blood clot). - all are reversible. rarely the phrenic nerve is injured with paralysis of the diaphragm on one side. that's usually permanent.
what could cause chest tightness on the right side but not so much the left side?
muscle strain gastroesophageal reflux peptic ulcer gastritis non-ulcer dyspepsia gall bladder disease pleurisy - to name a few. heart disease can present this way too although it is admittedly a less common way. i suggest you see your doc.
with normal blood pressure and heart and lungs why does one wake up breathless during sleep.?
if someone is obese or has some type of airway obstruction this may can cause what is called obstructive sleep apnea also gastric content regurgitation that goes to the lungs due gastroesophageal reflux may cause someone to wake up catching their breath.
what causes hypotension and what are the symptoms? do you just faint?
there are many causes of hypotension from dehydration to bleeding or an overwhelming infection or sepsis. often people with significant hypotension can pass out so the first treatment is to lay the patient flat in order to keep the blood going to the brain. also patients are given lots of fluids to expand the volume.
what is an s3 heart murmur? how serious is it? 38 year old woman asymptomatic. had a baby one year ago
s3 is the description used for a 3rd heart sound after the typical "lub dub" you hear when listening to the heart. young people athletes and pregnant women often have an s3 on exam and it is considered completely normal. it can also be an indicator of congestive heart failure but patients often have other symptoms such as shortness of breath with exercise or lying down fatigue swelling of extremeties weight gain and fluid retention and coughing up pink phlegm. since she is 38 asymptomatic and recently had a child it is likely benign. if she starts to notice any of the symptoms above she should call her doctor right away.
what are some causes of swelling of the legs?
our bodies have a large amount of water needed to keep organs functioning. the vessels that carry the fluids are not perfect and they can leak. also our tissues have a certain amount of water to stay moist and pliable. gravity works to pull the fluids down towards the feet even in healthy people. it will worsen as the day progresses. treatment is compression socks/elevation. avoid water pills.
what do they mean that babies can have risk for heart disease?
the heart is a complex organ and an amazing one. about 1/2 to1% of live born infants have some form of defect ranging from minimal and self healing to major & life threatening. the process that forms the heart is influenced by a number of genes scattered within the child's dna. recurrence risk within the same family of some form of defect is slightly elevated.
what's the difference between left and right heart failure?
left heart (lv) failure what commonly "heart failure" refers to involves processes that lead to inadequacy of lv to pump blood this sometimes leads to lung congestion. right heart failure commonly but not always a result of untreated or under-treated left heart failure occurs when the right side of the heart is not pumping. leading to accumulation of fluid everywhere including the chest.
which medications helped you with congestive heart failure?
"water pills" (diuretics) help eliminate extra fluid through the kidneys. digoxin has been used for many decades to "help the squeeze" of the heart (although its usefulness is in question nowadays). so called-after-load reducers help relax the tension on the walls of vessels and make it easier to help the heart empty. finally beta-blockers can be helpful as well. consult your doctor.
what can cause selling in your lower leg. there is no discoloration but some minor pain. there are no cuts or bruises. the swelling is not severe?
the heart pumps blood under great pressure out into the arteries but the blood must return to the heart in veins which are thinned walled. there is no pump on the return vein side and as we get older some veins bulge and swell and even leak fluid into the local skin. these are varicose veins and they may cause swelling or a bulge on the lower leg. keep your legs up and see your doctor.
what can cause selling in your lower leg. there is no discoloration but some minor pain. there are no cuts or bruises. the swelling is not severe?
swelling of both legs equally usually represents fluid overload-do you ahve a history of heart failure kidney disease or high blood pressure. if so your doctor may rx a "fluid pill". avoid excess salt in the diet. alternatively if only one leg is swollen that could mean a blood clot- fortunately uncommon but if missed it can cause serious harm.
what is a loop diuretic?
a loop diuretic is a blood pressure medicine that acts on the kidney specifically the loop of henley to decrease fluid resorption. this results in reduced blood volume and with that decreased blood pressure. a side effect of these meds is that they can cause potassium wasting.
what do you feel during an angiogram?
the most common symptom is anxiety just from being awake during a medical procedure. you usually get some medicine to help keep you calm. you should not feel pain due to numbing medicine. you may feel pressure while the catheter is put in and starnge feelings as it goes to the blood vessel being evaluated. when the dye is injected some folks feel flushed or warm.
what is lymph?
it is a fluid (usually clear) that circulates between the tissues of your body. it is fluid not in the arteries and veins. it contains some proteins and white blood cells.
what is amniotic fluid embolism?
as a complication of pregnancy and delivery amniotic fluid may gain entry into the maternal circulation. it induces intravascular thrombus formation followed by bleeding disorder and respiratory problems and shock in the mother.
what causes your feet to swell during travel in flight and now vehicles?
we all know the heart pumps blood around the body but most don't know that the action of your leg/calf muscles along with one way "valves" in your veins help the blood get back. during lengthy sitting gravity causes blood to pool in your legs and fluid seeps into your tissue causing edema/swelling. heat humidity salty food doesn't help. walk/stretch often on flight elevate feet avoid salt.
what could cause constant chest pains?
potential causes of constant chest pains include cardiac diseases such as blockages in the coronary arteries possibly heart attacks dissection of aorta or clots in the lung arteries. these are potentially life-threatening. other causes include pericarditis heart valve problems as in aortic valve stenosis acid reflux esophagitis bruised or fractured ribs costochondritis pneumonia shingles.
what can i do with bulging veins on my calves?
bulging veins can be normal in some instances but if they are both bulging and look like grapes or rounded elevations then they are considered varicose and abnormal. abnormal veins should be evaluated by a vein specialist and you should have a venous reflux ultrasound to evaluate the status of the veins.
what is the reason for bulging veins in the booty?
buttock veins are not the routine for location of varicose veins and when they occur sources for them such as the saphenous vein branches of the saphenous vein or even reflux from pelvic and ovarian veins need to be considered. a venous duplex ultrasound of the leg veins may help and sometimes a ct scan of the pelvis may be necessary. see a vein specialist.
what are the odds of a patient "dying" on the operating table after getting a routine tubalization? and why did it happen? that happened to me in a southern california hospital in 1994. my blood pressure dropped when i was in recovery and i remember someo
there are multiple possibilities that could cause this. shock from volume depletion (not enough fluid in the veins) bleeding from a blood disorder or from the surgical site or an unexpected drop in blood pressure from a medication reaction are some possible causes.
what could be wrong with me? when i eat too much salty food i get foot swelling. bp normal.
you are describing mild edema; this occurs from excess salt and when feet are in dependent position - such as sitting and standing - you may have a kidney condition that makes you prone to fluid retention; you need an evaluation;
what could be wrong with me? when i eat too much salty food i get foot swelling. bp normal.
any type of salt whether sprinkled on or already in food can result in fluid retention.
what could be wrong with me? when i eat too much salty food i get foot swelling. bp normal.
eating too much salt causes your body to retain fluids which is a problem for people with heart conditions. drinking plenty of water and limiting the salt in your diet along with regular exercise can improve your swelling.
what would they do to you at the hospital if you passed out?
in the hospital they would make sure you did not have a heart attack stroke a blood clot to the lung or a seizure and make sure that you are not dehydrated or under the influence of any drug.
what are symptoms of heart failure in women?
the most common symptoms are fatigue decreased exercise tolerance shortness of breath with exertion shortness of breath at night need to use more pillows to sleep swelling in the abdomen or legs weight gain due to fluid buildup. if you experience any of these symptoms see a cardiologist right away.
what's causing mid-chest burning pain-- heart?
esophageal reflux or gastritis. if it worsens during breathing then it could be due to respiratory problem. call your doctor. if you don't have one and it's new or not improving go to the ed.
why do i feel my chest burning when i bench press?
a burning feeling in your chest while you lift weights is most likely caused by working the muscle which in turn releases lactic acid and causes a burning sensation. other less likely possibilities include acid reflux (brought on by laying down) or heart pain (angina). typical angina would be more of a crushing heavy feeling + nausea + sweating + shortness of breath - but it's not all typical.
why is my chest burning stright down the middle. what is that about?
strong burning in the chest can be caused by a number of possibilities. these include heart problems (heart attack angina aneurysm etc. ) lung problems (pneumonia etc. ) or even intestinal issues (acid reflux ulcers bleeding etc. ). best to see your doctor who can examine you to narrow the diagnosis. if severe or persistent one should call 911 or get to the er for an emergency evaluation.
why woukld a doctor choose one diuretic over another with a patient with kid ney problems? and what is the preferable one?
diuretics have different purposes. some are given to mobilize sodium and water to remove excess fluid from the body to reduce swellin or edema or treat congestive heart failure. some are given to treat high blood pressure and some are potassium sparing. depending on why it is being used the doctor may make a specific choice.
what does burning chest pressure mean?
if you have burning chest pain it is likely to be due to acid reflux or esophagitis. recommend checking with your doctor.
what does burning chest pressure mean?
sounds like reflux with heart burn but can be cardiovascular or aortic or else something neurologic (pinching of your nerves coming out of your spine). . should get checked out by md if persists or worsens.
what is acid reflux? i have been diagnosed with acid reflux but rarely get heart burn. if i eat too much chili spaghetti or pizza hours later i will have rythmic pain just under my rib cage that get progressively stronger and then i vomit 4 or 5 times.
this occurs because your stomach produces excess acid in response to certain foods. this can cause pain bloating and a burning feeling in stomach chest and esophagus. associated belching and even vomiting can occur. the vomiting is your bodies way of trying to clear the excess acid when it backs up into the throat. on the other hand there are other issues that could be going on (hiatal hernia esophagitis etc. ) it is a good idea to request an endoscopy which is a test where a camera is used to visualize your upper gi (gastrointestinal tract). this will give your doctors more information in able to formulate an appropriate treatment plan. all the best to you.
what is acid reflux? i have been diagnosed with acid reflux but rarely get heart burn. if i eat too much chili spaghetti or pizza hours later i will have rythmic pain just under my rib cage that get progressively stronger and then i vomit 4 or 5 times.
acid taste specialy when bending over or after meals pain behind the sternum and many other symptoms are caused by acid reflex. your symptoms can also be caused by gall bladder disease. please visit your primary health care provider for appropriate evaluation (abdominal us barium swallow upper gi).
what are some various causes of chest pain?
cardiac- heart attack pericarditis aneurysm coronary artery disease noncardiac- costochondritis shingles intercostal neuralgia gall bladder diseases pleurisy pneumonia acid reflux esophageal spasm.
what's the recommended cholesterol level?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what causes heart burn with stomach pain? was given omeprazol treatment and heart burn and pain continue.
i don't know the cause of you heart burn and abdominal pain. here are possible causes: gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) barrett's esophagus irritable bowel syndrome gallstones hiatal hernia peptic ulcer gastritis helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) & stomach cancer.
what is a pericardial effusion?
heart muscle is covered by very thin layer of tissue called epicardium. further surrounded by very thin partially distensible sac called pericardium. space between epi- and peri- cardium always contains small amount of lubricating fluid. epi or pericardium can become inflammed or fluid can leak into this space. when fluid accumulates and becomes detectable it is an "effusion. ".
what's the difference between regurgitation and pericardial effusion?
regurgitation refers to leakiness of a heart valve (we have four valve sin the heart through which blood flows into each respective chamber). however a pericardial effusion is collection of fluid in the pericardial sac between the outer heart muscle wall and pericardium ("skin around heart").
what are signs symptoms of scleroderma?
in scleroderma autoimmune inflammation leads to fibrosis thickening and tightening of the skin. in some cases only the hands are affected making fingers appear claw-like. in other cases the arms legs upper back and face can also be affected. other symptoms include raynaud's acid reflux from esophageal dysmotility; shortness of breath from lung fibrosis and increased pressure on the heart.
what is it called when pedal edema gets so bad that its hard to walk?
edema is the objective finding of excess fluid (either intra or extra cellular) in tissue. this is unrelated to ability to walk. no matter how bad the edema in your feet gets it is still called pedal edema. however if edema extends up to the level of the abdomen it is known as anasarca.
why would this inflammation of the heart's lining cause death?
either due to an accumulation of inflammatory fluid or blood into the pericardial space causing cardiac tamponade and fatal heart failure or through an tachyarrhythmia (which can also be provoked by cardiac tamponade) that leads to heart failure and sudden cardiac death.
what is the difference between hemorrhagic and hypovolemic shock?
hemorrhagic shock is from bleeding usually due to a wound from trauma which can have excessive fluid loss. hypovolemic shock can have many causes like not drinking or dehydration from diarrhea and also hemorrhage. this is usually less severe but some examples of diarrhea can be excessive. both can be seen on the same spectrum of shock or fluid loss with hemorrhagic more severe/urgent.
what should a 13 year old boys blood pressure be?
besides age height and weight are also a factor when you determine blood pressure. as a very broad guideline anything above 120/80 needs to be examined keeping in mind that fluctuations in blood pressure are common in teens due to their increased physical activity if they are engaged in sports and also due to stressors in their everyday life. if it is continuously increased there is concern.
why would a patient in renal failure get decreased cardiac output?
even though the mechanisms are complex one way to understand is that if you lose the ability to filter your blood and eliminate extra fluid from your body (one of the kidney's main functions) your heart will be burdened with pumping a lot more blood than it was intended to do and will therefore fatigue and not pump as well (same as any other muscle would if forced to work "overtime").
what is the treatment for inderal (propranolol) overdose?
innderal overdose should be treated in the hospital. the paramedics may try to stabilize the patient if bp is low or if heart rate is low by giving fluids and atropine. monitor with telemetry. antidote is glucagon. as soon as the patient comes to er administration of activated charcoal is necessary if patient is alert and awake.
what is acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards)?
a lung injury caused by many different conditions where the membrane separating the air space from the blood space becomes porous allowing fluid to fill up the air spaces and prevent o2 transport. the lung becomes stiff and difficult to inflate increasing the work of breathing. most people will require a ventilator and icu care.
what are the treatments for chronic heart failure?
this is complex. treatment includes medicine to remove fluids ( diuretics) salt restriction medicine to decrease the work the heart does these medications dilate the blood vessels especially a class of medicines called "ace" inhibitors and medicines to decrease stress hormones (beta blockers) other issues may need to be addressed as well such as arrhythmia & blockages in coronary arteries.
what do you take for your hypertension if you also sometimes go low in bp?
the goal in hypertensive treatment in pregnancy is not to get the bp as low in the normal range as possible. the goal is to avoid wide fluctuations and peaks that are potentially harmful. if the treatment is causing too low a bp perhaps consideration should be given to reducing the dose or trying lifestyle changes (bed rest for one) ins tread of higher dose meds.
what are the clinical findings of pulmonary edema?
patients typically complain of shortness of breath cough or chest heaviness. on exam patients may be breathing rapidly with an elevated heart rate there may be an abnormal finding listening to the chest called rales or crackles. this is similar to the sound of "rice crispies" cereal in milk and finally there is chest xray abnormalities that indicate fluid in the lungs.
what are the signs of an brain aneurysm i have been getting sick for the past 6 days also i have been getting real bad dizzy spells and bad head pain above the eyes what could this mean?
aneurysms are small balloon-like outpouchings from the walls of arteries and in most situations they have no symptoms. rare "giant" aneurysms may press on the brain or on a cranial nerve and cause focal symptoms like those of a brain tumor but this is very uncommon. the problem with aneurysms of blood vessels in the head is that they sometimes rupture. this causes sudden severe bleeding in the subarachnoid space the fluid-filled space in which the brain floats. patients who experience this usually complain of severe headache of sudden onset often described as "the worst headache of my life". they may rapidly become unconscious they may have nausea or vomiting but the universal symptom is severe headache. what you describe could be due to an aneurysm but is far more likely to be from another cause. headaches are not trivial you should see a neurologist and be evaluated.
what are the risk factors if you take simcor (simvastatin and niacin)?
simcor (simvastatin and niacin) is made up of two meds; simvastatin which mostly lowers ldl (bad) cholesterol and niacin which lowers ldl and triglycerides and raises hdl (good) cholesterol. the most likely side effects of simvastatin are an inflammed liver and muscle aches and with niacin an inflammed liver as well as a flushing of the face which can be toned down by taking aspirin 1/2 hour before it.
what is the best treatment for pulmonary edema if the person has heart failure?
one of the treatments for pulmonary edema caused by heart failure is diuretic therapy to rid the body of the excess fluid. this therapy needs to be prescribed by a physician and monitored very carefully .
what is the best treatment for pulmonary edema if the person has heart failure?
diuretics help to clear the lungs of fluid. ace inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers and beta blockers help to prevent recurrences of heart failure. certain types of pacemakers may also help.
what the difference between a pulmonary edema and pulmonary embolism?
pulmonary edema is excess fluid in the lungs whereas pulmonary embolus is a blood clot in the pulmonary vascular system. they are very different but a pulmonary embolus is one of the many many causes of pulmonary edema.
what the difference between a pulmonary edema and pulmonary embolism?
a pulmonary embolism is when a blood clot usually from the vein in the legs/ pelvis breaks off and lodges in the pulmonary arteries. this causes a strain on the right ventricle ( the part of the heart that pumps blood to the lung along with several other problems. pulmonary edema is fluid build up in the lungs usually from heart failure but there are other causes. symptoms can overlap.
when inhaling my heart hurts and sometimes pops and hurts even more when deep breathing what's wrong with me?
when you inhale you're stretching intercostal and pectoralis muscles of the chest wall which can pop and are worse with deep breaths. the more you think about it the worse it gets. relaxation heat and analgesics help: ibuprofen (like motrin) or naprosyn (naproxen) (like aleve) are good ones. viral infections of the lining of the lungs or heart can cause pleurisy but usually with fever +/- flu like sx.
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure with pulmonary congestion?
pulmonary congestion caused by fluid build-up in the lungs leading to shortness of breath is the main symptom of left-sided heart failure. this can progress to lower extremity swelling and abdominal bloating as the disease process worsens.
what does a heart ultrasound check?
motion and function of valves heart muscle thickness chamber size wall motion ability of the atria and ventricles to empty and can show valve incompetence. it can show the pericardium and whether there is fluid and how much and if it impedes chamber filling or emptying (tamponade).
what are the differences between pneumonia and pulmonary edema?
pulmonary edema is fluid in the lung from any cause sometimes related to impaired heart function but also seen with a number of other causes of inflammation in the lung such as smoke inhalation trauma and severe infections including pneumonia. pneumonia is a lung infection. the two entities can coexist and may look similar on chest xray.
what is the treatment for leg claudication?
the initial treatment for leg claudication is to stop walking on the painful leg. increased fluid intake an asprin nsaid or other blood thinning medication may be appropriate. al leg ultrasound may be prudent and sometime atherosclerotic or thombisis medication may be necessary. this pain should be evaluated by your healthcare provider.
what is the best pill to raise hdl cholesterol level?
do not use the no-flush as it doens't work. also do not take niacin or niaspan w/o talking to your doctor. like all medicines you must be monitored while on niacin/niaspan.
what is neurogenic pulmonary edema?
this is a kind of noncardiac pulmonary edema. its seen with a variety of acute brain injuries like head injury and large strokes especially hemorrhages. the edema is related to leaky capillaries. the exact mechanism is unknown but one theory is the brain injury causes a sudden release of stress hormones ( like adrenaline) that injures the capillaries and allows them to leak fluid into the lung.
what are the symptoms of hypovolemic shock?
hypovoemic shock is due to loss of circulating blood volume- may occur in severe dehydration acute blood loss severe sepsis. symptoms/ signs are dizziness fainting low blood pressure. treatment- fluids blood or antibiotics etc depending on the cause.
what are the tests for blood around the heart?
an echocardiogram is a type of ultrasound focused on the heart. it is a non-invasive test that can diagnose fluid (including blood) around the heart.
what are the tests for blood around the heart?
this is usually diagnosed with echocardiography an ultrasound of the heart. a chest x-ray can show an enlarged heart shadow but this can be caused by other things. the echocardiogram can only indicate fluid and doesn't differentiate between blood and other fluid. the definitive diagnosis is made when the fluid is removed by inserting a needle or tube into the space around the heart.
would a fetal heart ultrasound find all problems if there were any?
depending on maternal bmi gestational age number of fetuses fibroids fetal position machine used duration of the examination examiner experience and amniotic fluid volume - prenatal sonography can pick up 20-70% of all fetal heart defects. fetal echocardiography should detect >90% of such defects but there are not enough pediatric cardiologists interested in fetal echo around to try that.
what are the risk factors from simcor (simvastatin and niacin)?
simcor (simvastatin and niacin) is made up of two meds; simvastatin which mostly lowers ldl (bad) cholesterol and niacin which lowers ldl and triglycerides and raises hdl (good) cholesterol. the most likely side effects of simvastatin are an inflammed liver and muscle aches and with niacin an inflammed liver as well as a flushing of the face which can be toned down by taking aspirin 1/2 hour before it.
where can i buy fluvastatin?
<link>
what kind of edema if client has heart failure?
depends on the severity of the heart failure. edema can involve the lower extremities and progress to involve the abdominal organs causing a sensation of abdominal bloating and fullness and can ultimately cause pulmonary edema resulting in shortness of breath of variable acuity depending on the degree of fluid accumulation.
what does noncardiac pulmonary edema do?
in non cardiogenic pulmonary edema the lungs are filled with fluid and become stiff. this means the work of breathing is increased. in addition the alveoli or tiny air sacs are filled with fluid such that gas exchange can not occur in particular in becomes hard to get oxygen into the blood. all of this combines to produce impaired lung function and even respiratory failure.
what are the tests for transverse myelitis?
a full neurologic evaluation. analysis of the spinal (csf) fluid emg testing imaging studies also.
what are the tests for dropsy?
dropsy excessive accumulation of fluid in the tissues is a clinical diagnosis. if you press the skin on a bone with your thumb for about 30 seconds and if it leaves a depression that is the usual test for dropsy. additional tests are needed to determine the cause which may be diseases of heart kidney liver or intestine.
what will a creatine kinase (ck) blood test show? will it show heart failure or such?
the ck is an enzyme present in muscle but also the bones and the brain. there is a sub-type that we still use to some extent the ck-mb fraction to help diagnosis heart attacks. now a days we measure a different protein the troponin-i to more accurrately diagnosis acute heart attacks. the ck can be a marker of muscle damage from many causes and is influenced by many other disease states.
what is the treatment for amniotic fluid embolism?
supportive care consisting of stabilizing maternal oxygenation and hemodynamic function. anemia and any coagulation defects can be corrected with appropriate transfusable blog products. any seizure activity can be inhibited with medications. these treatments along with prayer still only yield a 50% survival rate.
what is the treatment for propranolol overdose?
pre hospital treatment is charcoal. in hospital options include intravenous fluids inotropes and chronotropes glucagon gastric decontamination benzodiazepines (in patients with seizures) hemodialysis cardiac pacing/cardiopulmonary resuscitation insulin.
what are the side effects of adalat (nifedipine) retard can it raise psa level?
ankles skin flushing lassitude constipation. less commonly fainting dizziness indigestion rapid heart rate/palpitations anxiety urinary frequency erectile dysfunction insomnia swollen joints and visual disturbances. should not have any effect on psa.
what are the presenting symptoms of cardiac tamponade?
cardiac tamponade is caused by fluid or blood collecting aroung the heart constricting the heart and not allowing it to fill correctly resulting in low blood pressure. symptoms usually include shortness of breath weakness coming close to passing out or passing out. chest pain is not uncommon due to irritation of the lining of the heart. it gets better sitting up and worse lying down.
what's the difference between congestive heart failure and right heart failure?
congestive heart failure refers to the congestion (fluid buildup) which is seen in the lungs and the legs (swelling) and in the abdomen. (might be swollen). heart failure can involve both the right and left sides of the heart depending on the exact cause. the most common cause of right heart failure is left heart failure but certain things such as lung disease can cause just right heart failure.
what's the difference between congestive heart failure and right heart failure?
right heart failure is a type of congestive heart failure. congestive heart failure is characterized by fluid buildup. when the fluid builds up in the lungs causing shortness of breath that is left heart failure. when fluid builds up in the legs or abdomen that is right heart failure.
with high blood pressure can you take cozaar (losartan) and midodrine together?
cozaar (losartan) is an arb class of blood pressure lowering medication appropriate for those w/high blood pressure or hypertension. midodrine is an alpha receptor agonist used to treat patients w/orthostatic hypotension whose blood pressure falls when they change positions. i can't imagine too many patients w/htn who are orthostatic w/treatment where you'd add another med rather than give fluids etc.
what are the tests for amniotic fluid embolism?
amniotic fluid embolism depending on the amount of fluid getting into maternal circulation can be catastrophic. the diagnosis depends on clinical suspicion and testing for disseminated intra-vascular coagulation namely low platelet count elevated pt ptt abnormal shape of red cells low fibrinogen and fibrin split products chest x-ray etc.
what are the symptoms associated with valvular aortic stenosis?
from mild to severe. aortic valve stenosis signs and symptoms typically develop when narrowing of the valve is severe and can include: chest pain (angina) or tightness feeling faint or fainting with exertion shortness of breath especially with exertion fatigue especially during times of increased activity heart palpitations sensations of a rapid fluttering heartbeat heart murmur.
what are some side effects from caduet?
caduet contains 2 drugs a statin atorvastatin and an antihypertensive amlodipine. one can potentially suffer side effects from on e or both. these may includeswelling in the legs headache fatigue dizziness flushing nausea diarrhea to name a few. muscle aches become more common with the higest dose of the medication.
wouldn't a echocardiogram show early heart failure? also wouldn't a stethoscope and chest x-ray show copd?
an echocardiogram will not show the fluid in the lungs so it will not diagnose early heart failure. copd by definition has chronic airways obstruction which is diagnosed via pulmonary function testing. this is the only way to differentiate copd from asthma both of which can give the same stethoscope and x-ray findings.
what is the treatment for nitroglycerin overdose?
can cause the blood pressure to drop so laying down with head down feet up higher than the heart and fluids.
what are some symptoms of left sided heart failure due to effects on the lungs?
left sided heart failure and pulmonary edema(fluid in lungs) mainly results in shortness of breath (sob). sob with exertion and at rest in worse cases. you may also get leg swelling in addition. you may also notice sob while lying flat.
what is acute pulmonary edema and how is it treated?
acute pulmonary edema is fluid that has entered the lung spaces. it typically causes shortness of breath and low oxygen. the fluid can come from a failing heart or inflammation or pneumonia or even high altitude. it is treated usually by fixing the underlying cause and giving diuretics (water pills) to help get rid of the water.
what is acute pulmonary edema and how is it treated?
acute pulmonary edema is the sudden onset of increased fluid in the lungs. there are many causes of this one of the most common being left-sided heart failure. the treatment depends on the cause but diuretics are typically given while the exact cause is being determined. some reasons for acute pulmonary edema won't respond to diuretics so the precise diagnosis needs to be made.
what's blood pressure comprised of?
bp is the result of contraction of the heart against a volume of fluid (your blood volume) in a container ( your blood vessels). the force and rate of the heart contraction are variable. volume of fluid in blood system is variable under control of oral intake and kidney output. blood vessels are capable of expanding and contracting and changing the size of your "container" as well.
was diagnoaed with major depression and put on effexor (venlafaxine) will this help with ocd dizziness chest pains coordination and headaches as well as eye flutt?
treating depression is probably a crucial step towards improvement in these and other areas. i hope the effexor (venlafaxine) will be helpful but it doesn't stop with the prescription. keep working with a good doctor until your treatment is well established and causing improvement -- then address the remaining symptoms. and of course continue treatment to maintain improvement and achieve further success.
was diagnoaed with major depression and put on effexor (venlafaxine) will this help with ocd dizziness chest pains coordination and headaches as well as eye flutt?
the effexor (venlafaxine) may help with mood and anxiety including ocd symptoms. it may or may not help with headaches sometimes it makes headaches worse and probably won't help eye flutters which are called blepherospasms. some of what you describe dizziness and chest pain sound more like symptoms of anxiety. effexor (venlafaxine) may help that as well. one common side effect of effexor (venlafaxine) can be high blood pressure.
what's the association between aspirin & reye syndrome?
in the 60's & 70's a dreadful problem arose in kids with flu or chickenpox who seemed to get better then lapsed into a coma & died of liver failure. after a link to aspirin was found we quit giving it to kids <16 unless they had rare illnesses like kawasaki or jra. there has been a dramatic decline in cases since. those of us who treated cases know it well.
what's the association between aspirin & reye syndrome?
reye's syndrome is a rapidly progressive encephalopathy with associated liver damage which often follows a few days after influenza or zoster infections. the incidence of this complication is associated with aspirin use. the number of cases has declined dramatically since 1980.
what does 'right heart' failure mean?
essentially the right ventricle is weak and pressure within the veins builds up causing fluid to collect in the legs and abdomen. this is a very simplified answer to a much more complex process.
what are the symptoms of left sided heart failure?
the left side of the heart pumps blood throughout your body. when it fails it decreases blood flow to organs. this can cause kidney injury liver injury fatigue shortness of breath with little exertion swelling of the feet and legs fluid build-up in the lungs and difficulty sleeping flat due to shortness of breath. medications and diet are important for this disease!
what r effects of gemfibrozil?
gemfibrozil is used with diet changes (restriction of cholesterol and fat intake) to reduce the amount of cholesterol and triglycerides (other fatty substances) in the blood in certain people with very high triglycerides who are at risk of pancreatic disease (conditions affecting the pancreas a gland that produces fluid to break down food and hormones to control blood sugar).
what are the symptoms of an amniotic fluid embolism?
afe is an extremely rare but typically lethal complication of late pregnancy. usually it is unheralded and manifests with complete cardiovascular collapse requiring immediate advanced cardiac life support to avoid rapid death from bleeding and asystole. if the woman is still pregnant stat delivery may help preserve the fetal life/brain.
what are the symptoms of an amniotic fluid embolism?
this disease can present anytime during pregnancy and up to a few days after delivery. initial presentation is cardiovascular collapse and severe shortness of breath and/or seizures are common.
what are the best tolerated blood pressure medications without side effects? what about diltia xt (diltiazem)?
all blood pressure medications have some side effects. some of the perceived symptoms are drug specifics while many symptoms are related to blood pressure lowering (ie dizziness fatigue). in general diuretics ace inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are well tolerated. common symptoms of diltia xr are constipation; dizziness; facial flushing; headache; lightheadedness; tiredness.
what symptoms of the flu differ from those of a common cold?
generally has fever (102-103) sore throat and achiness all over or in joints. common cold is milder with fewer symptoms and does not have the achiness all over. may have mild sore throat and usually low grade temp if any. get an answer that is personalized to you › disclaimer
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure associated with decreased cardiac output?
the left side of the heart pumps blood throughout your body. when it fails it decreases blood flow to organs. this can cause kidney injury liver injury fatigue shortness of breath with little exertion swelling of the feet and legs fluid build-up in the lungs and difficulty sleeping flat due to shortness of breath. medications and diet are important for this disease!
what are the signs and symptoms of left sided heart failure due associated with decreased cardiac output?
breathlessness especially with exertion. easy fatigability. impaired exercise capacity. these are early signs. without treatment one becomes short of breath resting especially when lying down (orthopnea) and at night (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). eventually the right heart also fails leading to swelling (edema) abdominal fluid (ascites and effusions) and cachexia (wasting).
what are the symptoms associated with abnormal heart rhythms?
there are many different types of abnormal heart rhythms. symptoms associated with abnormally fast heart rhythms include the sense of a racing heart dizziness difficulty breathing sometimes a fluttering feeling in the throat or chest and occasionally fainting.
weird pain in heart /chest area if i sleep on my left side. why? 27 male
to help figure out why sleeping on the l side causes some "weird" chest pain a person should write down details take them to the doctor and lie on the exam table in the problem position to show the doctor. the heart usually doesn't change whether one lies on his r or l. stomach may be a cause because reflux and heartburn changes with position. a chest exam or x-ray can look for a lung problem.
weird pain in heart /chest area if i sleep on my left side. why? 27 male
likely cause reflux which can be aggravated by lying on left side and back. . anatomic position of stomach prevents emptying. best to not lay down within four hours of eating. if persists see physician.
what are the symptoms of acute cardiovascular disease?
depending on which cv disease you mean: heart attack? heart failure? cardiac arrest? etc. very generally heart disease causes one or more of the following: chest pain shortness of breath fluid retention palpitations dizziness or loss of consciousness. (sorry but that's a general answer to a general question).
what are the symptoms of left-sided heart failure?
breathlessness especially with exertion. easy fatigability. impaired exercise capacity. these are early signs. without treatment one becomes short of breath resting especially when lying down (orthopnea) and at night (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). eventually the right heart also fails leading to swelling (edema) abdominal fluid (ascites and effusions) and cachexia (wasting).
what is the treatment for dropsy?
dropsy is a general term for widespread accumulation of fluid/water in tissues. the common causes are heart failure low blood protein due to kidney or liver disease malabsorption nutritional deficiency. the treatment is based on the etiology of the fluid accumulation. each of the disorders causing fluid accumulation has other factors that need to be taken into account for treatment.
what are the tests for pulmonary edema?
edema in the lungs alters the breath sounds on examination with a stethoscope auscultation. chest x-ray also reveals pulmonary edema due to alteration in the shadows of the lung. lab tests to distinguish between edema and pneumonia may include crp bnp and in rare cases examination of brochopulmonary fluid.
what is right heart failure?
blood flows from the veins to be right heart to the lungs to the left heart and back out to the body. when a part of the heart is not functioning blood backstop behind the nonfunctioning segment increasing pressure. when the right heart is not working blood backstop behind the right heart increasing pressure in the veins. this causes venous fluid to drain into the surrounding tissue.
what will be the effect of gemfibrozil?
gemfibrozil is used with diet changes (restriction of cholesterol and fat intake) to reduce the amount of cholesterol and triglycerides (other fatty substances) in the blood in certain people with very high triglycerides who are at risk of pancreatic disease (conditions affecting the pancreas a gland that produces fluid to break down food and hormones to control blood sugar).
where do they run dye for a fluorescein angiography?
a small amount of fluoroscein is injected into the arm / hand. the dye then travels to the retina / choroid and is monitored by looking at the back of the eye.
what are the effects of a chest tube insertion?
if you have a lung that can't expand fully the chest tube helps to allow lung re-exansion. fluid could be blocking expansion and a tube tube removes the fluid. if your lungs have a leak that prevents expansion the negative pressure created by the chest tube suction inside the chest cavity allows the lung to stay expanded until the lung leak can heal itself.
what is fluvoxamine maleate used for?
in the us luvox (fluvoxamine) is approved for social phobia and ocd. in europe it is approve for depression. this doesn't mean that you can't use it for depression but you can't sell it with an indication for depression.
what causes difficulty breathing when lying down?
ongoing problem or recent? fever? chest pain? otherwise sick? age? other health issues? could be anything from carrying excess weight in the midsection (make it difficult to take a deep breath while lying down) to heart failure or fluid in lungs from infection or tumor. you should definitely see a doctor to get this checked out soon.
wakening up at night coughing can't beath now feet are swollen?
if you're having a sudden change in your breathing - 911 to the hospital immediately. if the breathing problems have been gradual over days to weeks especially if it's worse when lying down and you notice your feet swollen we worry about the heart having trouble pumping (and fluid is backing up in the lungs and the rest of your body). time to see your doctor asap to get examined.
what is the difference between hemorrhagic shock & hypovolemic shock?
hypovolemia is mostly from loss of volume that include body fluid not drinking enough and haemorragic shock is from loss of blood volume loss. you can say that haemorragic shock is a type of hypovolemic shock due to blood loss. treatment of hypovolemic shock differ depending on etiology. if its due to fluid loss fluid replacement is the treatment.
what is the medicine maxzide (hydrocholorthiazide and triamterene) for?
maxide is a diruretic used to rid the body of excess fluid and also used as medication to lower blood pressure.
what are the side affects of verapamil (verelan)?
the most common adverse effect is constipation. other adverse effects may be hypotension fluid retention drowsiness and cardiac dysfunction.
why is a person with increased intracranial pressure given the diuretic mannitol?
mannitol is osmotic diuretics so by giving mannitol you remove fluid from body and that also help reducing edema of the brain. as increase brain edema is most of the time responsible for increase intracranial pressure reducing edema help to lower it.
will using lozol help get rid of water retention?
water pills only do so much. the patient does the most important job; salt and fluid restriction. beware of salt in processed food and in bread (recent data). if you don't at least do not mix them! i don't care how much water pills you take you can sabotage their effect with your intake. if you control fluids and salt you may find yourself not in need for water pills.
what are some possible causes of fever with lingering chest pain and no cough?
possible causes-- flu pneumonia bronchitis etc.
what could be some reasons why i experience sharp left-side chest pains when on my stomach during a massage?
if it only occurs while prone on your stomach during your massage it is probably some reflux. try taking a prilosec or prevacid (lansoprazole) before your massage.
what can cause a creatinine increase with a low blood pressure and no other signs or symptoms of kidney disease?
typically fluid losses or blood losses will cause lower bp and the lower bp will cause reduced kidney blood flow and thus creatinine rise. over use of. certain meds will do the same thing. fever and infection can do same. cortisol deficiency can do same.
what causes tge symptoms of naseau stomach flutters and spotting before a heavy menustration flow?
just before your period the level of a hormone called progesterone drops. this brings on your period. it may be these hormone changes that cause your symptoms.
what would cause my potassium to be low with cardiac issues and flank pain? doc said urine looked good. im 24/eat well/do not overly lose fluids
unless you have long standing diarrhea or take water pills you abnormally lose potassium in urine. need to see a nephrologist. it is possible that your adrenal gland secretes more of aldosterone hormone than normal. lab tests would confirm this. there are other possibilities too that need to be ruled out by your doc. it may end up that you will need to take a potassium pill or two long term.
what is danger of primary pulmonary hypertension?
untreated it can be fatal. there are many factors that influence survival such as age sex presence of heart failure etc. thus it is best not to make a general statement before a thorough evaluation. the key is early evaluation and treatment.
what is the worst effect of pulmonary edema?
pulmonary edema is excess fluid in the lungs. it can cause difficultly with breathing low oxygen and may even require a ventilator. it has a whole host of causes and they definitely can be life threatening. have to be very careful with pulmonary edema.
wearing shoes shows me how puffy my feet get. will using diuretic medicines help?
diuretic may remove fluid from your feet but it could also cause severe medical problems.
wearing shoes shows me how puffy my feet get. will using diuretic medicines help?
you should see your primary care physician to determine the cause of the swelling. if the swelling is from fluid retention diuretics diet modification and compression socks are all possible options.
what are the risk factors if simcor (simvastatin and niacin)?
simcor (simvastatin and niacin) is made up of two meds; simvastatin which mostly lowers ldl (bad) cholesterol and niacin which lowers ldl and triglycerides and raises hdl (good) cholesterol. the most likely side effects of simvastatin are an inflammed liver and muscle aches and with niacin an inflammed liver as well as a flushing of the face which can be toned down by taking aspirin 1/2 hour before it.
what is the life expectancy for a person with primary pulmonary hypertension?
there are many factors that influence survival such as age sex presence of heart failure etc. thus it is best not to make a general statement before a thorough evaluation. for example in some studies 85% of patients are alive at two years after diagnosis but if a patient has an episode requiring cpr only 6% survive two years. some keys to survival are early diagnosis and treatment.
what causes chest pain in teens?
many causes. most all probably not serious ie musculoskeletal chest wall or pleurisy acid reflux would be common ones.
what are the effects of chest tube insertion?
chest tubes are inserted to reinflate the lung after surgery or injury has caused them to deflate. they can also be used to drain fluid or pus from around the lung. complications are very rare.
what are some good cholesterol lowering foods to eat?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
would abdominal aorta aneurysm show up on a abdominal x-ray?
most abdominal aortic aneurysms will not show up on a plain x-ray. in fact these may not even show up on a fluoroscopic angiogram (an xray taken with special dye that shows the outline of blood flow in an artery). the best screening test is a duplex ultrasound of the abdomen. infrequently an aneurysm will be calcified and be seen on plain x-ray -- but many more will be missed on x-ray alone!
why does right-sided heart failure causes peripheral edema?
blood from the legs (and rest of the body as well) returns to the right heart by large veins goes through the lungs to oxygenate and then into the left heart from where it is pumped to the rest of the body. when the right heart fails there is build up of back pressure on the veins and fluid seeps and accumulates in the dependent areas which is the legs and the gut.
what are the side effects of plavix (clopidogrel) on your body?
plavix (clopidogrel) is used in patients with coronary artery disease especially acute coronary syndromes and after stunting. side effects include gi problems such as nausea and reflux and can include decreased platelet levels. often patients will experience easy bruising while taking plavix (clopidogrel) and aspirin.
why did i faint after splint removal after my septorhinoplasty?
pain or even the anticipation of pain can cause a temporary imbalance of the autonomic nervous system which normally keeps the heart rate and blood pressure within a certain range. with too much negative influence the heart rate and blood pressure both decrease enough to cause a temporary fainting episode. as the heart rate and blood pressure come back up normal consciousness returns.
what is the difference between achalasia and gerd?
achalasia is a motility disorder in which the esophagus can't coordinate its muscles and trans port food corectly. this can cause food to be stuck and regurgitation. gerd is when gastic contents including acid can reflux back into the esophagus. the gerd can be caused by achalsia.
what are the possible side effects of topiramate or topamax?
constipation; decreased sweating; diarrhea; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth; flu-like symptoms; headache; loss of appetite; nausea; nervousness; numbness or tingling of the skin; runny nose; sore throat; stomach pain or upset; taste changes; tiredness; trouble sleeping; weight loss.
which are side effects of simvastatin for the cholesterol?
cholesterol (? $ but misleading): a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) fundamental to survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). study: nusi. org lustig.
why does my heart flutter every so often?
everybody's heart does a flipflip once in a while more in caffeine users; we call this a premature ventricular contraction and unless you have more than 5 per minute or a run of them or have pain or faint it's a non-problem. if by flutter you mean episodes of the heart racing and perhaps taking your breath away it's probably supraventricular tachycardia. ask your physician. good luck.
what is the trouble chronic venous insufficiency and what do people have to do to prevent it early on?
terminology can be confusing. there is venous insufficiency (vi) or venous reflux as dr. gotvald said and there is chronic venous insufficiency (cvi). cvi indicates that you have had severe reflux for a long time and there is already damage. on the other hand although reflux is genetically determined and no preventable if you have vi prevention of progression to cvi might be possible.
what is the trouble chronic venous insufficiency and what do people have to do to prevent it early on?
venous insufficiency or chronic venous reflux is a condition in which the valves within the veins are weak and defective allowing blood to stagnate or "pool" with the veins rather than flowing efficiently. this can be caused by a genetic problem with the valves or damage from blood clots. you can sometime prevent it through wearing support stockings and with regular exercise normal body weight.
what is the trouble chronic venous insufficiency and what do people have to do to prevent it early on?
veins return blood to the heart. cvi occurs when there is reduced flow or pooling in leg veins causing leg swelling inflammation & ulceration. the most common cause is when the one-way valves don't work well leading to venous reflux or back flow with blood pooling in the veins. this can result from genetic predisposition pregnancy injuries or blood clots. see a vein specialist for help.
what is chronic venous insufficiency? how do you get it?
chronic venous insufficiency is due to the back flow of blood in the veins usually in the lower extremities. back flow is usually protected by valves in the veins that become faulty over time allowing blood to pool. this increases the pressure of blood in the veins and fluid (and a small amount of blood) leaks into the tissues causing swelling pain inflammation and on the skin ulcerations.
what is chronic venous insufficiency? how do you get it?
veins return blood to the heart. cvi occurs when there is reduced flow or pooling in leg veins causing leg swelling inflammation & ulceration. the most common cause is when the one-way valves don't work well leading to venous reflux or back flow with blood pooling in the veins. this can result from genetic predisposition pregnancy injuries or blood clots. see a vein specialist.
what is the relationship between hypovolemic shock and kidney stones?
there should not be a relationship between these conditions but chronic hypovolemia or low fluid intake per ie less than 1. 5 liters per day is one of the risk factors for development of kidney stones.
what is the normal urine output in a case of hypovolemic shock? what are the doctors looking for?
oliguria or low urine output is defined as less than approximately 350 cc/day. anuria or absence of urine is less than 50 cc day. either of these conditions can occur in hypovolemic shock. treatment of this condition usually requires large amounts of iv fluids and i usually would like to see at least 100/cc of urine per hour to indicate adequate repletion of volume losses.
what relationship exists between cardiovascular diseases and the circulatory system? is it just clogging of the arteries?
high blood pressure can also cause the heart to work harder and result in hypertrophy (ballooning) of the heart muscle. high blood pressure is not always the result of clogging of the arteries. it can also be caused by too much fluid volume due to salt intake and by stress.
what causes hypovolemic shock?
this can be either from excessive diarrhea blood loss or sometimes from diuretic use. there may be many other causes but usually fluid losses in the range of 4-5 liters are required.
why would my ob ask me to get a nonstress test? i'm 36 weeks and having occasional contractions.
there are several indications for fetal surveillance (non-stress testing and amniotic fluid index or afi vs. bpp or full biophysical profile) once or twice weekly after 32 weeks in general. only your doctor can explain your condition on the basis of your history and examination however fetal surveillance in general has helped decrease the perinatal fetal loss rate in the us despite comorbidities.
will flu postpone my heart bypass surgery?
yes.
what is the postop recovery like for an infant with double outlet right ventricle?
your physicians will monitor your child's cardiac function and exam regulate intake of fluids and electrolytes and evaluate whether the oxygen and co2 levels in the bloodstream are normal. edema or swelling in the extremities face neck and other areas of the body may indicate a problem with right ventricular function. the management will also include cardiology in addition to your picu group.
what are the symptoms of right sided heart failure in a younger person?
the cause of the right sided failure wil influence the symptoms course of the disease and treatment. right heart failure in a younger person may be from untreated sleep apnea w/ seconadry pulmonary hypertension a pulmonary embolus can cause acute s/s primary pulmonary hypertension can. the pt usually has lower extremity edema perhapse acites with abdominal pain/ poor apetite.
what is the difference between chf and cardiogenic shock?
shock is a very severe circulatory impairment where the body isn't getting the cardiac output it needs to function. cardiogenic shock is when the heart is the cause of the shock. chf is a less severe heart dysfunction characterized by fluid retention in the lungs and sometimes peripheral tissues. cardiogenic shock can be the end stage of chf.
what is the difference between chf and cardiogenic shock?
chf means inability of the heart to meet the necessary blood supply to the body and results in fluid congestion due to inadequate forward flow of blood from the heart and build up of back pressure. cardiogenic shock is an extreme form of chf where the blood flow from the heart is so poor it results in low blood pressure and damage to multiple organs from lack of blood supply (hence lack of o2.
women do you ever get a flutter in your abdomen that feels like a small baby kick?
bloating fluttering fullness altered stooling may reflect diet (check your fiber intake) alterations in healthy gut flora we each carry food intolerances maldigestion due to problems of the small intestine pancreas or biliary tree changes in gi motility (how well your gi tract mixes and moves food along) various infections and even irritable bowel syndrome. testing is easy.
why does my wife have chest pains while she sleeps?
chest pain at rest needs a full evaluation. nocturnal aggravation of gerd or acid esophageal reflux is a common cause. cardiac conditions need to be rule out. finally anxiety disorder may cause chest tightness but it's a diagnosis of exclusion
why is my foot still swollen when ankle swelling is almost gone from diuretic use?
probably you still have some excess fluid. feet being the most dependent ( lower most) part of the body are the the last to show improvement in swelling (law of gravity). however talk to your doctor if the feet swelling are persistent.
why do lymph nodes swell up?
the lymph nodes can be thought of as outposts for white blood cells. when there is an infection or inflammation in the area where a lymph node is draining fluid from the white blood cells start to build up to fight it. this causes swelling in that node.
what is cardizem er and what does it do?
cardizem er ( extended release) are calcium channel blockers most often used for hypertension and also given for atrial fibrillation flutter and sometimes for supraventricular tachycardia.
what is the long term effects of taking heart burn medication like prilosec? i heard it can thin your hair? is this true? any other long term effects?
long term use of proton pump inhibitors like prilosec can decrease your ability to digest and absorb food. . therefore they may lead to bone loss and vitamin/mineral deficiencies. please see your doctor to discuss reflux and other treatments.
what are the symptoms of achalasia?
difficulty swallowing regurgitation reflux weight loss vomiting endoscopy is performed to exclude a malignancy of the esophagus. x-rays often demonstrate a narrowing or birds beak of the distal esophagus. manometry is diagnostic. laparoscopic surgery with a heller myotomy is highly effective treatment.
what am i to expect after infant heart surgery for avsd?
after surgery for a avsd your child will be taken to the intensive care unit where he or she will recover. your child will likely have a breathing tube on a ventilator and many have tubes such as intravenous (iv) and arterial lines that will allow fluid and medication administration and monitoring. the breathing tube and lines will be taken out as your child's condition improves.
what are the signs of? a ventricular septal defect?
a vsd is a hole between the bottom two pumping chambers of the heart. symptoms are usually based on age and size. a young infant born with a large vsd can progressive to congestive heart failure. the right ventricle receives extra blood flow from the left and sends it to the lungs resulting in fluid overload. some medications used are lasix (furosemide) to manage medically as infant gains weight before surgery.
when i was thinking about something that made me feel depressed and stressed out i felt my heart flutter what does this mean?
it sounds like anxiety or what are known as panic attacks. it is possible though you could have another problem called mitral valve prolapse. or it isn't uncommon to have both. seek an evaluation with a qualified physician and good luck.
what is and how would a procedure called chest tube drainage be handled?
it is a tube inserted into chest cavity around the lung to drain air or fluid/blood/pus. after it is inserted the amount of fluid removed daily along with type of fluid plus almost daily chest x-ray will tell your doctor when it is ready to come out. in case of air leakage they will wait for air to stop before pulling it out as long as your x ray looks good.
what can prevent someone that had heart surgery from getting fluid in the lungs?
fluid in the lungs after heart surgery is usually due to congestive heart failure. chf is not an uncommon complication depending on the condition before surgery and the type of operation but it can be managed efficiently and well by the surgical team. follow their advice take medicines as prescribed don't smoke and you'll have done all you can do.
what are things i should eat or avoid because of high cholesterol and lipids?
cholesterol (? $ but misleading): a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) fundamental to survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). study: nusi. org lustig.
what should i do if you are breathless wheezy cough and dizzy after coughing?
these are breathing test done as an out patient which determine is you have functional breathing disorders. you should also be checked for acid reflux.
what should i do if my heart fluttered several times. what does it mean?
first & most important is to find the cause so it can be treated. consult your pcp for evaluation.
what are the chances of having more then one child with hypoplastic left heart syndrome?
the genetic influences on heart formation/defects are complex and located on several separate chromosomes. the risk of you having another kid with any heart defect (there are lots of them) is about 4% while that of the same defect is incredibly small.
why can't you take anti-depressants with heart medications such as cardizem la?
some antidepressants like prozac (fluoxetine) etc interfere with the metabolism of cardizem and other calcium-channel blockers. so any side effects could worsen because more drug is staying in you longer.
will daily use of allergy medicine prevent the flu or common cold?
allergy medications have no role in preventing or treating flu or cold.
what causes slight flutters in the eyelids. how can they be stopped?
fatigue anxiety tension and stress have been associated with causing fluttering eye lids. resolving these issues usually allows this to abate. correcting a refractive error also will help.
waht causes pulmonary edema?
anything that allows fluid to leak from the blood or lymphatics into the lung tissue and air spaces. infection heart failure sever protein malnutrition trauma kidney failure etc can all do it. overwhelming the hydrostic equilibrium or decreasing the oncotic pressure all allow fluid to move into the lung.
waht causes pulmonary edema?
pulmonary edema can be caused by many things - but by far however the most common cause is heart failure. in this scenario - the left side of the heart cannot keep up with demand and essentially fluid "backs up" into the lungs (this is an oversimplification and doesn't discuss lymphatic flow the starling curve oncotic pressure etc. etc. ) but we only have 400 characters here.
where can i buy niacin that will not flush my face?
you can buy this at most health food stores or of course online. there are 2 forms of niacin that do not cause flushing. one is time-released niacin. however this form has an increased risk of elevating liver enzymes so if taking one should get blood tests of liver function periodically. inositol hexanicotinate is called no-flush niacin & is safer but may not work as well- see my comment:.
where can i buy niacin that will not flush my face?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use. buy at health food store.
why does increased salt intake make blood pressure go up?
volume of circulatory system is fixed. increased salt causes retention of fluid which expands against the fixed system.
why would my legs sometimes ache immediately when using a saline enema for consitpation? i do not have high blood pressure?
how often do you use enemas or laxatives for constipation? too frequent use can lower potassium levels which can cause leg cramps. magnesium may similarly be lost & cause cramps. increasing dietary fiber (& using fiber supplements) with plenty of fluids should keep bms regular. for potassium eat bananas kiwi strawberries; for both minerals: cilantro beans sun-dried tomatoes nuts etc.
what is the differance between niacinamide and flush-free niacin?
the niacinamide form of niacin is a b vitamin (it's in your cereal) which does not lower cholesterol like the nicotinic acid form of niacin. since nicotinic acid causes flushing makers have tried changing the formulation so it's "flush-free" but will still lower cholesterol. the active ingredient of your cholesterol-lowering niacin preparation should always be nicotinic acid.
what are signs and symptoms of the flu versus the common cold?
most people have frequent "cold" which are usually caused by rhinovirus adenoviruses and others small viruses - the body usually confines these to the upper respiratory tract and usually fights them off in 2-5 days. over 5-10 days the flu can spread down into the lungs causes high fevers muscle pain joint pain and more rarely lead to severe pneumonia requiring ventilator support and death.
what can cause a fast heartbeat and dizziness?
anything from anxiety or dehydration to a serious abnormal heart rhythm. a fast heart rate and dizziness is something that should be evaluated right away unless you know it's due to anxiety or it's from dehydration that you can fix by drinking fluids. it can be useful to measure your heart rate and to find out whether it's regular and steady irregular with a pattern or completely random.
why do i feel breathless after my liver surgery?
one is pain from the incision causing you to take shallow breaths and resulting in partial lung collapse (atelectasis). the other is development of fluid in the pleural cavity (effusion) limiting the expansion of the lung. either one other or both can be reasons for your symptoms.
why is it bad for a person with high blood pressure to eat a lot of salt?
salt causes fluid retention because the sodium is higher and it causes the serum osmolality to be higher which brings in more water to the vessels of the body. this makes the blood pressure higher and the body must excrete more fluid to get it lower. so salt intake must be minimal. it also helps to give a diuretic as this increases urine exretion and so lowers blood pressure.
what would cause pain up the back of the neck and top of head and heaviness feel on head after a mini stroke?
the first thing coming to mind with this symptom complex is subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). that means bleeding into the fluid spaces overlying the surface of the brain & spinal cord. sah is very serious & often a warning sign of potentially fatal problems. see your doctor immediately!
what is pericarditis?
pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue covering of the heart. it is commonly caused by viruses and sometimes other infections or inflammatory diseases. there are other causes also. the viral form generally goes away itself but can recur. other forms may need special treatment like drainage of the pericardial sac to remove fluid if it interferes with heart function.
what cold medications are safe to take while on cardizem?
be careful of taking decongestants - either nasally or orally- if taking meds to lower your blood pressure. these decongestants can cause your blood pressure to go up or increase. drinking lots of fluids hot steam inhalation and using saline nasal sprays are all appropriate.
what could be a cause of swollen lymph nodes on the neck?
most common cause is a nearby infection or irritation causing the lymph nodes to enlarge such as cold flu sore throat ear ache or dental/tooth problems. sometimes scalp irritation can also cause enlarged cervical lymph nodes. less common is lymphoma. would need to see your doctor if the lymph nodes persist and do not resolve.
what is an episode of pheochromocytoma like?
these are tumors of the adrenal gland which secrete hormones that basically raise blood pressure. can have episodic very high blood pressure fast heart rate skin flushing headaches. easy to test for with blood or urine tests.
what could be causing both of my feet to swell up?
there are many causes of foot swelling in adults. all of them require a professional to check them out to see which is causing the problem. these could include high blood pressure retention of fluid from kidney problems congestive heart failure as well other metabolic conditions. get a good physical for your own protection. cong.
what's the role of the pericardium?
the pericardium is a lining around the heart muscle. its function is of little value but it is thought to be a barrier against foreign bodies or proteins that might harm the heart muscle. its only significance is when the pericardium is inflammed as in pericarditis or when fluid builds up around the heart and collects between the heart and pericardium and can cause heart failure.
what can be the explanation if i've got chest tightness (1 week now) and shortness of breath?
if you have chest tightness and sob you probably have asthma. but you need a thorough check up before any conclusions. other reasons may be heart problems acid reflux bronchitis etc.
what should i do if i have a blister on my back gum sore lymph node and it hurts to swallow?
you likely have a viral infection. push fluids take ibuprofen for the pain (if it's safe for you to take) and monitor for worsening or fevers. you may also want to consider topical sprays like chloraseptic for the throat/blister pain. if your symptoms worsen seek care.
why do i get chest pain while doing physical activity followed by burping?
it could be coronary heart disease (chd) -- blockages in the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle. the chest pain and burping could also be something else such as acid reflux. i recommend discussing this with a physician soon. if it is chd medications can be used to relieve the symptoms and to prevent a heart attack. a stress test can help to determine if the condition is severe.
what could be causing the chest pain?
chestwall itself esophagus/stomache lungs heart pancreas and even liver problems can cause chest pain. in the young more likely chestwall itself or reflux is causing pain. as we get older heart disease becomes more common cause of concern. since u gave only limitted info it is diiffult to tell what you have. please repost a more specific question or consult your doc. good luck.
what are some treatments for chronic nausea due to congestive heart failure?
chf leads to poorly oxygenated organs causing shortness of breath less ability to do same activity as used to many systemic sx such as fatigue loss of appetite. nausea weakness. first. doc must establish that something else isn't causing nausea (side effect of med gastritis reflux of acid) and rx that. but key is optimizing rx (right combo meds low salt intake mild exercise) of the chf.
why do i get charlie horse in my legs and feet when on hctz (hydrochlorothiazide)?
potassium deficiency. often times a doc gives a patient potassium supplements. speak to your doc as fluctuations in potassium can have an effect on cardiac function.
what's the process involved in having a shunt operation due to hydrocephalus?
the shunt for hydrocephalus simply takes fluid from an area of the brain where too much has accumulated and allows it to drain easily into another part of the body usually the tissues inside the abdomen. to place it the surgeon puts and anchors one end of a valved tube in the fluid area of the brain and the other in the abdomen.
what foods lower cholesterol?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
why do i sometimes get chest pains before a bowel movement?
straining to have a bowel movement increases abdominal pressure and can result in gastric reflux which causes heartburn.
what are the common cause chest pressure?
common causes- musculoskeletal heart related acid reflux esophageal spasm pleurisy aortic aneurysm etc.
what does it mean when the left side of your chest hurts? lung or heart?
generally if left sideof chest hurts we rule out any heart problem you may have. you may also have a lung problem/musculoskeletal/acid reflux/hiatal hernia etc. appropriate tests will identify the cause.
what are the common causes of chest pain and limb pain?
common causes of chest pain- musculoskeletal heart related pleurisy acid reflux hiatal hernia esophageal spasm etc arm pain could be musculoskeletal neuropathic heart attacks neuralgia arthritis etc.
what is the correct way to use saline nasal spray?
isotonic saline spray can be used several times a day to flush out offending pathogens and allergens. saline irrigations especially if hypertonic should be used on an intermittent basis.
what does it mean to have swollen ankles and low blood pressure?
right sided heart failure and low cardiac output can cause ankle swelling. the gravity pressure on the venous system the heart cannot pull the fluid up the legs this can cause fluid to move out of the vascular system and into the tissues around the legs and feet .
what % blood in the atria actually needs to be pushed out of the heart?
rt atrium confluence of superior and infrior vena cava pushes through tricuspid; rt vent powers flow through pulm circ. to l. atrium. it empties into lv through mitral valve. lv ejection is usually what is measured. not atrial emptying. inadequate = lv failure and back up of flow into la pulm circ. la wedge pressure a sign of lv diastolic failure.
what are the effects of the chemo drug octreotide?
it is a form of somatostatin which is used to treat symptoms from carcinoid syndrome such as severe diarrhea itch severe flushing. it has many other uses outside of oncology. it also is used for scaning for spread of carcinoid and other tumors associated with a neuroendocrine function it can affect the thyroid glucose control heart rate as side effects.
what is the best way to handle a head cold?
head cold is caused by viral infecton and is self limited and gets better without treatment within a week. for symptomatic relief you should drink extra fluid and for congestion you can take over the counter decongestants and mucinex (guaifenesin) dm for cough if you have cough. there is no role of antibiotics for head cold.
what are the symptoms of williams syndrome?
delayed speech that may later turn into strong speaking ability and strong learning by hearing developmental delay easily distracted attention deficit disorder (add) feeding problems including colic reflux and vomiting inward bend of the small finger (clinodactyly) learning disorders mild to moderate mental retardation personality traits including being very friendly trusting strangers fearin.
what do i do when i feel dizzy alot?
get up slowly. drink fluids. see your doctor. frequent dizziness is typically the sign of a problem that needs to be looked at like anemia.
what? causes? the patent ductus arteriosus?
the pda is a critical vessel that allows the blood to bypass the lungs and get to the placenta while babys are still inside in mom's uterus. the lungs are full of amniotic fluid and don't do any gas exchange (o2 delivery and co2 release) eveyone is born with a pda it persists. open (patent) most commonly in premature babies. there is no absolute answer as to why it stays open in some people.
what are the signs of water retention?
mild sodium/fluid retention is seen as "bags" under eyes after laying down or as swelling in lower extremities after standing. common even in younger people if they have eaten a fair amount of salt or had to stand motionless for prolonged periods. swelling up the leg is more advanced retention. if retention due to left heart failure fluid can back up into lungs causing breathlessness.
what is congestive heart failure?
a normal heart will eject (ef) about 60% of blood from main chamber (left ventricle) out aorta and feeds entire body with oxygenated blood. when this muscle chamber size of fist develops weakness of some of it's walls (heart attack eg) or is constricted (pericarditis) etc then it starts failing ef decreases backup pressure develops fluid builds up in lungs or legs and chf has occurred.
what is congestive heart failure?
is exactly what is says it is. you usually have congestion in the chest caused by blood/fluid backing up in your lung. and that is because the patient has a failing heart - either because it has a very weak muscle like in systolic heart failure when the ejection fraction
what is congestive heart failure?
chf is when the heart is not pumping the blood adequately out of the heart into the aorta and the blood backs up causing the lungs to fill with fluid due to the increase in hydrostatic pressures. for class iii or class iv chf - eecp is recommended.
will you get breathing problems from inhaling windshield washer fluid?
unsure but this is a terrible idea if done intentionally (like huffing to get high). don't do it.
what are the best medicines to prevent recurrence of viral myocarditis?
it is sad to say but we do not have any medicaction to prevent viral myocarditis. we actually have very few medication to treat viral infections--only available for hiv herpes/chickenpox hepb/c and influenza. fortunately these disease don't cause much problems with myocarditis except hiv. hiv can be treated. get vaccines for influenza/chicken pox/hepb. best is to keep healthy! . good luck.
will blood pressure fluctuate throughout the day?
yes it can fluctuate in seconds.
what is the most frightening newly discovered disease (say in 2012)?
i think the potential for a worldwide pandemic of a more virulent influenza (h1n1) remains the most frightening "new" disease this year (and next). influenza has proven that it can mutate to make itself more deadly and we have seen worrisome variants that are more severe. if a variant gives the more severe form of the virus the ability to transmit easily the result could be a pandemic.
what's pulmonary edema made of?
usually a more or less protein rich fluid leaking out of blood vessels in the lungs depending on the cause.
what's pulmonary edema made of?
cardiogenic pulmonary edema is made of fluid backing up from the heart and filling the lungs; non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema is made of inflammatory fluids produced in the lungs in response to infection and many other noxious stimuli.
what does the surgical procedure of achalasia involve?
which means cutting of the muscle sphincter at the bottom of the esophagus. a partial "wrap" or anti reflux procedure is usually added.
what are some good salt substitutions if you have a lot of fluid retention?
some people use ms. dash or lemon citric acid flavored vinegars or other household spices - ginger pepper cumin etc. to keep their food lively. potassium chloride is available at most supermarkets as well and tastes pretty close. it is often marketed as a salt substitute. excess potassium would not be good if you had advanced kidney disease though.
what's a trivial pericardial effusion?
we all have small amounts of fluid in the pericardial sac around the heart. think of motor oil for valves in engine which lubricates surfaces ti reduce friction. if we can see this on an echocardiogram we will frequently say trivial effusion.
will vitamin b3 wprks to cure acne in face and all over the body?
i'm skeptical but it is likely a harmless experiment. but beware b3 can really make your skin 'flush' and may create a whole new (transient) skin issue! let us know how it works.
what could cause low blood pressure?
for the average person the most common cause of low bp is from dehydration--not getting enough fluids/foods. for elderly this is even more common. also medications can also do this. autonomic dysfunctions as in parkinson disease or advanced diabetes; heart failure liver failure rapid blood loss/bleeding etc. are other major causes. if you have problem consult doc. good luck.
will taking aspirin lead to reye syndrome?
although we do not know exactly why reye syndrome occurs but often following viral illness such as flu chicken-pox and some viral upper respiratory infections and use of aspirin during these illnesses. this is syndrome is rather rare but there are now many alternatives to control fever during illnesses and so use of aspirin in children is not recommended. consult doc. good luck.
will taking aspirin lead to reye syndrome?
we first saw reye syndrome in the late 60's and 70's but the frequency declined after it was linked to aspirin. it was uncommon & most often seen after flu or chickenpox. we began encouraging parents to avoid aspirin under the age of 16 and the condition is now quite rare. we still use aspirin in kids in limited conditions where it is a preferred drug. i would't worry about an adult taking it.
what are the best ways to get bad of a really bad head cold?
lots of fluids and rest. to stay more comfortable use salin spays to relieve stuffy nose and perhaps an otc cough medicine.
what can cause chest pain other than cardiac issues?
some causes costochondritis muscle strain esophageal spasm acid reflux gall bladder disease pleurisy pulmonary embolism etc.
what could cause fluid retention and thyroid fluctuation?
hypothyroidism can cause fluid retention. sometimes thyroid problems are associated with other autoimmune disorders affecting kidneys. this would cause fluid retention as well. certain gi problems like celiac disease could also lead to malabsorption which could cause fluctuation in fluid status.
will famvr help fight the common cold or flu?
famciclovir is used to treat herpes zoster (shingles; a rash that can occur in people who have had chickenpox in the past). it is also used to treat repeat outbreaks of herpes virus cold sores or fever blisters & genital herpes. it doesn't cure herpes infections and may not stop the spread of herpes virus to other people.
what can pressure in my chest mean?
it could be a heart problem. this would be what most people would want to rule out first. it could be reflux disease or heartburn. you could have gall bladder disease causing chest pain or pressure. esophageal abnormalities could be the source as well. occasionally a pulmonary source could be the reason for chest pressure as well including infections.
what are the common causes of chest flutters or sinking?
anxiety & arrythmias would be 2 common ones. talk to your physician and get evaluated.
what might be causing this sharp pain in my chest?
causes of chest pain: emergent causes: needing immediate attention- heart attack aneurysm clot in the lungs pneumonia or pleurisy cholecystitis non urgent causes: esophageal spasm acid reflux costochondritis musculoskeletal causes intercostal neuralgia check with your doctor.
why if you smoke for a long time do you have shortness of breath?
if you smoke particles of partially burned paper and tobacco leaves (tars) & carbon monoxide build up in your lungs. over time the breathing tubes & the alveolae thicken and fill with gooey fluid decreasing the efficiency of gas exchange. so one becomes short of breath with minor activities since there's not much oxygen available to the blood. the best time to stop smoking is now.
what might cause a heart to feel like it is skipping a beat or is fluttering when i go to sleep?
please see a dr with this symptom asap.
what are the symptoms of the flu and the common cold?
according to mayo clinic flu sxs may include “fever over 100f (38c) aching muscles especially in your back arms and legs chills & sweats headache dry cough fatigue and weakness nasal congestion. ” common cold symptoms include: cough congestion watery eyes sneezing sore throat mild headache low grade fever & mild body aches.
what are the symptoms of the flu and the common cold?
flu can include: fever cough sore throat runny or stuffy nose body aches headache chills extreme fatigue and sometimes vomiting and diarrhea. if progresses and worsens respiratory distress and worse. colds can have the same but usually not extreme fatigue muscle aches and chills.
what can i do if i am recovering from the type a flu and having breathing problems?
if you have breathing troubles get to an er to be evaluated immediately.
what causes noncardiac chest pain?
many things can cause non-cardiac chest pain. anxiety and stress esophageal disorders stomach disorders reflux disease pulmonary diseases like copd asthma pleuritis pneumonia pulmonary embolism herpes zoster costrochondritis just to name a few.
what causes noncardiac chest pain?
most things in the chest can hurt if they are irritated or injured. knowing that is is noncardiac ie not the heart is good. but if pain lasts see your doctor and get it evaluated. you may have gastric reflux pericarditis pleurisy. some are minor some may be issues that need treatment.
what is the fluid that fills the pericardial sac?
ben-horin et al. (2005) studied the composition of pericardial fluid in patients undergoing open heart surgery. they found that the fluid is made up of a high concentration of lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) protein and lymphocytes. in a healthy adult there is usually 15-50ml of clear straw-coloured fluid. however there is little data on the normal composition of pericardial fluid to serve as a refe.
what are the differences between the symptoms for heat stroke and heat exhaustion?
what is the difference between heat stroke and heat exhaustion they are on the same track. this often occurs when one starts out behind in their overall body fluid balance. but it could occur if anyone at any time with the right circumstances. generally one has spent time in the hot sun or in a very hot environment while not keeping up with their water intake. many times already starting out partially dehydrated. what happens next is a continuum of symptoms. it might start with fatigue headache weakness dizziness or even fainting. other symptoms could include nausea and vomiting infusion excessive thirst muscle cramping and aching a slow or weakening heartbeat. the patient may also become drenched in sweat. if the above patient is untreated and the symptoms are unrecognized the progression of the symptoms would go from what's described above (heat exhaustion) to what is known as a heat stroke. so to simply put it a heat stroke would generally be a continuation and worsening of the symptoms described above. by the time a person has a heat stroke they have often gone from profusely sweating to not sweating it all from a slow and weak heart rate to a very rapid heart rate from a normal temperature to a very elevated temperature such as 104 -106°f. the patient is generally going to be very confused as they can also be with heat exhaustion. the patient may also have what we refer to as delirium to go along with their confusion and many times though even have a seizure. this is clearly a medical emergency and no time should be wasted in getting that person to the emergency room.
what can it mean when your peck muscle is fluttering?
usually nothing whatsoever especially if it's just one msucle. you may have bench-pressed really well and torn a nerve twig that's healing.
what is a patent ductus arteriosus?
a ductus arteriosus is a vessel that allows babies to survive while in utero. . it allows blood to bypass the lungs which are full of amniotic fluid and get to the placenta where gas exchange occurs. a patent ductus arteriosus is simply a vessel that has not closed (patent) once born the lungs relax and the pressures fall. as such extra blood goes to the lungs inefficient work for the heart.
which has less cholesterol mustardoil or sunflower oil?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what impacts does draining flood from around the heart cause?
a pericardial effusion refers to fluid around the heart. if there is a significant amount it can lead to a condition known as cardiac tamponade which prevents the heart from working normally. draining the fluid can restore normal function and may be life-saving.
what impacts does draining flood from around the heart cause?
the heart is "wrapped" with a layer of tissue called the pericardium. when blood or other fluid gets between the heart and its "wrapping" (it does look a bit like plastic wrap! ) this puts a tremendous workload on the heart. imagine trying to blow up a balloon. under water! once the fluid is removed the heart no longer has to work so hard to "re-inflate" after it pumps.
what cause chest pain?
there are many things that can cause chest pain but usually it is acid reflux arthritis of the ribs anxiety & much less commonly hardening of the arteries or inflammation of the heart coverings = pericarditis tumors splitting apart of the main outflow blood vessel of the heart = aortic dissection. get checked out by your primary care doctor or a cardiologist. hrs md www. thepmc. org.
what causes rib pain when i breathe deeply or bend over?
deep breathing that causes pain can be muscular a spasm or strain or pleuritic fluid in the lung lining space. anti inflamatories can fix both.
what is fluid in the heart chambers?
it seems like you have congestive heart failure. cut down fluid intake and take a diuretics get an heart echocardiogram done to check ejection fraction and leaky valve.
what is fluid in the heart chambers?
i suspect you mean congestive heart failure. this disease means the heart is not pumping effectively and less than 50% is being pumped out with each beat.
what could cause fluttering and twitches in the lower stomach near uterus?
could you be pregnant?
what can i do about occasional and momentary chest pain?
chest pain can be due to an heart attack esophagitis acid reflux musculoskeletal problems gall bladder disease pericarditis pneumonia pleurisy etc. check with your doctor.
what could cause a teenage girl to have chest soreness and coughing?
chest pain can be due to an heart attack esophagitis acid reflux musculoskeletal problems gall bladder disease pericarditis pneumonia pleurisy etc. check with your doctor.
why is my mom in and out of a-fib? remember she has copd chf and is a diabetics not on a lot of diuretics because kidneys act up with them and has fluid retention.
if the heart rate is below 100 even when there is a fib we do not treat it. make sure she is on her blood thinners. if she has fluid retention despite on diuretics she needs to be hospitalized for aggressive therapy. talk to the doctor.
why is my mom in and out of a-fib? remember she has copd chf and is a diabetics not on a lot of diuretics because kidneys act up with them and has fluid retention.
ask your pcp or cardiologist whether it is related to her heart condition diabetes or other causes. make sure that your mom has had a thyroid test. is your mother on blood thinners to prevent stroke? <link>
what causes difficulty breathing after eating spicy food?
reflux from increased stomach acid is most likely cause.
what can cause chest pain during breathing?
chest pain can be due to an heart attack esophagitis acid reflux musculoskeletal problems gall bladder disease pericarditis pneumonia pleurisy etc. check with your doctor.
what drugs are used for fluid retention?
fluid retention can have many different causes but one strategy is to treat with diuretics. these drugs act on the kidney to help eliminate fluid by increasing urine production. lasix (furosemide) is a common diuretic one of several types. thiazides (hctz) carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (acetezolamide) potassium sparing diuretics (spironolactone) & osmotic diuretics (mannitol) are examples.
what could cause heart burn at such a young age?
reflux can occur at any age. long term reflux can be a serious problem. an upper gi and possibly an egd. h pylori blood test should also be done. go see your doctor for a full physical and bloodwork.
what could cause chest pain under the breast bone?
chest pain can be due to an heart attack esophagitis acid reflux musculoskeletal problems gall bladder disease pericarditis pneumonia pleurisy etc. check with your doctor.
what are other alternative treatment for lung cancer with extreme shortness of breath if the oxygen treatment is not effective as it used to be?
more oxygen or morphine/derivatives to help with the shortness of breath. also depends on how exactly the cancer is causing the shortness of breath - is the patient getting treatment - chemo or radiation; is there fluid to be drained or an obstructed airway to be opened? is there infection (antibiotics) or concomitant emphysema (nebulizers steroids) - talk to your doctors.
what are the compensated decompensated and irreversible stages of hypovolemic shock?
comoensated means bp hasn't fallen yet. decompensated means bp has fallen & irreversible means death is imminent. key to hypovolemua is fluid either iv saline or blood products depending upon the reason.
what're the tests for idiopathic intracranial hypertension?
the most direct test is to measure pressure in the spinal fluid. this is done with a spinal tap and pressure measuring column. the fluid column is measured and then the fluid is drained off. just draining the fluid can relieve symptoms. analysis of the fluid would rule out more serious conditions. this procedure is easily performed in a doctor's office or emergency room.
what could cause chest pains pain when breathing and trouble swallowing?
you describe three separate and possibly unrelated symptoms. i am not sure about the pain when breathing but chest pain and trouble swallowing may be associated with reflux of acid from the stomach so-called gerd. pain when breathing may be related to muscle tenderness. obviously chest pain could be more serious and needs a diagnosis by your primary care physician.
what could cause wildly fluctuating blood pressure?
anxiety inadequate medication withdrawl effects from certain medications such as clonidine which may not be administered frequently enough to last 24 hours and excess salt intake are some of the causes. rarely conditions such as pheochromocytoma (tumours secreting adrenaline) can cause fluctuating and episodic high blood pressure.
what could cause wildly fluctuating blood pressure?
salt intake is number one. pain. activity. hormonal disturbances. emotional issues. monitor your bp for a while keep a record remember the circumstances and see your doctor.
what's causing my pain in my chest area? i get the pain sometimes during the day but i seem to always get it in the evening time
chest pain can be due to several reasons some can be serioius. without knowing your age it is difficult to tell you the cause but these are some of the common causes of chest pain 1 chest wall pain muscular or costochondritis 2 esophageal reflux disease 3 cardiac angina amd myocardial unsufficiency aortic dissection&pericarditis 4 from lungs like pleurisy and pnemonia pulmonary embolism.
when someone has end stage renal failure how long can they typically be expected to live if they do not get dialysis or transplant? 92 y/o with chf.
chf and impaired renal function are difficult to deal with because improving one makes the other worse. it is a fine line between reducing fluid to help the heart failure but keeping enough to keep the kidney function from getting worse. dialysis may be the best answer. see his nephrologist for an answer.
what is pathophysiology polyhydramnions cause hypertension?
polyhydramnios is an over abundance of amniotic fluid. there are many causes including fetal anomalies diabetes and an unknown. a good ultrasound examining the fetus for abnormalities is indicated. polyhydramnios does not usually cause hypertension in the mother. that is more commonly due to either underlying high blood pressure or developing pre-eclampsia.
what could cause belly button leakage and bleeding also with abdomenal pressure blockage affecting heart and breathing.?
the most common cause of belly button leakage is recent surgery usually laparoscopic done through the belly button. however if you haven't had surgery then it's likely a urachal cyst that is draining. depending on it's size it can be treated in a surgeon's office with simple cauterization of the of the tissue inside the cyst that produces the fluid or it may require resection of the cyst.
what could cause belly button leakage and bleeding also with abdomenal pressure blockage affecting heart and breathing.?
i am concerned about you. fluid and bleeding at your belly button with additional abdominal symptoms (pressure distension) and systemic symptoms (fast heart rate short of breath) means you need to go to the emergency room of your hospital. until evaluated you have an incarcerated hernia and bowel obstruction. don't wait.
why does my knee feel like its going to give out have pain when i walk. had to ace wrap it?
degeneration in the knee excessive fluid (effusion) injury or laxity to the ligament/tendons weakness of muscles excessive pain even lumbar disc disease can cause knee instability and thus sensation or actual "giving-out" wrapping of the knee reduces the "loose-feeling" thus helps you feel more confident in your knee as you walk. i suggest consulting doc for an evaluation. good luck.
what is this sharp pain in my chest under my left breast?
cp can be due to various causes. heart attack pericarditis aneurysms costchondritis pleurisy pneumonia acid reflux cancers esophageal spasms etc.
what could be causing chest pain and arm pain i. a 25 yr old female?
chest pain can be caused by heart attacks angina costchondritis pleurisy acid reflux pulmonary embolism gall bladder disease etc. get checked with your doctor.
why chest pains in middle of chest after eating?
reflux if it occurs after eating. see your doctor.
what causes jugular venous reflux?
mostly fluid overload on the right side of the heart leading to jugular venous dissension and reflex.
what causes jugular venous reflux?
the jugular vein connects directly to the superior vena cava and then to the right atrium of the heart. when the heart is overfilled the jugular vein becomes distended. if you press on the liver you can accentuate this ("hepato-jugular reflux") and that observation is used to increase the sensitivity of the physical exam for early signs of heart failure.
what does it mean when the right side of your chest hurts?
often middle/deep sternal chest or left sided pain is more concerning heart-related issue and right sided pain is less urgent/concerning. liver/gallbladder trouble pneumonia pneumothorax (air inside of lung linings blood clot in lungs trauma muscle/rib strain breast disease reflux/esophageal spasm and less commonly shingles are examples of causes of chest pain. consult doc. good luck.
what are the symptoms for vocal cord dysfunction? i have been told by an allergist i have it because i have chronic shortness of breath.
vcd causes intermittent trouble breathing coughing and hoarseness and is very often mistaken for asthma. the problem is in the vocal folds though and often the irritation is from reflux. sometimes people have both asthma and vcd. the treatments for each problem are very different. <link>
what is the procedure for an angioplasty?
sedate pt. puncture artery & insert tube (with rubber seal). through tube inset guidewire & using dye+fluoroscopy manipulate guidewire through blood vessels to target area. trade guidewire for guide catheter & inject dye+fluoroscopy to visualize target. through catheter insert 0. 014" guidewire then balloon catheter through target narrowing inflate balloon 60-250 x’s bp deflate check result.
what can be the cause of my chest pain and headache?
chest pain causes: heart attack musculoskeletal pan coronary artery disease aneurysm pulmonary embolism esophagitis acid reflux pneumonia gall baldder disease etc. get checked with your doctor if you have persistent pain.
what the cause of tightness in my chest and lower back pain?
chest pain causes: heart attack musculoskeletal pan coronary artery disease aneurysm pulmonary embolism esophagitis acid reflux pneumonia gall baldder disease etc. get checked with your doctor if you have persistent pain.
why would my blood pressure be low like 7<negative_smiley>49 or in the 80/50. i take florinef (fludrocortisone) and add salt to almost everything?
may need your dose adjusted. talk to your prescribing physician.
what to do when blood pressure is low and i'm at home?
if symptomatic from low blood pressure with dizziness/ nausea/blocking sensation in ears/fast heart beats sweating/cold and clammy-especially hands and feet /feeling dazed /confused/near fainting like episode lie down flat without a pillow to improv. brain circ. if low bp is confirmed drink fluids like gatorade which has sodium. if u r on bp meds hold them. call your doctor and get his recommenda.
what do heart failure and pericarditis have in common?
pericarditis by preventing the heart from moving properly may result in worsening heart failure. this can be corrected by relieving fluid accumulation or in some cases by opening or removing the pericardium.
whenever i burp it feels like food is coming up and i'm having chest pains on the right top of breast. it has been happening off and on all day.?
sounds like reflux. see your doctor for further evaluation.
where are the lymph glands located in your baby?
lymph glands are part similar to drainage ditches around a city they collect serum that is not in blood vessels remove debris in the gland & eventually return the fluid to the heart. they are located in intestines from the tonsils to the rear end under your skin in various locations along your organs inside the body. those located in the neck & head are noticed because they are not buried in tissu.
when blood pressure is too low what should i do?
no bp meds could take salt. plenty of fluids.
what are the cause of chest pain in center of chest and what do i do for it?
chestwall itself esophagus/stomache lungs heart pancreas and even liver problems can cause chest pain. in the young more likely chestwall itself or reflux is causing pain. as we get older heart disease becomes more common cause of concern. since u gave only limitted info it is diiffult to tell what you have. please repost a more specific question or consult your doc. good luck.
what are some common treatments for a heat stroke?
heat stroke is characterized by a high core temperature and the bodies inability to release this heat. the person will be red and dry(unable to perspire). cooling down the person's core with iv fluid oral fluids(if still safely able to take by mouth) and cooling the body down often with cooling blankets is key. if a hospital is not possible do your best to cool the torso and get fluids in.
what is the best treatment for swollen feet and ankles at 35wks pregnant? soaking in hot or cold water? and how to keep the swelling to a minimum?
cold water is better as it decreases the size of the blood vessels. hot water brings more blood and fluid to the area and allows for more swelling. elevate your feet when ever possble compression stockings are the best but can be uncomfortable walking is helpful.
what causes foot swelling?
swollen it's usually due to fluid retention; the most common causes being heart lungs liver or kidney. if one foot is swollen it usually means something locally is causing the swelling in the foot. if both feet are swollen see your pcp but if one foot is swollen see a podiatrist.
what to do about low blood pressure if i'm sick with a cold?
eat well drink plenty of fluids to raise your blood pressure. it should be okay to take otc meds that contain decongestants which might actually help raise your blood pressure a little bit and help you feel better while you recover.
what is low blood pressure in pregnancy and is it harmful?
pregnancy is a hyperdynamic condn. which means the fluid content of the body is more than usual secondary to fluid retention related to hormonal changes -from female genital organs -ovaries and placneta mainly and other supportive organs like adrenal etc. hence ideal pressures should be atleast 100/60. bp below 90/60 need to be taken seriously as both the mother and fetal compromise can happen.
what is left sided heart failure and is it fatal?
left-sided heart failure results in fluid buildup in the lungs and causes shortness of breath. this can be a result of problems with the mitral valve. if this is the case correction of the valvular disease can arrest progression of the disease. typically over time the right heart will also fail.
what food is best to lower high blood pressure?
: low salt low saturated fat low cholesterol 8 servings of colored fruit and vegetables daily pomegranates tomato kiwi spinach kale melons peaches low bread low sauce low animal protein (4 - 5 oz per day of meat fish poultry only). don't smoke. drink 3 liters fluid per day. minimize caffeine. look up dash diet.
what vitamin or vitamins help one urinate excess fluid like lasix (furosemide) would?
vitamin b6 has diuretic effects and rids your body of excess fluids in the form of urination. vitamin c is not stored in your body and can also have a diuretic effect. be sure you check with your doctor. avoid dehydration.
what could cause me to feel dizzy every month 3 days after my period ends? i do have a history of thyroid problems.
orthostatic hypotension and fluid lost during your menstrual cycle results in low intravascular volume and exacerbation of hypotension. this is unrelated to your thyroid. take your blood pressure daily during your cycle and for a week after to confirm. if you find your blood pressure is low after your cycle then try drinking lots of fluids during and after to see if this helps.
what kind of meds or treatment can b used to treat a bicuspid aortic valve & what can b done to prevent it from leaking?
aortic valve regurgitation cannot be cured with medications. depending on the severity of the regurgitation they can observe it if it is mild to moderate. observing is different than ignoring it. if it is severe they can either repair it or replace it both options are surgical. drugs are used to decrease the regurgitation by lowering the blood pressure and preventing accumulation of fluid.
what is the life expentancy for a 66 year old woman with stage 4 kidney failure and congestive heart failure and diabetes?
but it can be extended with dialysis. no one must die from kidney failure in the 21st century. removing fluid with dialysis will also help the chf.
what are some ways to stop heart burn?
acid-stoppers (old-fashioned antacids proton pump inhibitors) are ubiquitous. if you have reflux a trick is to put cinder blocks under the head of your bed. most of us are trying to lose weight. still troublesome? your gastroenterologist may be able to help anything from an rx to surgery for hiatus hernia or something more troublesome. good luck.
what is flush free niacin?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use.
what is flush free niacin?
niacin is useful to lower cholesterol level and has some other uses. taken as a standard pill it commonly causes an itchy flushing starting about 1/2 hour after swallowing. "flush free" is formulated usually with delayed release so these side effects are absent or minimized. this does not affect the potency.
what is flush free niacin?
flush free niacin can either refer to a slow release preparation or inositol. slow release preparations are better tolerated than immediate release products but the lipid lowering effects are somewhat less potent. for comparable efficacy a higher dose of slow release is usually needed. liver function should be monitored at higher dosages. inositol does not improve lipids and should be avoided.
what's the treatment for pericarditis (inflamatory heart)?
in the short term anti-inflammatory medications such as indomethicin prednisone or even aspirin may help. a search for a correctable cause is usually warranted. in some cases fluid (if present) may be withdrawn from the pericardial sac for both diagnosis and relief of symptoms. it may be necessary to open or remove the pericardium in more severe cases.
what is a vp shunt?
it is tubing and a one way valve that drains cerebrospinal fluid(csf) made in the brain into the abdominal cavity.
what can i do to relieve a fluttering stomach and gas?
symptoms and concerns like these mandate a thorough evaluation by your doctor. only after such an evaluation which may include labs and radiographic examinations can he/she let you know what's going on and how best to help you.
what can cause persistent fluid in the lungs and swollen ankles despite taking diuretics continuously?
pneumonia adult respiratory distress syndrome advanced malnutrition congestive heart failure hepatorenal syndrome uremia. the lack of response to diuretics implies that either the condition isn't responsive to diuresis or the dose needs to be adjusted. the condition appears to be complicated and should be further evaluated with consultants as needed.
what can cause persistent fluid in the lungs and swollen ankles despite taking diuretics continuously?
if your heart is struggling to efficiently pump blood fluid can back up in lungs and legs. stay in close contact with your doc keep a daily record of your weight stay on your medications. go in to see your doc if your weight jumps up or you get short of breath.
what can cause persistent fluid in the lungs and swollen ankles despite taking diuretics continuously?
if you are taking the diuretic for heart failure and you have persistent edema and fluid in lungs your dose of diuretics is inadequate either dose is too low medication is not being absorbed in gut or medication is not being transported to kidney. will need an increased dose of diuretic a different diuretic or an additional diuretic.
what can cause persistent fluid in the lungs and swollen ankles despite taking diuretics continuously?
failure or kidney problems are. 2 thoughts but there could be others. recommend you discuss with your physician.
what caused my heart to flutter when i was playing football?
or arrhythmia could explain it. talk to your physician as further evaluation may be warranted.
what to do to raise blood pressure?
salt fluids support six or panty hose elevation of legs above the heart.
what to do to raise blood pressure?
why do you want to raise your blood pressure people with low bp have lower risk of stroke kidney&heart disease if you have very low bp and are getting symptoms from it like dizziness and lightheadedness chest pain only than you need to raise your bp. but before that you need to be examined and investigated to find the cause of your low bp if so eat extra salt and more fluids if there is no cause f.
what to do to increase blood pressure if dizzy?
if you have very low bp and are getting symptoms from it like dizziness and lightheadedness chest pain only than you need to raise your bp. but before that you need to be examined and investigated to find the cause of your low bp if so eat extra salt and more fluids if there is no cause f.
what are the survival chances if diagnosed with acute pancreatitis with ards and arf and unstable blood pressure?
the scenario carries a high mortality but age and few co-morbidities may allow one to survive it. ards implies significant pancreatic damage such that the lungs and subsequent kidneys fail necessitating mechanical ventilation and dialysis. attention to fluid balance nutrition and possible infection improve the odds of survival.
what's the difference between heat stroke and exhaustion?
heat exhaustion refers to a situation where the body is overheated and there may be nausea and muscle cramps. there is profuse sweating and dehydration can result. if the process continues then the body temp can increase to 106f with vascular collapse. this is heat stroke which is a medical emergency which can be fatal if not aggressively treated with iv fluids and cooling of the body.
what could cause mild chest pain?
heart lung pneumonia pneumothorax chest wall esophagus reflux lung anxiety my last choice.
what is the reason for the reaccumulation of the pericardial fluid?
mation is the cause for recurrent fluid.
what are reasons you have swollen legs when the doctor say its not water retention or your heart?
the commonest cause is inadequacy of the tiny valves that in the veins of your lower legs allowing gravity to push fluid into the interstitial spaces of your legs when you're on your feet. elevation and support stockings can be helpful. do you leave an indentation in your skin when you press down on it? if not you may not really have swelling at all. many people think they do but not really!
what's the function of the lymphatic system?
the blood vessels leak approximately 1-3% of the fluid traveling through them. the lymph system picks up that extra fluid and (with the help of the skeletal muscles as they flex and relax) slowly returns it to the heart where it rejoins the rest of the fluid.
what is the cause of heart burn after pizza with pepperoni?
acid from stomach reflux back into the esophgus.
why do i always have shortness of breath after eating in mid night and when overly tired? i have no asthma.
the most likely cause of your breathing problem is gastro-esophageal reflux or what is common. y called heartburn. going to bed with a full stomach increases the likely-hood that acid from the stomach can leak into the esophagus and cause chest symptoms including cough chest tightness and voice change. treatment includes antacids h-2 blockers and protein-pump inhibitors.
what would be the cause of nausea vomiting headache weakness trouble breathing and loss of feeling in hands and feet.?
question to the er doctor once you arrive. if one is having trouble breathing i would consider that a medical emergency. you may be experiencing a bad virus of some sort but it obviously needs to be checked out. the vomiting may be causing you to be dehydrated as well and you may need if fluids.
what's furosemide and what is it used for?
lasix (furosemide) is a powerful diuretic meant to remove excess fluid and sodium from the body. it is used primarily to treat conditions such as congestive heart failure and kidney failure.
what is the main complication of hypotension?
the main risk of hypotension or low blood pressure is passing out or "syncope". if this occurs while you are driving up on a ladder holding a small child or using a knife or hedge trimmer for example this could have disastrous consequences. there are medications that make your blood pressure go up some by retaining salt and water like florinef (fludrocortisone) some by constricting vessels proamitine.
what's chronic venous insufficiency?
chronic venous insufficiency is due to the back flow of blood in the veins usually in the lower extremities. back flow is usually protected by valves in the veins that become faulty over time allowing blood to pool. this increases the pressure of blood in the veins and fluid (and a small amount of blood) leaks into the tissues causing swelling pain inflammation and on the skin ulcerations.
what's chronic venous insufficiency?
venous valvular insufficiency or venous reflux (venous blood flowing backwards because vein valve are broken) can cause varicose veins and swelling. when prolonged and severe though the high pressure and inflammation that is produced from the reflux can cause skin damage and even ulceration. when this occurs it is referred to as chronic venous insufficiency (or the older term venous stasis).
why do hair fall to a open heart surgery patient with two volves replaced?
hair loss by telogen effluvium happens when trauma of some kind adversely affects the body and forces hair into the telogen stage. this hair will first start to thin and then fall. it is common after surgery to develop a telogen effluvium where the hair goes into a shedding phase. the telogen effluvium usually lasts for 6-12 months.
what factors affect protime measurements pcp has not been able to stabilize warfarin over months. does retained fluid affect?
diet high in vit k products interferece from other meds alcohol use just to name a few possibilities. if coumadin (warfarin) doesnt work consider lovenox.
will taking lasix (furosemide) lead to dehydration?
lasix (furosemide) is a drug meant to remove excess fluid and sodium from the body. if too much is taken or intake drops substantially it can cause dehydration.
what do i do for someone who has ganglion cysts and is suffering from swollen feet?
swollen feet and ganglion cysts are possibly two separate diagnoses. swollen feet must be evaluated because they can have many causes including kidney and heart problems. if a ganglion cyst is painful it can be treated by removing the gel like fluid inside but they often recur. a more definitive treatment is to remove them at the source which is within a joint. this must be done with surgey.
what is negative pressure pulmonary edema and how bad is it?
negative pressure pulmonary edema occurs when the windpipe is transiently blocked depriving the lung of air. the bodies response to this event is to leak fluid into the air sacs and flood the lung. it is extremely serious and requires rapid correction of the obstruction. this may occur in younger people who undergo anesthesia and occlude their airway on extubation causing the problem.
what can i do as a nurse if a 3 year old child is brought to the emergency room being overdose on zyrtec (cetirizine) and has a bp of 70/42 pulse 70 35 resp?
the main se of a zyrtec (cetirizine) od are restlessness irritability and drowsiness. pumping the stomach may help but once the drug is absorbed supportive care is all that can be done. give iv fluids. the bp is a bit low as is the hr - the fluids may help. otherwise monitor the child's cardiorespiratory activity and treat appropriately - if in ed pressors as needed.
what can i do as a nurse if a 3 year old child is brought to the emergency room being overdose on zyrtec (cetirizine) and has a bp of 70/42 pulse 70 35 resp?
if the medication has already been absorbed and is causing irritability drowsiness and pumping the stomach is not an option administer supportive care based on the child's symptoms. iv fluids will help.
why am i hurting? last weekend it was right arm an right chest now it left arm an left chest im 31 i have bn told i could have acid reflux
there are multiple reasons why you could behaving these pains from gastrointestinal to cardiac. see you doctor for an evaluation now.
what is causing my ankles and feet to swell? could it be salt?
excess dietary sodium can cause fluid retention which can explain swelling in the foot ankles and legs. it can also be due to other medical issues as well. discuss this with your doctor.
what is causing a pain in the chest when swallowing?
esophagitis reflux hiatal hernia esophageal obstruction spasm tumor. concerning one should be evaluated.
woke up onenight after a dream and had tingling hands and feet and chest burning and flush face what was this?
most likely u had a disturbing dream.
why does my chest ache when i lie on my side?
there could be multiple causes. if there was any trauma to the side of the chest that aches it could be that pressure on that side causes the ache to increase. if you have a really bad flu and there is fluid in the lungs then that could cause the chest to ache. some people with very bad heartburn from acid reflux could have chest ache. i would advise you see your doctor to help determine the cause
what are the long term consequences of acute on chronic diastolic heart failure?
i assume you mean chronic diastolic heart failure with acute exacerbation. its what happens in diastolic heart failure-subject to intermittent acute exacerbation. it is particularly sensitive to heart rate and fluid volume. sudden death is another consequence besides heart failure. atrial fibrillation is common and therefore stroke risk. others die from comoerbiditieswhich are frequent such as kidney
what is the best time to take fish oil or multivitamin pills morning afternoon or night time? before or after meal?
anytime is a good time before or after meal -- but if you are sensitive or have a reflux problem then perhaps aftermeal and not before bedtime.
what is random heart flutter with tickle sensation random attacks of breathlessness in day and while sleeping all started after pain in chest 1 time?
there are a number of possible explanations but an irregular heartbeat called "atrial fibrillation" is the most concerning. an electrocardiogram (ecg) is needed but your symptoms suggest the presence of an irregular heart rhythm which usually is found to be atrial fibrillation. you should consult with your physician soonest to have this issue evaluated.
what are the effects of hypertension on kidneys?
high blood pressure makes the heart work harder and over time can damage blood vessels throughout the body. if the blood vessels in the kidneys are damaged they may stop removing wastes and extra fluid from the body. the extra fluid in the blood vessels may then raise blood pressure even more. it's a dangerous cycle. high blood pressure is one of the leading causes of kidney failure.
what is the definition or description of: shunt?
device that allows the flow of usually a fluid between two places. sometimes a shunt may be used during carotid endarterectomy surgery to maintain the blood flow to the brain while the carotid artery is opened and cleaned.
what is the definition or description of: aortic regurgitation?
aortic regurgitation is reflux of blood through an incompetent aortic valve into the left ventricle during ventricular diastole (relaxation). during ventricular systole (contraction) blood is pumped from the left ventricle into the aorta. because of a leaky aortic valve the pumped blood returns to the left ventricle.
what is the definition or description of: anti-diuretic hormone?
adh (vasopressin) is a hormone secreted by the posterior pituitary which has various influences on the body one of them being that it effects the collecting tubule of the filtration system in the kidney preserving free water for the body- so concentrates the urine( less free water out).
will food preservatives influence arteriosclerosis/atherosclerosis?
no known association but processed foods can lead to weight gain & increased risk.
woke up 5am bp 73/50 hr 83. bp 80s/50s & hr~94 all day. well hydrated yet dizzy/shaky/headache/chest pain. temp 97. 2 @6pm. need urgent help raise bp.?
if i am not mistaken you also have problem with severely fluctuating blood sugars you really need to check with your doctor it sound like you have serious medical problem and you shouldn't try to treat yourself. if your blood glucose going down to 40th and your blood pressure drops so significantly you might have a tumor or serious endocrine problem go to your doctor.
what is the definition or description of: aortic valve replacement?
the aortic valve is replaced by instituting cardiopulmonary bypass and cardioplegic arrest. the aorta is cut open after stopping the heart the diseased valve and calcium is removed the aortic anulus is sized and a tissue valve or a mechanical valve is sewn in place co2 flush used to aid deairing aorta closed heart restarted cpb discontinued hemostasis accomplished and wound closed.
was on 20mg lisinopril for high bp. bp dropped to 8<negative_smiley>43. reduced dose to 10mg. changed diet and 10mg discontinued. bp 115/65. now a spike sometimes.?
it is normal to have fluctuations in blood pressure throughout the day. this is part of living. as long as your bp is normal most of the time you are doing well. good job on getting off the medication. continue healthy lifestyle so you can remain off of it.
whats olopatadine effect?
is an antihistamine/anticholinergic eye drops used to treat allergic conjunctivitis. it is also available as nasal spray & in japan as tablets. it can cause headaches burning stinging dry eyes lid edema symptoms of flu & taste perversion.
whats symptoms causes persistent couphing at nights persistent sweating and at rare times increased heart beat for no reason?
night sweats and cough can be caused by a number of pulmonary infections including tuberculosis additionaly reflux with aspiration and simple thing like post nasal drip. requires medical attention to go thru diagnostic evaluation.
what is the definition or description of: pericardial effusion?
an effusion is a fluid collection around the heart. the heart sits in a sac called the pericardium. fluid can accumulate in this sac for various reasons (infection inflammatory processes - sle kidney disease cancer).
what is the definition or description of: pericardial effusion?
pericardium sac filled with fluid.
what are diurese fluids for?
generally speaking the best use of diuretics is not in fact to remove fluid but rather to remove salt. in patients with conditions like congestive heart failure the body is unable to remove enough salt on its own. since water follows low-salt a buildup of fluid occurs. this is why it is generally also important to maintain a low salt diet in these conditions.
why does only left-sided heart failure cause pulmonary edema?
pul edema is fluid in the lungs due to a shift of fluid from the veins and capillaries to the sorroundings lung tissues. . this can happen when the pressure in the veins rises as in left heart failure or when the veins become leaky because of infection inflammation toxic chemicals and drugs etc. the other conditions include high altitude sudden chest decompression drowning.
what is the definition or description of: ultrasound-guided pericardiocentesis?
pericardial effusion is a collection of fluid around heart within a structure that surrounds the heart called the pericardium. fluid may collect in this space for many reasons. ultrasound allows you to put needle in the space and perfor diagnostic tap of fluid to make diagnosis via pathology. additionally may be therepeutic to reduce pressure. although more common to do pericardial window to drain.
what is the definition or description of: ultrasound-guided pericardiocentesis?
it refers to using ultrasound to assist in directing placement of a needle into the pericardial cavity for drainage of fluid.
why does my chest hurt when i eat or drink anything? whenever i eat my chest hurts really bad & when i drink water it hurts too!
you may be experiencing signs and symptoms of reflux esophagitis. this is when gastric acid and stomach contents are being pushed up into the esophagus. this can cause damage to the esophagus causing significant pain. try over-the-counter acid suppressants like prilosec otc to see if it improves. if no improvement go see your doctor. you will need to have an endoscopy.
what causes lower back pain headaches nausea sharp pain in chest light headed pain in lower stomach runny nose and sore joints? 17 years old female
flu and other virus. if you have a new kissing friend- mono. uti / gi infection also. see your pmd.
what type of diet helps reduce hypertension? what foods are best to eat to help decrease my hypertension? what food should i avoid? .
: optimal diet is dash diet: low salt low saturated fat low cholesterol 8 servings of colored fruit and vegetables daily pomegranates tomato kiwi spinach kale whole grains and low animal protein (4 - 5 oz per day of very lean meat fish poultry only). don't smoke. drink 3 liters fluid per day. minimize caffeine. add omega 3. achieve ideal weight. exercise twice daily.
what causes swollen ankles i take medication for my high blood pressure and gout.
you may have bad valves within the blood vessels allowing fluic to accumulate.
what can cause a mushy feeling in the back of the head? age 73 male weight 235 height 6'2" on warfarin benazepril and fluid pill
most likely bleed in soft tissues causing a hematoma see a physician.
what is the most effective way to relieve water retention (face hands belly feet & ankles)?
giving you a diuretic is easy. the right thing to do is to find out what's triggering your fluid retention. please see a doctor.
what is the most effective way to relieve water retention (face hands belly feet & ankles)?
you need to see a doctor for evaluation of why how have so much retained fluid and then treat the underlying problem.
what are common causes of extreme fatigue body aching and fluid retention besides pms?
things to rule out are heart or blood vessels kidneys blood such as anemia electrolyte imbalance or effect of medications. your primary care doctor is your best one to consult.
what's the difference between heart burn chest pain and chest pain that could mean heart trouble?
heartburn is esophagitis gastritis reflux and related to diet timing bending over regurgitation better with antacids gi meds prilosec etc. sometimes belching. tends to be front and neck and " burning"! angina and heart attack tend to be pressure squeeze and sweaty clammy fearful- anxiety provoking fear of death!
what is the definition or description of: swollen foot?
just means fluid is collecting in the tissues. when only 1 foot is swollen it usually means the cause is local (something going on with in the foot) but if both feet are swollen it usually means your body is retaining fluid and the only reason it's showing up in the feet is that gravity thing. if you stood on your head all day your head would swell.
what can chest pain at bottom of left side to middle of rib cage with stomic tightining history of alcers and acid reflux?
ulcer - see yoru family doctor or gastroenterologist.
why do legs swell with dvt?
the deep veins are major outflow from the legs. when they clot the blood pools and causes edema by fluid extravasation.
why do legs swell with dvt?
a dvt is a clot in one of the major veins of the leg. this blockages prevents blood from leaving the leg once it enters via the arteries. the pressure within the blocked vein allows fluid to then extrude into the leg itself causing swelling. it's akin to a clogged drain where fluid builds up behind the blockage.
what is the definition or description of: vp shunt?
a tube that drains cerebrospinal fluid from brain to peritoneal cavity.
what is the definition or description of: diuretic?
by strict definition a diuretic is any medicine causing increased urination. more practically a diuretic is a medicine causing the kidney to secrete excess fluid by blocking the re-absorption of either water itself or electrolytes like sodium (primarily) potassium chloride and bicarbonate (sodium bicarbonate). these medicines are effective treatments for many disorders including heart failure and hypertension.
why does any medication that causes water retention make me ill. its in most drugs. . ?
there are clearly groups of medications such as otc arthritis medications that can predispose to water retention. but by no means does all medications alter fluid balance within human body. excluding entirely medications that induce diuresis (urination).
what is the definition or description of: bulging veins?
varicose veins are bulging grape-like appearing veins which are most commonly seen on the legs. these are due to leaking(refluxing) valves usually in the saphenous system. some causes include hereditary pregnancy trauma and aging. the gold standard of treatment is to have a venous reflux ultrasound to both diagnose and form a treatment plan. you should see a vein specialist.
what is the definition or description of: pedal edema?
pedal edema is fluid collection or swelling of the feet.
what is acute pulmonary edema and how is it treated? does it require hospitalization and for how long?
edema is fluid build up within tissues either in the cells or between the cells. pulmonary edema is fluid build up in the tissues of the lung. the treatment is dependent on the cause. this can be due to heart failure fluid overload inflammation and others to name a few. you will need to see you doctor for a complete exam.
what causes fluttering and pain in my belly?
one possible cause is gas. if you are burping or passing gas rectally that might be the issue.
what is the cause of painless flutter in rt side of abdomen. post pelvic radiotherapy 5 months ago for vagina wall cancer?
i see a lot of patients who suddenly notice things about their bodies that are perfectly normal that they didn't pay attention to until they became sick. unless there's something more you're probably fine. but do be sure to bring it up next time you see your doctor.
what types of diseases are office workers are at risk of other than cardiovascular disease?
i think in an office environment the most common disease would be the common cold or flu. most likely viral illnesses will predominate. workplace injuries such as carpal tunnel and lower back pain are possible. however each work environment is different and will expose you to various issues.
what is difference between niacin and niacinamide?
niacin is a b vitamin that is often used to treat lipid (cholesterol and triglyceride) disorders. nicotinamide is another vitamin in the vitamin b group. although niacin and nicotinamide are identical in their vitamin activity nicotinamide has no significant cholesterol or triglyceride effects. also nicotinamide does not cause skin flushihg that can be a limitation to use of niacin.
what is the definition or description of: pericardiocentesis?
pericardiocentesis refers to placing a needle into the sac surrounding the heart (pericardium) and withdrawing fluid which can be for diagnosis or treatment. this is often done using ultrasound to help guide the needle.
what is the definition or description of: pericardiocentesis?
pericardiocentesis is a procedure that is performed to sample or drain fluid that has collected around the heart. it involves inserting a needle under the breastbone into the sac around the heart. it is usually performed with the assistance of ultrasound.
what is the definition or description of: pericardiocentesis?
a pericardiocentesis is a procedure where fluid in the pericardium (sack around the heart) is drained using a needle usually with ultrasound guidance.
what can i drink to help with my constipation if i have diabetes high blood pressure and gastritis?
most common cause of constipation in diabetes are high sugars causing excess fluid loss; dehydration even modest leads to constipation. so keep sugars controlled drink lots of fluids to keep urine dilute!
what the purpose of. a vp shunt?
the brain is cushioned by a layer of fluid called csf (cerebrospinal fluid) but in injury or inflammation blood or blocked csf can squeeze the brain causing damage. a vp shunt drains excess pressurized fluid to the abdomen to keep pressure off the brain.
what the purpose of. a vp shunt?
in some people there can be a blockage in the circulation of fluid which bathes the brain and spinal cord. the fluid is called cerebral spinal fluid (csf). the blockage can increase the pressure of csf. this pressure can be reduced by placing a shunt between the fluid in the brain (in a ventricle) and the abdomen (peritoneum). it shunts fluid from the ventricle to the peritoneum.
why does it feel like the blood is rushing to my head when i laydown flat?
when you lay down 500-1000ml of blood volume which had previously been stored in the legs is released from the pull of gravity and can contribute to the perfusion pressures of the head and brain and gravity is no longer decreasing the pressure of blood rising to the head. the brain rapidly compensates for this but the facial vessels much less rapidly so you can get a transient flushing.
what can cause water retention in the lungs? accompanied by fever. is a 68 year male diabetic patient. pain around the ribs and chest
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
what can cause water retention in the lungs? accompanied by fever. is a 68 year male diabetic patient. pain around the ribs and chest
fluid retention in the lungs is called pulmonary edema and can often be the result of heart failure. fever could mean there is also superimposed infection such as pneumonia. given this patient's age and diabetes these symptoms are very serious and i would recommend you call his physician immediately.
what is adrenal insufficiency and why does it cause low blood pressure?
adrenal insufficiency happens when the adrenal glands do not make enough of the steroids that are necessary for managing stress and maintaining blood pressure. low blood pressure can be the result of a failure to make the hormones necessary to regulate salt and fluid balance as well as to poor blood vessel tone. it is important for persons with adrenal insufficiency to take medicine regularly and take more medicine during times of stress.
what is the definition or description of: vitamin b3 niacin?
vitamin b3 increases the production of ceramides and fatty acids two key components of your skin’s outer protective barrier. it strengthens the skins barrier function so the skin is better able to keep moisture in and irritants out. b3 is especially beneficial if your complexion is dry or sensitive. it has been shown to improve the flushing and blushing of rosacea. b3 also inhibits the transfer.
what are fluttering feeling in the legs and arms sypmtom?
if its at night it could be a sign of restless leg symptom. try taking some magnesium supplements and calcium. that will help to relax your muscles.
what are fluttering feeling in the legs and arms sypmtom?
or is it muscle twitching it has different implications of disease.
will my doctor cancel the colonoscopy at the last minute if my bp or blood sugar drops too low upon checking in at surgery center?
your blood sugar should not be an issue unless you are a diabetic on medication. if so hopefully your doctor has outlined a strategy to prevent low bs (often withholding am insulin - taking a lower dose drinking orange juice etc. ) to prevent a problem. low blood pressure is not often a problem unless you are on bp meds. most low bp responds to fluid before the procedure.
what can i do for nightime leg cramps when i have to be careful of my fluid and pottasium intake. i am also on torosimide and flurosimide.?
irritation of muscles due to overwork swelling can result in cramping. abnormalities in electrolytes like potassium calcium can precipitate cramping but venous insufficiency is a more common cause. go to www. phlebology. org and seek advice of a phlebologist in your area. for now try stretching exercises prior retiring in the evening.
what could cause low oxygen levels after a carotid artery surgery and then hematoma removal surgery? dry esophagus from ventilator?
patients having carotid surgery are older. they may have a weaker heart. extra iv fluid they get during surgery and if they had to go back for a second time to address a hematoma. may have built up on her and can lead to lower oxygen levels. the lungs get a wet and the oxygen can't get through as well. some time and medications to gradually get that fluid off will help correct the problem.
what could cause low oxygen levels after a carotid artery surgery and then hematoma removal surgery? dry esophagus from ventilator?
low oxygen levels after a surgery can be caused by a large number of problems. possibilities include ventilator associated pneumonia pulmonary edema ( fluid in the lungs) adult respiratory distress syndrome pulmonary embolism ( blood clot in the lung) so without more detail could not say. you should discuss with the doctors involved in the patients care. "dry" esophagus not a cause.
will taking niacin and experiencing a niacin flush increase blood flow/circulation to the tiny blood vessels in my middle/inner ear?
not clear what the mechanism of flushing is may not be a vascular basis.
what to do when having a chest pain?
there are so many things that can cause chest pain. most are self limiting but chest pain can be very serious as well. if you have any doubt seek medical attention asap. causes include heart attack collapsed lung esophageal spasm pneumonia pleurisy rib fracture pulled muscle arthritis cartilage inflammation reflux and on and on. the character freq location of pain is important too.
what can i do to treat scleroderma?
scleroderma can effect many parts of the body. the treatment prescribed depends on what part of the body is effected. for example certain antacids are prescribed for reflux. calcium channel blockers are used to treat raynauds. stronger medications like cytoxan or cellcept (mycophenolate mofetil) are sometimes used to treat certain lung manifestations. speak to a rheumatologist who is experienced at treating scleroderma.
what is the definition or description of: fluorescein angiography?
it is a test to observe the anatomy of the eye arteries.
what causes bulging veins on the right leg?
varicose veins are due to leaking valves(called reflux) most commonly in the saphenous system. to treat these you must first undergo a venous reflux ultrasound to make the diagnosis and determine the proper treatment. medical management would be the use of support hose but this is only masking the problem. laser closure of the leaking valves and micro incisions to remove the vv's is the ideal.
when i wake up i have major heart burn. is that from the trazodone?
it is probably from lying flat and reflux. can try a proton pump inhibitor (prilosec / prevacid (lansoprazole) are now over the counter) for about 7-14 days in the evenings and see if symptoms disappear. if not to be safe should see a doc. can also try sleeping in recliner / at >30degree angle for 2-3 nights and see if no symptoms--this would support gerd as cause.
what is the definition or description of: transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt?
in extreme cases of liver disease the liver "sweats" and fills the abdomen with water. this shunt is a tube that goes from the fluid-filled abdomen to the heart to return this free water from puddling in the abdomen back into the circulation. it is a major procedure requiring lots of manipulating tubes and structures but can improve a quality of life that has been affected by a major problem.
what causes decreased thirst/fluid intake?
thirst is controlled by a center in the brainstem. that center is sensitive (exquisitely so) to the concentration of sodium in the blood. so from that you can gather the two simple answers. if the sodium level is too low for any reason it would require more than usual dehydration to raise it to the level triggering thirst. if the center is less responsive (old age) the thirst signal is weaker.
why does blood pressure increase during menstral cycle and how do i lower it?
many women retain fluid at time of their periods. you might try eating diuretic foods or drinking diuretic teas. some women also benefit from taking a low dose of a diuretic medication called hydrochlorathiazide. a typical dose would be 25 mg daily. you can talk to your doctor about whether this may be a good idea for you.
what is the definition or description of: chest tube?
a chest tube (chest drain thoracic catheter tube thoracostomy or intercostal drain) is a flexible plastic tube that is inserted through the chest wall and into the pleural space or mediastinum. it is used to remove air (pneumothorax[2]) or fluid (pleural effusion blood chyle) or pus (empyema) from the intrathoracic space. it is also known as a bülau drain or an intercostal catheter.
why do i have pain in my left shoulder and under my left breast?
its likely musculoskeletal at your age. check bra tightness try 2 aleve 2x per day for a week if no hx of ulcers. if nausea vomiting etc ensue go get seen low probability for cardiac but god forbid i give the wrong advise on chest pain. zantac (ranitidine) may help if it's reflux.
what causes severe and frequent headaches other than stress and anxiety and could low blood pressure be affecting my headaches and if so some ways of?
there can be many causes some quite serious and someone with severe and frequent headaches and blood pressure fluctuations should have their questions first adressed by their primary care physician or neurologist before dismissing them as due to stress or depression. muscle tension stress and depression can make headaches worse but proper medical evaluation is the first step.
water retention am i pregnant?
but there are other reasons for fluid retention including thyroid excess salt estrogen dominance. do a pregnancy test.
water retention am i pregnant?
increasing estrogen levels increased aldosterone to cover the needed increase in plasma volume causes fluid retention. finally the weight of the fetus and the placenta put pressure on the vena cava and blood vessels of the leg causing compression "edema. " avoid all uncessary salt and drink water!
what is colonic ischemia and how can it be treated?
most commonly isolated colonic ischemia is related to poor blood flow (i. e. large intestine) and is readily treated with iv fluid hydration and antibiotics. these patients should be admitted to the hospital for regular examinations by a surgeon since it can worsen to a dead colon and this would require emergency surgery. there is little role for arterial stenting or bypass in ischemic colitis.
what are typical causes of a hiatel hernia? can it be the cause of shortness of breath. heart work up is ok but have a snall hiatel hernia and reflux
it can be but generally only large hiatal hernias cause shortness of breath. heart work up being negative is good. now go see a pulmonologist.
what are typical causes of a hiatel hernia? can it be the cause of shortness of breath. heart work up is ok but have a snall hiatel hernia and reflux
most people with hiatal hernias are born with them. being overweight/obese may make the hernia worse; reflux may lead to mild cough or shortness of breath which can worsen if the reflux leads to repeated episodes of acid going into the lungs (aspiration). there are many other causes of shortness of breath the most common being out of shape. see a pulmonologist and get checked out.
what is the difference between anyurysm and vasolidation?
aneurysm the entire three layers of the blood vessel has enlarged to a substantial degree usually 2-2. 5 times normal size- called dilation of the entire blood vessel. veins can become aneurysmal also. vasodilation is a term for capillary dilation and low peripheral resistance and has nothing to do with aneurysm. a fluke of the english language.
what is colonic ischemia and can it be treated?
most commonly isolated colonic ischemia is related to poor blood flow (i. e. large intestine) and is readily treated with iv fluid hydration and antibiotics. these patients should be admitted to the hospital for regular examinations by a surgeon since it can worsen to a dead colon and this would require emergency surgery. there is little role for arterial stenting or bypass in ischemic colitis.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
all these things could occur with a cold. colds lasting more than 10 days may have developed into a sinus infection. if you have fevers and a headache influenza is a possibility. pertussis could give you a cough that just won't let up give you barking cough or make you cough until you vomit. if your symptoms seem to be going on too long see your primary physician.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
a barky cough is usually associated with croup and this is most commonly viral. rest fluids and try warm moist aerosol therapy.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
current flu has prolonged periods of dry cough but you need to see physician to rule out pneumonia gerd reactive airway disease among other causes. see a doctor.
what cough medicine is best for patients that have chf congestive heart failure?
coughing is related to having fluid in the lungs. it is not going to respond to a cough suppressant or expectorant. it responds to diuretics which help to remove the fluid from the lungs.
what problems can arise from extra tissue around the heart?
i am not sure what you mean by extra tissue. sometimes people can develop fluid around there heart which can decrease the heart's ability to fill. this can cause shortness of breath fatigue and ultimtely heart failure. the peicardium is the sack around the heart and it can get stiff producing the same symptoms.
what are the symptoms of heart failure?
generally left heart failure causes you to be short of breath (breathlessness). this is generally worse when you exert yourself (for example walking up hill) or when you are lying flat in bed. this shortness of breath can be associated with a cough. the main symptom of right heart failure is swollen ankles and legs (buildup of fluid) your liver may also become enlarged.
when i swollow my food i'm have chest pains also when i lay down i t feels like something stuck in my chest n throat! n cough tht burn chest n back?
go see your doc. he needs to do an upper gi series to help him figure out if gerd is a problem. it can also reveal esophageal strictures or any hiatal hernias or stomach issues. reflux can cause this too.
would it be good to drink tea for swollen feet?
you should restrict salt and fluids.
why is my blood pressure fluctuating wildly?
it is normal for ones blood pressure to vary from moment to moment. check your pressure each morning sitting and standing for 1 or 2 weeks. the major determinant of a significant change usually is the amount of salt one ingests (for example the day after a salty meal one expects a significant rise in blood pressure). if ones pressure is consistently greater than 125 systolic see your dr.
what other grantulomas disorders are there that could raise ace levels? tb test is normal. dr. believes i could have ms and sarc. what are odds?
do encounter patients with ms and other disorders including lupus. not impossible to have sarcoid and ms but regarding sarcoid do you have typical lung involvement and is the liver afflicted? do you have anergy on skin testing? regarding ms are you fulfilling the mcdonald criteria and does your spinal fluid have oligoclonal bands? discuss with your doctor and start therapy once confirmed.
what can go wrong during a quadruple heart bypass?
the most concerning complications are stroke kidney failure pneumonia bleeding and infection. these are rare. the most common complications are irregular heart rhythm constipation and fluid retention. the vast majority of patients (98%) have minimal self limiting complications go home in three days and are driving and back to work (not strenuous) in 3-4 weeks.
what's the difference between hydrocephalus and idiopathic intracranial hypertension?
hydrocephalus usually refers to a condition in which the cerebrospinal (csf) fluid that surrounds the brain becomes trapped in the ventricles where much of this fluid is stored and the ventricles become dilated. there are many known causes. iih is a condition in which the pressure is increased in the head but the ventricles are not dilated. the cause of iih remains less clear.
what's the difference between hydrocephalus and idiopathic intracranial hypertension?
hydrocephalus or water on the brain is abnormal enlargement of the internal fluid cavities of the brain (ventricles). treatment usually involves placement of a shunt device. idiopathic intracranial hypertension (ich) or pseudotumor cerebri is abnormally increased cerebral spinal fluid pressure of unknown cause and without hydrocephalus. treatment can be medical or surgical if med treatment fails.
what does it mean when you get a random chest pain and it feels like a stabbing? doesn't last long for about a minute.
difficult to discuss without knowing all details could be esophageal reflux arthritis ulcer gastritis anxiety among other problems.
what are the possible negative outcomes for emergency iv fluid treatment for a patient with low blood pressure who also has end stage renal disease?
the fact that needs to be ascertained is what the low bp was caused by. was the patient bleeding or have a heart attack? when was the patient's last hemodialysis? iv fluids may be appropriate in the short term and the object of therapy is to find the cause of the low bp and treat it. i assume that the patient is in the hospital and can be dialyzed for fluid removal with pressors to raise it.
what are the possible negative outcomes for emergency iv fluid treatment for a patient with low blood pressure who also has end stage renal disease?
too aggressive iv fluids in a pt with esrd can cause fluid overload and bring to pulmonary edema congestive heart failure etc which can be letal. that is why one has to use extra caution managing low blood pressure with fluids.
why does my heart feel fluttery all the time?
would recommend you talk to your physician for further evaluation.
what does cholesterol do to your body?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what could be causing me to have shortness of breathe at night?
asthma is one reason to have shortness of breath but also uncontrolled acid reflux and many other ailments. see your doctor about it.
what are the high blood pressure drugs that cause erectile disfunction?
rx meds (tools which influence body behavior in some way) outcome depends mostly on situation before. ? bp due to constricting arterioles body wide with same cardiac output. bp meds either? heart output (not good) or in some way ? arteriole constriction despite orders from brain (anger frustration fear +/- pain) to the contrary. erection requires enough? blood flow to penis else no go.
what is the difference between pleural effusion and pulmonary edema? where does the water accumulates in pul edema?
a pleural effusion is fluid around the lungs that collects between the lung and chest wall. pulmonary edema is fluid that collects in the lung airspaces themselves. many times you can have both together. both cause difficulty with breathing.
what is the difference between pleural effusion and pulmonary edema? where does the water accumulates in pul edema?
to be technical i have used exact wording published elsewhere "pulmonary edema is an abnormal buildup of fluid in the air sacs of the lungs. . pleural effusion is a buildup of fluid between the layers of tissue that line the lungs and chest cavity". really in most simplistic terms "edema" is fluid within tissue. in context of the question it is fluid within actual lung tissue.
what is the difference between pleural effusion and pulmonary edema? where does the water accumulates in pul edema?
in plural effusion the fluid accumulated in the plural cavity between lung and chest wall lining possible to remove this fluid but pulmonary edema fluid accumulates in lung tissue like a sponge most of the time due to right side of heat fail to clear the fluid also called right hear failure simply pump the heart is failing.
why edema of nephrotic mainly in the face while for heart failure found in the lower limp?
distribution of excess fluid in nephrotic syndrome is throughout the body due to loss of blood proteins that hold water in the vascular system. osmosis then drags water to areas of higher concentration. it may show more in the face because one can notice that most easily but is generally throughout the body. this is known as anasarca. in chf the osmotic effect is not present so gravity wins.
why in heart failure are symptoms worse on some days but other days almost normal? have bivent and ef now 38%. wouldn't heart pump the same every day.
will vary on fluid intake salt exposure physical activity and variable response to medications.
why does it feel like my heart keeps fluttering?
you're having an unusual awareness of your heartbeat. the medical term for that is palpitations. cardiologists and in particular electrophysiologists deal with these problems all the time. the first step is an ekg and then a wearable monitor to see what specific rhythm problem may be to blame. good luck!
what can i use for heart burn?
the first line of therapy is the prevention of reflux and heartburn with diet and lifestyle modification (www. arizonadigestivehealth. com). treatment of the symptoms can be accomplished with antacids and histamine receptor blockers (h2 blockers) e. g. pepcid zantac (ranitidine) etc. for frequent heartburn symptoms try a 14 day course of prilosec otc. also if you have frequent symptoms - see you doctor.
what are symptoms of heart failure?
shortness of breth with activity then at rest. patients wake up from their sleep with breathing difficulty. to be able to sleep better they keep their head elevated with multiple pillows. they get short of breath when they lay flat. edema in the legs and fluid retention is another findings. patients may get tired and have dry cough.
what are symptoms of heart failure?
shortness of breath fluid retention (edema) & fatigue.
why is it that i can drink water all day and not have to empty my bladder till i go to bed at night?
1) you retain fluids; 2) you have a large capacity bladder; 3) you are an infrequent voider; you may have a sensory deficit or neurogenic bladder. you should start a voiding diary and placed yourself on a routine voiding schedule whether you have the sensation to void or not. you should have an evaluation before you develop problems.
why is my left and right chest sometimes feel hurt like something stabbing me in chest?
chest pain in young people is usually related to muscular strain. go see your dr to have an ekg and a chest xray just to be sure that your heart and lungs are ok. chest pain which is burning in character could be from acid reflux. take care friend!
what can be done for heart failure with ejection fraction of less then 20percent when patient is experiencing extreme fatigue?
main goal in heart failure treatment is to prevent fluid accumulation in your body. that means taking the right dose of water pill and also other medications that are proven to improve quality. make sure you check your weight weekly and if you are still gaining weight make sure you talk to your provider. avoid extra salt in your diet canned food and frozen food as they all contain a lot of salt.
what is the best treatment for fluid and electrolyte disorders other than taking diuretics and reducing sodium in my diet. nothing seems to work?
there are many fluid and electrolyte disorders out there but it sounds like you may be having trouble with edema? diuretics and sodium restriction are cornerstones to treating edema however there may be other issues at play. you should have your kidney heart and liver function checked so follow up with your doctor who can provide more directed care. read food labels! sodium is everywhere!
what food to eat and what to avoid when a person is suffering through gout problem my father aged 62 also a blood pressure patient?
avoid meats and most importantly avoid organ meats; fatty meats and alcohol are doubly potent against gout. avoid these. also if you are able drink at least 3 liters fluid per day - this may enhance uric acid excretion - and if you incline your diet successfully to mostly whole grain fruit and veggies using egg white for protein then your uric acid levels will come down even more
what can be the home remedy for low blood pressure? should we cardiologist if we face very low blood pressure and it seems everything is blackout?
if you have low bp with symptoms obviously this should be treated. we need to find out why. howevere if there is no identified cause then you need to increase your fluid and salt intake. i suggest to see your doctor to better assess that and possibly treat it with medication.
what is the function of cholesterol molecules in the plasma membrane of human erythrocytes?
many mistakenly think cholesterol is just something bad that causes atherosclerosis but cholesterol is essential for our health. it makes up 20-50% of our cell membranes where it maintains the structural integrity & fluidity of cell membranes & plays a key role in facilitating cell signaling (communication between cells). see <link>
what could upper abdomen pain after eating and unbearable chest pain when laid flat at night be please?
you may well have a peptic ulcer and reflux disease. i recommend proceeding with an endoscopy and at the same time exclude an h pylori infection.
what could cause a dizzy spell and then uncontrolable diarrhea? my blood pressure is low at this time
if youh ave a bacterial or viral illness of the gi tract you can lose large amount of fluid and have low blood pressure need to be seen by a md.
what is a lv systolic impairment e/f 40-45 with pericardialeffusion and rv hypertrophy of 1. 2cm can they do surgery? are there any treatments?
ejection fraction or ef of 10 to 15 is serious. this is a measure of how your heart is performing as a pump. ef should be 50 to 60% so low ef means heart failure. there are treatments medical ones first like diuretics to remove extra fluid. okay to ask your doc and your cardiologist.
what cause amniotic fluid embolism to happen during a c-section what can go wrong?
this a rare but very serious problem. it can occur when amniotic fluid gets into the blood stream and sets up a reaction that can b e life threatening. .
what happens to a patient with a coronary artery disease if he is given 1 liter of intravenous fluids in just 2 hours?
if cardiac function is normal blood pressure is controlled and there are not symptoms of congestive heart failure 1 liter of iv fluid should not cause much symptoms.
what happens to a patient with a coronary artery disease if he is given 1 liter of intravenous fluids in just 2 hours?
this is a bit more than a usual beverage and you state it is iv. most will respond by urinating. someone with a low blood pressure to rise or dehydration will feel better. if the person is already overloaded or in heart failure they may feel worse or get short of breath and need medication. for someone in shock this may not be enough fluid. so it depends on more than coronary disease.
what's better for a senior after a stroke and dementia a peg or pej tube. which one is more likely to have less regurgitation and aspiration pneumoni?
the pej tube is placed into the jejunum of the small intestine and therefore less likely to result in gastroesophageal re-flux which could lead to aspiration into the lungs.
what does an echocardiogram tell about your heart?
function of the different chambers. how the valves are working and if there is fluid surrounding the heart.
what's the differencce between heart burn or a heart attack?
but very different problems. heartburn is a symptom of burning discomfort behind breast bone-causes include reflux of stomach contents inflammation of esophagus stomach ulcers heart. heart attack is muscle death in the heart caused by poor blood flow or blockage. may have discomfort squeezing burning heavyness in chest nausea vomiting sweats shortness of breath palpitations faintness.
what's the differencce between heart burn or a heart attack?
heartburn is esophagitis gastritis reflux and related to diet timing bending over regurgitation better with antacids gi meds prilosec etc. sometimes belching. tends to be front and neck and " burning"! angina and heart attack tend to be pressure squeeze and sweaty clammy fearful- anxiety provoking fear of death!
what causes swelling of face hands and legs but lasix (furosemide) does not help it? have gained weight quickly also. voice hoarseness always. some loss of hearing
possible low thyroid could cause this. also too much salt intake. lasix (furosemide) as a rule only helps fluid accumulation with heart failure. would recommend doing tsh lab test first and seeing your physician.
what causes fluid around heart i take 80 mg. of lasik a day and have been put in the hospital for two days with antibiotics and iv lasik and my upper?
not lasik. please repost this question otherwise only eye doctors (lasik surgeons) will see it on this website.
what causes fluid around heart i take 80 mg. of lasik a day and have been put in the hospital for two days with antibiotics and iv lasik and my upper?
is usually caused by inflammation and not responsive to lasix (furosemide).
why does zestril (lisinopril) sometimes cause coughing? would the cough be constant or intermittent?
ace-inhibitors (ace-i) are well known to cough. having said that there are other causes of cough in patients who take them and are unrelated to them. if you have a cough you think is due to an ace-i stop it for two days. if you still have the cough after 2 days it is not due to the ace-i. call your physician to discuss some other things that can cause a cough. one of them is esophageal reflux.
what can you do to prevent congestive heart failure?
some factors that we know include coronary artery disease viruses genetic disorder pregnancy alcohol endocrine abnormalities (thyroid in particular) and many others. to prevent decompensation of the chf the biggest factor is salt. salt causes fluid retention which the weakened or stiff heart muscle can not work with. diuretics blood pressure control habitual exercise healthy wt. help.
which bad affects does salt have besides increasing blood pressure?
salt causes your body to retain fluid which may cause swelling. you will increase your risk of heart attack or stroke. salt may cause thickening of your heart muscle (hypertrophy) independent of it's effect on your blood pressure. untreated this can lead to congestive heart failure.
what is the definition or description of: neurally mediated reflex syncope?
vasovagal syncope is a common condition that impacts 1/3 of the population. it is an abnormal heart reflex that cuases patients to pass out. vasovagal syncope typically occurs while standing often in a hot environment. prior to syncope patient's feel lightheaded. they feel tired following syncope. treatment includes increase salt and fluid.
would it be possible that a hang over cause a heart attack?
makes one feel awful! gastritis reflux gi distress is more common with the alcohol but can feel much like a heart attack. i suspect if one is inebriated to a degree that aspiration pneumonia hypoxia occur then heart compromise can happen.
what's a safe herb/alternative medicine to lower cholesterol?
start with dietary modifications & exercise several botanical agents have been proved to be effective cholesterol lowering agents. garlic preparations standardized for allign content & garlic oil. aged garlic as garlique. gugulipid is the standarized extract of mukul myrrh tree native to india. cinammon can be taken as tea. niacin- start with 1000 mg to avoid flushing by taking81mg of asprin 30 min
what is the vitamin niacin b 250mg commonly used for?
niacin lowers cholesterol raises the "good" hdl and lowers triglycerides - but at much higher doses than 250. you need to get up to 1500 mg/day or more to see much effect. the downside is that it can cause flushing and raise both sugar (not good if you are diabetic) and uric acid (not good if you are prone to gout. ).
what would cause your legs to be leaking water soaking your socks patient has chf and mrsa?
an accumulation of an excessive amount of watery fluid in cells or intercellular tissues. you need restrict fluid in take and eating less salty foods. please see your cardiologist to sort this out. best luck!
what is fluid layering and why is that an improvement with pulmonary edema?
fluid layering is a term applied to pleural effusions which are fluid collections outside the lung but inside the lung sack. it is good to have layering as that means the fluid is thin and the lung moves nicely. the alternative would be that the fluid is clotted or like pus and the lung is scarred or stuck so the fluid can't move. pleural effusions often occur with pneumonia or heart failure.
what is fluid layering and why is that an improvement with pulmonary edema?
this article presents the modern theory of fluid transport in the lungs: <link> physiology. org/content/82/3/569. long. the key to improvement is getting rid of the fluid and modern theories point to multiple avenues of fluid transport involving channels or "aqua pores. " fluid "layering" is a radiologic term that describes how the fluid is "settling " and trying to get out of your lungs.
what makes salt intake increase blood pressure?
it helps retain fluid in the body which increases the intravascular volume and blood pressure.
what should i eat if hdl cholesterol is slightly low and albumin level is slightly high?
hdl is not predominantly influenced by diet. hdl is primarily regulated by genetics but can be increased by exercise omega 3 fatty acids weight loss and to a small extent wine. the best way to raise your hdl level is by increasing your aerobic exercise to at least 3-5 times a week for at least 20 minutes. eat fish high in omega 3 fatty acids epa and dha or take omega 3 capsules.
what natural food/ remedy is good to control high blood pressure?
: low salt low saturated fat low cholesterol 8 servings of colored fruit and vegetables daily pomegranates tomato kiwi spinach kale low animal protein (4 - 5 oz per day of meat fish poultry only). don't smoke. drink 3 liters fluid per day. minimize caffeine. look up dash diet.
what can be the cause of chest pain other than heart attack?
esophogeal spasm gastric and esophogeal reflux musculoskeletal costo chondritis pulmonary embolus pleurisy pneumothorax etc etc.
what causes heart burn?
can lead to heartburn. heartburn is a result of stomach acid moving backward into the esophagus (reflux). all people have some episodes of reflux daily but may not be symptomatic. when barriers to reflux are removed and/or certain risk factors or precipitants are present it occurs more frequently. ex haital hernia obesity alcohol use gastric emptying delay fatty meals lying down after eating
why do i get chest pain and then burp bubbly white foam out?
normally stomach acids remain in the stomach where the lining is well protected from damage by cels that produce mucin. the esophagus has less protection than the stomach and if acids leave the stomach frequently the esophagus can be damaged. acid exposure to damagesd tissues can cause pain (heart burn). even though this sounds like reflux a docctor's evaluation is suggested to confirm this.
what can be done to diagnose congestive heart failure when also have bronchopneumonia?
it is iften difficult to determine how much of patient's shortness of breath is related to infection or pneumonia versus that of fluid and heart failure. a lot of times it is multifactorial and a combination of both. a bnp blood level can sometimes help differentiate both processes as well as a good clinical exam cxr and history.
what irregular heart rhythms can be treated with an external defibrillation?
any rapid abnormal heart rhythm can be treated with external defibrillation. atrial fibrillation atrial flutter svt ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation can all be treated this way but some are emergent and some are elective.
what is the cure for right side heart failure?
right sided hf is a challenge if in isolation. the most common cause is left heart failure for which treatment is established. however we dont fully understand rhf well. currently treatment is mostly diuretic therapy to maintain adequate fluid balance. one can also add digoxin and occasionally nitrates and hydralazine. one needs to look closely at the pulmonary vasculature as well.
what is persistent pulmonary hypertension in a newborn?
pphn (acronym) is a common finding. all fetuses have high pulmonary artery resistance because their lungs are collapsed (full of fluid as they're not breathing). when the baby is born and takes a deep breath the expanded lungs lead to decrease resistance and pressure in lungs. in some babies the pressure remains high hence the term pphn. this will resolve if there are no other issues.
what is a safe medicine for cold or flu on person with high blood pressure?
anything without epinephrine.
what are the causes of fluid around the heart and lungs in an infant.?
by increased vessels permeability and slower lymphatic clearance in cases with a cardiac congestion or high blood volume output.
what causes my blood pressure to fluctuate so drastically throughout the day and evening. it actually gets lower after exercise?
as one gets older and at risk of persistent high blood pressure vessels become much more subject to variable constriction. noticing this as you have is very good: let your md know about it. he or she may want to study your responses a bit further and perhaps treat early.
would lasix cause changes in coumadin (warfarin) levels? my 85 yo mother in law has developed some fluid in her lungs and was put on 40 mg of lasix daily.
warfarin (coumadin) and lasix (furosemide) do not interact. lasix can cause low potassium which may need to be watched.
would lasix cause changes in coumadin (warfarin) levels? my 85 yo mother in law has developed some fluid in her lungs and was put on 40 mg of lasix daily.
lasik is used to treat the fluid. the fluid problem is what causes the inr changes.
would lasix cause changes in coumadin (warfarin) levels? my 85 yo mother in law has developed some fluid in her lungs and was put on 40 mg of lasix daily.
should not affect coumadin (warfarin). . chf can affect liver function which then could affect coumadin (warfarin) levels.
when diagnosing high blood pressure how do doctors decide between a heart problem and a fluid problem?
usual hypertension is a blood vessel problem which manifests by high blood pressure the heart problem is secondary to the high pressure. some infrequent causes of hypertension have increased fluid volume those have special tests but aren't common.
what tests are used to determine if you have clogged arteries in the heart?
the gold stndrd is "cardiac cath " where tiny wire & tube are fed from artery in groin or arm to vessels of heart and dye is injected by fluoroscopy to create a roadmap of heart's vessels--can also open / stent narrow/clogged arteries. other ways are indirect & include ct scan that looks for calcium in heart vessels (=blockage) or a nuclear med study looking for uptake by heart muscle.
when i was 5 my teacher thought i had asthma but i didn't. i'm now 15 i sometimes have a hard time breathing and using an inhaler sounds like heaven.
see your doctor for an updated evaluation. allergy sinus infections reflux or primary lung or tracheal or even heart problems could contribute to your symptoms. don't suffer - get help!
when your heart/arteries flutter what is that called?
there are many reasons to feel your heart beating--oftentimes called palpitations. sometimes it is innocent and normal such as a rapid heart rate after exertion. other times it may be serious and is a concerning arrhythmia. common abnrormal arrhythmias causing palpitations include atrial fibrillation/flutter and supraventricular tachycardia.
why am i so thirsty post stroke my lips are cracked?
there are fluid losing problems that can happen with stroke that could cause that thirst. please see your doctor and let them know what's going on.
what is the probablity of a 14 year old male having a heart attack?
if the kid has progeria (premature aging syndrome) that might be expected. if not little to none. most with chest pain have gastrointestinal reflux with heartburn.
when do i need to see a doctor about swollen feet and legs?
if the unexplained swelling lasts for more than a few days or is worsening it is a good idea to see your primary care doctor or an internist. swelling of the legs is usually due to fluid retention. caused by (heart kidney liver high bp salt intake etc) needs to be sorted out by primary care doc/internist. unilateral (one side) maybe due to a blood clot muscle or tendon injury or arthritis.
why does gastritis cause shortness of breath?
gastritis is defined as inflammation of the stomach lining due to high levels of acid production. other causes include using pain killers ( aspirin indomethacin etc). gastroesophageal reflux ( heartburn) is associated with the above conditions. there is association between uncontrolled heart burn and asthma though it is controversial. i do not see a direct link between gastritis and breathing.
was wondering how long pain would take to go away from pins and needle side effect from amlodipine will it stop once meds are flushed?
it is a very rare side effect and depending on how long you took the medication it can take about 6 weeks to go away. if not then check with a neurologist for neuropathy.
what to do if i have recenly developed chest pain and what like to know the cause?
if your pain is acute go to er to rule out myocardial ischemia. cause: ischemia acid reflux strain fibromyalgia gastric ulcer hernia and many others. go to physician for evaluation.
what does wheezing means to a patient with ischemic heart disease. what does it signifies. cough is also there. should i increase the dose of diuretic.
wheeze can be due to fluid in the lungs or an asthmatic condition. either way see your doc.
what side effects are commonly associated with diuretics?
diuretics cause fluid to be excreted through the kidneys. this can contribute to lower blood pressure electrolyte problems dehydration and extra stress on your kidneys over time.
why does c sections increase the risk of amniotic fluid embolism?
the theoretical reason is that the operative delivery disrupts the tissues and allows amniotic fluid to more easily pass into the woman's blood vessels. but it's not entirely clear if this is a true risk or just an association. women with suspected amniotic fluid embolism are rushed to c-section. so it's possible it's the other way around amniotic fluid embolism increases risk of c-section.
what are the signs that you might get a heart attack?
angina pectoris (chest pain behind the sternum) is classic but pain that radiates to left arm & neck/mandible can also occur. dyspnea or extreme shortness of breath alone may occur too. indigestion is occasionally misdiagnosed as gerd or reflux. you need cardiac enzymes (blood test) and an ekg (electric tracing of heart fxn). also take 81mg or 325mg aspirin is helpful to lower mortality.
what tests are done for lupus sle please son is 20 in itu for 7 weeks with viral flu and fuo rheumatic fever when 8 had loads of antibiotics?
the ana is the best screening test. if that test is negative you can usually stop there. if it is positive other tests for more specific autoantibodies can be performed.
what tests are done for lupus sle please son is 20 in itu for 7 weeks with viral flu and fuo rheumatic fever when 8 had loads of antibiotics?
the first test done is called an anti nuclear antibody or ana. if this test is positive then we proceed with further testing to look more specifically for lupus. there are other antibodies that can be tested that will tell you if lupus is more likely there or not. it is also determined by the presence of certain symptoms. there are 11 symptoms that are associated with lupus. but ana first.
what can you do to tell the difference between heart problems and acid reflux?
"heart burn" typically occurs after meals worse in supine position described as a "burning" "gnawing symptom that is associated with dyspepsia symptoms in the epigastric region. heart "angina" typically occurs with activity resolves with rest and is described more as a tightness in the upper chest area sometimes radiating down the left arm. symptoms can intertwine often.
what can a stethoscope find out about ur heart & lungs help.
at one time before there were echos mris catheters etc. this was the only way to know what was happening in the chest and i admire my mentors who were much better at this than i. still it helps to choose the best tests by hearing heart rate murmurs extra heart sounds relative strength and timing of opening and closing of heart valves fluid or infection in the lungs airway obstruction.
what can i do if my grandma is having chest pains we want to know what it could be?
chest pain of course is known to be associated with cardiac disease however many other causes are more frequent. gastroesophageal reflux is common cause of chest pain referred to as heart burn. musculoskeletal changes related to trauma or inflammation of ribs and muscles around chest can produce pain. the most important thing is to see physician for physical examination and if indicated imaging.
what medicines i can take to lower my hypertension?
there are several kind of meds for hypertension. diuretics beta blockers ace inhibitors arbs calcium channel blockers are all categories of meds that can be utilized. the decision of which med can be influenced by what other problems you may have such as diabetes palpitations kidney issues etc.
what is differences between right ventricular hypertrophy & right heart failure; cor pulmonale & pulmonary hypertension? do they hv the same meaning?
rvh is thickening muscle bound right ventricle sometimes due to pulmonary hypertension lung disease or left sided failure and backup. as the muscle does its very best to keep up with the needed work to pump through an ill obstructed lung circulation it may tire out= right ventricular failure or collapse. this puts stress back to the body and fluid retention and stresses the left heart.
what happens to the heart when a person has anorexia nervosa?
can have numerous complications. death may occur suddenly & may result from abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) or an imbalance of electrolytes—minerals such as sodium potassium & calcium that maintain the balance of fluids in your body. heart problems may include mitral valve prolapse abnormal heart rhythms & heart failure. a person with anorexia nervosa requires medical & psychiatric care.
what causes having water around your heart?
pericardial effusion is the name of this condition. it occurs if there is inflammation or infection in the pericardial sac which is a fibrous structure that covers the heart. your cardiologist can find out the cause for this problem. it can be a serious if fluid is not drained.
which cancers and/or diseases cause heart problems and migraines?
any cancer that becomes metastatic to the pericardium will cause heart disease - breast and lung cancer are examples. primary cancer of the heart occurs but is thankfully very rare. migraines are genetically determined and influenced by hormone status. the 2 diseases are not related. migraine is not generally a risk factor for heart disease altho may correlate with vasospastic disorders.
what would being exposed to extreme temperaturesdo to someone with (idiopathic) pulmonary fibrosis?
some people with ipf can get affected by the cold weather. it really depends on the individual. usually during the cold weather the increase in respiratory viruses (especially flu) can cause trouble in patients with any sort of lung disease. but it really depends on the individual.
when i stand my feet turn a red color. i cross my legs my toes go purpie. had the test where they take the bp in your feet vs arms came back normal.
if arterial inflow is normal and ankle pressure adequate the discoloration is from stasis and congestion and deoxygenation of the blood in the veins and capillaries. move about elevate ? lose weight? if not at normal. venous insufficiency and reflux in the veins or cardiac congestion can be related. if not checked with prior work up that would be a consideration.
what do you suggest to regulate my low blood pressure?
low blood pressure is generally desirable but if there is lightheadedness with position change or other symptoms of low blood pressure need to ensure no underlying problems- low thyroid or low cortisol or slow heart rate. need to ensure good hydration status consider liberalizing salt intake. compression stockings can be quite helpful. some medications may include midodrine or florinef (fludrocortisone).
what are the names of conditions where your heart just randomly stops for a period of time?
arrhythmia heart block conduction defect etc. . these are some of the names that can be used when the heart does not beat normally or scape some beats when the heart completely stop this is called "asystole" some arrhythmia has specific names such as " artrial fibrillation atrial flutter multifocal atrial tachycardia ventricular fibrillation etc. ".
why everytime i eat i feel like i am going to have a heart attack?
would work up esophageal spasm hiatal hernia and reflux first.
what makes sodium contribute to heart disease?
in a healthy patient no more than 2 000 mg of sodium/day and in a pat with cardiovascular risk no more than 1500mg/day. excess na can't be eliminated by the kidneys. that excess will influence bp in the arteries. higher consumption specially in high risk patients like older patients with cardiovascular risk factors and african americans with genetic predisposition higher the risk.
what is the reason of chd in newborn?
congenital heart disease is present in 6-<negative_smiley>1000 live births. the cause of chd is unclear but involves both genetic and environmental influences. many genetic syndromes are associated with chd (down syndrome turner syndrome vacterl association etc). maternal disease may also contribute (diabetes lupus rubella) as can some medications and alcohol. usually the exact cause is unknown.
what kind of flu like symptoms do i have when my chest hurts & a bad cough?
common flu symptoms are low grade temp body aches runny nose congestion sneezing -- you may have more than flu and it could be pneumonia -- go see your doctor.
what cause my hands and forearms to be severely swollen for 5 days? ultra sound shows that i do not have dvt.
excess of fluid.
what kind of food can lower high blood pressure?
: optimal diet is dash diet: low salt low saturated fat low cholesterol 8 servings of colored fruit and vegetables daily pomegranates tomato kiwi spinach kale whole grains and low animal protein (4 - 5 oz per day of very lean meat fish poultry only). don't smoke. drink 3 liters fluid per day. minimize caffeine. look up dash diet.
what are the best drugs to avoid deep vein thrombosis?
there are no drugs used to avoid any deep vein thrombosis. perhaps a baby aspirin prior to airplane trip may be of benefit however at age 36 i would not recommend that this be use on a daily basis. the most important protector against deep vein thrombosis is being active drinking plenty of fluids daily and not sitting for prolonged periods of time.
what's a way to distinguish between gastroesophageal reflux and cardiac problem symptoms?
both can give you chest pain. in general gerd is associated with burning chest pain acid/sour taste in your mouth cough at night burning abdominal pain with stomach. ascad associated with pressure type chest pain worsening during activities heart palpitations shortness if breath. esophageal spasm from gerd can give you pressure pain. good history/physical stress test endoscopy.
why bp is fluctuating. in the evening it was 105/69 with pulse 59. i am takin nebi 2. 5 daily morning. what precaution should i take.
u r bp is good! need additional bp in am-noon-and pm. nebivolol is a good anti hypertensive drug!
what are the signs when you get a heart attack in a woman in her 40's?
chest pain chest pressure arm pain shoulder epigastric or upper back pain. also shortness of breath or flu like symptoms. or just not feeling well.
what diet to follow for reducing uric acid. my uric acid is 7. 2. i am avoiding all kinds of protien & purines. i take only "concor am 5" daily fr bp?
new guide are below 6. 0 which means we need to control it below 5 to allow for food fluctuation to prevent attack. use google all info is there. see your doctor too. take vegetable protein and avoid all alcohols. if still high you need medicine. high uric acid could also high bp too.
what can i do to raise blood pressure besides eat and drink and move? it's 88 over 62. is that normal?
this is a low reading but if you have no symptoms of low blood pressue weakness dizziness(espically when you suddenly stand up or jump out of bed) fainting shortness of breath or any of these symptoms made worse with vigorous exercise. . you might be ok. it is necessary to check ur bp on several different days to get a true idea what is going on. bottom line if u r "sick" c ur md. salt and fluids help.
what can i do to avoid flushed red face caused by blood pressure medicine?
you should speak to your doctor about your problem and see if your medicine can be changed. there are a multitude of bp meds on the market and i quite certain that one can substituted for the medicine that is giving you problems. give your physician call and get your problem resolved. good luck.
what to do if i need to get my cholesterol checked - i know i need to fast but does that include no fluids?
you can have water but not other fluids.
why are people with low cholesterol more likely to get cancer than people with higher cholesterol? is this related to their vitamin d levels?
healthy people with low cholesterol don't get more cancer. this is a statistical fluke of some studies. in some studies people with low cholesterol or vit d have an occult cancer or are smokers or are too skinny (due to their illness) and then these people tend to show more cancers later. statistical associations can be misleading and do not prove cause-effect.
what should someone do to bring blood pressure up?
low blood pressure is generally desirable but if there is lightheadedness with position change or other symptoms of low blood pressure need to ensure no underlying problems- low thyroid or low cortisol or slow heart rate. need to ensure good hydration status consider liberalizing salt intake. compression stockings can be quite helpful. some medications may include midodrine or florinef (fludrocortisone).
what would you recommend to someone whos 21 yr male with resting hr 60 and standing 94? if pots what would best treatment be as symptoms noy huge?
pots is an infrequent entity whereas volume depletion is very common. liberalize your salt intake (ie eat salt) and drink plenty of fluids. if you exercise drink a lot during and after exercise to replace perspiration. if you have diabetes be sure it's very well controlled. avoid alcohol and coffee which are diuretics (stimulate your kidneys).
what would cause leaking through the membrane around the heart?
i think you are talking about pericarditis or pericardial effusions. fluid around the pericardium. can be cause by a variety of conditions. viral or bacterial disease after heart surgery and after heart attack lupus an rheumatoid arthritis cancer heart failure renal failure hypithyroidism etc.
why do i have coughing fits that result in shortness of breath resulting in throwing up?
could be allergies or asthma if you have it. bronchitis usually persistent cough. reflux can even cause a chronic caugh. get checked for possible whooping cough. see your dr if it persts.
what is the best drug for cardiac asthma?
cardiac asthma means increased fluid tension in your lungs from a cardiac source is making you short of breath. this may be from a heart that is thickened or stiff (diastolic dysfunction) a heart that is enlarged or weakened (systolic dysfunction) or a valve that is not functioning properly. the treatment is different depending on the cause. see your doctor.
what is the differences between brinzolamide and dorzolamide as topical eye drops with timolol for reducing ocular hypertension?
brinzolamide and dorzolamide are both carbonic anhydase inhibitors. they lower pressure by stopping the enzyme that helps produce fluid in the eye. they are both sulfa compound derivatives.
when is low blood pressure considered dangerous?
when your blood pressure is too low you do not get enough oxygen to your brain and people feel lightheaded dizzy or like they are going to faint. that is dangerous but the most common cause of low blood pressure is not enough fluids or dehydration. if you are still having low blood pressure and feeling dizzy after drinking at least 64 oz per day then you should see your doctor.
what can you do to treat someone with hypovolemic shock?
lots of iv (intravenous) fluids in the hospital and may need medicines to raise blood pressure and help heart pump.
will death by heart failure feel the same as death by heart attack?
heart attack primarily pain or sudden death heart failure primarily trouble breathing from fluid congestion.
what food or natural remedies can i use to lower my moderately high blood pressure?
: optimal diet is dash diet: low salt low saturated fat low cholesterol 8 servings of colored fruit and vegetables daily pomegranates tomato kiwi spinach kale whole grains and low animal protein (4 - 5 oz per day of very lean meat fish poultry only). don't smoke. drink 3 liters fluid per day. minimize caffeine. add omega 3. achieve ideal weight. exercise twice daily.
what can you do if you catch the flu and have had a heart attack?
viral illnesses are a nuisance! hydration analgesics anti fever-tylenol. treat the symptoms as best you can ask pharmacist to correlate any regular meds with any over the counter meds. time!
what can you do if you catch the flu and have had a heart attack?
see your doctor and treat the flu if this is truly flu and not some other virus.
why would my triglycerides drop from 210 to 102 and i was not watching my diet at all? i still ate bad stuff.
your triglyceride levels fluctuate tremendously over hours depending on diet activity and who-knows-what. many physicians are unconcerned with triglyceride levels if other health parameters aren't worrisome. "treat the person not the numbers. ".
what are the causes of water retention? how to treat it? thanks. is massage good? what type of massage and how often?
is why are you retaining fluid. . talk to your physician so things like chf can be ruled out then appropriate treatment can be undertaken.
what is causing me to get chest pains around my heart area?
chest pain can have many causes. . coronary artery disease chest wall pain acid reflux asthma pneumonia bronchitis etc. i don't have any info about you. seek a good primary care doctor for a good history and physical and start searching for a cause asap.
what can be done to stabilize a person’s blood pressure after trauma?
in a trauma with subsequent lowering of blood pressure first stop the bleeding. immediate direct pressure tourniquet are options. depending on what level of care one may are at may consider volume expander such as hetastarch iv fluid and/or blood. pressors such as dopamine levophed (norepinephrine) epinephrine may also be used. surgical exploration with ligation or repair of blood vessels may also be requ.
what should i do if i can feel my heart palpitate?
it might be skip beat == atrial or ventricular may have paf 0r svt /? flutter hard to say good idea to establish what type of arythmia it is for further guidence. holter monitor or event monitor will help. check with your physician for guidence.
what does it mean when the cardiologist says your heart is fine and then says you have plumanary hypertension he thinks.
the pulmonary arteries extend from the right sided heart chambers into the small blood vessels in the lungs where oxygen diffuses into the bloodstream and carbon dioxide diffuses out. when the pulmonary vascular pressures are high (pulmonary hypertension) that diffusion process is impeded and the blood flow from the right heart backs up leading to fluid buildup in the venous system and sob.
what's it mean to have a fluttering heart?
atrial flutter is a special type of rhythm disorder in which there is an extra pathway in the upper chamber of the heart that cycles and stimulates the lower chambers of the heart. the rate can be quite rapid or can be more controlled depending on how the lower chambers respond to the extra signals. this condition is treated with medications cardioversion and/or ablation of the pathway.
what's it mean to have a fluttering heart?
please see your doctor for a complete history and physical. a consultation with a cardiologist may also be helpful. additional testing to include ecg and possibly holter monitor echocardiography or event recorder may be helpful in determining what is going on. this could be as simple as your perceiving a heart flutter with no actual heartbeat abnormality or be a true abnormal heart rhythm.
what are the causes of the body to diurese fluids when blood sugar is high?
when the nephrons filter the high glucose it obligates increase in water in the filtrate.
why do i get a stinging throbbing pain under my breast on my right and left side? it hurts bad.
in women of your age hormonal caused fluid retention or sensitivity to caffeine are the teo most common causes especially if you have hormonaly sensitive breasts.
would angina usually hurt where the heart muscle is in the chest? my pain is a little higher than the hearts main cetre and doesn't go to the left
ischemic heart chest pain usually retrosternal pressure irradiating to the left shoulder or arm worsening with activities and improving with rest. if above test were negative you do not have coronary artery disease. r/o chest wall pain and acid reflux. follow up with your doctor.
wen i wake up my bra fits big n after a couple hrs my bra is severely tight i'm thinking i'm retaining water but why n what can i do besides diuretic?
it's better to watch your salt intake if you are retaining fluid --.
what could cause body weakness episodes. along with chronic upper back/chest pain on left side. and heartburn/upper stomache pain. symptoms related?
mononucleosis chronic fatigue syndrome fibromyalgia thyroid condition autoimmune acid reflux etc. hope u feel better soon!
why my bp is low when i get the flu?
febrile illnesses frequently have decreased bp because of fever related vasodilation.
what are withdrawl symptoms of not taking hydrochlorothiozide?
there are no acute withdrawal symptoms of stopping hydrochlorothiazide (hctz). you may gain some fluid weight as it is a diuretic. your potassium and magnesium levels may be higher as hctz is known to lower them. before you stop any medication prescribed by your physician discuss it with him first.
why my heart beat faster than usual when i take flu medicine?
some flu medicines have ingredients which can cause rapid heart beat.
which are the side effects of flu vaccine in 11 month old baby he is on warfarin aspirin and propranolol becouse of aneurysms in coronary arteries?
there are no specific problems with the flu vaccine in this setting. obviously a shot in anyone on coumadin (warfarin) may cause a bit of a bruise at the injection site.
which are the side effects of flu vaccine in 11 month old baby he is on warfarin aspirin and propranolol becouse of aneurysms in coronary arteries?
fever and local pain over the injection site are the common side effects. since your infant is on chronic aspirin therapy annual influenza vaccination is essential. reye syndrome has been known to occur to children who take aspirin while they are having flu (influenza).
what can cause hydronephrosis ( sp? ) i have high bp potassium and protien in urine and elevated wbc?
blockage can be 1) within kidney from stone polyp sloughed tissue or tumor 2) in wall of kidney kidney pelvis or ureter congenital or tumor 3) extrinsic from constricting blood vessel retroperoneal fifrosis or pressure from cyst or tumor. refluxing urine frombladder can cause hydro. high bp can be from kidney or other cardiovascular causes wbcs in blood or urine? infection. pot. + protein? kidney.
what is the difference between pericarditis and angina? years ago i had test done in the er was told there was swelling in the middle of my chest.
pain can be in same area. but cause very different! pericarditis is inflammation of the sac which surrounds the heart like a ziplock bag! angina is ischemic pain of the heart muscle from coronary disease. some heart attacks will have pericardial irritation fluid blood as part of the process.
what does shooting side pain on the left side of the chest mean?
chest pain can come from many causes. at your age more common causes include musculoskeletal pain; pulmonary problems like asthma or pneumonia; gi problems like reflux gastritis achalasia. the heart can also be the source of chest pain in adolescence but it is very rare. a detailed history & physical exam with your pcp will be important. depending on those further testing may be recommended.
what are the causes of lower blood pressure for 13 year old cancer patient?
-not sufficient intake of fluids blood loss or lack of production. it is important that the doctor deal with this not us on the internet. call them. very low blood pressure leads to a shock state -- insufficient perfusion of organs like heart brain and kidneys.
what does trouble breathing mean if no doctor can figure it out the source of breathing problems and the breathing test caomes out fine and they still?
reassurance that everything is normal. i presume you were checked for reactive (asthma)/ obstructive (bronchitis emphysema) airway disease acid reflux post nasal drip coronary artery disease etc. take care!
what is good for acid reflux if i don't have any tums (calcium carbonate)? i have chest pain and headache too
can sometimes be used.
what food for high blood pressure?
: low salt low saturated fat low cholesterol 8 servings of colored fruit and vegetables daily pomegranates tomato kiwi spinach kale low animal protein (4 - 5 oz per day of meat fish poultry only). don't smoke. drink 3 liters fluid per day. minimize caffeine. look up dash diet. eliminate nsaids. they cause salt retention.
what causes amniotic fluid embolism?
it is when amniotic fluid enters the bloodstream through the venous system. it can be very dangerous potentially causing a embolus in the lung.
what causes dyspnea and abnormal breath sounds for mitral stenosis?
if severe mitral stenosis can cause pulmonary edema or fluid buildup in the lung tissue and air spaces as a result of increasing left atrial pressure and pulmonary venous congestion. this may led to shortness of breath as well as crackles on exam.
what would happen if i needed gallbladder surgery and i am on effluent blood thinners? i had 4 heart stents feb 2012.
depends if you don't have symptoms not causing any complications able to eat with minimum discomfort most likely your doctors will observe you. or if you all the above and more will asses your cardiac status with tests coordinate with your cardiologists stop the blood thinners remove the gb and restart your blood thinners you are at a higher risk but still risk is not that high.
what is a water pill use for?
water pills are primarily used for swollen ankles and high blood pressure however they are also used to loose weight. they cause you to urinate more frequently which decreases fluids in your body.
what causes a painful lump underneath the top of your ribcage? had it for over a year chest pain and wheezing too.
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
what are the diseases which spread though brain to heart?
the heart is certainly influenced by neural mechanisms that originate in the brain but we would need a more specific question to give you a satisfying answer.
when i too much talk affect heartbeat? why this happened?
it is normal to have fluctuating heart beats. there is no real normal when you are otherwise healthy. if you get agitated or otherwise worked up when you are talking then increased heart rate would be expected. this is how the heart works. it is not a disease.
what are the side effects of red yeast rice and niacin non flush?
ryr can cause abdominal pain allergic reaction dizziness liver and muscle inflammation with muscular pain flatulance (gas) stomach pain and headache. aside from flushing niacin can cause liver damage itching low blood pressure upset stomach diarrhea vomiting gout rashes headache diabetes liver inflammation and blurred vision.
why are antihypertensive drugs that act solely by dilating blood vessels not good for long term effectiveness?
not all direct vasodilators lose effectiveness with time. the body can accomodate to the peripheral dilation by fluid retention or increased cardiac output. needing more than one antihypertensive medication is not unusual.
with kidney problem what causes the feet to swell?
if your kidneys are indeed losing ability to function at normal capacity you can accumulate fluids. these ultimately pool down in the feet as gravity pulls this water down.
with kidney problem what causes the feet to swell?
need to function normally to get rid of excessive fluids in our body. without proper function fluids tend to pool in ankles due to gravity and abnormal kidney function. hope this helps.
why is it important to keep track of your weight if you have heart disease?
your heart is a pump. if the pump isn't doing its job fluid backs up behind it. blood being pumped out of the heart to the body is reduced & your organs (especially the kidney) think that they are dehydrated. the kidney stops making urine to 'save' fluid. the volume in the body increases. more fluid more weight. voila! weight becomes an accurate measure of fluid balance. use same scale!
what can i do if my 2 months old nephew has fluid around his heart and lungs. how is it treated?
depending on the cause of the fluid accumulation sometimes with medication dialysis and sometimes with surgical drainage. usually heart conditions or congenital heart disease infections and other serious conditions causes fluids to accumulate around the heart and lungs.
what can i do if my 2 months old nephew has fluid around his heart and lungs. how is it treated?
he needs to be treated in an icu at the hospital by cardiac/pulmonary specialists.
what's normal bp for an 18year old girl who's 5'5" and 107lbs? systolic & diastolic?
a healthy blood pressure for anyone would be 120/80 or lower. young thin women can have lower blood pressures than men. blood pressure does fluctuate throughout the day but should stay at or below 120/80 most of the time. readings above 140/90 on a regular basis may indicate high blood pressure & you should see the doctor. readings in between indicate pre-hypertension.
what are the causes of extreme fluctuations in blood pressure?
extreme bp fluctuations are triggered by extreme physical or metabolic stresses.
why does procardia (nifedipine) cause edema?
the cause of edema in calcium channel blocker medications is due to the decrease in arteriolar resistance. the resistance change is not seen in the veins so the pressure in the capillary beds is increased thus causing fluid fluid shift into the tissues resulting in edema.
why do i have right chest pain?
right sided chest pain has many causes. musculoskelal reasons include muscle injury and costochondritis inflammation of anterior rib ending. inflammation of the pleural tissues (pleuritis)can cause pain in the right side. gallbladder attacks ge reflux hepatitis sometimes cardiac viral infection pancreatitis are other causes. consult your physician if persists for physical exam and therapy.
what could be the reasons to get low bp often to someone who takes food and drinks water properly. ?
low bp could be from very low weight (underweight) or inadequate intake of salt. many people overdo it on avoiding salt but you need salt especially in hot weather to keep bp normal. an active elderly friend had this problem last summer with dizziness. very costly hospital workup elsewhere was negative. i told him to start using salt and push fluids: cured in 24hrs! see md if it persists.
what does fluid retention mean?
fluid retention (f) is when one is unable to excrete an adequate amount water urine daily. it accumulates in the body usually as edema in the legs. it can be seen in both cardiac and kidney failure. another cause is liver disease due to a low serum concentration of albumin made by the liver causing f. if one has it one has to be seen by a physician for evaluation and treatment.
what does fluid retention mean?
fluid retention is related to salt and associated water retention. it can be sometimes caused by medications and commonly a symptom of heart or kidney disease.
what happens if your heart fails?
what do you mean fails. if the heart arrests you are dead. if you mean congestive heart failure then the fluid backs up in the tissues the persons energy declines the tissues suffer from hypo perfusion. the lungs become wet with fluid and the legs swell up.
what happens if your heart fails?
heart failure means the heart is not pumping adequate output to satisfy the bodies needs. usually this results in fluid retention fatigue edema and shortness of breath. there is a form called diastolic failure in which the heart pumps adequately but to do this requires high intracranial pressures and fluid retention.
what are the first signs of heat stroke or exhaustion?
lethargy confusion headaches. facial flushing or turning pale depending on the hydration status. for heat exhaustion thirst is the very first warning sign which is often ignored.
what are possible reasons that my chest hurts when i eat low carb?
if you're overdoing it and your sugar drops you may have chest pain sweating palpitations or if are eating a diet high in fat causing acid reflux or a diet high in salt causing your blood pressure to rise. if you have risk factors like diabetes high blood pressure high cholesterol or heart disease in your family you should seek medical attention to make sure you do not have blocked heart artery.
what arthritis medicine is safe for someone on heart meds for cardiomyopathy etodolac almost caused a trip to the hospital?
most ndaids like motrin edodolac naproxen hold onto fluids which can tip the balance with cardiomyopathy. you can take include tylenol (acetaminophen) aspirin if it's okay with you dr. no acetylated salicylates like: choline salicylate or limbrel. "any therapy needs to be clear with your physician.
what can i do if my little sister has low blood pressure and keeps collapsing what can we do?
the treatments for this are somewhat in order salt and fluid loading training maneuvers and drugs but you need a firm diagnosis. give an electrophysiologist a call to discuss.
why would i get heart burn from drinking water?
a drink of water is often given during an upper gi series to precipitate heartburn. it causes esophageal reflux (which is acid splattering from your stomach (which has protection) up into your vulnerable esophagus (which has no protection) causing spasm and pain. ).
when i lay flat on my back and take a deep breath my breath seems to catch and my heart seems to jump/flutter. what could it be?
what you are feeling could be a normal response to the effect of deep breathing on the circulation. when you take a deep breath you increase the amount of blood returning to the heart after your exhale the heart will contract more vigorously due to the extra blood volume for one or two cycles you may experience this as a jump or flutter assuming what your feeling is brief and lasts for 2-3 sec.
what is hydrochlorothiazide for?
diuretic (fluid pill) used to lower blood pressure.
what's the difference between acid reflux and erosive acid reflux? i usually get chest pain if i don't eat within an hour of taking prilosec.
acid reflux is the term describing spillage of stomach acid into the esophagus. erosive acid reflux is spillage associated with superficial esophageal lining breaks (erosions). erosive acid reflux may lead to ulcers that are deeper lesions that can cause pain and difficulty with food digestion. erosions may be painful as well.
what is the best medicine for tonsilitis? i am taking maintenance med for high cholesterol. already took co-amoxiclav for 7 days.
if one has a sore throat after taking a powerful antibiotic like generic augmentum it is helpful to re-consider the cause of the inflammation. persons with high cholesterol and high blood pressure are often over weight and may a hiatal hernia resulting in reflux irritating the throat. eating 6 small equal meals of healthy foods would help all three problems.
why is it when i eat food gets stuck in my chest and i end up with heart burn and ingestion?
solid food dysphagia. . possibly due to chronic inflammation from acid reflux but there are several possible causes. this condition needs evaluation by your primary care doctor or a gastroenterologist.
why does my blood pressure keep dropping? diabetic but i am sure it has nothing to do with this problem. my blood pressure drops every now and then in the morning. why is that?
depends on how low it drops. people with long-standing diabetes can get problems with their autonomic nervous system causing wide fluctuations in bp with changes in position like going from a lying to a standing position. see your doctor and have them check "orthostatic bp's". other causes of autonomic dysfunction can also be the cause. see your doctor.
what are possible reasons that my chest hurts after eating junk food?
most likely reflux. the obvious answer is to quit eating junk food. your body is rejecting it and telling you it is not beneficial or healthy. pay attention to symptoms. the body is amazing and often tries to tell us things we ignore.
what is the mechanism by which smooth skelatol and cardiac muscle twitch?
when you apply an electric current to any of the above fibers you cause depolarization ion flux and movement of protein filaments resulting in the characteristic "twitch". if you're really interested check out: <link>
when i run i've always gotten a taste in my mouth like mars bars along with chest/lower teeth pain. cardiac work-ups were clear. alternative causes?
"runner's heartburn "can cause chest pain and bad taste in your mouth. changes is sphincter tone to les during strenuous exercise can facilitate this reflux. the american gastroenterological association (aga) should have some tips as to helping divert this for you. or try this link <link>
when i run i've always gotten a taste in my mouth like mars bars along with chest/lower teeth pain. cardiac work-ups were clear. alternative causes?
commonly this can be caused by reflux even if you don't experience typical heartburn-like symptoms.
what is treatement for low bp that leads to giddness? i am suffering from last five days. bp 95/55. i am doing regular exercise
drink plenty of fluids you maybe dehydrated. check your pulse depending on your heart rate other conditions can cause low blood pressure best to see a doctor if you remain symptomatic.
what are the best tips to lower cholestrol without the use of western medicine?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl =700 nmol/l hdl =45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what are the causes if the heart burn?
acid reflux from the stomach into the esophagus. alcohol smoking caffiene over eating laying down within 2 hours of eating all contribute to acid reflux. if you have frequent heartburn you should see your doctor for treatment and possibly a scope since frequent acid reflux leads to a barrett's esophagus which predisposes you to esophageal cancer.
what are foods that help lower high cholesterol?
cholesterol is a fat molecule manufactured by every animal cell a building block of each cell membrane (enables membrane fluidity/movement without tearing) is fundamental to the survival of every animal cell. lipoproteins (proteins which transport all fats in the water outside cells) is the correct issue for artery disease (e. g. ldl? 700 nmol/l hdl? 45 µmol/l). cholesterol? $ but misleading.
what are the causes of fainting?
biggest cause in your age range is not enough fluids. drink half your weight in ounces. stop all caffeine! eat three meals a day and if your symptoms don't improve see your doctor. make sure you have salt in your diet.
why does pork make my chest hurt? what condition could this be?
pork is often higher in fat than other foods. this can increase your stomach acid level and aggravate esophogeal reflux or cause va gall bladder attack if your have gall stones.
what cholestrol medicines are safe for kids?
first and foremost diet and keeping weight under control are the most important undertakings to lower cholesterol in kids. this applies even for the familial hypercholesterolemia problems where very high cholesterol levels run in families. however if medication is needed may of the statins such as lovastatin can be used in these situations. fluvastatin can be used in adolescents.
wife is taking: oxycodene propranolol fluoxetine naproxen alprazolam. are there long term health affects. if she wants to concieve?
several of these medication need to be stopped before planning a pregnancy. for example the fluoxetine has been associated with birth defects and the naproxen can cause bleeding. the oxycodone can cause respiratory depression and narcotic withdrawal symptoms in the newborn. all of this needs to be coordinated with the doctor who prescribes them and the obstetrician.
what doc should i see for chronic cough and shortness of breath?
chronic cough can be from sinusitis allergies asthma but also from reflux. chronic bronchitis & other possible. get check first.
what treatments can you use for swollen feet if lasix (furosemide) does not work?
you need to find out the reason you are retaining fluid. people may ingest more fluid and salt (s) than they think. one way to deal with this is to cut down on fluid and/or s intake. another is to have your doctor increase the dose of your diuretic or perhaps change it. pts. with chronic kidney disease need lasix rather than hctz (hydrochlorothiazide). if swollen legs are still a problem check your legs' veins.
what does skin look like in early scleroderma? i have raynauds acid reflux & spider veins on chest chin. skin has slightly dark patch all over body.
besides skin being tight and hard---an early sign is the loss of skin wrinkles and lines.
what does skin look like in early scleroderma? i have raynauds acid reflux & spider veins on chest chin. skin has slightly dark patch all over body.
changes are not immediate. any time this diagnosis comes up your should have three blood tests: a sedimentation rate and ana test and a scl-70 (topoisomerase) antoibody. see also a rheumatologist. othere tests may be in place the specialist will guide you! do not delay!
what does skin look like in early scleroderma? i have raynauds acid reflux & spider veins on chest chin. skin has slightly dark patch all over body.
scleroderma is a disease of the connective tissue featuring skin thickening that can involve scarring blood vessel problems varying degrees of inflammation and is associated with an overactive immune system.
what would cause ankle and foot swelling after surgery to the knee?
swelling travels with gravity. after most surgeries to lower extremities the surgeon will instruct patients to keep their legs raised. this is so the swelling (fluid) doesn't build up following the flow of gravity to the foot and ankle. although there may not be any procedures done to those areas fluid can travel along a path of gravity and teh foot and ankle are at the bottom.
what would cause ankle and foot swelling after surgery to the knee?
typically knee surgery can affect the venous outflow from the lower limb and cause swelling below the surgical site. also if compression dressing or wraps are applied to the knee this will cause an increase in the fluid retention.
what are the clinical findings of an adult with a partial avsd atrioventicular septal defect? if missed on echo would there at least be signs?
this is an endocardial cushion defect and the symptoms and signs would depend on the amount of shunting present. in severe cases there would congestive heart failure with shortness of breath and edema (fluid retention). that could take time to develop and present after a number of years. arrhythmias are common. rbbb and possibly right axis on ekg is common. cxr would show plethora.
what can cause a pulse of 105 while resting? blood pressure also fluctuating between normal and the lower side of high. is this a thyroid storm?
thyroid storm that is a completely different disorder which you can not have because you don't have hyperthyroidism. make sure your thyroid level is normal with brand name t4 replacement and if so your thyroid has nothing to do with your problems. check w/your doctor. your problems are much most likely due to your weight excess and poor diabetes control.
will sepsis always cause extremely low blood pressure?
sepsis is often associated with low blood pressure requiring large fluid infusions and possible medicine to support blood pressure until the infection can be brought under control. however milder forms may have no bp issues.
what causes hands to look blotchy (red and white flushed)? currently taking losartan and prilosec(2) daily. tingling and numbness as well.
you may have an allergic reaction reynaud's phenominon polyneuritis to name a few possibilities. you ought to be examined.
why do i wake up with swollen hands and eyes?
when we lie flat fluid accumulates in our eyelids hands and feet. it should go away within an hour of standing. if excessive see your doctor.
what causes cholesterol to increase suddenly?
cholesterol revels are dominantly genetically based with gradual rises with increasing age. good and bad diets cause some modest fluctuations. egregiously bad diets like vacation on cruise ships fad high fat diets some acne medications etc. thyroid or kidney disorders can cause rather abrupt changes as well. usually a lab error is the culprit.
what are the main causes of shortness of breath? i don't feel any other symptoms except that it feels hard and slightly heavier to breath. any idea?
shortness of breath can be from several causes heart and lung issues are first such as asthma heart failure etc. it is can also be secondary to stomach problems such as gastritis and acid reflux. chronic nasal congestion from allergies can also cause shortness of breath. anemia is also another cause the list is endless.
why does my blood pressure fluctuate so much.
it is normal for the blood pressure to fluctuate throughout the day. being active feeling stressed or having strong emotional thoughts caffeine salt intake and many other factors can make the blood pressure rise. resting or relaxing sleeping deep breathing or meditation can lower the blood pressure.
when taking pills or other foods or liquids but mostly pills i get an extreme sharp chest pain in mid sternum that literally bring me to tears ideas?
sometimes gastroesophageal reflux can irritate esophagus causing dysmotility or narrowed segments that can impede movement of food through the esophagus. your physician should be able either by trial on medication testing with imaging or scoping the esophagus and stomach make this diagnosis. your testing has ruled out cardiac issues and other anatomic causes for sternal pain.
what is the cause of swollen feet in 39 weeks pregnancy?
the baby is a mass growing in your pelvic region and it causes pressure on some of the blood vessels obstructing the blood flow from your legs back to your heart thus causing your legs accumulate fluid. although it largely improves after the pregnancy is over it may lead to the formation of the varicose veins and some leg swelling to remain in the future.
will albuterol help with shortness of breath due to anemia?
shortness of breath b cause of anemia is fluid overload so little help may be not really.
what is vasodepressor syncope. is it dangerous. i never passed out. just always light headed.
usually not dangerous unless you hit your head while falling. if you just have light headedness most of the time increasing salt and fluid intake (unless you have some kidney issues or hypertension) helps a lot.
what can i do to prevent gi related chest and upper back pain when doing light aerobic exercise. all is well with the heart?
if it is reflux visit gi doctor and consider avoiding things causing increased reflux! "chocolate? " no way!
when i inhale deeply i get chest pressure and burping. i have also had burping and spasms that feel like squeezing near center of my chest.
gastrointestinal. . reflux or such. talk to your physician.
why. di. i always. have. heart burn. every. time. i. eat?
is the most likely reason. with stomach acid splashing into your esophagus. but it could be more serious like an ulcer or even angina of the heart or intestine you could try one of the over counter reflux drugs first to see if it helps but i would rather you checked with your doctor first so he can ask questions and poke on your stomach first.
what type of food should i eat when my cpk has been elevated due to muscle injury in my calves?
push fluids.
what are the different symptoms from mesothelioma and emphysema?
emphysema in smokers commonly and cause cough short of breath right heart failure and not much pain. mesothelioma and association with asbestosis and also commonly smokers. may be asymptomatic until chest wall pain or fluid compressing lung. over time they are both life threatening.
what are the different symptoms from mesothelioma and emphysema?
dyspnea the feeling of breathlessness. emphysema results from destroyed lung decreasing surface area to exchange o2 & co2. meso produces fluid or traps lung impairing lung expansion by fluid or constritive bands trapping lung.
what can cause shortness of breath besides anxiety chf and lung disorders?
you have mentioned good causes some time acid reflux can do too.
what are the symptoms of acid reflux apart from heartburn?
cough chest pain bad taste in mouth rapid tooth decay.
what causes your heart to increase to slightly over 100 and you can feel it race/pound when sitting and not changing position? then it comes back down
tell your doc what you just mentioned and ask for either a holter or event/loop monitor. the former works best if you have symptoms daily while the latter works best if you have symptoms every few weeks to a month. atrial flutter & frequent pvcs can also do this. but it's still best to see your doctor for analysis.
what does it mean when the left side of a woman's chest is sore?
the most common causes are: fibrocystic breast disease (benign cysts in the breast under hormonal influence) and myofascial syndrome which includes fibromyalgia and costochondritis (sore muscles joints and connective tissues of the chest wall).
what makes peritonitis pleurisy and pericarditis cause a great deal of pain?
peritonitis is an inflammation of the lining of the abdomen pleurisy an inflammation of the lining around the lungs and pericarditis an inflammation of the lining around the heart. in each case it is likely that the inflammation irritates some of the nerve endings in the region and causes pain. in some cases like pericarditis the stretching of the pericardium from fluid accumulation contributes.
what is the definition or description of: congestive heart failure?
basically it is a condition in which your heart becomes an inefficient pump. as a result fluid backs up into your lungs and also your lower extremities. there are numerous causes for this but ischemic heart disease is the most common cause. this can be diagnosed by laboratory test chest xray as well as an echo or ultrasound of your heart.
will dehydration cause swollen feet?
swelling is usually associated with excess fluid. dehydration is not a cause of swelling in the feet. malnutrition though may cause swelling.
what is bilateral pulmonary edema?
this means that there is fluid in both lungs. congestive heart failure can lead to a fluid build up in both lungs but there are many other etiologies depending on the age of the patient as well as medical history. your doctor will have more clinical information to make a more precise diagnosis as well as treatment. good luck!
what can be causing these heat flashes in my chest heart area not really painful but scary also chest always twitching what can it be besides my heart?
chest pain complaints should always be evaluated by your doctor due to their possible serious nature (ie heart attacks or pulmonary embolus)however some of the symptoms you are describing seem like esophageal reflux or spasm. panic attacks are also another cause of non cardiac chest pain. visit your doctor to at least reassure yourself that it is nothing serious.
will niacin flush free clean out my system for thc?
only time will help clear thc. it can take uo to 1 month for thc to clear.
will niacin flush free clean out my system for thc?
it will not remove thc the metabolite of cannabis prior to a drug test. it is not a good idea in any case. niacin makes your face flush / turn red and someone imagined that this might "flush" toxins from your system. this isn't the place to debate the wisdom of testing for cannabis; if you test with a low level you might claim it was second-hand smoke. i'm sorry this is happening.
what are the symtoms of bylateral pedal edema of +2?
patients with significant edema (e) have more in the afternoon if they are walking around. this causes them to get up after they go to bed to urinate and is caused by the e fluid going back into the circulation and excreted by the kidneys. other symptoms are shoes that get tighter in the afternoon as the e fluid settles in the feet. see a doctor to find out why you have it and how you can treat it.
what is the highest blood pressure reading that someone can have that doesn't increase risk for heart attack or stroke.
blood pressure fluctuates widely and safely in most instances. thus your question asking for a specific guideline is impossible to separate from the context that the heart is working in. what are your real concerns and symptoms?
what do your legs feel like when they are retaining water?
fluid retention can be associated with swelling in the legs. usually starts from the feet and ankles. shoes might feel tight. socks and shoes may leave markings on the skin. feet might feel full when walking. in more severe forms swelling is visible with decrease in skin markings and folds.
water pill for fluid on lungs?
diuretics are used frequently for "fluid on lungs". the cause of this finding however should be diagnosed and treated as well since diuretic therapy is not always going to treat the underlying problem.
what is the difference between a trivial and a small pericardial effusion?
there is always a small amount if fluid in the pericardium.
what would cause short bursts of intense dull pain in chest and upper stomache. almost like squeezing pain then releasing and a dull ache. dangerous?
there are multiple things that can cause this from gallbladder to chest pain to reflux. if it has happened more then once i would suggest seeing your physician.
what would cause short bursts of intense dull pain in chest and upper stomache. almost like squeezing pain then releasing and a dull ache. dangerous?
it sounds like esophageal spasms most likely due to acid reflux. but it's only a guess. cardiac chest pain may resemble it but in a 30 year old it sounds less plausible.
woke up in the middle of the night with a burning type sensation in my lower chest which faded in and out. is this indigestion/heart burn?
at your age the most probable cause is gerd gastro esophageal reflux. stomach contents especially when they contain irritants like alcohol can reflux from the stomach into the esophagus when lying down and cause burning in the esophagus. try an ant acid like tums (calcium carbonate) when you have the pain and see if it relieves it. if this continues you should see your doctor about this.
what is the difference between chronic venous stasis and chronic arterial insufficiency?
venous insufficiency is due to high blood pressure of the veins resulting in the leakage of fluid into the tissues of the legs. compression of the lower extremities and surgery on the veins can correct this. arterial ulcers are due to problems with arteries. there are larger arteries and small microscopic ones and either or both can have blockages. they usually can be discerned from each other.
why we can not use nsaids in patients with hypertension?
nsaid's can further elevate blood pressure ( which can lead to heart attacks or strokes) cause fluid retention ( which can lead to lung congestion) aggravate kidney function ( which can lead to renal failure). as a result nsaid's should be used with caution and only when the benefit outweigh the risks. the safest nsaid is naproxen and should be used before other agents are tried.
what is the difference between a heart cath and ablation?
a heart cath is the term for a heart catheterization or coronary angiography. this is to evaluate the coronary arteries for blockages. an ablation is a procedure to stop abnormal electrical heart rhythm pathways such as in svt wpw atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation.
why are my mother's lower legs completely purple/dark red hard and painful? a vascular specialist ruled out deep vein thrombosis.
although your mom may not have a blood clot in the deep veins (dvt) she may have venous insufficiency. if she has swelling in the legs varicose veins or dark discoloration in the shin area and ankles she should be check for venous reflux - a condition where the valves in the veins fail and contribute to the above symptoms. a specialized ultrasound looking for reflux will be useful.
why are my mother's lower legs completely purple/dark red hard and painful? a vascular specialist ruled out deep vein thrombosis.
chronic venous insufficiency will lead to swollen discolored legs. these legs can be purple red blue or more commonly brown. this is due to malfunctioning of the valves in either the suuperficial saphenous system of veins the deep system of veins or a combination of both. lymphedema may also play a role. she may not have dvt but she may have cvi and she should have a reflux sonogram.
why are my mother's lower legs completely purple/dark red hard and painful? a vascular specialist ruled out deep vein thrombosis.
the likely diagnosis is venous insufficiency where some of the superficial veins deep veins or perforator veins develop incompetency of the valves inside the veins. this leads to buildup of venous hypertension in the skin and over time leads to these sort of skin changes which are usually more severe in the lower legs. recommend a venous reflux ultrasound & use of medical compression stockings
what are clomifene citrate bp 50mg effects and side effects?
the drug is indicated for induction of ovulation in women and to induce production of sperm in men. side effects: blood clots multiple pregnancies severe visual disturbance. ovarian cancer with long term use. less serious side effects: flushing abdom distention nausea vomiting bresat tenderness blurred vision headache pelvic pain.
what are the causes for high blood pressure to fluctuate randomly?
all bps normally fluctuate. bp meds can exaggerate this as they are absorbed and lower bp and wear off with release of bp control. aging exaggerates it as blood vessel elasticity wanes. an extremely rare (1 in a million) tumor called pheochromocytoma can cause it -unlikely that you have that!
what things should i b doing now that i am not on coumadin (warfarin) six months after dvt diagnosis? how do i know if there is valve damage? worried
an ultrasound can evaluate for venous insufficiency (reflux study) and can determine if valve function is abnormal.
went to er on weds. neck pain and stiffness. headache and nausea. four days later same symptoms plus chest pain. sense of hearing and sight intense?
if you have fever neck stiffness headache then you need to get lumbar puncuture to rule out meningitis baes on what you are saying it could be flu. i would recommend go back to er.
woke up in middle of night with left arm pain and numbness headache and nausea what could this be only health issue acid reflux?
osteoarthritis of neck with pinching of nerve is most common cause of such symptoms. see a neurologist.
what does anesthesiologist give whaen blood pressure drops during csection?
in addition to intravenous fluids ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) is usually used to increase bp during cs as it does not compromise placental blood flow.
will heart failure affect my penis size?
right heart failure may cause lower body edema and cause swelling of the penis from fluid retention. this is not usually a desirable condition.
what causes lung fluid retention after heart valve surgery?
the lungs can retain fluid because the pressure in the blood vessels of the lungs is high. this can be because of volume overload - too much fluid in the body or because the heart needs higher pressures to fill. it can also be because the blood vessels of the lung are leakier due to inflammation after surgery.
what causes lung fluid retention after heart valve surgery?
natural after trauma or surgery to maintain fluid volume. heart failure kidney issues valve issues heart lung machine and volume load.
woke up with pain in both sides of calfs could it be side affect of amlodipine been on them a week. cant think what else it could be in both legs.
amlodipine might cause your symptom if fluid retention in your legs is present but it would be unusual to be in the legs on waking generally would be later in the day.
what is the cause of sudden breathlessness?
blood clot in the lung (pulmonary embolism); heart attack (myocardial infarction) collapses lung (pneumothorax) asthma attack (bronchospasm) fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema) or around the heart (tamponade) - just to name a few.
woke up feeling really tired after 7 hrs of sleep chest discomfort and a headache cause? history: htn pcos provera (medroxyprogesterone) lisinopril hctz
that is more than likely the cause in someone your age. especially if you start coughing. there are lots of viruses going around this time of year. did you get your flu shot yet? that is important too. if it gets worse and you get a high fever you should seek care otherwise comfort measures are usually the norm for the first few days.
what could be some causes for your heart feeling like it stops for a beat or two then flutters really fast and hard.
it seems that you have been having pvcs - pre mature ventricular contractions. and a possible arrythmia most likely supra ventricular tachycardia.
what happens when you take lisinopril twice a day by mistake 20-25 mg hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) feeling weird?
keep a close eye on bp. if you continue to feel bad and bp is very low go to ed. drink plenty of fluids and get in touch with you doctor.
what would be my signs to watch for if im having a reaction to me taking my lisinopril. 20-25 hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) twicw by mistake. . don't have a way to check bp?
many people take that dose everyday intentionally. it may be a little much for you. your bp may get a little lower than you're used to. if that happens you may feel light headed especially when you first get up. you can counteract the effects by drinking extra fluid and eating extra salt but i wouldn't advise doing that unless you're feeling dizzy. who knows-tonight you may have the best bp ever.
was diagnosed with a bunch of lung nodules in august now i have pretty intense chest pain should i be worried?
sounds like the lung lesions need a tissue diagnosis. there is huge variation. some may lead to air leaks fluid collections airway obstruction. see your pulmonologist or thoracic surgeon and figure it out.
what can i do to get rid of acid reflux chest pain?
elevated the head of your bed. don't eat for 4 hours before going to bed. liquid antacids like mylanta help. chewable tablets like tums (calcium carbonate) and rolaids are convenient. histamine 2 blockers like ranitidine or famotidine are available over the counter. proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole are also available otc. if these don't work you'll need to see your doctor.
whenever i check my blood pressure it ranges from 110/50 to the 130's/80's is this a large fluctuation or is it normal?
yes. it is normal fluctuation.
whenever i check my blood pressure it ranges from 110/50 to the 130's/80's is this a large fluctuation or is it normal?
blood pressure is not static. it varies dependent on the activity you are doing. it may go even higher if you are doing something strenuous. i would not be concerned about the #s you presented.
why one year ago i have: 1. flu throat 2. head pain-pressure 3. malaise 4. heartbeats without gripe-fever?
i don't understand why you're asking about something that happened one year ago.
would a ct scan show fluid on lungs or a heart problem? like disease or failure?
a cat scan will show this. but a cxr will show fluid on the lungs with less radiation and an echo will give detailed information about heart and valve function with no radiation.
why do i blackout when i stand up? is this a common thing?
the most common cause of fainting when rising to a standing position is decreased blood flow to the brain. this can result from either low blood pressure to begin with or other conditions that cause the flow to the brain to decrease. this syndrome is relatively common. it can be helped by ensuring adequate salt and fluid intake. if that does not help a tilt table test is indicated.
what cause heart burn while pregrnant?
as the uterus grows there is an increase in gastrin which increases acidity and can slow down gastric emptying. the uterus will also push up the stomach opening junction between the esophagus and stomach allowing for more acid reflux into the esophagus.
what cause heart burn while pregrnant?
hormonal changes cause relaxation of the muscle at the bottom of the esophagus that keeps acid in the stomach thus refluxing stomach acid into the esophagus. further along in pregnancy growing baby pushes up on the upper abdomen which also can be contributory. . also some have unusual food combination cravings at unusual times :o).
what cause heart burn while pregrnant?
progesterone relaxes your lower esophageal sphincter muscle which allows gastric contents to reflux back into your esophagus. the acidic solution causes the heartburn pain.
why do i wake up in the middle of the night gasping for air once every several months? i've been to a dr and i don't have acid reflux. age 24 80kgs
gasping for air once every several months during sleep may be due to bad dreams. if happening on regular basis with snoring look for sleep apnea. strattera (atomoxetine) effects the heart rhythm. you need 24 holter monitor and sleep apnea study. also ent doctor to find out any nasopharynx abnormality. thanks.
why do i wake up in the middle of the night gasping for air once every several months? i've been to a dr and i don't have acid reflux. age 24 80kgs
you need to rule out sleep apnea which can inrerrupt your sleep during apneic episodes where you brain needs oxygen.
was told im not a candidate for hormone therapy for menopause as i have migraine history and it increases stroke. would just progesterone be ok?
hormone replacement therapy (hrt) is only indicated if a woman is having significant symptoms likes hot flushes. if your dr. determined that hrt is too dangerous for you you should inquire about ssri treatment. studies have shown that using ssris (like paxil) can significantly improve menopausal symptoms.
what exactly is the difference beetwin fluxetine and propranolol? i mean their uses and effects.
i am sorry but your question is so broad that it may take a whole course on pharmacy to answer. it is out of bounds for this simple application. what is the reason specifically you need to ask about? what are your symptoms or medical conditions that are concerning you?
what exactly is the difference beetwin fluxetine and propranolol? i mean their uses and effects.
fluoxetine is an selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor which can be used to treat conditions such as depression ocd and panic disorder. propranolol is a betablocker which can be used to treat conditions such as high blood pressure certain arrhythmias migraine and tremors.
what is the most accurate way to check for pulmonary emobolism fluid build up around heart & other chest conditions. mri regular xray ultrasound etc?
ct chest with pulmonary embolism protocol. us in the form of echocardiogram can also be used to detect some of those findings.
what is the most accurate way to check for pulmonary emobolism fluid build up around heart & other chest conditions. mri regular xray ultrasound etc?
for pulmonaru embolism its a ct angiogram of the chest. for pericardial effusion its a 2d echocardiogram usually a ct scan of the ches with iv contrast picks up most lung lesions but not its function.
what causes sharp stabbing upper left abdominal pain that comes and goes. worse when laying down. throat feels tight too. normal cardiac workup.
could be reflux/see pcp for further workup.
whats a good blood pressure for a 53 year old woman?
blood pressure should fluctuate and go up and down with living your life. a good average would be 120 over 80.
what is cause of a severe positional headache light sensitivity stiffness in neck after microdiscectomy? small hairline anyerusm on ct scan post op.
you should have this evaluated. sometimes there is some cerebrospinal fluid that leaks from the linings over the spine. this can lead to the symptoms of spinal headache that you describe. not sure if the aneurysm is related to this-particularly if you are talking about a brain aneurysm.
what amount of niacin flush should i take to clean my system free of thc?
just don't use thc and it will be out of your system. there is no good evidence to show that niacin helps.
what does it mean to hear your heart beat in your ear?
it means little. . may represent increased inner ear fluid build up.
what does it mean to hear your heart beat in your ear?
you may have middle ear fluid or allergic congestion.
what is normal blood pressure for 52 year old women?
a healthy heart should have blood pressure that fluctuate. the ideal average should run 120/80.
what would cause upper body to vibrate strongly for a few minutes upon waking? pregnant pots migraines anxiety
more about vibrations confined to the upper extremities and lasting minutes. were you conscious during the entire event? are you sure that your lower extremities were not involved? did you have palpitations/fluttering in your chest? did your bowel/bladder habits change in association with this event or after? if awake did you try to sit-up/stand-up and if so did it change your symptoms?
would luvox mix ok with lamictal tegretol klonopin andro gel onglyza (saxagliptin) vitoryn plavix aspirin coreg losartan isosorbide or would zoloft be safer?
it could happen to interact with klonopin but in general luvox (fluvoxamine) is well tolerated in combination with other treatments.
when i get up from sitting or lying down i cough. i suspect asthma and use salbutamol inhaler for shortness of breath however i have not been diagnos?
your cough may be from reflux or asthma (especially if you have shortness of breath). in the latter that would mean that your asthma is not under control and you need to see your doctor to give you something besides salbutamol for asthma treatment.
what can i do for bulging veins on right side of forhead?
i don't think that there is a single best way but there are mutiple options including sclerotherapy ipl laser veinwave veingogh and micro needle radio frequency. the size of the veins and the training and experience of the treating physician usually influence what treatment is recommended. my usual treatment is sclerotherapy or laser for very small veins. you should see a vein specialist.
what could cause my rbg to be 88 right after eating lunch and candy? i felt very lightheaded cheeks felt flushed and like i was going to faint.
your pancreas overreacts to the quick sugar blast you were eating. therefore your sugar goes down quickly and you feel sick. a low carb frequent small meal diet will go a long way to help this. think: eat like a bird. small high fiber meals nuts (seeds) high protein ( worms and bugs). avoid pop and other sweet drinks and processed foods like the plague.
which is the function of lymph nodes and the lymphatic system in the body?
the lymphatic system is basically a channel that carries a clear or whitish fluid called the lymph. this lymph aids in clearing the tissues of infective organisms toxins etc.
what to do if i have been having internal heat in my stomach and heart what is the cause and the cure?
probably you might be suffersing from heart burn/reflux disease. consult your physician.
why would a baby's heart beat go down from 160 to 140 while in gestation?
variations of 10-20 beats per minute is not uncommon and even different positions of the mother may cause the fetal heart rate to change. food medications and substances the mother takes in can also affect the growing baby and cause fluctuations in the heart rate for example caffeine may stimulate the baby heart rate to increase etc. best wishes and congratulations.
what are diuretic types of foods/fluids? (to be taken specially during pms)
there are a few compounds that have a diuretic effect but may not be useful for water retention pre-menstrually. caffeine for example has a diuretic effect but also cases other side effects. there is an herbal supplement called uva ursi which may be more helpful. by staying hydrated anything to stimulate urine output will be more effective.
what r reasons for blood pressure fluctuations between 170/110 and 190/100?
the blood pressure varies depending on the activity level nevertheless both readings are dangerously high and need to be treated immediately! you are at risk of a stroke kidney failure heart problems etc.
what r reasons for blood pressure fluctuations between 170/110 and 190/100?
hypertension ; should be on meds for same- stay off salt. see your pcp.
what damage can high blood pressure have on eyes? whites of my eyes get blurry & blood red. i think it is my blood pressure but others say allergies.
hypertension may cause damage to the retina by damaging the blood supply to the retina. this can cause retinal hemorrhage blurring of vision and even complete loss of vision. also can cause optic neuropathy. it can also lead to fluid build up in the choroid needing surgery. allergy presents with runny nose reddening of conjunctiva and sclera itching and watering of eyes sneezing etc.
what are thissymptoms heartburn chest pain regurgitation difficulty swallowing a fullness in the throat cough pneumonia hoarseness dental erosions?
it sounds like severe acid reflux disease and aspiration into the lungs. acid reflux can cause chest pain hoarseness of voice causes by acid irritating vocal cords. cough due to bronchospasm from acid. further investigation is needed in this case including upper endoscopy to look for any abnormality in the esophagus /stomach.
what are thissymptoms heartburn chest pain regurgitation difficulty swallowing a fullness in the throat cough pneumonia hoarseness dental erosions?
all these symptoms combined gives a great indication of acide reflux disease. dental erosions from stomach acids alonge with throat problems see a doctor for treatment asap before permanent damage occurs
when younger people get venous leg ulcers they are caused by deep vein thrombosis? true?
more often this is due to superficial venous disease with venous reflux and not deep system disease
why do i experience facial flush and high bp when i lay down but bp returns to normal when sitting?
the heart works harder when you lie flat and this may cause the pulse to increase and blood pressure to rise in some instances. this may be happening to you as you improve on sitting up. however in many people the bp is lower on lying down.
what is the difference between a pulmonary edema and a pulmonary embolism?
pulmonary edema is a swelling and fluid accumulation in the lung tissue. a pulmonary embolism is a clot that has travelled (usually) from the legs through the blood stream and lodged in the circulation of the lung.
woke up gasping for air and had the taste of vomit / acid in my mouth.
described gastric reflux really well. don't eat within 3-4 hours of bedtime or drink alcohol within 5-6 hours of bedtime. if it persists see your doctor.
what is the difference between severe pulmonary hypertension and raised jugular venous pressure? do they always coincide?
the real test called jvp was designed to determine presence of heart failure or fluid overload. the presence of high pressure against which the right ventricle has to work in pah causes the exaggerated bulging back of the tricuspid in rv systole and also causes jvp. tricuspid stenosis thus would do the same thing.
what else can cause random pain behind your knee besides a dvt with no bumps or redness? had 2 negative d dimers last month knees ache
a common cause of posterior knee pain is fluid accumulation between the muscles in the back of the knee(popliteal fossa). sometimes the fluid is difficult to feel and pain can be ill- defined. sometimes cysts (popliteal or bakers') will form; usually as a consequence of an intraarticular problem ( knee meniscus tear arthritis). see an ors for evaluation.
why am i retaining water so much if i don't have kidney or heart issues that i know of? i do take celebrex silvastatin benadryl (diphenhydramine) claritin which is causi
there are several possible causes. celebrex (celecoxib) may cause fluid retention in some individuals.
what is expectancy of 93 yo male with s4 chf. drained 1 qt of fluid from lungs 24 hr o2 support lost mobility 190+ systolic laying drops standing.
but if head good enjoy and interact. bad signs as described.
what can cause chest pain n a 21yr old cough runny nose & taking claritin (loratadine) d & robutissin dm no health problems known of! it's on the left side?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
when is the best time to measure blood pressure?
there are certain factors that can cause blood pressure to temporarily rise: stress smoking cold temperatures exercise caffeine certain medicines try to avoid as many of these factors as you can when taking your blood pressure. also try to measure your blood pressure at about the same time each day but also check your blood pressure several times during the day to see if it fluctuates.
will fludrocortisone 0. 2mg cause heart failure?
in an individual with serious preexisting heart disease it is technically possibly. in a 22 year old virtually impossible.
what is the difference between pneumothorax and pulmonary edema?
when lungs get filled with fluid is called pulmonary edema as seen in heart failure when air enters in the pleural cavity ; displaces lung ( pneumothorax ) as seen in reputes of lung bleb both conditions will interfere lung function can be lethal if untreated
what is the difference between pneumothorax and pulmonary edema?
pulmonary edema can be though of as backed up fluid in the lungs usually due to diseases involving the heart or the lung. pneomothorax can be thought of as rupture of a part of the lung. both can be serious and their treatments are different.
what is the difference between pneumothorax and pulmonary edema?
air outside the lung is pneumothroax while fluid accumulation of fluid in the lungs is pulmonary edema. large pneumothroax is a medical emergency that could cause shock and requires immediate treatment. small pneumothorax could be observed. pulmonary edema usually result grom chf and usually treated with diuresis.
what is the difference between pneumothorax and pulmonary edema?
pnemothorax is when the lung collapses and there is air occupying the space outside the lung but inside the thoracic cavity or chest (not a vacuum). pulmonary edema is when there is fluid in the tissues of the lung more than there should making it "soggy".
what does chest pains & breast pains mean? my chest & breasts have been sore all day. but been happening for days now. and mostly on my left side
chest pain can be from heart disease inflamation of the lining of the lungs (pleurisy) caused by infection (pneumonia etc). pain may also originate from the joints between the breast-bone and ribs. indigestion gall-bladder disease stomach ulcers and acid reflux into the food pipe may cause chest pain also. breast pain may be related to hormone changes or fibrocystic breast disease.
what do you suggest if i'm fond of taking tea. these days i m suffering from heart burn. is it due to tea?
generally "heartburn" refers to the pain associated with gastroesophageal reflux where the contents of the stomach pass "backwards" into the esophagus. the pain is due to damage to the lower esophagus from the high acid content of the stomach contents. if the tea that you are drinking contains caffeine then yes tea may be making your symptoms worse as caffeine increases gastric acidity.
what do you suggest if i'm 18 and having chest pain?
i will say see your doctor and get it checked. at 18 it is not usual for chest pain being caused by heart disease but still needs to be checked other common causes are chest wall pain including costo chondritis muscle and bone pain pain from gastro esophageal reflux and from lungs and pleura(membrane covering the lungs).
when youhave your heart working on 20% why and what or hoow causes fluid in lungs?
the 20% you read is called ejection fraction and it usually is the left side of the heart. if you imagine a tank getting 100 it puts out 20 of it each time. the next beat another 100 goes in and puts out 20. now 160 is accommodated in there it will overflow backward to the lungs and cause too much pressure there that fluid sweats out hence the chf and pulmonary edema. simple to look at it.
whenever i inhale my heart beats hard but when i exhale it flutters? what does this mean?
the best way to find out is to place a cardiac monitor on and do these maneuvers and find out the cause of the fluttering and hard heart beating.
will it be beneficial to workout after eating a veggie burger with a few fries fried that have 0 trans fat oil?
in general you should avoid vigorous exercise for a little while immediately after eating anything since exercise diverts blood supply away from the digestive tract and your food will sit undigested in your stomach where reflux is likely. doesn't matter if you eat a veggie burger french fries or anything else.
what kind of chest pains do pregnant people get? i've been having tight sharp pains on both sides of my chest. for some weeks now. what can it mean
chest pain can be from heart disease inflamation of the lining of the lungs (pleurisy) caused by infection (pneumonia etc). pain may also originate from the joints between the breast-bone and ribs. indigestion gall-bladder disease stomach ulcers and acid reflux into the food pipe may cause chest pain also. breast pain may be related to hormone changes or fibrocystic breast disease.
what does minor lower abdominal cramps & constant slight chest pains (on & off for weeks - the chest pains) mean?
you may have dysautonomia which is associated with mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
which is better drug amlodipine or telmisartan for controlling bp with less side effects.
some once a day bp meds may put too much medication into the body quickly causing - dividing the dose into half twice a day or taking with food helps. potential class side effects include: beta-blockers: fatigue wheezing breathlessness depression; calcium blockers: fluid retention; acei: cough (also rarely for arbs) diuretics: cramps low potassium or magnesium; all: sexual dysfunction.
what can a hital hernia in the cardio oesaphgeal junction cause in the way of symptoms?
the most common symptom of hiatal hernia is reflux. you'd experience indigestion or discomfort in your epigastrium the area of your upper abdomen/lower chest.
what can a hital hernia in the cardio oesaphgeal junction cause in the way of symptoms?
hernia in the gastro esophageal junction may allow acid reflux to irritate your esophagus and cause heartburn.
will an infection show up on bloodwork i had some done 2 days ago and wondered if i had a kidney infection cause my back hurts was checking cholester?
no not always and not if your blood test was ordered mainly for cholesterol if cbc which stand for complete blood count was ordered it might showed you need a urine test that will showed if you have uti or not mean while drink a lot of fluid drink cranberry juice and check with you pcp.
what to do if i sometimes get a small nagging chest pain on the right side of my body about 2 inches below the nipple but im anybody know what it may be?
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
which blood pressure medicine causes heart burn or can worsen esophageal reflux.
any medicine can cause esophageal irritation or reflux. unless contraindicated i would take all your medicine after or with food.
which blood pressure medicine causes heart burn or can worsen esophageal reflux.
among meds listed amlodipine and bystolic (nebivolol) at cause nausea; benicar hct may cause dyspepsia. you should discuss your symptoms with your doctor since heartburn may be a sign of heart disease.
why in the am am i lightheaded & dark urine? blood work all normal today inc. kidneys - orthostatics normal heart work up too. house very dry. ?
most commonly it is slight dehydration. these two symptoms commonly mean the kidneys are concentrating the urine to conserve fluid.
what would cause a deep ache across my upper chest?
the list is very long. you are in plaquenil (hydroxychloroquine) for? it is not common for dry eyes. you could have musculoskeletal problems reflux issues it could be lung issues if you are short of breath to heart pains. it is something that needs attention right away!
will fludrocortisone. 1mg a day cause a weak immune system as its a steroid? puts me off taking it for orthostatic hypotension
even though fludrocortisone is a steroid it is a different type of steroid and will not immunosuppress you. it really is one of the effective means of treating orthostatic hypotension.
what cholesterol medicine has the least interaction with luvox? vytorin (ezetimibe and simvastatin) has "major" listed as a side effect with luvox fot interaction
fenofibrate has no interaction with luvox (fluvoxamine). pravastatin is also fine. best wishes.
will pulmonary fibrosis show on x-ray and pft?
it depends on the severity but yes it should be visible on xray as well as be detected with pfts. the correct way to diagnose it would be to have high resolution lung ct scans and lung biopsies with a pathologist giving the diagnosis. there are many ways to acquire pf as well as genetic mutations that can cause it. most cases have no known source. your reflux may also worsen the condition.
what does a doctor feel for during a finger nail fluctuation test?
here's everything there is to know about the test: <link> meddean. luc. edu/lumen/meded/medicine/pulmonar/pd/clubbing. htm.
why would one feel very tired drained drowsy before having a bm? normal stool but slow to pass.
and best evaluated by a doctor who knows you well. a few thoughts which i hope may be a little helpful: such systemic symptoms such as fatigue and drowsiness might suggest something chemical like carcinoid syndrome but we would expect diarrhea/flushing too. inflammation may also be playing a role. i might also consider food allergy or intolerance such as milk/lactose intolerance. work with doc.
why do vry nauseated at night time? also sometimes have the heart burns. i've had an lsh (hysterectomy) so im not really concerned about being pregnant
could be heart burn/ reflux. try to eat dinner 2 hrs before going to bed. keep head little up. don't lay down after eating food. may try otc med for reflux. if no resolution go to pcp.
why do i have low blood pressure when standing?
first therapy is drink planety of fluids and take salt (yes). second is to check your blood pressure in different positions. if abnormal your doctor will recommend a tilt table test especially if symptomatic.
what is chest burning pain?
when you take ibuprofen and has chest pain or burning around lower chest its usually due gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd). due to excessive acid production. if you stop ibuprofen and take anti acid treatment it should get better if does not then you need to seek help.
why is my heart pounding in my ears? very tired all the time. any activity heart races occasional slight chest pain
pulsatile tinnitus is a serious condition. this can be something simple such as wax occlusion of the ear canal fluid in the middle ear or congestion of the middle ear. however a persistent condition does need a thorough evaluation with an ent. a central nervous system abnormality needs be ruled out. this includes arteriovenous fistula arteriovenous malformation and another conditions.
what is a 0. 7cm pericardial effusion at posterior lv wall 1. 4cm around rv and ra wall with a layer of echo dense material do i need surgery. thank you.
it depends on finding the cause which varies in different folks. i am sure your doctor has some advice for you as to how to manage it further. surgery is required if the fluid build up is progressively increasing and if you have symptoms of which is called constrictive-:pericarditis or tamponad. only your cardiologist can assess this and guide you further.
what is preeclampsia and how do i know if i have it?
it is an illness characterized usually in the latter stages of pregnancy by fluid retention in the legs and face and alarmingly increasing bp measurements. untreated it can lead to stroke and even death and fetal demise.
woke up in the night with severe burning in my esophagus all the way to my stomach nausea & cold chills. pain scale: it was a 10. what was it? help?
likely gastritis and/or gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd). follow up with your primary physician to review options.
what are the main causes of high bp at young age. and its can be cure at young age. if high bp is due to anxity.
hypertension (blood pressure) is defined as two separate blood pressure measurements over 140/90 mmgh. blood pressure usually fluctuates through out the day. essential hypertension is the most common cause amongst adults. the incidence increases with age. "secondary" causes of hypertension are uncommon should be considered by your physician.
why after stopping amlodipine am i still suffering side effects. flushing pins needles muscle cramps etc. are these permanent?
amlodipine withdrawal is a common if discontinued abruptly. to avoid side effects gradually taper down dose of the amlodipine. it is a temporary medical condition.
why after stopping amlodipine am i still suffering side effects. flushing pins needles muscle cramps etc. are these permanent?
those symptoms can represent hypertension. have you measured your blood pressure?
weird painish in chest pain in entire upper abdomen ultrasound found polyps on gallbladder nothin else. always tired lots of anxiety any ideas?
please stop advil (ibuprofen) and ibuprofen unless there is a reason you must continue. these can irritate your stomach and esophagus. have you tried reflux meds yet? need more history on your pain - how long what is it like what makes it better what makes it worse. lab results? vital signs?
what are normal reactions to iodine during ct angiogram?
warm flush lasting a few seconds. allergies may cause more severe reactions but can usually be treated with medication.
what is involved in a post op endoscopic fluorocostomy with mri brain and cad flow studies after a 3rd ventriculostomy?
these are tests to determine if the third ventriculostomy was successful in allowing the decompression of the lateral ventricles and relief of hydrocephalus. it is not painful and is really just an extra long mri study to look at csf (cerebrospinal fluid) flow.
why is my doctor asking for a upper gi endoscopyfor my below left breast. around my stomach or heart is. that area. us there a link. thx a lot in ad?
if i understand the question correctly you are wondering why an upper endoscopy has been recommended for your left upper abdominal pain. if there is concern there may be acid reflux disease ulcers related to an infection or ibuprofen usage or other upper digestive tract problem. the scope test will provide the most answers. i'd recommend you hold both the ibuprofen and naproxen just in case.
what causes fluid retention with longer term nsaids? (and what do they mean by "long term"? )
long term term means greater than one month. they affect the tiny arteries of the kidneys and cause the kidneys to be less efficient and slow clearing of fluid.
what causes accumulation/formulation of body fuids (in severe cases 750 ml) besides the walls of heart?
many things can do this: lack of protein in bloodstream due to nutrition issues or kidney dysfunction; unrecognized sleep apnea; venous insufficiency of the legs along with excessive sodium ingestion to name a few. also certain medicstions may provoke fluid retention actos (pioglitazone) and nonsteroidals (eg naproxen) to name a few.
what to do because my periods are very irregular. does anybody know of a birth control that does not cause water retention and weight gain?
yaz (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) or yasmin should not result in fluid retention since the progesterone in it has diuretic properties. however these may have slightly higher risk for dvt (blood clots) than other bcp. can also try any pill with 20 ugm of estrogen as opposed to one with 30-35 ugm. for more info www. askyourgynecologist. org
what mechanism causes fluid retention with gabapentin?
the mechanism is unclear but commonly patients will have 2-3 pounds of water retention that will be seen as ankle/foot swelling and will resolve within a few days of stopping the medication.
what to do if i took a high blood pressure medicine by mistake!?
if below 100 mm of hg drink plenty of fluids keep recumbent position for at least 8-12 hrs. if symptomatic or concerned go to er.
why do you feel breathless after eating when you have gerd? and why does it usually attacking at night?
exposure of vocal cords to stomach acid ; pepsin results in inflammation of the vocal cords (due to acid regurgitation). acute laryngitis may result but watch out for chronic hoarseness throat clearing airway spasms bronchitis an asthma-type presentation and even a higher risk of throat cancer. laying down at night often promotes reflux. check prior healthtap answers 4relief but see doctor.
would having diarrhea & a nausea stomach for a week and not wanting to eat much cause low bp?
a week of fluid loss without adequate fluid intake could cause low blood pressure.
when it is cold out my chest hurts in the middle of the night and/or in the morning. what could be the cause of this?
lying in bed increases the tendency to have gerd (acid reflux). however other possibilites (though less likely) include esophageal spasm triggered by acid coronary vasospasm and anxiety. it would be important to discuss such symptoms with ones doctor to enable an appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic approach.
what do you advise for heart failure-how much is too little fluid intake?
in general the tightest fluid restrictions are 1 1. 2 or 1. 5 liters a day. this is used for severe chf with low serum sodium levels. if you have pituitary problems that is a different story. often chf can be managed well with minimal if any fluid restriction once a person is stabilized on long term medical therapy.
what to do if i have fluid in lungs with liver cirrhosis?
question is whether the fluid is in the lung (edema) or around the lung(effusion). edema may be caused by excess fluid in the body and effusion may be caused by fluid moving from the abdomen to the pleura through the diaphragm. multiple causes and treatment varies depending no cause. see your doctor for guidance and treatment recommendation.
what to do if i have fluid in lungs with liver cirrhosis?
cirrhosis often has poor protein levels and leaks fluid into the lungs and other spaces. this is very difficult to deal with. you should discuss your options with your doctor.
why is my cholesterol raised to 5. 6 even though im taking meds to control it?
cholesterol: a fat molecule made by every animal cell part of each cell membrane allows movement. the real target is lipoproteins. most meds are single molecules selected to influence body function. principle controls remain within our mind? brain? body + food choices. lfhc foods drive ldl particle concentrations? ; large-hdl particle concentrations? . thus check nmr lipoproteins go hflc.
why do my blood pressure fluctuate a lot? it varies bethween 105 mmhg and 114 mmhg? is this a sign of something life-threatening? <negative_smiley>
it is a normal variation.
what causes burning pain in left shoulderblade around to front under breast? tingling in fingers and ache in arm. comes and goes. doc says heart ok
need to consider stomach/ peptic ulcer disease/ reflux disease can cause symptoms similar to cardiac events.
what to do about hypovolemic shock secondary to gi bleed?
the aim of anti-shock treatment is to two fold. one is to replete the lost volume due to the hemorrhage and the other is stop the source of the bleeding. doing only one will not resolve the situation. in the hospital blood and/or fluids will be given and treatment plans to stop the cause of the bleed will need to be carried out successfully. surgery may be required in some instances to do so.
what to do if i have a renal angiogram?
a renal angiogram is where they inject some contrast (dye) into your blood vessels to show what the vessels in your kidneys look like. its important to drink plenty of fluid before hand and avoid anything damaging to the kidneys such as nsaids (ibuprofen motrin advil aleve) as well as metformin or diuretics for the day of the test.
when i over eat my chest hurts why?
this is likely heartburn that you are experiencing. overeating over time will stretch the gate (sphincter) between the esophagus and stomach that keeps food down and lead to reflux (heartburn). try eating small frequent meals throughout the day. good health.
why do i have a bubbling sensation on the left side of my body and sometimes causes heart burn and gas and my period pain is bad on the left side?
as well as sex. my leading differential diagnosis is acid reflux but might also be small heart attacks. please see cardiologist and get ekg next time that happens
why want a dentist do work on my teeth since i had a brain aneurysm clipped but still have another?
maintaining good dental health is important to your overall health. cleanings help reduce gingival inflammation which can have systemic influences. the smoking can increase the chances of gum disease. tooth care will limit dental pain and chances of infections. seeing your dentist is healthy and helpful.
what do you advise if i'm on high blood pressure medicine(diovan (valsartan) hct). is it safe for me to drink chamomile tea everyday?
the answer to your question is "yes" it is safe. remember that you are taking a diuretic hct. if you drink too much tea or other fluid you will counter act the diuretic effect of the hct. good luck.
water retention can make me feel bloated? what can i do?
if it's indicated a diuretic would help fluid retention.
what would cause an intermittent burning pain in the center of the chest? above breasts bellow collarbone. only lasts a few seconds. pcp says heart ok.
anything from reflux to a dozen other causes. only an eval would answer
what to do if i'm a diabetic 9 years ago i had to get my heart reshocked everysince i been having fluttering sharp pains?
you need a full cardiac evaluation.
wbc at all time low 3. 9. the bottom reference range is 4. 0. i take luvox and lipitor (atorvastatin). can either alone or in combo cause this? concerns with low wbc?
neither drug mention leukopenia as specific side effects. luvox (fluvoxamine) however has been known to cause nosebleeds and easy bruising i would recommend going back to your doctor to see if you can stop these medication or one of them to see if the leukopenia will improve. take care.
what do you advise for heart valve replacement military?
there are many options: repair and replacement with mechanical and bio-prosthetic (tissue) valves. issues to discuss regarding valve choice included durability need for re-operation and anticoagulant etc. occupation and lifestyle (and willingness to modify) has influence on decision too. valve pathology is another thing to weigh.
what could this be? vibrating/fluttering feeling @r external iliac/femoral artery sometimes followed by a feeling like a warm saline flush
if you have not had recent trauma surgical interventions indwelling lines at the area you are describing you should be fine. however at times some patients develop a small leakage from their vessels after trauma surgical interventions and/or indwelling lines that some patients describe as painful and that is accompanied by vibration if this is the case you should see your doctor.
what to do if i have a high urea uric acid cholesterol triglycerides in my blood test. are there any home remedies to reduce these?
diet and exercise have relatively small influence on cholesterol and virtually no influence on uric acid levels. if you lipids are elevated consider starting a statin. lowering your cholesterol should also lower your uric acid level. if the absence of gout or kidney stones a elevated uric acid means very little.
wanted to know if chf patients in general receive fluids while in the icu?
most chf patient are treated with diuretics to remove fluid from circulation. in some instances depending on the cause of chf we might give a modest amount of fluid to keep the heart filled properly so it can pump.
why would your heart hurt when you bend over?
most likely the cause of the discomfort is pericarditis or an inflammation of the pericardium which is the sack surrounding the heart another possibility is gastroesophageal reflux disease.
woke up twice from burning sensation in upper abdomen ribs and lower part of left breast. pain lasted 15 sec. or so. pcp says heart ok. ideas?
pain in the area you describe could be heartburn especially if you were asleep. reflux can make the acid go up you esophagus and once you sat up it went back down. it it was sharp occsionally we can get an inflammation of the rib(s) where the bone and cartilage join called costochondritis. medications such as motrin or aleve (naproxen) taken for several days should help this.
what happens during robotic surgery if the patients blood pressure goes too high or drops too low?
the doctors involved in the case usually the anesthesiologist monitor this and address it with medications or fluids as needed. there are wide parameters to what the acceptable values for the bp is depending on each case as they are all different. there is no special exception for the robot as it is just a very accurate set of hands.
would you recommend vasculera or surgery for cvi?
your symptoms would suggest that there is significant venous valvular reflux that requires intervention. the venous ulcers are a sign incompetent valves in both the superficial and either the perforating veins and deep veins or a combination. you need at least a diagnostic ultrasound (duplex exam) and compression stockings and/or dressings. ablation laser or radio-frequency would be curative.
what do you advise for heart problem chest muscle acid reflux or anxiety?
an accurate diagnosis is the cornerstone of therapy. i would advise pursing an accurate diagnosis.
what to do if i have had trouble breathing ever since as well as avid reflux. is there any chance they're connected?
there is an entity known as geriab or gastroesophageal reflux induced asthma and bronchospasm. it is thought that this is caused by acidic gastric juices entering the respiratory tract. strenuous activity frequently worsens the symptoms. suggest checking with your physician to have this investigated.
what causes a 5 second squeezing pain directly between breasts? no other symptoms. worry about cardiac issue. pcp says heartis ok. seek out cardiologist?
worrisome heart attack related pain most commonly is exacerbated by activity and relieved by rest. another common cardiac etiology is mitral valve prolapse related to a tugging of the mitral valve. common non cardiac etiologies include esophageal spasm (e. g. related to acid reflux food) or from anxiety with chest muscles constricting. cardiac evaluation will at least rule out dangerous causes
what would be some symptoms of cushings disease affecting the glans and under glans on a circumcisesd penis and what are the treat ments?
cushing's syndrome is not a disease of the penis. it is a systemic (body wide) disease due to excessive production of cortisol (a natural hormone like cortisone). cushing's syndrome typically causes stretch marks weakness high blood pressure fluid retention diabetes.
why diuretics hazardous in treat venous&lymph obstruction?
i assume you are talking about "edema" or fluid build up in your legs? diuretics work by making you urinate excess water which may treat venous insufficiency transiently but is not the best long term treatment. generally elevating your legs while at rest and using compression wraps on your lower extremities helps more so than diuretics.
what amount weight can you gain from fluid retention on birth control pills?
any fluid retention you may have with the pill is temporary and will not permanently effect your weight.
we have digital bp meter in our home. i accidentally noticed my heart rhythm swifts for about 1 sec (blinking of heart sign). should i be concerned?
minor variations in the heart rhythm are normal particularly in your twenties. however i noticed that you are on a medication which lowers blood pressure by slowing the heart rate. if you have any fluttering sensation in your chest shortness of breath or chest pain see your physician and request an ecg and holter monitor. if you are symptom free have your machine checked.
what to do if i had chest pain for 1 mo. what could it be?
chest pain is a serious complaint that can involve cardiac disease and lung disease which can be serious. there are simpler causes like reflux and costochondritis that could also improve with medical treatment.
what age is associated to trigger coronary artery disease? i have angina especially in afternoons. bp is 68-112. i scare to have coronary disease.
there is no age for coronary artery disease. that fact that you are young makes it less likely but not impossible. other factors play into account. chest pain can be from acid reflux chest wall(muscles and joints) heart lungs too. so you need to check this out if it persists.
what amount niacin should i take?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use.
what can be the causes of chest pain?
obviously heart disease (blocked heart arteries) but for someone as young as you that is less likely-- unless there is a very strong family history of early heart attacks. more common --anxiety/panic attacks acid reflux/heartburn. people sometimes also have chest pain from irregular heart rhythms or some leaky heart valves. you should see your regular doctor to discuss.
what cause a 5 second sensation of pressure across chest / breasts. then feeling of lump btwn shoulderblades few burps. cardiac anxiety. pcp say heart ok?
could be gastroesophageal reflux disease
what happens if there is heart failure and breathing difficulty present when resting does it get worse when exercising or better instead?
shortness of breath at rest in a patient with heart failure indicate advance stage of heart failure. any extra physical work is usually not well tolerated and will make breathing worse. it is best to make patient comfortable of whatever means such as position and adjustment of medications to control fluids
what to do if i have 500mg niacin pills how much do i take the first time ever?
take one a day to start. gradually increase by 1 more a day until you start getting flushing then back the dose down by 1 pill.
what should heart beat for 70 year old man?
a healthy heart has a changing fluctuating heart beat. there is not one right answer to this question. perhaps instead of asking us an ambiguous question that has numerous possible answers you can reword the question to include what you are specifically concerned about in your own body.
why is my stomach doing flips all the time? i have fibromyalgia acid reflux and ectopic heartbeats the omeprazole used to stop this but not now.
signals in the heart usually comes from the sino-atrial node but ectopic beats maybe coming from the atria or ventricles cause by alcohol anxiety stress caffeine tiredness smoking pregnancy recreational drugs cold medicines or menopause. see your doctor to reevaluate your treatment for acid reflux as well.
when harvesting the ima during a cabg how is the lung/pleura manipulated to necessitate the need for a chest tube? why is coughing and deep breathing so important post op?
lung and pleura may be in the way so sometimes need to compress them or even not ventilate one lung to allow visualization. this may cause mucous buildup in lung and thats why coughing and deep breathing so important. chest tube used when pleura opened to collect any blood or fluid that may drain intra and post-op.
weeks of hr increase of 25+ lying to standing. from the 50's and reach 120 just walking across room. looked at pots but bp goes up not down. hydrated.
you may have an irregular heart rhythm. . possible atrial fibrillation (usually an inconsistent heart beat) or atrial flutter (can be consistent heart beats). see your doc and get an ecg.
when having a r cfa endarterectomy should the patient have a catheter during the procedure.
if you are having a procedure that requires close monitoring of fluids or there is a chance you might have difficulty urinating there is a need for a foley catheter otherwise if you can urinate in a receptacle no there is no need. take into account that different drs and institutions have different protocols and these are created with thought and prevention in mind
went for ultrasound at 6 weeks. baby was fine heartbeat good. now for 6 days i have a dull pain on left side that is always there. is this bad?
most likely cause of the pain you describe is muscular. even early in pregnancy there can be strain on certain muscles and ligaments which become so much more stretchy from hormonal influences. as long as no other symptoms i'd give it a few more days. if any urinary symptoms or fever vomiting discharge then call your ob right away. gentle massage on the involved area may help.
what do you suggest if my dad has goan through cabg in 2009 but till he is sweeling on feet?
while the bypass surgery helps improve blood flow to the heart muscle there could have been damage to that muscle before the surgery that has not or cannot recover. medications(such as diuretics) can help to get rid of excess fluid. this should be directed by your cardiologist.
what would cause fluid retention in just 1 leg?
fluid retention in just one leg is usually related to obstruction in the venous and/or lymphatics draining that swollen leg.
what to do if i am having dizzyness fluctuating heartbeat and pressure?
if you are indeed having dizziness with a variable heart rate and blood pressure you really should consult with your healthcare provider to determine your blood pressure heart rhythm (ecg or holter monitor) and have a detailed history and physical to sort out the dizziness. if confirmed the cause of these findings is the most critical thing to discern and is the responsibility of your doctors
what is good to help you raise your blood pressure? or is it norma 9<negative_smiley>59?
if you are not having any symptoms such as lightheadedness or weakness this blood pressure value may be fine for you. however to increase your blood pressure you can drink fluids with sodium such as broth or soups. you can also eat pretzels or potato chips.
what happens if the lungs & heart have fluid around them is it able to recover completely?
depends on the cause.
why does heart flutter when trying to sleep and when i bend over sometimes? all heart tests normal. i also have anxiety flutters everyday.
ask your doctor for a 30 day event monitor to see if your flutters are pathologic or just cardiac awareness.
what does a water pill do and how do i know if i need one?
divided into classes by part of the kidney they act on. they are used for fluid overload as in chf or to lower bp. there are weak diuretics like hydrochlorthiazide or stronger ones like metolazone. consult your doctor before taking these medications.
what can i do in the case of ascites? it's very difficult to breathe.
if the ascites is so severe that you're having trouble breathing you should have a paracentesis. this is a simple medical procedure performed at the bedside taking about 10 minutes to anesthetize the skin puncture the skin and thread a catheter (small tube) into the abdomen to drain off the fluid. you'll have immediate relief.
what can cause low triglyceride levels and low thyrotropin levels? my triglyceride level is 42 and my thyrotropin level is 1. 04. results from 4. 5. 14
hi. that thyrotropin (tsh) is normal not low. it suggests you have normal thyroid function (assuming you have normal pituitary function). and your triglycerides at face value would just suggest you're very insulin-sensitive (a good thing) although genetic influences are certainly possible. to your good health!
what are the possible side effects of drinking caffeine while on fluoxetine 20mg?
fluoxetine (prozac) is an ssri medication useful for major depression and anxiety. the medication should not affect caffeine and vice versa. that being said excessive caffeine can produce adverse effects. also for patients with anxiety caffeine can sometimes make this condition worse. best.
what are the possible side effects of drinking caffeine while on fluoxetine 20mg?
if you are drinking one or two cups of coffee a day you should not be at risk of interacting with the fluoxetine. but you should not be mixing the fluoxetine with the caffeine from energy drinks or drinking excessive caffeinated beverages. too much caffeine can increase your blood pressure and heart rate as well as make you feel anxious.
when my blood pressure is high y does my hands & feet swell?
i suspect you may retain a little fluid - perhaps as part of premenstrual syndrome (? ) - at any rate for whatever reason that will make you swell and raise your bp. (the bp doesn't cause the swelling). if you meticulously avoid salt during those vulnerable days you can help minimize both swelling and bp elevations.
what to do when am having short of breath n chest pain?
it is hard to give you advise when we don't know your age risk factor and examination. shortness of breath and chest pain can go together as in heart failure or heart attack. it can be two separate diseases that happens to go together in your case as in asthma copd together with a reflux disease. if chest pain is severe go to the er.
will drinking plenty water reduce water retention and help show abs? do anti-diarrhea drugs cause water retention? i not sick just want a better bod
the above answer is an excellent simplification of a complex topic: fluid and electrolyte balance. no one food or supplement will enhance your ab's. exercise your core and maintain a normal body habitus. check your bmi as a guide. it's boring advice but healthier.
what are the medication that are used to treat low blood pressure?
there are many ways to treat hypotension. first is salt repletion either through salt rich drinks such as gatorade etc. other options include increasing salt in the diet or even taking salt pills. there are adrenal hormones that can cause salt retention thus achieving the same goal namely fludrocortisone (flurinef). a newer agent (been out on the market several years) is midodrine.
what causes an ache in the right breast near the sternum? pcp says heart ok. pain is intermittent and lasts seconds. some back and neck pain.
pain near sternum with neck and back pain can be due to: muscle spasm (from heavy lifting trauma anxiety); gi reflux or gas can cause pain under sternum and back pain; back pain and neck pain should be evaluated for other unusual causes such as an aneurysm which is more common in older people.
when are most heart problems picked up. what heart problems could a 23yo female have?
rarely have heart problems and we do not routinely screen for heart problems at this age without severe symptoms. heart problems are picked when there is a significant history of undesired symptoms like chest pain non-lung related shortness of breath at rest or exertion lower extremity swelling or fluid in lungs. given your listed medical history- anxiety-related conditions are more likely.
what could be the cause of my shortness of breath had for 2 months started from a sore throat chest x-ray clear had prednisone a inhaler didn't help?
cough from persistent bronchospasm. this is inflammtory response of our body to mostly viral bronchitis. commonly seen after flu syndrome. bronchodilator may help. ginger tea and turmeric will help
what type of medication are the most effective in treating hypotension with arterial or venous vasodilation being the cause of the hypotension?
fluids midodrine and fludrocortisone <link> uspharmacist. com/content/d/in-service/c/4663<negative_smiley> make sure a table tilt test has been done to rule out cardiogenic syncope. treatment is beta blockers to dampen cardiac reflex.
what type of medication are the most effective in treating hypotension with arterial or venous vasodilation being the cause of the hypotension?
any medication that will cause arterial constriction and fluid retention. so example pseudoephedrine salt florinef (fludrocortisone). however before you start on any medication please discuss this with your physician.
what actually is that 'sinking heart' feeling?
sinking heart feeling can be produced by various mechanisms including anxiety diffuse esophageal spasm bronchoconstriction pleurisy intercostal neuritis chest wall spasm esophageal reflux other musculoskeletal conditions. the mechanism can be reproduced by viscerosomatic or somatosomatic response by the body. consult your physician for further exam if you have persistent symptom(s)
what causes a feeling of heaviness or weakness in both arms? the sensation is mostly in the bicep area. pcp said heart ok. also pressure in jaws.
nerves from cervical spine could be affected. the blood flow going to the areas could be restricted the muscles could be overused and not getting enough hydration-electrolytes causing lactic acid to build up. also could be referred pain from abdomen-either right or left upper quadrants. and finally stress can do many things. causes a chain reaction of neurohormonal fluctuations.
went to doctors for treatment for high blood pressure but he going to put a 24 hour monitor on me why no treatment as want it controlled for a job?
perhaps your blood pressure readings are labile and fluctuate a lot. your doctor may want to see how much you blood pressure changes. it would serve as guide for treatment.
what would cause occasi pressure feeling like a knot or ball of food just below my sternum area? blood pressure also fluctuate from 92/24 to 120/84.
you are diabetic which puts you at high cardiac risk. you should be evaluated for premature cad. if negative then consider other causes such as gi.
what causes someone to feel short of breath when leaning back in a seat even when their airways are clear?
there canbe real shortness of breath or sensation of shortness of breath. how do you know your airway is clear? obstructive things can cause this and you could need to see an ent for this. but other things cam cause this as well including reflux cardiac issues thyroid problems etc. if this is getting worse quickly see someone asap.
what would cause atelectasis with effusions 24 hours after percutaneous liver biopsy? both lungs. chest pain.
that i cannot assess without directly examining you. and. holding onto too much fluid or fluid seeping out of vessels that can't hold it in. liver disease is a bit of both with some increase in holding onto fluid some fluid seeping out around liver due to scar tissue (cirrhosis) and. if the liver doesn't make blood proteins fluid seeps out. the fluid arond lung presses it (atelectasis).
why does my chest hurt after drinking alochol and it's sometimes hard to breath?
you are likely suffering from significant acid reflux--alcohol will really make this worse. i see you are on advil/pepto-bismol. these two medications can irritate your stomach and should be discontinued if possible. taking an omeprazole over the counter daily will be helpful to treat this. avoid spicy foods and alcohol which can exacerbate your symptoms.
why would someone with moderate hypertension also suffer from postural hypotension leading to near many near faints? what treatment would you suggest
the body has a number of compensatory mechanisms to keep our blood pressure from dropping as we change positions from laying to sitting to standing. there are some people who have baseline hypertension when they change positions they can't mount these mechanisms because of an underlying autonomic dysfunction weak heart or they may not have enough fluids in their bodies. meds can cause this too.
what causes 30 second pinching pains on lower part of left breast below nipple and to the side close to armpit? fear cardiac pcp swears heart ok.
that would be an unusual way for heart pain to show up. breast pain is often caused by caffeine or hormone fluctuations. try cutting out caffeine if possible.
what should i do i have been feeling nausea and dizziness for two days now no other symptoms? !? hist: pcos htn lisinopril10mg zoloft (sertraline) 50mg
these symptoms are very commonly associated with a viral syndrome often a gi virus. or perhaps a virus is affecting your inner ear and that labarynthitis is making you dizzy then nauseated like car sickness. fortunately these symptoms usually go away on their own in a short time. rest drink fluids consider otc dramamine (dimenhydrinate). but contact your doctor in another couple days if persists.
what is a normal and healthy standing blood pressure if sitting or laying down is 120/80?
that is a perfectly normal bp. when you stand bp may drop a bit especially if you are fluid depleted as after exercise.
why do i usually feel gerd symptoms acid reflux breathless week or days before my period? is it hormones
if it's at the exact same time in your cycle then the answer is probably yes. however acid reflux isn't typically associated with menstrual cycles. having said that progesterone which is high right before one's period can cause increased slowness in the gi tract which can lead to acid reflux. as far as breathlessness is concerned i would make sure with doctor that you don't have asthma
what will happen if pulse pressure is reduced to 20?
as in what the cause of a low/narrow pulse pressure is. extremely low pulse pressures like you mention can be related to congestive heart failure shock aortic stenosis(narrow of the major outlet valve of the heart) or other things like fluid around the heart affecting how the heart pumps(cardiac tamponade). in the end this can lead to poor blood flow of the organ systems of the body.
would 1000mg of nicotinic acid be sufficient to help manage triglycerides 218 hdl 19 in diabetic male?
my first choice would be a statin combined with 4000mg of fish oil and 1 cup of pureed red grapes daily. should raise the hdl significantly and is much safer. flush free niacin does not work. prescription niacin works better however may cause sugar problems. if on niacin however aspirin 30-60min prior to niacin along with an apple. prevents flushing.
would 1000mg of nicotinic acid be sufficient to help manage triglycerides 218 hdl 19 in diabetic male?
2000 to 3000mg is the more therapeutic dose of niacin for correcting cholesterol aberrancies. get a flush-free version from the health food store to avoid facial flushing and redness. and have your blood sugar and liver enzymes checked while on this high dose.
why my chest pains are more often before and during period and they are reduced in the middle time of menstrual cycle? hormone related?
certainly your observation suggests that. we know many non-pelvic symptoms are related to the menstrual cycle. many women get arrhythmias (palpitations) at different times of the month. sleep disturbance headaches appetite fluid retention mood etc are all related. why not chest pain?
why would a healthy 43 year old woman retain water?
the most likely reason is eating more salt than usual which can lead to fluid retention. limit your sodium intake to 2000mg a day and drink plenty of water and other non-salty liquids. lemon juice and vinegar are two mild diuretics that you can incorporate into your diet say on salad. if the retention persists please see your doctor.
why would a healthy 43 year old woman retain water?
the effect of menstruation for one. are you pregnant now or in the past? hypothyroidism and medications are other causes to explore. advil (ibuprofen) and motrin can cause peripheral edema among other meds. immobilization for long periods of time and salt intake also may contribute. why do you think you are retaining fluid?
why am i worse on medications. it seems to cause fluid retention an i get so sick an trouble with balance why?
omeprazole can cause kidney injury. please be checked for this.
what can cause bad chest pains. it hurts when i swallow or breathe. ?
pain with swallowing can occur when one has inflammation of the throat from an infection or from reflux of acid from the stomach. pain from taking a breath can signal an upper respiratory infection such as bronchitis tracheitis pneumonia or from pleurisy (inflammation of the lining surrounding the lungs). it's important to see ones doctor for any of these problems.
what could cause dull pain in center of chest? saw cardiologist had stress test cardiac ct and echo. all ok. also saw pulmonologist. lungs ok.
sounds like you have had a good work up already. gastrointestinal issues such as reflux disease esophageal spasm gallbladder and others as well as musculoskeletal problems such as costochondritis can cause your symptoms. it all depends on the nature of the pain and what brings it on or makes it better. cont to follow up with you doc until you get an answer.
what could cause dull pain in center of chest? saw cardiologist had stress test cardiac ct and echo. all ok. also saw pulmonologist. lungs ok.
thank you for first seeing the cardiologist and pulmonologist. other systems that affect that central chest region include the gastrointestinal and musculoskeletal systems. consider a visit to a gastroenterologist to see if the problem is reflux or other gi issue. next look at how you sit if you are hunched over a computer all day are you under a lot of stress? still lots to check
what could cause dull pain in center of chest? saw cardiologist had stress test cardiac ct and echo. all ok. also saw pulmonologist. lungs ok.
the most likely diagnosis in a 31 year old man is gastroesophageal reflux disease peptic ulcer disease gastritis esophagitis or non-ulcer dyspepsia. it is clearly not your heart or lungs. a less likely diagnosis is costochondritis myofascial syndrome or fibromyalgia. i'm assuming you've had no trauma to your sternum(? )
what medicine is good for coughing short of breath?
3 most common causes of cough are acid reflux post nasal drip and asthma. so there is not a magic bullet medication that treats all cough. you have to know what the reason for the cough is. best way to do that if you don't know why you have it is to see your doctor and have the cough and shortness of breath evaluated.
what causes cardiac temponade?
cardiac tamponade is collect of either blood pus or fluid in sac around the heart resulting in reduction of filling of ventricles leading to haemodynamic compromise. it is life threatening condition. it can be caused by infection injury post heart attack malignancy associated with certain disorders like rheumatoid arthritis sle radiation etc. <link>
what could cause persistent non-cardiac related chest pain?
im not a cardiologist buy i know from my own experience that acid reflux causes my chest pain
what factors increase cholesterol and sgpt?
cholesterol levels are influenced by genetics diet and lifestyle. sgpt is a liver enzyme that can be altered by anything that alters the liver metabolism.
what would cause a feeling of fluid sloshing in the chest area and chest pain?
knowing what exactly knowing what is going on with your medical history it impossible to tell. this usually is fluid in the stomach you hear but if you have an illness there could be fluid in other parts of the body.
what are the symptoms of an enlarged heart? how is this treated?
an abnormally enlarged heart is called a dilated cardiomyopathy. symptoms are typically those of heart failure such as shortness of breath fatigue weakness fluid retention and sometimes chest pain or palpitations. you should see (and be followed by) a cardiologist if you have an abnormally enlarged heart.
which alternative to tea with milk in the morning as i feel pain in my heart after drinking it i was diagnosed as a chronic anemia case?
it sounds like you are having gastroesophageal reflux (gerd) which occurs when stomach acid comes back up into your esophagus burning the lining. you should avoid caffeine alcohol and nicotine which can make this worse by lowering the pressure in the valve that prevents reflux. you should be checked for h. pylori which is a bacteria that can cause this. gerd can cause anemia.
what are manifestations of ebola virus? can it cause changes in cardiac function?
high temperature flu symptoms bleeding from many areas of the body. kidney shut down and many more. look it up on google
why do you have shortness of breath when your gerd attacks? why you need to burp to feel relieved?
of the esophagus and refluxing of acid into your air tubes can cause a shortness of breath like sensation. often burping relieves the pressure in the stomach which improves the reflux. hope this helps!
what are some of the symptoms of an enlarged heart?
an abnormally enlarged heart is called a dilated cardiomyopathy. symptoms are typically those of heart failure such as shortness of breath fatigue weakness fluid retention and sometimes chest pain or palpitations. you should see (and be followed by) a cardiologist if you have an abnormally enlarged heart.
what causes major bp fluctuations? right now i am 11<negative_smiley>79. mind you i've had a few beers any other times through the day i can get as high as 155/105
it is expected that bp varies over a wide range in a given individual reflective and anticipating a myriad of circumstances including mental state bp is essentially varied beat by beat the mere act of checking it alters it akin to heisenberg's uncertainty principle in physics;making true diagnosis more difficult than envisaged and contributing to phenomena such as "white coat hypertension"
what causes major bp fluctuations? right now i am 11<negative_smiley>79. mind you i've had a few beers any other times through the day i can get as high as 155/105
bp spikes can be due to hormonal influencs eg stress hormones can do it. thyroid can do it. angiotensin splurge due to renal artery stenosis.
what are the risks of taking niaspan (niacin)?
can cause sugars to go up flushing high enough doses can affect the liver(especially when added to a statin) limited data on benefit. in other words the total cholesterol and the ldls should be the focus of treatment. no mortality reductions with niaspan (niacin) or the fibrate group of drugs.
what is the appropriate prompt treatment for stroke?
prompt treatment for a stroke is to transport the person to the emergency room. they should keep their head down treat blood pressure gently if needed review medications check blood sugar start iv fluids and get an ekg and head ct without contrast. certain patients with ischemic stroke may benefit from rapid treatment with a medicine called tpa (alteplase).
what can cause shortness of breath?
there are many causes of shortness of breath. the easiest way is to compartmentalize into three categories. 1. any problems with the heart – heart failure enlargement of the heart or valve disease of the heart. 2. any problem with the lungs – asthma copd fluid around the lungs fluid in the lungs or lung scarring to name a few. 3. everything else – deconditioning or knee/hip pain for example.
what are the pros and cons of taking niacin?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use.
what would cause sudden pain and swelling on the top of left foot and ankle no known injury and no heart prob.
to my mind without any injury (fall or something heavy falling on the foot or ankle) are gout or pseudogout. others include maybe an insect bite. see your pcp to have a blood test and even some fluid removed from the swollen part might provide an answer(dx).
which imaging tests should be done in case of flimmer and/or flutter? physical collapsing 4x peripheral radiatition and chest pain. congenital possib
atrial flutter requires an ekg a 24 hr holter analysis and an echocardiogram to assess cardiac function and output. if you truly have atrial flutter you also need an anticoagulant med at the least and possibly an anti arrhythmic medication. see a cardiologist for more help and treatment immediately!
why does the body diurese fluids when blood sugar is high?
this is called osmotic diuresis. read the following for more information: <link>
why is fluid balance important in a pt with sepsis? if a sepsis pt becomes hypernatremic e. g. sodium level 150 mmol/l then does it really matter? why?
septic patients get hypovolemic because of vasodilation. a patient with that problem and also hpernatremic is really in deep stuff. now if you're septic but haven't yet vasodilated but are dehydrated causing hypernatremia from free water deficit and you then vasodilate. well again not good.
why would my 22 week fetus has fluid inside her heart and a lot around the heart? is it seriuos?
fluid is always around the heart. unless it is small amout check with md for dm rh hypothyroidism cardiomyopathy etc.
what gout medicine doesn't interact with lisinopril?
hi. you should be able to take allopurinol but stay hydrated but still keep a watch on your blood pressure as increasing your fluid intake too much may minimize the blood pressure lowering affects of the lisinoprial since it lowers pressure by dilating vessels and increase fluid volume could effect this. however there is no direct cotraindication. if acute gout a cortisone injection may be best.
what are slo-niacin dietary supplements used for? any side effects?
slow niacin is a medication and not a dietary supplement. it does improve lipid profile by diminishing triglycerides and improving hdl (good) cholesterol mildly. however: niacin does not improve chances of patients getting stokes heart attacks or dying. niacin is sometimes difficult to take due to side efects as flushing that can be severe
what color is the drainage from a chest tube with a a pleural effusion?
normal fluid should look like light colored urine. heart liver and kidney failure effusions will look like this. if it's an empyema it will be pus. if it's infection or something inflammatory it can be pus dark yellow or bloody. if it's a cancer it's almost always bloody.
what are the differences between 500 mg niaspan (niacin extended-release) tablets and niacan you can buy otc?
niaspan (niacin) is a slow release variety while the otc niacin versions are not - the latter tend to cause facial flushing and redness after use. there's a flush free otc version which negates this symptom.
what can be expected from an arteriogram?
in general this is an outpatient procedure. you will arrive npo and will typically be sedated. a local anesthetic is injected to numb the entry site. a sheath is placed in the vessel and a catheter (hollow tube) is advanced while watching on fluoroscopy to the body part being studied. an iodine based contrast agent is injected through the catheter either by hand or a power injector while
what is the best diuretic?
thiazide (hctz dyazide) are weak diuretics but a very good medicine to start treating hypertension. when stronger diuretics are needed the choice is "loop" diuretics (furosemide torsemide bumetanide) used more frequently for edema fluid overload and heart failure.
what differences are there between lymph collecting vessels & veins of the blood vascular system?
lymph collecting vessel are thin walled just the thinnest of intimal lining and have no media or adventitial covering. lymph fluid is acellular. vein can be thin wall but may have media and adventitial layers and carry blood with a variety of cells in it.
why does my chest hurt/feel tight after a meal? i'm fine at other times. i am not taking any medication.
associated with food intake may be associated with gastresophageal reflux which is commonly known as heartburn. identify and avoid foods that cause this feeling. sometimes antihistaminic or proton pump inhibitor medications provided relief.
what are the differences in side effects with amlodipine & nifidipine. ?
not uncommon side effects of both medications include mild ankle/leg swelling some flushing and some experience their heart beating faster. more unusual would be a sensation of tingling and pins and needles in the feet. most side effects tend to occur at higher doses of the medications.
what is water under the heart? what causes it?
"water under the heart" does not make sense. perhaps you are thinking of fluid in the sac that surrounds the heart which is a pericardial effusion. that has many possible causes including inflammation thyroid disease connective tissue diseases just to name a few. if pericardial effusion is the diagnosis you need to see a cardiologist to find the cause.
what causes pain in my swollen edema filled legs? i do however keep my legs elevated above my heart.
tissues are under tremendous pressure when there is swelling in a limited space. it is expanding beyond the normal amount. so the 'extra fluid' that is now out into the tissues needs a place to drain to get to the heart and out the kidneys. you didn't list your other conditions but if you've had it now for a few days or weeks you need to be seen by a doctor asap. this is not a normal finding.
would it be obvious if i had myocarditis?
clearly something has alarmed you about myocarditis since you have asked multiple questions. myocarditis can be completely asymptomatic and hear can look grossly normal or you may have mild flu-like symptoms. if you have a good reason to suspect myocarditis please consult a cardiologist.
why does my blood pressure fluctuate so much throughout the day? in the mornings it 120/75-80 afternoon it's 160/90. anything i can do to bring it down
start with restricting dietary sodium intake to 2 000 mg per day. next begin a daily fitness program of aerobic exercise minimum 30-40 min daily. if these measures don't stabilize bp then time to see a doctor about it.
whats wrong i have retetnion of fluid esp. on antidepressants. i am post menapausal. severe dizziness an high blood pressure. causin anxiety. help?
unfortunately you didn't mention/list your medications aside from omeprazole some of which can cause fluid retention. too much blood pressure medication can also lower bp excessively leading to dizziness which can then cause anxiety. so tell your family doc about your concerns and ask about adjusting your medication regimen. good luck!
why does the venous pressure increase if co decreases (as in heart failure)?
complicated to explain but to oversimplify the venous pressure increases when the fluid volume in the venous beds increases and can't be pumped out adequately by the right side of the heart. there are many processes in play and when heart failure is present fluid is retained and right heart pressure may increase causing venous pressure to increase.
why would the blood pressure of a burn patient be low?
patients with extensive burns weep fluid and this can cause relative hypovolemia which will cause low bp
what could cause a healthy sixteen year old boy to have high blood pressure?
this is common in the overweight kid but can also accompany silent medical conditions. kidney issues are usually investigated because they influence how the body sets its blood pressure. dietary choices intake of a variety of foods drink power aid caffeine etc. are all potential issues. a good workup buy your doc is the place to start.
why do malar flushes occur in mitral stenosis?
from the merck manual: the classic facial appearance in ms a plum-colored malar flush occurs only when cardiac output is low and pulmonary hypertension is severe; cause is cutaneous vasodilation and chronic hypoxemia.
what part of the heart pumps fluid out?
the left and right ventricles are the main pumping chambers of the heart.
what does furosemide work?
it is a diuretic it causes the loss of fluid and electrolytes in the kidney tubules
which contrast media are used in an angiography?
non ionic contrast is used for ct angio and fluoroscopic angio. gadolinium contrast is used for mr angio.
since becoming pregnant my skin has become blotchy. my mom said that it’s a sign of high blood pressure and i should call my doctor. is this true?
blotchy skin is normally related to some increased fluid in the deeper layers of the skin. this is the same as what happens when your ankles swell. this is normal in pregnancy since blood vessels dilate and have more fluid leak out into the surrounding tissues. if the swelling happens suddenly or seems severe that is when you should call your doctor.
should i be concerned with a heart flutter?
well you should get it checked out even though it is probably benign. most palpitations are benign unless you have additional symptoms.
should i be concerned with a heart flutter?
not unless you are having symptoms or this is sustained.
sometimes i feel like food is stuck in my throat after eating. the i end up throwing up and a bunch of mucus comes up. i don't have heart burn associated with it.
fullness in the throat is often referred to as a "globus" sensation. this might be due to post-nasal dripping chronic tonsillitis base of tongue tonsillitis reflux laryngitis or outpouching in the lining of the pharynx or esophagus called zencker's diverticulum. as evident there is a wide range of possibilities that can result in your symptoms. only a careful physical exam by a specialist with possible needed tests could fully lead to a correct diagnosis.
why does hypertension cause increased intracranial pressure?
increase intracranial pressure is the increase pressure inside the skull and thereby in the cerebrospinal fluid and brain itself. but it is not caused by systemic hypertension
should i be concerned if lately i have had a difference of 50 between my systolic and dystolic blood pressure?
it would depend on your age fluid status meds and on the actual numbers if they are accurate -- and know that most home or ambulatory bp machine (automated or manual) gives more accurate systolic measurements and less accurate diastolic measurements -.
should i be concerned with an upset stomach and acid reflux if i have heart disease?
sometimes acid reflux or heartburn may cause chest pain that is hard to distinguish from a potential heart attack especially if the patient is diabetic female gender or elderly. if you never had reflux or heartburn before and develop sudden chest pain i would recommend getting it checked out with your primary care doctor or go to er if the discomfort does not go away after 15-20 minutes.
should i be concerned with an upset stomach and acid reflux if i have heart disease?
some patients with heart disease also have symptoms of gerd/acid reflux disease. if there is a change to the quality of your heartburn symptoms see your doctor for evaluation. need to rule out heart causes (that can kill you) before attributing the pain to the gi system.
stroke & tpa my husband had a stroke in 2007 at the age of 56. his first symptoms although he had a headache/ vomiting which we thought was a touch of flu it wasn't until a few hours later that he developed double vision numbness & loss of balance.
i'm not sure your question. this does sound normal for a stroke but my greatest concern is the comparatively young age i hope this has been well evaluated and possible problems treated to reduce the risk of recurrence.
stroke & tpa my husband had a stroke in 2007 at the age of 56. his first symptoms although he had a headache/ vomiting which we thought was a touch of flu it wasn't until a few hours later that he developed double vision numbness & loss of balance.
there are two types of stroke: thrombotic (a clot blocks flow) and hemorrhagic (bleeding into the brain). thrombotic strokes are the ones that arise from areas of narrowing in the arteries that flow to the brain as it sounds like your husband has. so yes it's possible that the clot dissolving drug tpa (alteplase) might have helped him. on the other hand tpa (alteplase) is not a benign drug: it can cause hemorrhagic strokes. in fact bleeding into the brain is the biggest risk to using it and the likelihood of that outcome increases with the time since since symptoms began. because of this risk tpa (alteplase) is usually not used for thrombotic strokes unless the stroke is really severe. the last thing you want to do is convert a mild thrombotic stroke into a fatal hemorrhagic stroke. so based upon what you've said i think that your husband probably would not have qualified for tpa (alteplase) because 1) his symptoms were relatively mild (enough so that they were not even recognized as being an acute stroke) and 2) those symptoms had been present for several hours before he was seen.
sometimes it feels like i have a needle that's poking my heart. why does it happen and should i be worried?
spasms of the esophagus gas in the digestive track and acid reflux can all result in sharp stabbing pains. most of the time this type of pain is non cardiac in origin. of it continues you could consider a trial of an antacid drug.
should i seek the attention of and urgent care clinic? was driving home from work about 10 minutes ago and had a fluttering sensation in the middle of my chest felt into the bottom of my neck. lasted approximately 45 seconds to a minute. no pain just disc
it sounds as if you were experiencing heart palpitations which some have described as "skipping a beat" "fluttering" or "beating too hard or too fast". they can occur during activity or even when sitting still or lying down. palpitations are very common. they usually aren't serious or harmful but they can be bothersome. in some patients certain events trigger these palpitations such as strong emotions vigorous physical activity medicines stimulants (such as coffee). some palpitations are symptoms of arrhythmias. arrhythmias are problems with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. some arrhythmias are signs of heart conditions such as heart attack heart failure heart valve disease or heart muscle disease. however less than half of the people who have palpitations have arrhythmias. if you can ascribe these incidents with some factor avoid those factors such as caffeinated coffee or soft drinks. if they are associated with pain or shortness of breath please see your doctor immediately. if they become more prolonged or frequent (daily occurrence) then wearing a heart monitor (sometimes called a holter monitor) which captures all heart beats in a period of time can be used to study the nature of the palpitations.
why might someone have difficulty breathing sometimes if they don't have asthma?
there are many possibilities: vocal cord dysfunction reflux panic attacks to things more in the lungs like pneumonia or growths. a good history and physical exam should help determine the most likely cause. see your doctor.
will using lozol help get rid of my water weight?
lozol is a mild diuretic but good anti hypertensive medication. best way to diminish "water weight" is diminish the salt intake. if you truly need to get rid of fluids there are stronger diuretics that are used for heart failure or other reasons to keep fluids. all of them require very careful doctor supervision. hard to answer without knowing more about the reason behind the question.
why does high blood pressure jump between 120 and 140?
fluctuates considerably normally
why do i get sharp chest pains?
sharp chest pains can be caused by musculoskeletal scenarios reflux disease gastritis even gall stones can give it. in addition depending on when how duration of chest pain is relevant also. important things would be to have a thorough history and physical exam to make sure this is not something to worry like cad aneurysms for example
what's the name of an anti inflammatory that doesn't tend to cause swelling (fluid retention)?
depending on indications etc colchicine would fit the bill
should i seek medical attention? i woke up with a stomach ache yesterday and went to work while at work i passed out and then threw up. i went home and couldnt keep anything down but water. i threw up two more times yesterday and slept alot. (if i stand u
you could be dealing with a stomach flu. however the fact that you are dizzy leads me to believe you may be dehydrated. this can be dangerous. therefore if you are still vomiting and dizzy you should see a doctor right away. if your symptoms have resolved completely then you like had a stomach flu that has passed. for the future in these situations make sure you always drink plenty of fluids. take care.
somtimes my heart beats so hard it moves my whole body. even when im just sitting down. also i sometimes feel light- headed and my ears ring.?
another word for what you are describing is palpitations. the heart can also skip a beat flutter or beat too fast. they can also occur with activity or lying down. several things can trigger palpitations such as caffeine nicotine alcohol illegal drugs diet pills and decongestants. anemia and thyroid disease are also triggers. please see your doctor for an exam blood pressure check and more.
should i see doctor about pain in the middle of my chest and what could it be?
any pain in chest especially left sided or in the middle of chest should be evaluated by a doctor. if the pain is sharp andpersistant you should call 911 that is an emergency. the most serious cause is heart attack but it can come from esophageal reflux disease and can be in the chest wall itself and sometime due to prblems in your lung. you should not wait and see your doctoe asap or go to er.
should i go to urgent care for the common cold?
a common cold is a viral infection with a short duration. rest and drinking more fluids will help you through it. there is no need to go to an urgent care center or to the emergency room for treatment.
swollen feet and legs after iv fluids and chyst. what should i do if planning to breastfeed?
compression stockings can help visit www. weil4feet. com and link to online store and go to juzo stockings.
shortness of breath with hypothyroid? normal?
hypothyroidism can be associated with shortness of breath primarily through its effects on the heart. the heart rate can slow and the heart tissue can become weak; plus you can even get fluid build-up around the heart (pericardial effusion). but this is not "normal" and not a good sign.
should i exercise? should i see a doctor? i had a strange heart flutter yesterday where my heart fluttered for a second and then got really slow and weak. it remained slow and weak for a few hours and for the rest of the night i had occasional chest pain
before doing any exercise you should have an exam with your doctor who will likely also do an electrocardiogram and some blood tests. heart flutters or palpitations are common but if it feels unusually slow further analysis is indicated.
should i exercise? should i see a doctor? i had a strange heart flutter yesterday where my heart fluttered for a second and then got really slow and weak. it remained slow and weak for a few hours and for the rest of the night i had occasional chest pain
hello. i can't diagnose your symptoms. however you describe experiencing an irregular heart beat chest pain and residual weakness. i would recommend getting this evaluated. however the cause for your issues with running might be associated with these symptoms or it could just be that you are deconditioned. take care.
stomach pulse and fluttering so now worried about an abdominal aneurysm?
not knowing your history and age it is hard to let you know the risk of you actually having an abdominal aortic aneurysm. typically men over the age of 65 years who have a smoking history are at greatest risk. the best way to calm your fear and evaluate your aorta is with an abdominal ultrasound.
stomach pulse and fluttering so now worried about an abdominal aneurysm?
abdominal aortic aneurysms rarely present as fluttering. in thin individuals it is very common to be able to feel or even see the aortic pulse. if you have any risk factors (smoking family history high blood pressure high lipids or diabetes) get a screening by your pcp or through community outreach ultrasound programs. shearing abdominal back or groin pain warrant a trip to the er.
worrying to take viagara as i have read it could be fatal i got breathlessness on exertion due to acid reflux plz help?
and you really haven't asked a question. if you read something on the internet that worries you about a medicine you're taking it's best to ask your doctor in person. nearly every concern my patients bring to me after reading the internet can be explained as completely irrelevant to their particular situation. use the internet to get the questions to ask your doctor not the answers.
when a pericardial window is done for chronic pericarditis where does the continued fluid/blood drain? how is it re absorbed?
if done correctly the pericardial window will open the enclosed pericardial sac and allow it to drain into the left or right plural space. usually left. the layer of cells in the plural space in the lung has absorptive capabilities to absorb water and extra fluid.
stained brown spots on baby teeth? our five year old son seems to have these faint brown spots on some of his teeth. we don't let him drink soda or have much sugar so i'm not sure what they might be. should we go to the dentist? .
could be from either you your child taking tetracycline while teeth forming (they start to form before birth). could be cavities. could be from the pigments in the foods he eats. could be from his vitamins. could be from the excess levels of fluoride in the rocky mountain area. could be from the pigment-producing bacteria that live in our mouths. absolutely have your dentist check this out.
stained brown spots on baby teeth? our five year old son seems to have these faint brown spots on some of his teeth. we don't let him drink soda or have much sugar so i'm not sure what they might be. should we go to the dentist? .
yes i would have him evaluated by a pediatric dentist. the brown spots can may be staining on the surface of the teeth which can be removed by a dental prophylaxis (cleaning). we see this quite often. frequently it is caused by the iron present in vitamins with fluoride.
side effects of verapamil?
the most common adverse effect is constipation. other adverse effects may be hypotension fluid retention drowsiness and cardiac dysfunction.
shortness of breathe fullness inthroat since i gave birth 5 months ago. worried it's cardiac docs won't listen because " i'm to young" what to do?
sometimes pregnancy can cause the development of a hiatal hernia and resulting reflux. it is possible that you are having stomach juice coming off into your throat causing spasming inflammation and leaving to your symptoms. if you gained a lot of weight during your pregnancy or if your diet is not very good this can aggravate your symptoms. i agree with the other doctors who have suggested having this evaluated.
side effects and risk doing heart test and dipyrmidadole?
dipyrmiadole is a vasodilating med used in stress testing. common side effects include flushing shortness of breath chest pain and drop in blood pressure. the side effects can be reversed with iv aminophylline. over all risk is generally low but another agent might be better to use in those with copd and active asthma(should be avoided) as well as those with slow heart rates or heart block.
wbc consistently high 14. 6. i have a urinery tract infection about 6 months ago. i have chest pain from above a year. heart lungs tests are ok.
the most common cause of chest pain is stress. if heart tests are normal another cause would be inflammation of ribs and cartilages called costochondritis or stomach reflux. persistant wbc elevation after uti has been treated suggests chronic infection as occurs in prostate infection or repeated re-infection of the bladder.
what to do if 5-month old has mucus in the throat and trouble breathing? her ribs are sucking in when she breathes which we've heard is bad.
if you baby is have difficulty breathing and is struggling to breath then head to the er. it is flu season and she might be experiencing an exacerbation of the flu.
what is flush-free niacin?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use.
side effects of topamax (topiramate) for my migraines?
all medicines may cause side effects but many people have no or minor side effects. constipation; decreased sweating; diarrhea; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth; flu-like symptoms; headache; loss of appetite; nausea; nervousness; numbness or tingling of the skin; runny nose; sore throat; stomach pain or upset; taste changes; tiredness; trouble sleeping; weight loss.
should i seek emergency medical care if i took four 325 mg aspirins within two hours?
this is basically double the recommended dose in 4 hours risk is bleeding and also risk to kidneys. this is not dose needing emergency care but make sure you take no more for at least 8 hours and flush your system with plenty of water.
so hot and humid here. anyone know the reason to having severe trouble breathing?
are you known to have asthma? some asthmatics start or get worsening of their symptoms in hot and humid weather. you should see your doctor soon. also drink a lot of fluids.
sister has bad preeclampsia ans now they think swelling of the brain. why?
hypertension is a prime issue in pre-eclampsia. severe hypertension may cause fluid to leak out of the circulatory system and into the tissue. if that tissue is brain brain swelling occurs. once blood pressure reduces resolution of edema by various means may begin. otherwise the prognosis is not good.
serious question. patient has uti. on fluid restriction due to heart problems. needs dialysis but can't yet. today eyes yellow. what can be done?
this sounds like a very serious problem. the yellow eyes suggests jaundice and liver dysfunction. in the setting of kidney and heart problems too i worry about multiple-system organ failure a bad problem. all these issues relate. the patient needs volume status addressed antibiotics and likely evaluation of organ function quickly and closely. so sorry and good luck.
serious question. patient has uti. on fluid restriction due to heart problems. needs dialysis but can't yet. today eyes yellow. what can be done?
suspect liver problems and address them soon.
serious question. patient has uti. on fluid restriction due to heart problems. needs dialysis but can't yet. today eyes yellow. what can be done?
with so many issues going on see your dr. asap.
sudden lymph gland growh (near jaw). it grown and aches in 30minutes. what it may be?
may not be lymph gland. may be salivary gland. sudden swelling and pain or discomfort can be due to a stone stuck in salivary gland. lymph nodes don't usually get big suddenly. got fever? is it warm? dental problems? any other swellings? check with doc. rx often with fluids sour stuff (stimulate saliva production) warm compresses; sometimes antibiotics if evidence of infection. see your doc.
what is niacin?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use.
what could be the reason for deviation in blood pressure like 140-60 to 140-104?
normal range for systolic bp is from100 to 140 and and diastolic ranges from 60 to 80 mm of hg depending on the age. women have tendency to run a little lower than the men in general. but at your age 140 is at the upper limit of normal. anything above80-85 is also not normal but bp fluctuates therefore you take bp at various time of the day make bp log and bring to your doctor's attention.
what vitamins can be prescribed to help lower blood cholesterol levels?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use.
could heart palpitations be caused by menopause?
yes. changes in hormone levels with menopause can trigger heart palpitations hot flushes and other symptoms. you should see your doctor for evaluation if you are having heart palpitations.
can robaxacet cause heart palpitations?
lightheadedness dizziness drowsiness nausea urticaria pruritus rash conjunctivitis nasal congestion blurred vision headache fever seizures syncope flushing are known side effects.
could heart palpitations cause a miscarriage?
palpitations have been described sensation of irregular heart beats fluttering or flip flopping of the heart. they are common during pregnancy. they should be discussed with your doctor as testing such as an ekg or holter monitor may be needed to rule out other conditions. some rare conditions which cause palpitations like thyrotoxicosis may contribute to miscarriage.
since i have taking cholesterol medication i have chronic constipation that i spent several minutes and more often to bathroom visit. causing overwt?
can cause constipation. in addition to diet be sure you are drinking 80-100 oz of caffeine free/alcohol free fluid daily and drink an extra glass with each dose of the cholesterol med.
since norvasc (amlodipine) has so many side effects what is recommended in its place that has little or no side effects?
there are so many types of blood pressure medications and so many of them can be used in just about any hypertensive patient. factors such as age weight bp level diabetes alcohol/drug/medication both prescription and otc even race might influence this decision. see a doctor to determine this. don't treat yourself or try and figure this out on your own.
s o b and very tired?
shortness of breath is not normal unless it is the mild temporary shortness of breath with sports activities (but even then one must be sure he is not having more shortness of breath than his sports peers have). possible reasons for shortness of breath include heart attack heart arrhythmia heart failure fluid around the heart fluid around or in the lungs asthma chestwall tightness etc.
side effect of water retention tablets as i m on that tablet for 2 years now. many times my heamoglobin goes up n down is it cause of this tablet.?
water retention tablets (or diuretics) that you got from the doctor or in supplement form shouldn't cause big fluctuations in your hemoglobin. in mod to severe dehydration and rehydration the hemoglobin will change. but if you're noticing it i would look for other causes of the anemia first.
sometimes i get slightly dizzy to where i feel like i'm going to faint and my vision gets blurry i've never had any serious problems should i worry?
yes. see a gynecologist for a blood pregnancy test. there could be a lot of other explanations including hypothyroidism cystic ovaries high prolactin weight fluctuation infections.
what does niacin do to your body?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use.
what is niaspan (niacin) prescribed for?
supplementing with 2000-3000mg of flush free niacin daily can help to control your cholesterol levels quite nicely even increasing your hdl and converting your ldl to a less harmful subtype. as a negative niacin can cause facial flushing and redness so get the flush free variety. and have your liver enzyme values monitored as they can be affected by niacin use. niaspan (niacin) is prescription niacin
what can i do to control my anxiety attacks? they happen at work; being over stressed out. hard time breathing fever like feelings flustered and upset
find a therapist and/or a psychiatrist to knock down the symptoms fast and get some control. then buckle down and begin to do the harder work of figuring out why you have panic. sounds like something at work is your current trigger. there's more. here's a reference: <link>
what causes chest pains in a 15 year old female?
tbe most common causes in chest pain at this age is: asthma costochonritis reflux muscular pain. heart causes are rare unless there is history of heart diseases
what to do when blood pressure fluctuates and how to avoid it?
blood pressure is a fluctuant number. it changes with time of day mood caffeine nicotine alcohol street drug decongestant fluid pill other illness. watch your salt intake. take your blood pressure medicine regularly in time.
can radiofrequency cardiac ablation help cure arrhythmia?
oblation is a widely used in extremely successful procedure for a variety of different cardiac rhythm problems. the success rate for the procedure can range from 70% for atrial fibrillation to 85% for atrial tachycardia and is much as 98% for rhythms like atrial flutter and wolf parkinson white (avrt). a cardiac electrophysiologist can give you an answer specific to your situation.
can palpitations be related to acid reflux?
esophagus and heart have same nerve supply. on occasion patients can have palpitations/irregular heart beats related to reflux. has been demonstrated with 24 hr ekg combined with 24 hr ph monitoring.
can palpitations be related to acid reflux?
there is no known connection but i know of many patients in which these two are connected.
can smoking marijuana cause an unsafe rapid heartbeat?
this is not common and most smokers do not get it. i have worked up several patients with this complaint to see if they had a predisposition to things like atrial fib or flutter or supraventricular tachycardia (svt) but did not find it. if you are having this problem stop using it!
can an ekg find anything wrong when your heart flutters?
when you feel fluttering in your chest it may be due to irregular rapid heart beat i. e. "arrythmia. " if that is the case the ekg will only show the abnormality if it is hooked up at the exact moment the symptoms occur i. e. when the abnormal rhythm is present. (prolonged monitoring with devices worn at home can be used to try to capture the rhythm when symptoms of palpitations occur. ).
can an ekg find anything wrong when your heart flutters?
yes if you are having the flutters at the time it is being done then it will tell if the heart rhythm is normal or abnormal.
can an ekg find anything wrong when your heart flutters?
you can have a normal ekg and still have symptoms of fluttering or palpitations. you may need a 24 hr holter monitoring to evaluate the arrhythmia!
can you have heart failure without a myocardial infarction?
yes. heart failure refers to the inability of the heart to pump properly and thus resulting in accumulation of fluid in the lung. this is called systolic heart failure. there is also diastolic or right sided heart failure and those symptoms are a bit different. myocardial infarction refers to poor blood supply to the heart resulting in the death of heart tissue. this could result in heart failure.
could i be having congestive heart failure i had a pacemaker put in last year because of atrial fib i take diltiazem which was just increased to 360 mg from 240 mg for the last few days and nights i am short of breath i wake up short of breath seems t
if you are experiencing shortness of breath and difficulty breathing when laying down these are signs of congestive heart failure and more specifically left heart failure. in left heart failure fluid builds up in the lungs causing shortness of breath and difficulty breathing when laying down. fatigue is also a sign that your heart may be working too hard. see a doctor sooner than your appointment. go to the emergency room to be assessed if you can not get in right away to see your cardiologist.
can you catch hiv/aids from giving mouth to mouth to a stranger how has a heart attack?
hiv is not transmitted by kissing or rescue breathing. unless of course both persons happen to have open wounds actively bleeding in their mouths at the same time. several other diseases are transmitted more easily than hiv like the flu and mono but often treatable or vaccine-preventable. if concerned you can buy and carry pocket-sized barriers for rescue breathing.
symptoms of plurasy?
pleurisy is inflammation of lining of the lung most usually due to pneumonia. it causes severe pain especially on deep breathing. it may also be associated with fluid or effusion.
since they diagnosed my mom with pulmanru hypertension they been treating more aggressively. she's down 67 lbs in 3 week. shouldn't this be concerning?
many times the treatment of phtn involves giving diuretics. so removing fluid from the body at times may be significant were you can lose many pounds. if your mom continues to loose weight just call her doctor in case the doctor needs to address this issue.
swollen feet is fluid the cause.?
as stated there can be many causes for swelling. see your podiatrist and internist for the cause of the swelling
swollen feet is fluid the cause.?
the question is why are you retaining it? options include bad valves in your veins too much salt intake possible cardiac or kidney problem medication side effect etc. becuase there are many possible causes best for a doctor to figure out the one causing your issue.
swollen feet is fluid the cause.?
retention can be the cause.
swollen feet is fluid the cause.?
generally yes but there are more benign reasons such as gravity dependent edema or medications such as amlofipine. . talk ti your physician.
severe diarrhea for almost 10 days very shaky n weak feeling very dizzy?
sounds like you are dehydrated. increase your fluid intake and if unable you may need iv fluids. see your doctor if no improvement.
swollen feet and ankles what carbohydrates retain body fluids?
carbohydrates do not directly cause fluid retention. however refined carbohydrates do put the body under free radical stress and that can accelerate degeneration in the human body. i strongly advise that you avoid all white flour white sugar and white rice.
successfully ruled out dvt but i still have painful lump on the calf behind knee. what could it be?
likely a bakers cyst. a collection of joint fluid. should go away by itself. can be seen on sono.
should i be worried if i got olive oil in my eye?
but would flush eye out with clean water.
why is my oxygen level 98 and i am still short of breath? i have chf. is this related?
pleural effusion. fluid accumulates in the pleural space due to high hydrostatic pressures from left heart dysfunction. if fluid is present you may need to have it drained with a thoracentesis procedure. first step to diagnosis is a chest xray and ultrasound.
what disorder(s) can cause fluid retention that leads to hyponatremia?
there are many causes for fluid retention. have your doctor refer you to a nephrologist.
would pheochromocytomas cause episodes or attacks of symptoms or would the symptoms (tach sob sweating elevated bp dizzy flushed) be constant?
i would recommend a trip to your primary care doctor for a 24 hour urine. this would probably be a good place to start.
would pheochromocytomas cause episodes or attacks of symptoms or would the symptoms (tach sob sweating elevated bp dizzy flushed) be constant?
initially the symptoms are episodic but may become constant. see this site for more info. <link>
what does a noncardiac pulmonary edema do to the body?
pulmonary edema fills the lungs with fluid and impairs oxygen getting into the blood stream. any pulmonary edema does this. noncardiac has causes like poisons toxic inhalants high altitude and low blood osmolality. the noncardiac cause has its own effects in addition to the oxygenation problem.
can a child have dilated cardiomyopathy like an adult?
dilated cardiomyopathy is a condition in which the heart muscle is weakened and the heart is enlarged. the most common cause in childhood is an infection with a virus often the same sorts of viruses that cause the stomach flu (enteroviruses). some other causes include genetic problems muscular dystrophy toxic exposures (including drugs) heart rhythm problems and malformations of the heart.
can you tell me the difference between a heart failure from myocardial infarction?
hf is due to ineffective pumping action of the heart resulting in fluid overload. mi is due to blockage of one or several arteries that supply and nourish the heart. it might result in various complications.
could baclofen from an implanted pump cause transient tachycardia?
anyone receiving intrathecal baclofen for spasticity likely also has autonomic dysfunction including abnormalities in regulation of heart rate and blood pressure. baclofen may decrease blood pressure and cause reflex tachycardia but if given by a pump should not cause fluctuating changes. see a sci specialist for evaluation; changes in posture dehydration anxiety or other condition possible.
can cardiac arrhythmia be cured?
some arrhythmias have definitive treatments (atrial flutter re-entry tachycardias) others have helpful treatments (atrial fibrillation and monomorphic ventricular tachycardia) and others you can reduce the risk of side effects and risk of death. see your electophysiologist (cardiologist with special training in arrhythmias) about yours.
can i die from atrial flutter if i ignore it?
you can die from drinking too much water but it's unlikely. untreated atrial flutter usually causes a heart rate of 150 which is annoying for most people and over several months will weaken the heart muscle leading to heart failure. blood clots can form inside the atria increasing the risk of stroke. don't mess with atrial flutter - it needs attention.
can i die from atrial flutter if i ignore it?
probably not -- but you won't be well and the condition is easy to treat.
can vasovagal syncope be cured?
fludrocortisone is very effective or increased salt intake.
chest pain i've had a bad migraine for two days and recently started having chest pain. its been going on for about an hour so i'm pretty sure i'm not having a heart attack or stroke. i'm also only 18. have tried all my usual migraine medications but they
chest pain is very worisome. although you are at low risk for a heart attack or stroke these things are possible. more importantly severe conditions such as aneurysms aortic dissections pneumonia etc can be the cause. also costochondritis asthma and even gastric reflux can be to blame. i suggest if you are still having pain please present to your local urgent care or emergency department. on the other hand if you are feeling better you should still find a medical provider to handle your migraines and issues as they come up. search for for low income community clinics in your area and/or contact your local county hospital for resources. best of luck.
can dehydration cause heart palpitations?
dehydration causes decreased blood volume of circulating blood. for the heart to keep pumping the same amount of blood (cardiac output) the heart has to speed up therefore causing increased heart rate (tachycardia). when dehydration is extreme heart rate can be very fast (>>100 bpm) causing 'palpitations'. i. v fluids may be needed to quickly restore blood volume or vascular collapse will occur.
can dehydration cause heart palpitations?
if you dehydrated or have "low fluids volume" in blood vesles - heart is increasing rate to circulate blood to vital organs and it may feel subjectivly as a "palpitation". whatever is the reason for dehydration - volume has to be replaced asap.
sudden left-side facial numbness lh fingers tingling headache bp wide fluctuation. could it be tia? what's safe dose aspirin before diagnosis made?
do not treat yourself and do not worry about aspirin as it does not work if blood flow is a problem in the brain. granted you may just have a complex classical migraine attack but get this diagnosed and get the bp controlled. see your doctor or the er immediately and get this fixed.
sudden left-side facial numbness lh fingers tingling headache bp wide fluctuation. could it be tia? what's safe dose aspirin before diagnosis made?
those symptoms could be a transient ischemic attack but should be treated as a possible stroke and evaluated in the emergency room. time is critical in getting the best medical care and you lose the ability to utilize certain interventions if you present to emergency room outside of that critical window of time.
stress test heart cath normal but my left side of my chest still in daily pain spacli when i wake up in morning i don't know what can it be seen doctors daily?
clearly this pain is not coming from your heart. other possibilities for left sided chest pain might include: costochondritis arthritis rheumatism chest wall pain muscular pain; also: peptic ulcer disease non-ulcer dyspepsia gall bladder disease (atypical) splenic flexure syndrome acid reflux disease esophagitis; finally less likely causes are pleurisy pleuritis pneumonia pericarditis.
stress test heart cath normal but my left side of my chest still in daily pain spacli when i wake up in morning i don't know what can it be seen doctors daily?
if testing shows no evidence of disease and your symptoms occurs daily upon waking i suspect possible reflux trouble or chest wall pain such as costochondritis impingement on the nerve supplying your chest wall strained muscles in between your ribs or problem with the ribs themselves. i suggest talking to your doc further and discuss possible additional testing/exam. good luck.
short random sharp chest pain i am i diabetic high blood pressure and deal with depressiom
a person with chest pain needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. multiple possible causes may be: heart attack esophageal reflux anxiety musculoskeletal pneumonia pulmonary embolus and aortic dissection. have it evaluated right away to prevent potential serious complications.
severe headache. followed by diahrrea nauseous. temp only 96. 4f grandfather died of brain aneurysm worries me. flu? worse?
seriously doubt aneurysm. can't tell you what you have - go to nearest er. once this is sorted out i would get a brain mra to evaluate for possible aneurysm.
shortness of breath burning sensation and pains across the chest a lot of burps and fatigue?
sounds like asthma + acid reflux. but a much more complete history (and physical) is need. if you drink coffee (regular & decaf) or eat sweets i'd suggest you stop those for now to see if there is benefit. you will enjoy our website www. thepmc. org.
sharp chest pain when sleeping on left side?
generally chest pain when sleeping on the side is musculoskeletal in origin and does not signify heart disease. the only worrisome problem could be reflux which may be causing pain in your espohagus when you lie on your side.
stomach flutters on left side of abdomen. i'm 43 and had hysterectomy so i know it's not pregnancy.?
this is most likely small muscle spasms like the twitches you sometimes feel on the skin in various places. the muscles in the bowels and along the abdomen and back can also undergo such twitches. it can feel just like baby flutters.
started dexilant (dexlansoprazole) one month ago. reflux better but wosening tinnuitis with chest tightness and blurry vision and leg going to sleep. should i quit?
yes get checked and see your physician.
what does it mean when my testosterone is high but my blood pressure is low?
a common cause of elevated testosterone in women is polycystic ovarian syndrome (pcos)--usually associated with menstrual disorders infertility and obesity. the only link i can see with low blood pressure is if you also have associated diabetes and have low overall fluid volume due to excessive urination from high sugars. also associated heavy periods might make you anemic with low pressures.
can hyperkalemia and hypernatremia occur at the same time from iv fluid?
electrolyte abnormalities are common in hospitalized patients and can result from multiple factors. they often result from a patient's underlying condition. intravenous fluid composition could also play a role. you should discuss with your doctor for specific answers in a specific situation.
can hyperkalemia and hypernatremia occur at the same time from iv fluid?
the only commonly used iv fluid containing potassium is deficient in sodium and also contains free water.
can hyperkalemia and hypernatremia occur at the same time from iv fluid?
if ivf have normal saline and high potassium content then the answer is yes. but if ivf are half normal saline of dextrose in water or other (without potassium) then the answer is no.
can pericardial effusion lead to myocardial infarction or other serious consequence?
if it is very large it can lead to tamponade which can be fatal if the fluid is not removed.
can pericardial effusion lead to myocardial infarction or other serious consequence?
can lead to cardiac tamponade which is squeezing of the heart by too much fluid so that the heart cannot expand and fill wth blood and so the heart cannot pump blood which causes low blood pressure which can cause heart attack or other serious problems. .
stared florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 5 mg 2days ago 4 dysautonomia caused by my connective tissue disease. currently have terrible sharp r side chest pain so bad it hurts to move or breathe. can florinef (fludrocortisone) cause this?
please go to er. u could have pleurisy!
stared florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 5 mg 2days ago 4 dysautonomia caused by my connective tissue disease. currently have terrible sharp r side chest pain so bad it hurts to move or breathe. can florinef (fludrocortisone) cause this?
flourinef causes fluid retention should not precipitate right sided chest pain. given underlying connective tissue disease would suggest medical attention. you re at higher risk for cardiac as well as pulmonary event such as pulmonary embolism.
stopped florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 5 mg prescribed 4 low bp & dizzy spells d/t edema abd pain and gain of 7 lbs after two doses. helped bp & dizziness though. now urinating clear urine like crazy q 1/2 hr. normal?
your increased urine flow is a result of higher bp and fluid gains. your kidneys have an intrinsic set to eliminate fluid and sodium in response to a bp threshold and vascular volume threshold perceived by receptors in veins and heart and brain. so yes normal.
stopped florinef (fludrocortisone) 0. 5 mg prescribed 4 low bp & dizzy spells d/t edema abd pain and gain of 7 lbs after two doses. helped bp & dizziness though. now urinating clear urine like crazy q 1/2 hr. normal?
eliminating excess fluid yes normal but back to where you started before long. did you discuss with your doctor.
sudden shortness of breath at rest. feels like flush of fluid in chest. heart beats hard. stress & all cardiac tests ok. scary feeling. what's this?
could be panic attacks. would check with a lung doctor and an endocrine doc to make sure you dont have thyroid or adrenal issues.
sometimes its like i could see stars n at the same time i feel imbalanced like gonna fall. y is this happening?
i'm assuming your symptoms happen when you stand up quickly from lying down or squatting? if so a few seconds of dizziness is normal and can be avoided by getting up slowly drinking plenty of fluids and eating more salt. if your symptoms are not when getting up you need a thorough evaluation.
sore throat dry mouth flem trouble swallowing chest pains headaches blocked nose. what do i have?
if you didn't get the flu vaccine your symptoms sound very much like the flu especially if you are running a temperature.
sore throat dry mouth flem trouble swallowing chest pains headaches blocked nose. what do i have?
it could be the flu it could be allergies it could be almost anything. get to a doctor to have yourself examined and treated please.
severe chest tightness heaviness but no pain in the left arm. what could the other causes be? this has been going on for 6 yrs.
the good news is that heart attack would be near the bottom of the list for chest pain in a 26 y/o. other causes can be reflux esophageal spasms anxiety disorder abdominal issues like gallbladder and more. you should see a doctor. any chronic condition for 6 yrs should get looked at.
should you sleep with a pillow if you have fluid around your heart?
sleep however you are most comfortable.
should i be worried about amniotic fluid embolism with my pregnancy my first pregnancy i lost my baby to placental abruption at 39wks?
i don't think anybody can predict this rare complication. sorry for your loss. the only suggestion i can give with your next pregnancy: try to get your future delivery done at the tertiary care facility. and keep on positive thinking otherwise your future pregnancy would be a nightmare filled with anxiety.
should i still be short of breath 6 days after lung collapse and removal of bleb surgery? total lung inflate was on 5th day.
while it is possible that the shortness of breath is due to pain from the surgery it is also possible that this represents re-collapse of the lung from an air leak or fluid that has accumulated in the chest after surgery. in either case you should contact your surgeon's office to be seen and to get another chest xr to look at the lung.
strange dropping sensation in chest makes breathing short and heart fast. ct scan clear chest xray clear not pulmonary embolism or dvt. what is it?
supraventricular tachycardias are fairly common in young adults. this can cause similar symptoms. to know if that is the case you need to have an event recorder to determine what is your heart rythm when you are having the symptoms. transient atrial flutter or other supraventricular tachycardia with rapid ventricular response could cause it. cut caffeine nicotine and stress. beta blocker.
since saturday i been feeling dizzy on and off this happen when my blood pressure is low check my bp is 100/70 w/pulse 79?
if you're on bp meds (or other meds with potential bp side effects) the dose may need adjustment. if you're not be sure you're drinking fluid adequately. don't restrict your salt. bleeding diarrhea vomiting or fever can all cause low bp too. if none of this applies to you see your doctor.
where is headache usually located with a pheochromocytoma?
headache from pheochromocytoma is similar to a combination of super bad migraine headache bad vascular headache and the worst tension headache that you have ever had. it is throbbing feel like your head is going to blow up and associated with a serious flushing. in the face and it could spread to the rest of the body. you do not get suspicious of pheochromocytoma from headache. you follow other sign
woken up from on/off chest pain followed by horrible acid reflux. i have gerd but never so bad. it's scary could it be cardiac instead?
it is possible but if you are experiencing gerd symptoms an anti reflux medication is indicated. i would advise checking your heart rate and bp. if you are experiencing any respiratory difficulty please seek care in the ed.
why do i keep heart burn?
can lead to gastroesophageal reflux. being overweight recent weight gain foods like caffeine chocolate spicy high fat content carbonated beverages peppermint tobacco products and tight fitting garments.
