i have a painful bump under my arm under the skin. it is not an open wound. any idea what it is / what i should do? it appeared a few days ago.
it may be folliculitis. . when a hair follicle gets clogged with dirt oil or bacteria it can swell and cause pain. wash gently with soap and water and cover the area to prevent it from rubbing on clothing. it should resolve on its own. if it worsens seek medical help.
is dissecting folliculitis curable? (my dermatologist says no. ) btw he always says "folliculitis" rather than "cellulitis. "
folliculitis is distinctly different from cellulitis. the first is an infection or inflammation of the hair follicle versus the skin. while folliculitis may develop into cellulitis it is distinctly different.
what are symptoms of cellulitis? how do you tell the difference between cellulitis and folliculitis?
cellulitis is an infection of the skin and subcutaneous tissue caused by a small or microscopic break in the skin that allows staphylococcus or streptococcus colonizing the skin to enter and cause infection. it causes the skin to turn a diffuse red color with warmth swelling and tenderness. folliculitis is infection of the hair follicles with inflammation and small pustules of the hair follicles.
what are symptoms of cellulitis? how do you tell the difference between cellulitis and folliculitis?
cellulitis is basically a visible inflammation (itis) of the skin and soft tissues (red hot swollen and tender). it can be caused by many things including sunburn (radiation) trauma (sprained ankle) or poor vein circulation (stasis dermatitis). it need not be caused by bacteria. if you have repeated episodes of this get to a wound care or vascular specialist the diagnoses you have is wrong.
what are symptoms of cellulitis? how do you tell the difference between cellulitis and folliculitis?
cellulitis results in inflammation of the soft tissue resulting in redness swelling and possible pain. folliculitis results from an inflamed or blocked hair follicle.
i have had red spots/raised under my belly button since the beginning of the week and they are a bit itchy at times. they also appear to have puss in?
i assume that you are asking what these spots are. sometimes it can be eczema but since some of these seem to have pus and the rash is new i suspect other causes. common are contact allergies(nickle on the inside of metal buttons)or infection of the hair glands(folliculitis) particularly if you shave this area. might also be impetigo. infections need meds and cd needs avoidance and cortisone
i have two bumps one on each sideburn next to the ear. they fill with puss and when i drain its puss and blood. they hve been there 6 months so far.
did you have a question regarding your condition? have you seen a doctor? if not you can try healthtap prime so that a live doctor can see the problem provide diagnosis & recommend treatment. it is not uncommon to get "plugged hairs" in the beard which can become infected. called folliculitis barbae. perhaps that's all it is. ttyd or use healthtap prime.
pimple on labia doesnt itch or burn but has puss. it had popped just a regular hair bump or something more?
these can be a folliculitis (infected hair gland) but it could also be an infection in various glands that inhabit that shin. an evaluation would be prudent if it does not heal quickly.
what is method to reduce pain and itching? my hot tub folliculitis has turned to cellulitis and i am on oral and i. v antibiotics. thanks
would be reluctant to apply any pain relieving cream or anti-itch lotion on an area of cellulitis. tylenol (acetaminophen) or otc nsaids for pain. if ineffective possibly tylenol (acetaminophen) with codeine or hydrocodone. both narcotics. otc antihistamines for itch. benadryl but may be sedating. (ok at bedtime). zyrtec(cetirizine) is the strongest less sedating antihistamine.
for 6 months i've acne-like condition on the back of my head. tender spots tiny scabs if i scratch them too much. capasal shampoo helps a bit. ideas?
this may be anything from a psoriasis variant to a folliculitis. this sort of thing is best handled in a family physician or dermatologist's office -- if my online experiences have taught me anything it's not to try to second-guess a rash that i can't see in person. good luck.
my 22 year old sister 6 foot and overweight has been getting big pimples on her breasts! they look like little balls about 1/2 inch! what could it be?
it could be acne (possible on the chest and back) folliculitis (infection at base of hair follicles) or sebaceous cysts. 1/2 inch is pretty large for acne so i'd recommend getting it checked out by a doc to know for sure.
how can i get rid of inner thigh fat? thighs not large 4 my size but hips r narrow & constant chafing occurs. pain & folliculitis. need 2 lose fat
you cannot control the fat distribution in your body. you need to take lots of weight off if you are obese and after that if you are still having difficulty with the thighs you may want to see a plastic surgeon about liposuction or some other technique. good luck.
how can i get rid of inner thigh fat? thighs not large 4 my size but hips r narrow & constant chafing occurs. pain & folliculitis. need 2 lose fat
not occur naturally. by losing weight in general some will probably be thigh fat. but we don't get to choose what area of body fat is lost from. eat healthy ; be physically active. calories burned must > those consumed. tone inner thighs w extended leg lifts inner thigh press standing thigh press deep squat wall squat lunge thigh ball squeeze walking swimming biking ; in-line skating.
woke up with pain inside my armpit can't move my arm up or sideways without pain read about cancerous reasons or heart attacks. help? 16 y/o girl
you do not have cancer and you are not having a heart attack. common things are common rare things are rare. most likely you pulled a muscle in your sleep or you have an infection setting up in the armpit such as an abscess or a folliculitis developing. pain is obviously not normal so if it doesn't go away by the time the doctor's office opens then call for an appointment to find out why.
can folliculitis bring on myocardial infarction?
folliculitis is a bacterial infection of hair follicles usually a mild condition. myocardial infarction is a heart attack most often caused by a blocked artery in the heart.
can folliculitis bring on myocardial infarction?
not unless you were going to have one anyway.
