what is danger of cat bites?
infection from cat bites is pasteurella multocida. other infections that people can get from cats by a variety of transmission routes include: cat scratch disease campylobacter ringworm roundworm hookworm tapeworm rabies fleas (very temporarily) toxoplasmosis giardiasis cryptosporidiosis salmonellosis ; pasteurella multocida.
what types of infections can i get from contaminated drinking water?
many infections but generally those related to protozoa (such as amebiasis cryptosporidiosis giardiasis microsporidiosis) parasites (such as schistosomiasis teniasis ascariasis enterobiasis) bacteria (such as cholera botulism e. coli infections dysentry typhoid salmonellosis) and viral (such as polio and hepatitis).
can water parasites make you lose weight and cause a loss of appetite?
giardiasis is a great example of this. . it is generally a self-limited infection in adults and rare instance of peristent infection can be easily treated with some antibiotic such as metronidazole etc. but is young children this bug can attach to the lining of small intestines causing malabsorption disaccharidase deficiency wt loss and growth retardation etc. consult your doc. good luck.
extreme fullness bloating nausea light headed during lunch time(eases a bit till dinner). cannot eat anything. loss of appetite. weight loss. help?
thank you for informing about rheumatoid arthritis likely causes of your symptoms are: •rheumatoid arthritis •giardiasis •depression •gastroenteritis •coeliac disease •ulcerative colitis •ibs •hyperthyroidism •lack of exercise •use of cocaine and methamphetamine see an internist for diagnosis and treatment. have consultation with rheumatologist gastroenterologist and psychiatrist for therapy.
shortness of breath chest pain burping and farting a lot cough that won't go away noisy stomach(not hungry) stomach cramping i had ekg and chest x-ray 2 weeks ago and they were clear. is this gerd?
none of your symptoms suggest heart disease which can be ruled out just by description. gerd gastritis gastroenteritis malabsorption celiac disease esophageal spasm peptic ulcer disease giardiasis non-ulcer dyspepsia food allergy gallstones - are all possibilities.
