ihave chronic halitosis. nd my tongue is white have great diet brush floss been 2everydoctor. i think its on my tongue. do i need laser tongue surgery?
halitosis may have many causes. it sounds like you are taking good care of your teeth. if you are continuously getting a white coating on your tongue it may not be related to your teeth. various medications can cause an overgrowth of the cells on your tongue and they can harbor bacteria which may cause the odor. sometimes it can be related to your digestive system check with your md.
ihave chronic halitosis. nd my tongue is white have great diet brush floss been 2everydoctor. i think its on my tongue. do i need laser tongue surgery?
if you have completely ruled out all causes orally then the source of your halitosis could be gastric. parsley oil supplements may help in this case. try getting a tongue scraper as they clean better than a brush and try to not to eat foods that are high in sulfur compounds or protein. in my experience people with this problem usually have undiagnosed periodontal disease.
what do you think about the dukan diet?
low-carb high-protein so it can cause halitosis ( bad breath) constipation & fatigue. france's favorite diet i don't know how sustainable it is. it's difficult to find protein without fat sometimes.
i have halitosis this past week i went to my gastroenterologist and he told me it's caused for an hiatal hernia how can i remove bad breath?
the physician who diagnosed your hiatal hernia should be able to suggest appropriate treatment for that. with all due respect you may also have dental problems which may be causing your bad breath. therefore i recommend you see a dentist for an exam and evaluation.
i have halitosis this past week i went to my gastroenterologist and he told me it's caused for an hiatal hernia how can i remove bad breath?
links. treating ur acid reflux may help. take care! <link> <link> healingcenter. com/natural-health/7-herbs-for-bad-breath/.
what to do if i'm told that i have bad morning breath. is it caused by snoring or just due to sleeping late?
in the majority of cases the cause of bad breath or halitosis is the product of bacteria in the mouth and gum disease. the proper diagnosis is the key to a successful treatment. see your dentist for halimeter test diagnosis and bad breath treatment that depends on its cause. good luck.
my 10 year old son doesn't eat large amounts of food and we follow a reflux diet. we can't seem to shake the rotten egg breath no burps no gas.
halitosis (bad breath) is not usually from reflux. there are several other causes for halitosis. start with your pediatrician. and dentist. a visit with the ent may be needed as well.
