is it normal to have all over body aches and dizziness a day after a tetanus shot?
after tetanus shot usually one may get little pain at the site of injection or feel feverish and some body aches but dizziness uncommon. this may last a day only since no headache or vomiting and fever . you may be alright soon.
i had terrible fever nausea and chills the next day i was diagnosed with quickly spreading cellulitis on my leg. my headache and fever has subsided but it's still painful to walk should i worry?
cellulitis is basically a visible inflammation (itis) of the skin and soft tissues (red hot swollen and tender). it can be caused by many things including sunburn (radiation) trauma (sprained ankle) or poor vein circulation (stasis dermatitis). it need not be caused by bacteria. if you have repeated episodes of this get to a wound care or vascular specialist the diagnoses you have is wrong.
i had terrible fever nausea and chills the next day i was diagnosed with quickly spreading cellulitis on my leg. my headache and fever has subsided but it's still painful to walk should i worry?
probably not a concern and is related to the edema caused by the cellulitis. need to make sure there is no clot within the arterial or venous system of the involved extremity. also need to make sure there is no abscess cavity that needs to be drained.
i had terrible fever nausea and chills the next day i was diagnosed with quickly spreading cellulitis on my leg. my headache and fever has subsided but it's still painful to walk should i worry?
when diagnosed with cellulitis the most important thing is to take antibiotics as prescribed to resolve the infection. there may be pain related to injury to tissues on the leg. headaches and chills were likely as a result of infection. continue antibiotics and watch for signs of worsening cellulitis like worsening erythema or redness warmth to touch and fever again.
i had terrible fever nausea and chills the next day i was diagnosed with quickly spreading cellulitis on my leg. my headache and fever has subsided but it's still painful to walk should i worry?
a cellulitis can lead to sepsis or osteomyelitis if untreated with antibiotics (sometimes iv abx are needed). usually pain means persistent infection. may want to have doc look at it.
i had terrible fever nausea and chills the next day i was diagnosed with quickly spreading cellulitis on my leg. my headache and fever has subsided but it's still painful to walk should i worry?
if the cellulitis is subsiding as well you are likely going in the right direction. elevation should help along with warm soaks.
i had a microdiscecetomy l5-s1 2 weeks ago. i developed a seroma. it was drained yesterday and has returned. is this common? what can i expect?
patients who are heavier tend to develop seromas more often. drains placed during surgery often prevent this. however a microdiscectomy is usually done with a very small incision and therefore drains are usually not placed. do you have any associated headaches? sometimes a csf leak can present like this.
if i got hit by keys to my head can it cause brain damage or internal bleeding or problems later i have laceration on right side of my head one staple?
jelly given the information provided unless it was a really large cluster of keys (heavy) or fell from a great distance it shouldn't be enough to cause brain damage or internal bleeding. if you have persistent severe headaches cognitive issues or just are worried i would discuss with your primary doctor whether an mri or a neurology referral would make sense.
if i got hit by keys to my head can it cause brain damage or internal bleeding or problems later i have laceration on right side of my head one staple?
theoretically any clonk to the noggin can cause an internal bleed but your single-staple laceration bespeaks a relatively minor injury. of course if the laceration was accompanied by a series of blunt blows there could be more than meets the eye. if you have persistent or worsening headaches blurry or double vision then seek md evaluation. otherwise stop getting hit with keys or anything!
i had a bad rash on my neck and a swollen lymph node doc says i have cellulitis. i'm on antibiotics. i am geting light headed groin pain & calf cramps?
cellulitis is a condition involving soft tissue infections. the use of antibiotic therapy in such conditions is standard although not without side effects. all medications can cause systemic symptoms with headache and body cramps but my concern would be worsening or spreading infections. if possible wound cultures with sensitivities should be taken. discontinue the current antibiotic recommended.
i have a concussion after a car accident - ringing ears dizziness head aches etc. i was planning on flying this weekend. is that ok?
should be ok. may get a headache that worsens slightly with elevation
what do i do if i just got a tetanus shot and have a bad headache and itching on parts my body.?
problems like these can only be correctly handled by your doctor in person. he/she needs to listen to you perform an examination and possibly run labs or other tests. that's the only way he/she can find out what's going on and what to do about it.
what do i do if i just got a tetanus shot and have a bad headache and itching on parts my body.?
if you do not often get symptoms like these except from the tetanus shot i would recommend seeing your doctor asap. sounds like it could be an allergic reaction. also was the tetanus shot given as a preventative measure or did you have to get it because of some recent broken skin trauma? it could be from the trauma.
how to treat cellulitis on forehead cause headache?
could try antiinflammatories like motrin occasionally a hydrocortisone cream may help but really need to see your doc to see if you need antibiotics or any surgical drainage etc.
how to treat cellulitis on forehead cause headache?
a doctor will probably prescribe you an antibiotic treatment. make sure to take it as directed and completely finish what was prescribed.
i was in a car accident 1 month ago. i feel this weird tingling feeling discomfort on my head? it's not painful just feels weird? am i paranoid?
you may have gotten a minor concussion. make sure to take it easy no contact sports and seek md if you do have headache or fatigue.
i'm having recurring headaches from the lound explosion that went off near me. how can i make them stop?
i agree with the headaches being possibly related to concussive forces you may've experienced from the blast depending on distance. high dose tylenol (acetaminophen) (extra strength) as a 1 or 2 time regimen to gauge effect may be acceptable but risky if you overdo it. if headaches aren't gone in 24-48 hrs seek out specialty help so they don't become chronic. questions? write me at: www. healthtap. com/drsaghafi
i'm having recurring headaches from the lound explosion that went off near me. how can i make them stop?
and get a mri of the brain
i'm having recurring headaches from the lound explosion that went off near me. how can i make them stop?
it is possible that a loud explosion can cause a concussion. if this is the case then following concussion treatment guidelines might be beneficial in addition to over the counter analgesics.
i'm having recurring headaches from the lound explosion that went off near me. how can i make them stop?
you may want to try with over the counter tylenol (acetaminophen) and if you did not get relief then you may want to see a doctor or visit an er.
if someone gets hit on the head but not knocked out should i try to keep them awake? how long?
if this is a concussion then close monitoring of the patient is important but does not include keeping them awake. look for major behavioral changes balance problems vomiting slurred speech major memory loss weakness on both or one side of the body. if the patient has a severe headache then these are reasons to seek immediate medical attention. also there is no need to wake up someone.
my mom scratch by our cat 2 weeks ago. she had infection and still didn't heal. she used cipra and didn't help. should we do something else for this?
infection with bartonella henselae. symptoms are papullar or pustular rash at the site of the cat bite or scratch fatigue fever headaches lymph node swelling and malaise. treatment is nothing or antibiotics like azithromycin clarithromycin cipro (ciprofloxacin) bactrim. if the patient have a weakened immune system the disease can be more serious. breast cancer could decrease immunity. see a physician soon.
got hit accidentally by zip lock bag of ice near eye brow small gash. no pain near sight just sore bit swollen. should i worry about concussion?
your injury seems unlikely to produce a concussion; not enough force in the blow as described. signs of a concussion after a head blow? headache loss of consciousness confusion amnesia around the time of injury dizziness "seeing stars" ringing in ears nausea/vomiting slurred speech slow thinking if you have several of these going to an emergency department for exam and testing is a good idea.
got hit accidentally by zip lock bag of ice near eye brow small gash. no pain near sight just sore bit swollen. should i worry about concussion?
unlikely to have concussion from the scenario you describe. if you develop headache nausea confusion. see your dr. meanwhile review this article: <link>
gf got anxiety a month ago from a car accident now everyday she gets dizzy feels weak n has a headache she take medication but shes not getting better?
identified or ruled out medical conditions your girl friend would be most helped by getting treatment for an anxiety disorder by a mental health professional. this is easily treated over a period of weeks or months. peace and good health.
got a tetanus shot three days ago. since then i've had a fever and severe headache. is this a side effect and what can i take for it?
these could be side effects but you should see a doctor to make sure nothing else is going on. try ibuprofen until then
knocked into stone column then fell to ground. caused laceration on back of head 3 staples. is an x-ray sufficient to rule out internal bleeding?
x-rays only show the bones. if you did not lose consciousness and your neurological exam was normal then a ct scan is not necessarily needed. if you develop worse headaches vomiting dizziness or numbness then go back to the er
my husband was in a car accident last friday and has a big bump on his head still is this normal he has major headakes from it but had a ct scan in the hopspital the night of the crash and doctor said nothing internal.
well the hematoma on the head will heal. probably some whiplash causing the headaches. this will take a long time to resolve and may not.
noticed possible cellulitis yesterday sure of it tonight. feel feverish bad headache flushed skin. should i go to hospital tonight or wait?
do not wait to get healthcare for an infection.
noticed possible cellulitis yesterday sure of it tonight. feel feverish bad headache flushed skin. should i go to hospital tonight or wait?
to your closest emergency dept for medical evaluation and proper treatment with these symptoms.
picked a pinhead size dark scab thing off back of thigh. visited farm 2 weeks ago. chances of that being a tick on my leg the whole time?
nymph ticks (which commonly spread lyme/other illnesses) are the size of a pinhead but typically stay attached up to 4 days; adults (which are larger) can stay on up to 10 days. you might have been bitten more recently than your farm trip. if you develop any symptoms like low grade fever achiness headache or bullseye rash within a few days get treated: <link>
severe pain from mid spine up thru eye. stiff and swollen neck. trembling & spasmatic muscle. disorientated and severe headache have cellulitis on face. temp is only 97. 3 tho. scared what is wrong?
need to go to your primary doc or the emergency room and be evaluated asap.
severe pain from mid spine up thru eye. stiff and swollen neck. trembling & spasmatic muscle. disorientated and severe headache have cellulitis on face. temp is only 97. 3 tho. scared what is wrong?
if you haven't already been seen i would go to the er and be evaluated for these symptoms.
severe pain from mid spine up thru eye. stiff and swollen neck. trembling & spasmatic muscle. disorientated and severe headache have cellulitis on face. temp is only 97. 3 tho. scared what is wrong?
a 31 yo women with hx of preeclampsia with a severe headache disoriented and 'cellulitis of the face' but without fever plus the pain from mid-spine to eyes of undescribed duration and unknown history of recent trauma such as a strain fall or near fall; exposure to illness or recent travel leaves too many questions. the answer is to see a doctor urgently if this is new onset and progressing!
still suffering from headache and chest pain and wonder if it is due to tetanus shot four weeks ago.
it is not from an immunization four weeks ago. time to look for another cause for your symptoms.
tried topop a pimple on my forehead now eye is swollen and right sideforehead. bursted inside now puss is moving when touched hurts &headaches. help?
potentially serious infection! go now to an emergency room or walk in unit! now! dr z
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
truthfully sounds like you have a multitude of symptoms affecting many different organ systems. may need a series of blood tests good physical exam etc to pin down cause. certainly may have root in autoimmune disorder of some kind versus various infections such as tick bites for example which can have widespread issues or something as simple as allergy. best to see your doc.
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
a complete screening physical by your doctor is a good place to start. labwork can rule out most organic medical conditions. if all else is negative a mental health assessment could be helpful in identifying depression or other common ailments.
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
need a functional medical practitioner who can test you. get micronutrient analysis via spectra cell lab or comprehensive triad profile by metametrix or gene snp testing you can order via <link> once you get tested we will have better understanding of what you need. start with 7 day liver cleanse followed by 3 week b vitamin and digestive enzymes will help you - on above website.
chronic lethargy. contract frequent infections/ailments (cellulitis bronchitis hives headaches panic attacks and so on). chronic malaise. severity of fatigue makes me listless. please help me. ?
first step is a good physical exam. you seem to have a combination of physical and psychological symptoms that requires a good work up.
diagnosed shingles cellulitis on face butt 2 weeks ago. hot painful red areas come and go. eye swelled stiff neck leg weak headache lethargic. help?
shingles on the face can be serious so do not let these symptoms go unexamined.
diagnosed shingles cellulitis on face butt 2 weeks ago. hot painful red areas come and go. eye swelled stiff neck leg weak headache lethargic. help?
stiff neck can be due to meningitis. you should be evaluated by a doctor.
after small car accident i didnt got hurt i started to feel anxious dizzy and headaches and sometime i panic now i have a fever why? only 2 days after
you should describe better the motor vehicle accident. if this was a frontal impact is quite possible you the whiplash injury. initially there is no inflammatory cytokines and there is no pain however as time elapses cytokines such as tnf il1 il2 il6 s are produced and released into the circulation. at local level generate trigger points such as the occipital inducing headaches and general malaise
after small car accident i didnt got hurt i started to feel anxious dizzy and headaches and sometime i panic now i have a fever why? only 2 days after
i feel empathy for your symptoms after the car accident. anxiety dizziness headaches and panic can happen due to stress before the accident events during accident and fear of future accidents. stresses of relationships with parents siblings and friends work and finances can cause anxiety and panic. see a psychiatrist for therapy medication music and breathing relaxation visual imagery.
and ankle arthroscopy surgery today at about 6:45 am looked down tonight and noticed blood came thru plaster stitches gauze and an ace bandage help?
i would give your orthopedist an immediate call for bloody drainage in an amount significant enough to soak through gauze and a plaster splint. i also note you have symptoms of chills and headache that may or may not be related but raise concerns about local and systemic infection or postop fever. a wound dehiscence is the most serious concern as well as hospital acquired mrsa infection.
dx'd with cellulitis in neck but swelling is now extending into back. headache nausea fever pain in jaw now present. suggestions on what to do next?
better get to an emergency ward asap! don't wait!
dx'd with cellulitis in neck but swelling is now extending into back. headache nausea fever pain in jaw now present. suggestions on what to do next?
a spreading infection with possible abscess and bone involvement can represent a life threatening emergency.
dx'd with cellulitis in neck but swelling is now extending into back. headache nausea fever pain in jaw now present. suggestions on what to do next?
spreading cellulitis is very serious and you must be seen in the hospital as soon as possible to get started on intravenous antibiotics.
diagnosed eyelid cellulitis last night. keflef tid 1 last nigh and 2 2day so far. when does headache chills loss of appetite aches nausea stop? !? !?
it will probably take 24-48 hours before you start to see improvement. if your symptoms worsen for example double vision or deep pain when you move your eye call your doctor asap.
diagnosed eyelid cellulitis last night. keflef tid 1 last nigh and 2 2day so far. when does headache chills loss of appetite aches nausea stop? !? !?
several days for the symptoms you are having to begin to resolve. if you are know better in a couple of days see your doctor. you may need iv antibiotics.
diagnosed eyelid cellulitis last night. keflef tid 1 last nigh and 2 2day so far. when does headache chills loss of appetite aches nausea stop? !? !?
none of your symptoms would arise from a simple blepharitis (eyelid cellulitis). both of my colleagues are correct in their advice to seek a doc if symptoms do not resolve or progress in any way because they are concerned about deeper infection of your sinuses and a potential orbital cellulitis (a true emergency) thus the question "hurt to move eyes? " augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate) or cefuroxime are the ideal oral rx
fell on concrete and i have a gash & knot on my forehead scraped knees elbow and left shoulder is real sore?
when was your last tetanus shot? if you don't know or it has been 10 years or longer please get a tetanus shot. regarding your head injury: did you lose consciousness? you can have a concussion with or without loss of consciousness. headache/ pressure of head? are you unable to recall what happened? do you feel dizzy or have ringing in the ears? confusion or slurred speech? nausea or vomit.
first injection of vaccine after rabies dog bite within 2 hrs. day 2 headache and pain on injury that goes away by painkillers. normal? please ans!
your got prompt medical care and if you continue with your injections should be safe. pain that resolves with painkillers would be normal at this stage. i'm sorry about your injury
feeling muscle weakness and mild pain throughout body two days after tetanus shot. is it a side effect?
sometimes the tetanus vaccine can cause mild side effects which may include soreness redness or swelling at the site of the injection fever headache or body aches and fatigue. these can be managed using nsaids and should resolve in a day or two. hope you feel better soon.
what is phendimetrazine used for and what are the side effects associated with the medication? i currently weigh 310 and am on weight watchers
phendimetrazine is a prescription medication used for treating obesity. it is a stimulant and appetite suppressant and can have many potential side effects - the most common being palpitations rapid pulse high blood pressure insomnia nervousness dizziness tremor headaches. at it's worse it can cause dependence and psychosis. wt watchers has far fewer side effects!
what is organic sleep apnea?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eva
what effects does long term sleep apnea have on the brain?
causes memory loss increased risk of stroke poor concentration headaches. . to name a few. there are more but you get the point!
what are the garcinia cambogia extract bad side effects if any?
at least 15 clinical studies involving approximately 900 patients showed very mild adverse reactions. most adverse reactions included headache dizziness dry mouth and gi complaints such as nausea and diarrhea. this herb does have documented drug interactions so be sure to let your doctor know you are planning to take it if you are on any prescription medications.
why is artificial sweetener bad for you?
not all artificial sweetners contain aspartame but some do. asparatame has 92 different possible adverse reactions associated with it's use to include conditions like migraine headaches and seizures.
what are the side effects of phentermine?
some of the possible side effects of phentermine include: rapid heart rate increased blood pressure restlessness trouble sleeping palpitations dizziness tremor headache feeling up or down dry mouth constipation loose stools & bad taste in mouth. less common sxs include: hallucinations aggression fever seizures panic or mania.
what are symptoms of sleep apnea?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
what are the symptoms of sleep apnea? how can i have my doctor test for it? please tell me specific symptoms and tests. thank you very much.
snoring is a warning sign that sleep apnea may be present. other complaints include awakening gasping/choking for air dry mouth/sore throat urinating multiple times at nights morning headaches unrefreshing sleep cognitive impairment and excessive daytime somnolence. talk to your doctor about any of these symptoms. a sleep study would have to be done to confirm the diagnosis.
what are the symptoms of sleep apnea? how can i have my doctor test for it? please tell me specific symptoms and tests. thank you very much.
the epworth sleepiness scale is a helpful screening survey. some symptoms: excessive daytime sleepiness snoring stop breathing during sleep awakening abruptly with shortness of breathi morning headache difficulty staying asleep overweight thick neck. your doctor can test you for it with an overnight polysomnogram measuring your breahing breathing effort oxygen level and other parameters.
what are the symptoms of sleep apnea? how can i have my doctor test for it? please tell me specific symptoms and tests. thank you very much.
symptoms include: fatigue daytime sleepiness snoring gasping or choking during sleep morning headaches impaired daytime functioning b/c of sleepiness. risk factors include obesity sedative use males>females. tests include the epworth sleepiness scale and polysomnography ("sleep study"). treatment depends on what kind of sleep apnea you are ultimately diagnosed with.
what is wrong with me? i am an obese 21 year old. i have irregular periods so i haven't had one in about five months. this is the longest i've been without a period since i was 16. i am sexually active with my four year boyfriend. i am getting headaches
if a patient goes without periods for an extended period of time even if they have irregular periods then taking a pregnancy test would be appropriate. with the other symptoms described consulting a physician for an examination would be an appropriate next step but please do take a pregnancy test to be sure.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
dr. jackson is correct: these may be not at all related but clusters of symptoms from several etiologic origins. i think that depression could very reasonably be associated with a good deal of your symptomatology with the overlaying onset of an upper respiratory infection. firstly a thorough assessment by your pcp is in order then consultation with a therapist to address long term depression.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
i would recommend you start with a good physical exam and go over all your symptoms with your doctor. among things to rule in or out are low thyroid and/or fibromyalgia rheumatologist disease such as lupus sjögrens rheumatoid arthritis b12 deficiency folate (folic acid) deficiency lyme's disease. and that just for starters. go luck. your doc should have no trouble figuring it out. sleep apnea is also a possibility.
what are these symptoms a cause of? fatigue trouble sleeping being cold slow digestion headaches bronchial/sinus infections long term depression/anxiety fuzzy thinking short term memory loss weight gain muscle/joint pain
there is no short answer here. these problems are all likely not related and represent separate issues. the best advice i can give you is to visit your primary care provider for a complete history and physical. some examples of problems you may be dealing with are: diabetes anemia thyroid disorder depression anxiety allergies arthritis etc. the list could go on. all these things and more can be ruled out or in after careful evaluation. best of luck.
is meclizine and ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) available over-the-counter in the us?
ephedrine is not available as a single product in the us because of unpredictable side effects chiefly anxiety agitation elevated blood pressure headache. it is still found as an ingredient in some herbal and combination cold meds. meclizine is a prescription antihistamine used mostly for motion sickness pseudoephedrine and neosynephrine (phenylephrine) are available replacements for ephedrine.
i have had a steady headache severe at times for two months spontaneous lactation left arm weakness and double vision weight loss no tumor on ct?
there may be a tumor in the pituitary gland area that was not seen by the ct scan i would talk to your md about that possibility.
i have had a steady headache severe at times for two months spontaneous lactation left arm weakness and double vision weight loss no tumor on ct?
would want to actually see the imaging of the brain see blood work get a full history and have a chance to examine you prior to making serious guesses about a diagnosis. this is were you might want a second opinion from an internist to get to the bottom of this. could be related symptoms or could be several problems together.
is splenda (sucralose) dangerous? i'm using a meal replacement shake with sucralose in it. i'll also use it as a sweetener in coffee or in baking. since i'm trying to lose weight i thought this might be better than regular sugar. i've noticed many peopl
hello. possible side effects from use of sucralose can include: headaches to include triggering migraines; agitation; anxiety; moodiness; runny nose cough and breathing problems as well as tingling of lips tongue and mouth with chronic use.
is sleep apnea considered a disease?
yes it is: osa dx by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to use. ent consult for upp eval.
i have had terrible lower back pain for the past two weeks also terrible headaches and ringing in my ear also have been really worn out and have sweet smelling urine
looks like a kidney inflammation and /or infection.
i have had terrible lower back pain for the past two weeks also terrible headaches and ringing in my ear also have been really worn out and have sweet smelling urine
those are very concerning symptoms and you need to be seen immediately by a doctor. severe lower back pain headaches tinnitus (ringing in the ears) fatigue and sweet smelling urine are concerning findings. you will need a complete examination and studies to determine a diagnosis. please call your doctor and arrange to be seen immediately and if you can't then you will need to go to the er.
i have a clicking in my ear when chewing.
having popping/clicking tmj noises not necessarily a problem. many people experience these noises. without pain or limitation of function the noise itself is not an issue. if you have locking or limited movement "ear" pain headaches morning jaw stiffness/soreness difficulty chewing bruxism previous jaw injuries or other jaw conditions the problem is more serious. then see a tmj specialist.
is it ok to mix adipex with lialda?
lialda is used in the treatment of ulcerative colitis while adipex is used for the treatment of obesity. its not advisable taking a weight loss medication when actively treating ulcerative colitis. there is some cross over in side affects such as nausea vomiting headaches anxiety and more serious side effects like chest pain and shortness of breath. these may be more magnified when taken together.
if i wake up choking from throwing up does this mean i have sleep apnea?
vomiting is not a typical symptom of sleep apnea. the gasping or choking sensation that's mentioned is from air hunger and not from anything that has to do with your stomach. you should talk to your doctor about throwing up at night and find the reason why. sleep apnea symptoms include snoring dry mouth urinating at night frequently morning headaches unrefreshing sleep & daytime sleepiness.
if i wake myself up from snoring does that mean i have sleep apnea?
snoring is a warning sign that sleep apnea may be present. other complaints include awakening gasping/choking for air dry mouth/sore throat urinating multiple times at nights morning headaches unrefreshing sleep cognative impairment and excessive daytime somnolence. talk to your doctor about any of these symptoms. a sleep study would have to be done to confirmt he diagnosis.
if my goal is to lose weight to increase energy should i quit drink 4 to 5 cups of coffee a day?
too much caffeine can be bad for you. it can cause rebound fatigue or rebound headaches increased pulse and dehydration. replace those cups of coffee with water.
i am a female in my 20's i have noticed my hair used to be much thicker as a child. my periods are normal is this a hormone issue? not overweight
it could be a hormonal issue even if your blood tests are normal. if you also have symptoms such as fatigue sluggish bowel function allergies insomnia headaches brain fog joint pain and/or pms symptoms you likely have a functional problem with your thyroid. another common cause of hair thinning is iron deficiency. you can have your level checked by your physician.
i'm a 19 year old firefighter 6'4 225 lbs and an overall healthy guy. i don't eat fast food drink soda and i workout a lot. i have anxiety issues that cause panic attacks. my anxiety is over my health so they fuel each other. i have had it for a lon
it is normal to feel your heart pounding after you run up two flights of steps. some people will feel this in their chest others might also feel a pounding in their head. if these feelings go away after a few seconds or a minute there is likely nothing to worry about. what might be a problem is if your heart were to start beating vigorously and fast while you were simply resting or inactive and then to continue for more than 10 minutes without stopping. stress and anxiety can cause many symptoms in the body such as headaches nausea dry mouth chest discomfort heart racing etc. you acknowledge that you have difficulties with stress and anxiety. it sounds like you are otherwise young and healthy as you are a firefighter and have had a normal ekg and holter monitor. i would suggest seeking out assistance from a counsellor or therapist to help you work through your anxieties and to learn some stress management techniques.
is it ok to take weight loss supplements if so what would be the best one and wherw can i get it at?
weight loss supplements are not approved by the fda and may contain ingredients that could be harmful. many contain caffeine and other stimulants that can increase your heart rate cause insomnia headaches as well as even more serious effects. if you are on any meds it may interfere with it. the best way to lose weight & keep it off is to do so slowly by making healthy lifestyle changes.
is obstructive sleep apnea painful?
sleep apnea can cause headaches dry mouth mood and personality changes excessive sleepiness. it is not a painful condition.
is obstructive sleep apnea painful?
although sleep apnea doesnt cause pain in itsself one of the most common presenting sign is recurring morning headaches.
is obstructive sleep apnea painful?
sleep apnea is significantly under diagnosed and is life-threatening if not recognized and treated. it is not painful but leads to weight gain fatigue headaches irritability hypertension and cardiac arrhythmia (among many other symptoms). it can be treated many different ways. the best is positive pressure devices coupled with weight loss. surgery and dental devices are also an option.
i'm getting very sharp headaches on the right side of my head. last just seconds but more and more frequent. i have diabetes type 2 & a pituitary t?
headaches can come from fatigue sleeping too much or too little sleep apnea snoring being dehydrated having chronic sinusitis or allergies too much caffeine or over the counter headache medication high blood pressure or something more serious like a tumor. see your doctor and get checked.
i'm getting very sharp headaches on the right side of my head. last just seconds but more and more frequent. i have diabetes type 2 & a pituitary t?
please clarify if u mean pituitary tumor as this can cause headaches as well as any uncontrolled diabetes. you will need to see your primary.
i woke up with pain on my right side of my temple( pain when light touch. is it something i have to go see a doctor? i'm over weight with sleep apnea on a cpap machine.
hello. there are many different causes for temple pain to include migraine cluster and tension headaches. if you have persistent severe pain in your right temple associated with tenderess and double vision or decreased vision. then i recommend you be assessed asap. other symptoms can include tenderness of your scalp pain with chewing or fever. take care.
i woke up with pain on my right side of my temple( pain when light touch. is it something i have to go see a doctor? i'm over weight with sleep apnea on a cpap machine.
as a dentist i see many patients who have temporal muscle tenderness from clenching. sometimes they are unaware of this habit. is it more noticeable in the am? do yo get many headaches or have any jaw pain clicking in the jaw or ear pain? ask you're dds to examine you for symptoms of clenching or grinding.
is there a low car diet i could go on that would help my frequent headaches?
several reviews use elimination diet like avoid chocolate pizza red wine aspartame nitrates like sausage old cheese but low carb in a diabetic could produve some hypoglycemia symptoms including headache.
is there a low car diet i could go on that would help my frequent headaches?
if you search for ketogenic diet you may find some suggestions specific for headaches. this type diet is sometimes effective for treating headaches and epilepsy.
if you eat lots of monosodium glutamate is it responsible of being overweight?
i don't think there are even any calories in msg. however it can cause flushing headache sweating numbness around the mouth palpitations and in severe overdoses: chest pain difficulty breathing and swelling of the throat. be careful!
i used neilmed sinus rinse and i guess i pushed too hard and got some in my ear. since then i've had horrible ear pain and a headache.
see your physician.
i used neilmed sinus rinse and i guess i pushed too hard and got some in my ear. since then i've had horrible ear pain and a headache.
for the most part the saline rinses work well - but if you firehose it up the nose it can go into the ear through the eustachian tubes. time will probably take care of this but if it's giving you a lot of discomfort i'd probably see an ent. i'd be curious to hear how our ent colleagues would treat this! good luck!
i have symptoms of hypothyroidism but my tsh is 1. 82 and t-4 is 1. 3 my hair falls out headache tired and i can't lose weight. ?
you to see a family doctor.
i have symptoms of hypothyroidism but my tsh is 1. 82 and t-4 is 1. 3 my hair falls out headache tired and i can't lose weight. ?
my suggestion is to find a functional medicine doctor. find one here: <link> org/practitioner_search. aspx? id=117. read why do i still have thyroid symptoms when my lab tests are normal? <link> good luck!
i have symptoms of hypothyroidism but my tsh is 1. 82 and t-4 is 1. 3 my hair falls out headache tired and i can't lose weight. ?
symptoms of hypothyroidism with normal or low-normal labs is suggestive of secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism. i would suggest seeing an endocrinologist to look for the cause and plan a treatment.
i put on 1 dress size just before n during my menses. is there anyway i can reduce d water retention? i take low sodium n less oil diet
pms symptoms that include fluid retention breast tenderness mood swings cravings headache r a sign of estrogen dominance. get some progesterone cream at health food store. would be best to see a doctor who uses bio-identical hormones for this but you can get it over the counter. vitamin b6 also helps fluid retention as does celery. "fluid pills' known as diuretics r a prescription option.
i am a gastric bypass patient. drs have told me can't take aspirin to prevent a stroke?
a baby aspirin a day is usually acceptable. taking bigger doses for pain control headache etc. can be too irritating to the gastric pouch and cause an ulcer to form. if there is a concern with the baby aspirin just take a proton pump inhibitor daily to protect your stomach (ie prilosec nexium (esomeprazole) prevacid protonix dexilant).
i'm constantly getting really bad headaches teenager eat healthy drink plenty of water exercised paracetamol don't work what's causing them?
your headaches could be from migraine but you should see your doc if you have this bada headache as he/she can refer you for testing &/or neuro consult. avoid avacados nuits coffee chocolates as sthey are some of the triggers for migraines. you are doing good by drinking plentyof fluids. try a good noght's sleep as well if you have not been doing that.
is sleep apnea common?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
i have a horrible headache and a popping sound in my ear. can this be the cause of my headache? plus i have a cold.
the popping sound in your ear may be from the jaw joint. clenching and grinding your teeth can cause the jaw joint to hurt and cause your muscles to go into a spasm and cause your headache. sinus infections can actually move your upper back teeth enough to cause all of the above. try a decongestant first then see your dds.
i have a horrible headache and a popping sound in my ear. can this be the cause of my headache? plus i have a cold.
you are so clogged up which is causing the headache. popping of your ear is good since it is releasing pressure so that should ease up your headache somewhat. cold is making your condition worse so i would advise taking a decongestant histamine and expectorant to give you some relief while you set up an appointment with your doctor.
i've been having headaches everyday. sometimes it would start from the top of my head to the front. sometimes back of the neck to the back of my head. sometimes the side to the front and sometimes just all over. most of my headaches go away with acetamino
unfortunately the location of headache is rarely if ever diagnostic. although chronic daily headaches are often "benign" in the sense that they are not accompanied by life-threatening diseases you don't know that until you are checked out by a doctor. even if "benign" treatment is often available. get help.
i have brittle nails no libido thin hair cannot lose weight frequent headaches gassiness and strong pam's symptoms. any ideas what could be wrong?
recommend workup by your primary care doctor to rule out endocrine/metabolic causes such as thyroid disease. good luck.
i have brittle nails no libido thin hair cannot lose weight frequent headaches gassiness and strong pam's symptoms. any ideas what could be wrong?
u symptoms could be related to hypithyroid disease u need to see u pcp and have work up including tsh and t4 test.
i have brittle nails no libido thin hair cannot lose weight frequent headaches gassiness and strong pam's symptoms. any ideas what could be wrong?
in my practice i see new patients like you every day. please start with adopting an all natural whole food diet. do not eat anything with an ingredient list or processed food for 2 weeks. no dairy no juices no soda no bread or pasta etc. just meat fruit vegs eggs. consider adding a 10 billion count probiotic and getting a full thyroid panel not just a tsh. strive for 8 hours sleep!
i have brittle nails no libido thin hair cannot lose weight frequent headaches gassiness and strong pam's symptoms. any ideas what could be wrong?
there would be no easy way out of feeling unhealthy as described but practicing quality healthy lifestyle without overindulgence & obsession. how? please take time/ patience to peruse the suggested articles in <link> the lists of facts of life-1 2 & 3 by clicking corresponding button on the left of home of www. formefirst. com etc. these are just the beginning.
i have a hard time focussing dizzy sometimes hard time remembering head aches?
along with headache you are describing a bunch i'd neurological symptoms. have you consulted your primary physician? check your blood pressure for starters.
if adipex is giving me a headache and my blood pressure and blood sugar are fine what could this be?
headache is one of the side effects of adipex.
if adipex is giving me a headache and my blood pressure and blood sugar are fine what could this be?
you are having a known side effect of the medicine. you need to stop it asap.
if i take ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) could one of the side effects make me feel like i can't breath?
ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) stimulates beta-adrenergic receptors and releases norepinephrine. adverse reactions are insomnia nausea headaches dizzines s anxiety palpitations tachycardia. the question is why are you taking it.? this is not a drug that you should be doing without physicians oversight. please see your physician.
who are the people that can use adipex or ionamin (phentermine)?
adipex & ionamin ( generic is phentermine) appetite suppressants are used short term (3-6 wks) for obese people exercising and eating a low-calorie diet. don't take if pregnant over 65 or are on certain drugs. risks are high-pulmonary hypertension & valvular heart disease - g. i. and other cardiac symptoms insomnia headaches occur. fda controlled check www. ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/pubmedhealth/pmh0000.
increasing headaches ab pain lower back pain insomnia black-green throat discharge skin crawling rashes stool neg parasites severe weight loss?
mindy. you need to have a good workup because there are too many thins wrong for an internet answer. if this is chronic also rule out fungal sinusitis and check your immune system.
i think i have a hiatus hernia. i hs e bad headache and need painkillers is it ok to take an nsaid?
the fact that you have a hiatal hernia shouldn't prevent you from taking nsaids. if you have ulcers caused by the hiatal hernia you shouldn't. may need an endoscopy to find out. ask your doctor.
i think i have a hiatus hernia. i hs e bad headache and need painkillers is it ok to take an nsaid?
a hiatal hernia is when the top of the stomach protrudes slightly above the diaphragm into the chest cavity. it is a common cause of acid reflux. a hiatal hernia is not a contraindication to taking an nsaid (anti-inflammatory medication e. g. motrin) if you need it for a headache though realize it could cause or worsen upper gi symptoms such as heartburn indigestion or abdominal pain.
i have an addiction to diet coke. it's literally all i drink and when i run out of it i panic. when i try to give it up i get headaches and irritable
this week keep track of how many cans or coke bottles you drink every 24 hours. beginning monday begin to reduce that amount by 10 percent per week. if you drink 10 cans a day reduce by 1 can and substitute a can of coke zero. each week reduce cans or bottles by 1 while substituting coke zero until you get to 2 cans per day. then you should be fine. you have caffeine withdrawal headaches.
i have an addiction to diet coke. it's literally all i drink and when i run out of it i panic. when i try to give it up i get headaches and irritable
i know many others who feel as you do. diet coke contains caffeine -- a substance producing a withdrawal syndrome. in each 12 oz serving there are 47 mg caffeine compared to 330 mg in a starbucks grande brewed coffee. diet coke also contains aspartame an artificial sweetener which some feel may be an excitotoxin in the brain. decide what you want in your body. water is healthier.
i have an addiction to diet coke. it's literally all i drink and when i run out of it i panic. when i try to give it up i get headaches and irritable
tea with raw honey is a thousand times better for you. your headaches are probably from caffeine withdrawal. raw honey is sugar that is good for you. it stabilizes cholesterol blood sugar and is anti-inflammatory. or try slowly reducing your diet cokes one day at a time to prevent withdrawal.
i have irregular periods its always late sometimes its 2 month late sometime 1month 15days late. will birth control pill results weight gain?
most women who start birth control pills or other methods of birth control don't have side effects. the most common one for pills is irregular bleeding for the first 1-3 months; other methods like the shot are more likely to cause irregular bleeding at least at first. other side effects can be nausea headaches mood changes breast tenderness. most women don't gain weight with the pill.
is it ok to take diet pills?
there are a large number of diet pills that have been marketed and not all are fda approved. some have been takne off the market many can cause headaches jittenrness sleep difficulties or agitation. as with prescription meds all have risks and side effects some of which might be more of a problem depending on an individuals history. this is something to discuss with primary care doc.
what will happen if a person stops eating for 5 days and only live on water and diet pills?
starving the body long term can have adverse effects such as dehydration electrolyte imbalance hypoglycemia weakness fatigue headaches dizziness syncopal episodes to name a few. diet pills could excentuate these effects and cause tachycardia and blood pressure problems. restarting a diet after starving also leads to rapid weight gain. won't die for 5 days but probably won't feel great either.
what is sleep apnea?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
is it safe to take garcinia combogia for a healthy weight loss?
even though it was mentioned by dr. oz (who generally isn't very accurate on medical topics) it doesn't seem to decrease weight fat breakdown or energy expenditure in overweight people. there is some mixed evidence that garcinia might help people feel full but this needs further study; it's too early to recommend. t can cause nausea headaches etc. so can't be recommended at this time.
i can't really hear from my right ear i feel something is in my ear and its causing me not to hear that very well?
ear wax infection or nerve damage (less likely with your young age). have it examined esp if it's accompanied by fever ear discharge or headache. hope you feel better!
what are the side affects of phentermine?
phentermine is like speed: rapid heart rate headache upset stomach difficulty sleep are some potential side effects. it can have a mild appetite suppressant effect.
what are the side affects of phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
is sleep apnea a common condition everyone should be tested for?
no just individuasl who are are risk. people who stop breathing during sleep who snore excessively who have insomnia or who wake up with headaches may fall into that category. your physician can determine if you need referral to a sleep specialist.
iv had gastric bypass and am 28 weeks pregnant. i had been having mild headaches but now its migraines and dizziness. what is going on?
your headaches could be coming from tension dehydration lack of sleep/poor sleep skipping meals stress teeth grinding sleep apnea/snoring or chronic sinus problems among other things. see a doctor to get checked out so you can get som ehelp for your headaches.
iv had gastric bypass and am 28 weeks pregnant. i had been having mild headaches but now its migraines and dizziness. what is going on?
the bypass causes reduction of the ability to digest and assimilate food and can give nutritional deficiencies and electrolyte imbalance. need medical eval and attention asap for yours and the baby's well being.
i have type 2 diabetes how do i know if my blood sugar is too low? i'm only allowed to test once a day.
hypoglycemia can be a very troubling even dangerous complication of treatment. but your risk may be very low. some diabetes medications (eg. glipizide insulin) can cause hypo while others (metformin actos) usually don't. if you a1c is high then you are probably not getting hypo. hypo usually causes symptoms that you will recognize: sweats palpitations headache confusion. talk to your doc.
i went to the doctor with headache and they did a cat scan it was normal i have bubbles in my ear they said. can the back of my head hurt because of?
have you had tightness of the back if the neck? have you had surgery with general anaesthesia or a spinal epidural or delivery of a baby recently?
i went to the doctor with headache and they did a cat scan it was normal i have bubbles in my ear they said. can the back of my head hurt because of?
bubbles in your middle ear space may be a sign of a middle ear infection. any infection in that area can cause pain that can radiate to your ear neck or head.
will topamax (topiramate) help me lose a lot of weight iam on it 25 mg. i need to loose it bad im am only 20 iam consinderindering baractric sergery. ?
are you on topamax (topiramate) for some medical condition like headaches etc. if you are taking topamax (topiramate) the there is 40% chance you will loose some weight. but topamax (topiramate) is not indicated for weight loss and does have many unpleasant side effects. the wt loss is also related to the dose and higher the dosa more unpleasant side effects and more chances of wight loss. how much weight you looses can not be guaranteed.
i have pcos and i take metformin tab 800mg daily. i complain of headache due to lowering my blood suger. is metformin bad? and i want to lose weight.
coupled with a low glycemic index diet metformin will never lower blood glucose. you need to increase the metformin dose up to 2. 5 g per day. the low blood sugar is being caused by hyperinsulinemia overshoot and you need more metformin not less.
what are the symptoms of diabetes mellitus type 1 in children who have not been diagnosed?
extreme thirst and urination tiredness headaches weight loss and dehydration. if you have any of these go buy a walmart blood glucose meter and 9$ strips and check your blood sugar right now. it should not be over 100. if you are having diabetes symptoms as i describe your blood sugar will be over 180 then proceed directly to an er. during office hours to your pediatrician's
what is a overdose on phentermine like?
agitation severe headache heart racing restlessness confusion.
what are the symptoms of diabetes mellitus type 2?
type 2 diabetes can cause serious health complications. that's why is very important to know how to spot type 2 diabetes symptoms. most common symptoms are :increased thirst increased hunger (especially after eating) dry mouth frequent urination unexplained weight loss (even though you are eating and feel hungry) fatigue (weak tired feeling) blurred vision headaches loss of consciousness.
what are the signs and symptoms of sleep apnea?
signs: obesity snoring large tongue. symptoms : headache daytime sleepiness fatigue high blood pressure sore throat .
what are the first symptoms of diabetes type 2 -- being fat?
increased thirst increased hunger (especially after eating) dry mouth frequent urination unexplained weight loss (even though you are eating and feel hungry) fatigue (weak tired feeling) blurred vision headaches loss of consciousness (.
what were the bad meridia side effects?
headache blood pressure elevation mainly not mentioning loss of sleep.
i'm 38 year old female. high bmi. i have severe breast pain mid cycle. lower back pain headaches. meds. glucophage (metformin).
with the limited information you provided it sounds like you have premenstrual syndrome. certain foods and lifestyle can make the symptoms worse but there are things that might help. avoid caffeine and chocolate to help breast pain. low carb diet and eating small frequent meals with adequate protein and fat to control blood sugar will help headaches. weight loss is important.
what are the side effects of taking phentermine?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
i started taking adipex this week. i've been sick. nauseous dizzy and feeling a motion sick feeling. could it be the meds? anything that can help?
adipex is a medication used to help facilitate weight-loss. there can be many adverse side effects of this medication but the most common are dizziness nausea upset-stomach diarrhea heart-palpitations and headache. ways to help may be to reduce the dosage or take it with food. before making any adjustments to your medication speak with your prescribing physician.
i have daily headaches and migraines why could that be? i exercise regularly and eat a strict 1200 calorie diet.
headaches can be caused by stress structural imbalances food sensitivities nutrient deficiencies genetic predisposition etc. chronic use of pain meds can cause "rebound headaches. " i advise seeing a holistic doc to evaluate& help find the cause. useful treatments might include herbs homeopathy allergen avoidance acupucture biofeedback chiropractic or osteopathic manipulation etc. good luck!
i have daily headaches and migraines why could that be? i exercise regularly and eat a strict 1200 calorie diet.
stress could be a factor. also 1200 calories is low for regular exercise unless trying to loose weight & you may not be taking in all the nutrients your body needs. further some foods are known to trigger migraines - google "foods that trigger migraines" to see if you consume any of them & see if dropping those items helps. you can discuss preventives with your md as well.
i don't snore. could i still have sleep apnea?
other possible indicators of sleep apnea are daytime sleepiness someone observing you stop breathing fatigue irritability morning headaches lack of concentration memory problems tooth grinding tmj soreness high blood pressure and auto accidents to name a few. if you are experiencing some of these indicators talk to your doctor about a sleep study. treatment may include an oral appliance.
i started taking ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) (legal here) 2 weeks ago. now i have crazy migraines whenever i miss it (for days). how can i wean off w/out bad pain?
good idea to get off ephedrine (ephedrine sulfate) - it is dangerous in the long run. i suggest cutting the pills in quarters and taking 3/4 a pill daily for a week and then cutting to half. if you still get the symptoms on cutting to 1/2 after a week then stay on 3/4 for another week and then try again. caffeine may help relieve the headaches too. hope this works for you. if not let me know. good luck!
i am on my 12th day straight with vertigo nausea and head pain dr did upper gi friday said was normal except for hiatal hernia started throwing up sun?
a significant problem because you can get dehydrated rapidly. i don't think nausea vomiting or headaches are related to your hiatal hernia. get medical help immediately.
i've had a lump in my neck for 4 years. it causes a sharp pain in my ear & headaches. my gp and an ent recommended just ibuprofen. it doesn't help so?
may need biopsy to find out what it is.
i've had a lump in my neck for 4 years. it causes a sharp pain in my ear & headaches. my gp and an ent recommended just ibuprofen. it doesn't help so?
opinion and go from there. may need biopsy to find out what it is. earpain and headaches may not be related to the lump.
i've had a lump in my neck for 4 years. it causes a sharp pain in my ear & headaches. my gp and an ent recommended just ibuprofen. it doesn't help so?
an mri or ct? get another opinion.
i've had a lump in my neck for 4 years. it causes a sharp pain in my ear & headaches. my gp and an ent recommended just ibuprofen. it doesn't help so?
there are many types of neck masses. it may be as simple as a bony extension off the side of the cervical spine to tumor. since you seem to still have questions may need second opinion needle biopsy or imaging to arrive at diagnosis.
i have scoliosis and my neck has been cracking a lot and hurts and ihave headaches every day is that normal? i weigh 135 lb 5'4 is that over weight?
your bmi is 23. 2 which falls perfectly in the normal weight category (18. 5 to 25). that is excellent news and should reduce the chances that the scoliosis will cause longer-term problems. "cracking' of the neck is probably nothing to worry about if there is no pain stiffness or other symptoms. the headaches may be completely unrelated and could be multiple different things. best to see an md.
i was prescribed topamax (topiramate) (topiramate) to take with my phentermine. what exactly is topamax (topiramate) prescribed for?
topamax (topiramate) is a seizure medication. topamax (topiramate) is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat seizures in adults and children. topamax (topiramate) is also used to treat/prevent migraine headaches in adults. in your case it might be prescribed for weight loss with phentermine.
i was prescribed topamax (topiramate) (topiramate) to take with my phentermine. what exactly is topamax (topiramate) prescribed for?
typically it is for seizures and headaches but it can also be used for weight loss.
what does it feel like to have major respiratory conditions such as sleep apnea asthma or any other respiratory conditions?
some symptoms of sleep apnea include: loud and chronic snoring choking snorting or gasping during sleep long pauses in breathing daytime sleepiness no matter how much time you spend in bed waking up with a dry mouth or sore throat morning headaches restless or fitful sleep insomnia or nighttime awakenings going to the bathroom frequently during the night waking up feeling out of breath.
what are the side effects of using phentermine 37. 5 mg diet pills?
it works on the sympathetic nervous system so some common reactions are: palpitations tachycardia elevated blood pressure insomina nervousness headache tremor diarrhea unpleasant taste. . you might have some or none of the above. call your doctor to discuss if any new symptoms occur while starting the drug. good luck.
what might cause heavy snoring during sleep and headaches on waking up?
snoring can be a sign that you have sleep apnea. this will cause you to have periods during sleep when you stop breathing following by a recovery phase after your brain "wakes up". the headaches upon waking up are a sign that you are retaining carbon dioxide. treatment is available and will allow you to obtain a restful sleep without the headaches.
what might cause heavy snoring during sleep and headaches on waking up?
you should be checked by a sleep specialist and have a sleep study done. very important to treat sleep apnea if you have it.
what might cause heavy snoring during sleep and headaches on waking up?
the noise you hear and worse what others are hearing is the soft tissue somewhere in your airway almost closing. the normal flow of air is decreased even if you aren't diagnosed with sleep apnea. make sure you are taking no sedatives in the evening as they can make the snoring worse. see a sleep physician especially if you have excessive daytime sleepiness or high blood pressure.
i'm overweight (239) and am on topamax (topiramate) for headaches. i've lost 7. 5 lbs in a week and a half! i think this is too fast. is this from the rx?
lose that much weight in that short a time unless you burned off more than 26 000 calories that you didn't ingest. that's the equivalent of running for 26 000 miles. what you lost was water it's the only thing you can gain or lose that fast without liposuction.
what does it mean when i am really hungry and start shaking. im starting to eat healthy and less?
when blood sugar drops a bit suddenly you can get shaky or a headache or grumpy or a stomach ache. great that you are eating better! you will benefit from eating every 2-3 hours. fresh fruits and veggies and complex carbs will keep up your blood sugar and the "grazing" will keep you from being hungry and over eating and you will still lose weight (if that is one of your goals).
weight gain short light period headaches back pain watery discharge nipple soreness nipple discharge mood swings on bc missed several pills?
you may be pregnant. take a pregnancy test.
what is the diet for the patient in typhoid?
the patient with full blown typhoid (enteric fever) is very sick with high fever nausea headache body aches and loss of appetite. there is a risk of intestinal perforation. therefore the patient should be given plenty of fluids (whatever they prefer) and light diet high in calories & protein and low in roughage. therefore chicken soup milk shakes eggs are good if the patient can tolerate.
i am almost 18 years old and i've been diabetic for 3 years. type 2. i need to lose weight. can i take the garcinia cambogia pill to help?
no it can cause nausea headache and diarrhea. be sure to keep up an active fitness routine yoga swimming and walking are a great start. weekly meal planning is essential to healthy eating. as you have found permanently changing your behavior is difficult. more on permanent behavior change at www. personalmedicineplus. com.
what were the common sides effects seen in the qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) study? were there any uncommon but serious side effects?
phentermine+topiramate: numbness dry mouth constipation colds/bronchitis acidosis headaches insomnia dizziness nausea backpain blurred vision fatigue high potassium depression anxiety hair loss reflux and man many more. . and rare but serious ones: allergic reaction high blood pressure heart valve disorders tremors psychosis pancreatitis liver failures. consult doc. good luck.
i've used levothroid 17 years post ablation; its now unobtainable. generic gives me headaches. synthroid (thyroxine) led to ab bloating rapid weight gain & hypersomnia; any idea why? what is next?
if the dose of thyroid medication is correct all the available preparations should be about the same. the "bloating wt gain" sounds like hypothyroidism i. e. you were taking too little. the dose of the new preparation may be different from the dose of levothroid you were on. make sure you take the medication on an empty stomach and not with hot liquids.
i've used levothroid 17 years post ablation; its now unobtainable. generic gives me headaches. synthroid (thyroxine) led to ab bloating rapid weight gain & hypersomnia; any idea why? what is next?
another cause of headaches; generic might differ only in absorption rate but that would cause headaches by way of tachycardia and high blood pressure. if t4 is the problem dose adjustment will help.
is dizziness a symptom if sleep apnea?
osa sx by history :excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ vertigo/amheadaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
what are the common side effects of phentermine?
1allergic reaction in some 2 increse in blood pressure 3shotness of breath on exertion 4 chest pain and swelling of feet&ankle 5rapid heart beat or palpitation 6confusion or irritability 7 headache and blurred vision 8dizziness and tremors 9dry mouth and unpleasant taste in your mouth 10diarrhea or constipation and upset stomach 11 increased or decreased interest in sex 12 irregular heart rhythm.
what's done for sleep apnea?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
what are some 7 day crash diet negative side effects? i have a headache and this is my 2nd day on dr. furhmans diet
they don't call them "crash" for nothing. your metabolism will crash as you drastically & abruptly alter your nutritional status sometimes with the addition of drugs. i am unfamiliar with the specific diet you name but any diet which involves depletion of nutrients (not just "empty" calories) will cause adverse effects--consider prisoner-of-war health issues arising from extreme "diets".
what are the side effects of phentermine 37. 5 mg?
1allergic reaction in some 2 increse in blood pressure 3shotness of breath on exertion 4 chest pain and swelling of feet&ankle 5rapid heart beat or palpitation 6confusion or irritability 7 headache and blurred vision 8dizziness and tremors 9dry mouth and unpleasant taste in your mouth 10diarrhea or constipation and upset stomach 11 increased or decreased interest in sex 12 irregular heart rhythm.
i've done diet pills good food no food and i work out 4-6 days a week. why can't i lose? is there anything else i could do
see your doctor to find out why you have an impaired memory. avoid all drugs and alcohol (dope makes people gain weight) make sure you are not pregnant and find out why you are nauseated. find out if your headaches are stress related (stress causes weight gain) and put together a weightloss plan for the long term and consider having a maintenance phase in it.
i have ringing in my ears for about two minutes after some orgasms. my blood pressure is fine which seems to be the most common answer what's going on?
in your case possibilities are; the migraine headaches medications for the headaches your thyroid your blood pressure medication brought on after excitement during sex.
i have type 2 diabetes and asthma. i've had a headache from about 5 this afternoon that has not subsided. pounding in the back and goes to my forehead?
you need to have it checked to see the cause of your headache don't delay call your doctor or go to a walk in clinic.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
is not unusual as the carotid artery runs close to your inner ear. if your headaches are bad you should see your doctor and try to find a source if possible.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
you are hearing the pulsating of blood vessels that flow by your ear. it is nomal and shouldnt be giving you hedaches unl you have high blood pressure.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
headaches unwell feeling and hearing one's heart beat should be evaluated due to symptoms. hearing one's own heart beat may be normal for some when associated with other symptoms it warrant further check up and investigations. some of the causes include hypertension pulsatilla vertigo internal carotid or nearby artery narrowing due to various reasons.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
these specific symptoms need to be evaluated. please see a physician.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
your heart best specially at night when going to sleep. are you having any other symptoms beside headaches? try white noise. like the sound of water running or the ocean. few apps at your smart phone for free. if continue see a physician to r/o causes of headaches.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
hypertension can cause these symptoms. please have your blood pressure checked and if it is normal have your family doctor look for further causes. please have your bp checked today.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
i understand your discomfort. please see a therapist about the stresses in your life your anxiety symptoms and uncomfortable feelings. and methods to cope with them.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
check with your ent.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
hello pulsatile tinnitus associated with headache and ill feeling needs to be evaluated by your ent physician. i would think he/she will want a careful history physical examination a hearing test and imaging to fully diagnose your problem. g good luck and i hope this helps.
i can hear my own heart beat in my ear it is giving me headaches and generally feeling unwell?
i doubt this is a physical issue. could stress be playing a role? if it concerns you see your doctor or a cardiologist.
what are the risks and cures for obstructive stage iv sleep apnea?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
is garcinia cambogia safe for people with heart problems?
garcinia is possibly safe for most people when used for 12 weeks or less. long-term safety is unknown. garcinia can cause nausea digestive tract discomfort and headache. special precautions ; warnings: pregnancy and breast-feeding: not enough is known about the use of garcinia during pregnancy and breast-feeding. stay on the safe side and avoid use.
im on bc. after eating too much i feel nausea and have headache. could it be the bc? or its my stomach? im vegetarian
if you had been tolerating the oral contraceptive well but are just now experiencing sxs after over-eating - than it is more likely related to eating. however you could also becoming down with a virus. probably the simplest way to reduce nausea ; upset stomach is with ginger. you can drink slightly flattened ginger ale or nibble on crystallized ginger.
what are the manifestations of an overdose of trimethoprim?
symptoms of overdose may include blood in urine; confusion; depression; dizziness; drowsiness; fever chills or sore throat; loss of consciousness; severe nausea vomiting or stomach pain; severe or persistent headache or loss of appetite; unusual bruising or bleeding; unusual tiredness or weakness; or yellowing of the skin or eyes.
is it possible that my general practicioner doctor do anything about my obstructive sleep apnea?
if you have been diagnosed with mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea a dentist who has been trained to take a physiological registration of the forward jaw position necessary to open the airway (without protruding the jaw too far forward- which can cause tmd problems- like headaches and jaw pain) can have a custom made appliance fabricated to increase the oxygen as well as help stop snoring.
i started taking garciana cambodia and am taking 2 pill per day. i feel great have lots of energy. i need to know how long i can take these pills?
some mild adverse reactions like nausea vomiting headache dry mouth. other than those it is safe enough to keep taking it.
is it true that sleep apnea can cause cardiac problems. stents etc.?
osa increases bp and risk of mi/cva sx: excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
i have headaches in the morning toothaches neck pain and occasional numbness in right arm. i also have a history of sleep apnea bruxism and disk bulges under tx. which doctor should i see?
however it must be a dentist with advanced training in tmj treatment. the symptoms you list all point to this area of dentistry. it can be complicated as it involves a "bite imbalance" that a dentist with advanced training can diagnose and inform you of your options. a physician can help diagnose other issues involving the arm numbness.
i have headaches in the morning toothaches neck pain and occasional numbness in right arm. i also have a history of sleep apnea bruxism and disk bulges under tx. which doctor should i see?
with your medical problems-see your md. this may be a major problem. the toothache and bruxism is secondary to the medical problems. once those are checked then check with dentist for checkup. be sure they know your history meds inr. headaches may be from bruxing/tmj but may be systemic. check with primary care for referrals. after that you may need a dentist who takes care of medically complex.
i have headaches in the morning toothaches neck pain and occasional numbness in right arm. i also have a history of sleep apnea bruxism and disk bulges under tx. which doctor should i see?
some of your symptoms possibly point to a pinched nerve some point to a tmj/tmd issue sleep apnea etc. i would see an internal medicine dr. as a start and then hopefully they can point you in the right direction.
i have headaches in the morning toothaches neck pain and occasional numbness in right arm. i also have a history of sleep apnea bruxism and disk bulges under tx. which doctor should i see?
your sleep apnea and morning headaches toothaches and neck pain can be related. see a dentist trained in neuromuscular treatment to have an evaluation
what could be a cause for? muscle stiffness numbness swollen thyroid headaches sleep apnea personality changes all in the right side of body.
when your thyroid does not works or is affected by an inflammation (thyroiditis) it will swell have fatigue weakness nubness snoring slepiness & sleep apnea. rare to be jusst one side then a neurological problem could be present/ neuropathy. see a specialist.
what could be a cause for? muscle stiffness numbness swollen thyroid headaches sleep apnea personality changes all in the right side of body.
oxygen is essential for the proper functioning of the cells that provide energy in all it's forms to the body. sleep apnea means that the individual is stopping breathing for at least 10 seconds and that the resultant lack of oxygen causes the blood level oxygen to decrease. thyroid dysfunction can disrupt hormones and cause many problems.
why are artificial sweeteners bad for you?
not all artificial sweetners contain aspartame. asparatame has 92 different possible adverse reactions associated with it's use to include conditions like migraine headaches and seizures.
what is bad about artificial sweeteners?
some artificial sweetners contain aspartame. asparatame has 92 different possible adverse reactions associated with it's use to include conditions like migraine headaches and seizures.
what are symptoms of elevated prolactin. mine is 57. i have insomnia brain fog headaches anxiety weight gain. on orthocyclen which is culprit?
elevated prolactin can cause irregular periods infertility problems and lactation but more often there are no symptoms. if you have a tumor in the pituitary tumor causing the elevation of prolactin then you may possibly have headache. usually the tumors are very small and cause no symptoms
what are symptoms of elevated prolactin. mine is 57. i have insomnia brain fog headaches anxiety weight gain. on orthocyclen which is culprit?
women — when a high blood prolactin concentration interferes with the function of the ovaries in a premenopausal woman secretion of estradiol the main estrogen decreases. symptoms include irregular or absent menstrual periods infertility menopausal symptoms (hot flashes and vaginal dryness) and after several years osteoporosis. high prolactin levels can also cause milk discharge of breast.
what are the risks of taking adipex?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
what are the risks of taking adipex?
insomnia elevated blood pressure headaches irritability and others. the medication has an addiction risk.
what are the risks of taking adipex?
the side effects of using phentermine are those that accompany the use of stimulants. it is comparable to coffee. too much causes anxiety headaches insomnia etc. these problems are minimized because of the prescription protocol used by our medical professionals. the “start low go slow” approach that is used when prescribing medicine for chronic conditions works well in treating obesity also.
i'm16 yo i'm overweight in about20kg tdy i started jogging for 1h is this healthy for me? and when i started i suffered from headache what should i do
it is very healthy will improve your mood energy level and help you lose weight and maintain your health. the headache if persist will need medical evaluation.
im 16 yo im overweighted when i go jogging for1h i suffer from headache and a numbness in my legs andhands which medical evaluation should i have?
see your doctor to see what is causing these symptoms. you may be having high blood pressure or other serious problems. when you start exercising make sure to take it slow and steady at first; don't overdo it! build up gradually as your body gets in better condition. make sure you are drinking plenty of water- dehydration can cause some of these problems also.
is sleep apnea genetic? what are symptoms of it
rarely : osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap vs ent for upp eval.
is sleep apnea genetic? what are symptoms of it
are aware of. symptoms include daytime sleepiness restless sleep loud snoring waking up gasping for air waking up with morning headache waking up tired.
why do i have a headache when i'm on a diet? i never have it in everyday life.
you may want to check your balance of protein/carb intake. if the carbohydrate restriction is extreme and prolonged the brain eventually will run on fat stores for fuel called ketosis. unfortunately ketosis brings with it more than weight loss. a host of problems some serious are aasociated with ketosis: irritability headaches and enhanced kidney work are a few.
why do i have a headache when i'm on a diet? i never have it in everyday life.
rapid weight loss can cause rapid release of toxins stored in fat and cause symptoms of headache nausea etc. the key is not to lose weight quickly. consider reading clean green and lean by dr walter crinnion.
is sleep apnea reversible?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
i have a stuffy nose alot. & very nasally do i have sleep apnea?
nasal congestion does not mean you have sleep apnea for sure. but it can exacerbate it. if you snore have morning headaches daytime sleepiness gasp or choke for breath at night wake up with a dry mouth and/or have night time acid reflux it may be sleep apnea. if so please consult a sleep medicine specialist for evaluation. at minimum your nasal congestion can be treated. hope that helps!
i have a stuffy nose alot. & very nasally do i have sleep apnea?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
i had a tubal ligation over 2 years ago. lately i have been experiencing nausea food cravings headaches and frequent uurination. could i be prego?
it is always possible that a tubal ligation is not permenant so i would go to your doctor to be checked out.
i have a short neck compared to my length but i don't snore. can i have sleep apnea without snorig. suffering from drowsiness and morning headaches?
you may not realize you snore at night. additionally it is not so much snoring that makes up sleep apnea but the gasping or choking for breath at night periodically. with those other symptoms you have as well it is recommended you see a sleep medicine doctor for evaluation. hope that helps!
is topiramate good for weight loss?
topamax often used for orevention if recurrent migrain headache can help overweight ir obese patients who also have migrain headache to lose weight when used with diet and exercise and lifestyle changes and also phenyermine or adipex. the combination of adipex and topamax is available in the market as qsymia (phentermine and topiramate). topamax should not be used in patients who are likely to get preganant.
i have had headaches nausea/stomach aches for the past 2 days last thing i ate was mcdonalds. what could it be?
several etiologies. could be the grease or high fat content that has pest your system. you could also have a touch of food poisoning. if you have fever chills or bloody diarrhea go to the er. otherwise take it easy on your stomach- try crackers broth dry cereal toast and plenty of water.
i have pickwickian syndrome & sleep apnea. feeling sick. headaches when waking up. chest pain. dry throat. use oxygen at night. should i see a dr?
do you use cpap or bipap? if not then you probably need to be checked for that. if you're already using it the pressure may need to be adjusted. see your sleep doctor asap.
i have pickwickian syndrome & sleep apnea. feeling sick. headaches when waking up. chest pain. dry throat. use oxygen at night. should i see a dr?
you need a sleep study and a continuous positive air pressure (cpap) machine. oxygen is not enough. true pickwickian syndrome is dangerous and you need positive pressure to over come upper airway obstruction.
i have extreme fatigue that hit me during the day along with headaches after eating. i'm 32 and overweight. what could cause this?
pre diabetes can often cause episodes of hypoglycemia which could cause fatigue and headaches. see you physician who may order a 5 hour glucose tolerance test. in the mean time eat healthy small portions and avoid refined carbohydrate. do not skip meals.
i have extreme fatigue that hit me during the day along with headaches after eating. i'm 32 and overweight. what could cause this?
thyroid hormones pancreas. please see doc who can examine and do blood work. lifestyle changes such as exercise w/doc's supervision can also help. peace and good health.
i started drinking herbalife to loose weight i'm drinking a fat burner tea it has caffeine i been having headache since saturday mostly on my left sid?
sounds like you are developing caffeine induced headaches. these are actually not that uncommon. listen to your body saying "no please don't do this to me" and pick a more sensible approach to your weight loss regimen. things like "fat burner tea" is a gimmick is emptying money out of your pocketbook and is causing side effects. take the hint.
i've been really tired with slight headaches and dizziness. no energy. i've had low iron before so i eat healthy. i'm 45 and its been 2 weeks?
low iron can give rise to fatigue headaches and lack of energy. see your pcp. have your iron level mainly iron tibc and ferritin. if they suggest iron deficiency then ask your doctor to put you on oral iron.
i've been really tired with slight headaches and dizziness. no energy. i've had low iron before so i eat healthy. i'm 45 and its been 2 weeks?
hi ray i presume you are a male. the thing that stands out about your question is that you've been told you have low iron. why? that is very unusual in a man your age. this needs to be checked again. your fatigue could be due to iron deficiency but so many other things too: sleep disorder diabetes kidney problems liver problems heart disease on & on. but most common: deconditioning!
i am a type 2 diabetes when should i be on alert about my sugar being to high or to low and will it cause me to have a seizure or stroke?
high blood sugar usually asymptomatic unless it's really high to the point which the patient becomes dehydrated but low blood sugar symptoms are sweating shakiness blurred vision weakness dizziness feeling anxious palpitation and even headache. if blood sugar goes very low there is a possibility of seizure if the blood sugar is not well controlled can cause stroke check your bs once a day
i have had depression for many years and have been diagnosed with adhd depression. bpd. lately i am tired have tremors cant stop eating have headaches?
with depression (bipolar disorder) & "adhd" you are tired and you can't stop eating. there are many of us here at heath tap that would like to be of service to you. what is it that you would like to know? it would be helpful if you asked a specific question and gave us more information about you (age medications etc) we will wait patiently for you to get back to us.
if sleep apnea can cause arrythmias can eliminating it stop the arrythmias?
osa tx may decrease or stop arrhythmia sx: excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
what is the best diet pill to use?
under a doc's supervision a well tolerated and generally safe one i use in my practice is phentermine (adipex). have your blood pressure (bp) checked before and during treatment as increase in bp heart rate insomnia headache and nausea are common. it works by suppressing your appetite. you take it in the morning after breakfast. expect roughly 8-10 lb wt loss over 3 months.
i have type 2 diabetes. is it safe for me to take garcinia cambogia? what are the risks?
there are side effects of gastrointestinal discomfort mild headaches and dizziness but more importantly hypoglycemia is possible and the risk of rhabdomyolosis such as due to statin use may be increased. of particular importance is the purity of the preparation. supplements are not fda regulated. care must be taken to select a reputable lab that makes the product and your doctor consulted.
what are some clear signs i may have sleep apnea?
most common type of sleep apnea is obstructive type where there is obstruction of upper airways leading to repetitive pauses of breathing during sleep lasting 20-40 seconds each. most common symptom is loud chronic snoring especially when sleeping on your back. also there is morning headaches poor concentration dry mouth or sore throat when wake up & mood changes.
what makes phentermine cause chest pain?
anxiety can cause excess cortisol os adrenaline secretion which can cause a number of symptoms including dizziness lightheadedness rapid heart beat palpitations chestpain headaches etc. try calming yourself down by concentrating on slowing down your breathing over a few minutes if this doesn't help see your primary provider for further evaluation. good luck!
if a medical doctor told you don't have sleep apnea but 2 weeks later you went to a sleep study and found out you do hhave sleep apnea?
believe the sleep study; osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night study and cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options.
if you went to see if you got osa from your primary care doctor she said to you absolutely you don't have sleep apnea but 2 weeks later you?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night study and cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options.
what does it mean if there are clicking sounds in my ear?
if the clicking occurs with swallowing likely eustachian tube opening and closing. is normal in most people. if clicking occurs when open and close mouth is jaw joint clicking. no treatment if no other symptoms. if other symptoms like jaw pain limited oral opening headache then see tmj specialist.
what could cause severe pulsating pain on the left side of my neck and head? i have pressure and ringing/muffling in my ear. also blurring of eyes.
the symptoms could be caused by a number of different things from migraine headache tmj and/or tooth issues muscle strain neurological issues etc. this is something that a doctor and possibly a dentist will have to check out for you personally.
what are some solutions for snoring?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
what's the chemistry in why protein shakes with all the vitamins help my headaches?
this is impossible to answer since protein shakes have many different amino acids many of which (like taurine tryptophan and cysteine) may help and many different vitamins and minerals have the potential to help headaches (such as magmesium and vitamin b6). and it may be no single ingredient but the synergy of several ingredients. see <link> for more info.
why do diet sodas still cause weight gain. is it the artificial sweeteners?
aspartame ; other artificial sweeteners are toxic. a review of 90 independent studies in the peer-reviewed medical literature found 92% of these found significant problems associated with aspartame including brain tumors seizures headaches memory loss ; obesity. see <link> ; <link> ; <link> ; <link>
what to do to stop getting headaches and restlessness when trying lose weight?
yourself! take a more moderate approach.
what are the health effects compulsive overeating?
compulsive overeating often leads over time to excessive weight gain fatigue joint problems hypertension headaches and diabetes among other complications. i recommend meditation foods with a low glycemic index walking in the sunshine and overeaters anonymous. <link>
i have severe throbbing pain in the back of my head (left side) while having an orgasm. i am a female 49 overweight with high blood pressure (on rx?
post-coital headaches or headaches with climax aren't that uncommon but given that you described it as severe pls talk to your doctor. sometimes there are red flag signs that could indicate a need for further workup
what could be the cause that i get dry throat when i would sleep on my left side? i am suffering from sleep apnea. i don't use any machines.
dry mouth upon awakening snoring gasping or choking for breath at night morning headache night time acid reflux daytime sleepiness are all potential symptoms of sleep apnea. it is recommended you consult a sleep medicine doctor for evaluation and if needed treatment. hope that helps!
is qsymia (phentermine and topiramate) safe for weight loss?
the most common adverse effects being headache dry mouth constipation numbness/tingling increased heart rate and increased anxiety/depression. remember it's not a cure all and you'll still be best served by optimizing your lifestyle(how and what your eat and your activity levels. )
i've always been over weight. as of about 4-5 months ago i've gone from 247lbs-183lbs. i'm also having bad headaches and nausea. ?
rapid unexplained weight loss is a "red flag" sign that needs a thorough evaluation in a timely fashion. there are many different things that could cause your symptoms and if they began 4-5 months ago you should not delay a personal evaluation with a physician any longer.
i'm 24 and overweight. my heart rate has been about 106 resting for hours. i have a headache today also. do this require a visit to the er?
no. this is not an emergency. should you get connected with a physician have a good physical and get some diet and exercise counseling? yes
i'm 24 and overweight. my heart rate has been about 106 resting for hours. i have a headache today also. do this require a visit to the er?
looks like yes
my daugther is 7 years old she has been bleeding from her nose for two days off and on and today she had a headache what can be she is 72 pounds and is seven she is healthy no allies shots up to date'
two common things can tie nosebleeds and headaches together. one is a sinus infection. if she also has fever congestion and facial pain this could be the cause. the other is high blood pressure - common in adults but rare in healthy kids. a more likely situation is that her headaches and nosebleeds are unrelated. even though headaches are common they can be very complicated to diagnose because of their many causes. you should contact her doctor for a complete history and physical pertaining to her headache if it continues over the course of a few days. usually a good history and exam can figure out what is causing the headaches and how to help them. epistaxis or bloody noses can be caused by a variety of things and is worth having it looked into by her doctor. if her nosebleeds become frequent or severe an ear nose and throat doctor (otolaryngologist) may be needed. they can place a scope (small camera) into her nose and see why she is having the nose bleeds. they may even be able to stop them from happening. in the meantime here are a few nose bleed tips. if her nose starts to bleed pinch the soft part of her nose below the bridge not the bridge to stop the bleeding. now keep pinching for 5 minutes. set a timer or look at a watch because it will feel like forever. and no peeking! that will stop 95% of all nosebleeds.
i'm currently taking prozac (fluoxetine) 40mg i just got put on adipex can these two drugs be taken together?
these drugs are usually fine together. be on the lookout for an increased amount of confusion agitation dilated pupils headaches twitching muscles shivering or goose bumps and diarrhea. if you should notice that let your doctor know.
i have irregular periods (early every month for the last 4-5 months) chronic headaches bloating and gas (worse at the end of the night) weight loss?
i understand your distress. irregular periods can be due to hormonal changes changing birth control pills iud overactive thyroid and stress. chronic headaches bloating and gas are likely due to anxiety. weight loss is likely due to depression or overactive thyroid. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis therapy for stress in your life. do breathing and music relaxation yoga meditation exercise
my period is late 10 days today i have a very very dry vagina i have all period like symptoms eg back ache headaches cramps food cravings i took a pregnancy test on day 8 and it came out negative i hope im not pregnant and im very very stressed out becaus
but don't stress so much worrying about whether you're pregnant that you make your period be late and have back aches and headaches. remember our bodies don't get graded on how well they answer test questions and some bodies have to be asked a test question 2 or 3 times before they answer it "right". if answer still isn't "right" f/u with your pmd.
what are the side effects of belviq (lorcaserin)?
headache dizziness fatigue nausea dry mouth constipation cough low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) in patients with diabetes back pain. personally i do not use it because it's too expensive and i get better results with the medications that i've been using for the last 11 years. i wish you the best.
is it okay if i take benadryl (diphenhydramine) at night if i take adipex in the morning. i don't have trouble sleeping. i am just having a reaction to new soap?
benadryl (diphenhydramine) can help with allergic reaction to new soap. adipex is a stimulant used for weight control along with diet and exercise. it can cause both adipex and benadyl can cause anxiety restlessness insomnia headache dizziness tremor palpitations and tachycardia. see physician for diagnosis need for adipex medication benefits and side effects dose and monitoring the medications
if a woman with type 2 diabetes start to snore at every night knowing that she wasn't before. is it a bad sign & what could be the reason? help thnx
snoring in & of itself isn't necessarily a bad thing. perhaps it's due to temporary cold or allergies. but if it's associated w/stopping breathing morning headache & falling asleep inappropriately during daytime then we worry about sleep apnea. btw recent study (<link> shows that women w/diabetes have greater risk of heart disease than men. also have to exercise more for same bene
my head mri showed a small retention cyst in the sphenoid sinus. headaches and dizziness last week hence the mri. smoker sleep apnea from time to time.?
just because you have something in the sinus it does not mean it is the cause of your symptoms. retention cysts are common. does light or sound bother you when you have the headache? do you have visual changes before the headache comes? if so you may have migraine.
my head mri showed a small retention cyst in the sphenoid sinus. headaches and dizziness last week hence the mri. smoker sleep apnea from time to time.?
and quit smoking-both asap. the retention cyst is basically irrelevant unless it blocks natural drainage of the structure.
my older sister who is 24 feels dizzy nauceous tired and has had headaches. shes overwheight and diagnosed prediabetic 1yr ago what can this be?
this problem can only be solved by seeing his doctor and being evaluated face-to-face. after a thorough examination his doctor should be able to tell you what's wrong and what to do about it.
what are the signs of having sleep apnea?
loud snoring and daytime sleepiness are the most common symptoms. also gasping for air irritability obesity difficulty concentrating daily headaches and nocturia can be added to the list. ask your pcp for a sleep study test to rule out sleep apnea.
im 18 years old and i have some belly fat i want to get rid of by the summer will lipozen help?
this is a product that has one ingredient- fiber. fiber can be found in many foods and so it would be a lot cheaper to just increase the fiber in your diet. also be very very careful about ordering online as many of these "great deals" turn out to be a big headache when you can't stop the order. watch your calories and i hear that weighted hula hoops are good <positive_smiley> <link>
my wife conceive last month and her menstrual date is due on 13th but sheis now suffering as vomiting and headache what should be the diet plan forher?
however some simple options to try that are safe include use of peppermint ginger and vitamin b6 supplements. also frequent small meals. acupressure bands for the wrists provide some relief for some. stay hydrated and if none of this helps you should consult your doctor for safe and effective medications.
why is that when i seem to sleep for a long period of time 10 hrs. i get this headache sometimes effecting like my ears. no history of sleep apnea or bp?
especially in migraine sufferers (which it appears you are). the mechanism may have something to do with rem sleep just before awakening. even if you don't have sleep apnea the influence of sleep is felt to be a strong factor in those with headaches. too little sleep ( 9 hrs) both seem to be aggravating factors. target 7-8 hours of sleep a night. good luck!
what causes snoring? how can i get rid of it?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eva
i have a hiatal hernia and suffer migraines. meds to treat the hernia symptoms (severe acid reflux) give me headaches. what are my other options?
to choose from so trial and error. also po antacids are available.
metformin - side effects? using this to counteract insulin resistance. any comments on side effects etc?
metformin is usually well tolerated. most common se is stomach upset/diarrhea. occasionally headache metallic taste in the mouth or fatigue.
male 75 yrs diabetis sob pfts done sleep apnea no results yet dx?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
i have gained weight and diet and exercise aren't working. i need something like phentermine which i use to take to jump start again?
i understand your frustration. it is possible that you have stress depression hypothyroidism or other medical condition. phentermine side effects can be: • restlessness • headache • dizziness • tremors • insomnia • upset stomach • diarrhea see physician for • diagnosis and treatment • balanced diet • exercise program • phentermine effects • therapy for stresses in life
my dad sleep make a lot of noise snoring sound like a blockage in the air flow he smokes a lot its loud and scares me can it be sleep apnea r smke?
if your father snores he can have obstructive sleep apnea(osa). signs of having osa include snoring daytime somnolence morning headaches and tiredness. patients at risk of this disease tend to be overweight and have a short neck. epworth sleepiness scale and sleep apnea clinical scores can help identify people at risk of this condition. a formal sleep study may need to be done to make dx.
my hubby have been havn headaches craving for food gets irritable if he don't get it or just loose appetite we been trying to concieve is that a sign?
have your husband checked for diabetes. that may be why you are having trouble conceiving.
symptoms if sleep apnea?
snoring is a warning sign that sleep apnea may be present. other complaints include awakening gasping/choking for air dry mouth/sore throat urinating multiple times at nights morning headaches unrefreshing sleep cognitive impairment and excessive daytime somnolence. talk to your doctor about any of these symptoms. a sleep study would have to be done to confirm the diagnosis.
i have tremors headaches memory problems i drop things etc. i have been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes rsd/crps fibromyalgia and degenerative?
1: you should see a psychologist. 2: i don't know your age but assume it is age 30 or more. type 2 diabetes can be totally corrected so you will not have diabetes. a diabetes educator can work you through your type 2 diabetes and you will be a different woman. have your primary doctor refer you to the dietitian. please let me know how things go.
i am on 30mg remeron (mirtazapine). i have gained weight despite dieting and exercising. what can i do to reduce weight. should i give them up thanks?
i have just reviewed some information about remeron (mirtazapine) and am not comfortable that this should be taken regularly. i suggest you don't take any for now and see what happens to your weight. regarding your anxiety and headache i strongly recommend you get an appointment to see a psychologist please keep me informed.
symptoms of liver disease due to pregnancy?
there are several kinds of liver problems related to pregnancy. if your skin or the whites of your eyes start looking yellow if you are having pain in the upper right side of your abdomen or if you are having nausea vomiting & headaches later in pregnancy tell your ob and be seen right away. some liver problems in pregnancy are mild but others can be life-threatening and/or harm your baby.
side effects of phentermine (the weight loss drug)?
side effects: insomnia palpitations dry mouth fast heart rate headaches weight loss constipation etc.
went swimming yest @ waterpark and ate quite a bit of junk food. threw up at 4 am woke up at 10 w/bad headache and green snot. infection or something?
or something. please reesubmit your (? ) w/ answers to these questions. if you have anorexia nervosa why do u take phentermine? do you sometimes induce vomiting? do you normally eat small low calorie meals? did you swallow pool water or inhale it through your nose? did you drink any alcohol yesterday? do u have a fever belly pain or other symptoms? any recent change in lexapro (escitalopram) dose?
missed period pink spotting when i wipe for 2 days headaches backaches weird food cravings am i pregnant?
do a pregnancy test.
my mouth started itching and burning after chewing sugarless gum. i get headaches from sucralose. is my mouth pain an allergic reaction?
yes you were having an allergic reaction. you may be allergic to sorbitol found in sugarless gum
my husbands snoring is driving me crazy. anything we can do to stop it?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eva
swollen lymph nodes headaches fatigue weight loss low white blood count and infections. what could be causing this?
infections themselves could be causing the symptoms you describe. if these symptoms have been long standing and you have an enlarged nontender lymph node(s) in addition something like a lymphoma would be moving up on my list. given that you are getting a cbc you probably are seeing a doctor. what does he/she think?
swollen lymph nodes headaches fatigue weight loss low white blood count and infections. what could be causing this?
please check an hiv test given your age; if condition persists a bone marrow biopsy might be indicated.
strange on and off blodoshot eyes with dizziness that isn't allergies. it won't go away. lyme disease? thyroid? stress? also unexplained weight loss.
lyme disease is becoming much more common all across the country. your symptoms are seen in ld but usually there are more symptoms such as fatigue stiff/painful joints off & on headaches neck creaks & cracks sleep disturbance "brain fog" etc. most symptoms come and go. stress is anotther possibility as it affects many organs in several ways.
so can levora (ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel) make you lose weight?
common side effects weight gain nausea and vomiting (felt for the first few cycles) dizziness increase or decrease in acne headaches high blood pressure loss of libido depression vaginal infections.
what is the best option for headache mgmnt when you can't take nsaids and tramadol nor fioricet (acetaminophen butalbital and caffeine) work? i'm a gastric sleeve patient.
get specific diagnosis of what type of ha you have and medical alternatives. . these may be migraines or cluster ha and need a totally different class of meds
what could an isolated systolic high blood pressure 155max mean in a young adult healthy high hdl low ldl level no family history nor heart condition rhr 48-50 no symp bmi of 22 low salt intake. only a nodule on lung but harmless?
19 y/o male asks what could an isolated systolic blood pressure 155max mean in a young adult healthy. . systolic hypertension is of concern at this age though more so after age 50yrs. potential for cardiovascular disorders early stiffening of arteries chronic kidney disease even stroke come into perspective. other considerations;headaches/eye problem/ears ringing. need md to check thyroid &.
what warnings are associated with garcinia cambogia?
possible side effects when you take garcinia cambogia you might get: dizziness dry mouth headache upset stomach or diarrhea in 2009 the food and drug administration warned everyone to stop using a weight-loss product that contained garcinia cambogia because some people taking it got serious liver problems. see the fda warnings
my 10 year old is always complaining about headaches and constantly falling. he is slightly overweight and has a tube in one ear.
what do you mean by falling? fainting? if fainting you have to go and get examined by doctor do ct scan on brain.
please comment on the findings/association of papillary conjunctivitis/floppy lid syndrome with sleep apnea. what would i see on exam?
people who have fes may experience all or several of the following symptoms: droopy eyelids; dry red or swollen eyes; mucous discharge (worse in the morning); frequent infections; easily inverted eyelids; eyelashes that point downward and poke the eye; and sleep disturbances and morning headaches. www. ehow. com/about_5047597_floppy-eyelid-syndrome. html.
pink spotting little headaches constipation feel bloated hairy belly lumb on the side of belly tired food cravings is this pregnancy symptoms?
we do not live in a world where we use ambiguous symptoms to diagnose pregnancy. if you have missed your period then please get a pregnancy test.
two days ago i had a ear ache yesterday the top of my head felt like pins sticking you when i touched it. today the whole left side of my head is extremely sensitive and sharp pains in my ear.
it is difficult to link the various symptoms into any one thing that can cause them all. they may not be related. things that can cause all these things are sinus issues (headaches around the eyes sometimes the very top of the head or behind the eyes) jaw joint problems etc. if they persist or worsen see your primary care doctor.
two days ago i had a ear ache yesterday the top of my head felt like pins sticking you when i touched it. today the whole left side of my head is extremely sensitive and sharp pains in my ear.
although this is difficult to diagnosis with such limited information and inability to examine you one possiblity is auriculotemporal neuralgia ( a nerve that runs in front of the ear and into the temporal scalp). sinus headaches typically don't lateralize to the side of the head and usually described as more dull achey and throbbing. the "pins and needle" sensation is termed paraeshesias or dysesthesias when linked to painful feelings. this is more characteristic of a neuralgia syndrome. if it persists specific treatments do exist once diagnosed and personally i would consult with a neurologist about this.
throbbing in head when eyes/head moves left to right & vice versa happening more often x1mo. ; 39yo obese f history htn hypothyroid depression on meds.?
headaches are common even in totally healthy individuals but when you are on medications and have thyroid dysfunction as well youlikely have more reasons to be developing headaches. with eye/head movement triggering and other medical probs it is necessary to get an evaluation. take care.
throbbing in head when eyes/head moves left to right & vice versa happening more often x1mo. ; 39yo obese f history htn hypothyroid depression on meds.?
throbbing headache (usually associated with light bothering the eyes and upset stomach) is typical of migraine type headache; best treatment would be imitrex (sumatriptan) (rx only). another much rarer concern that can be associated with obesity is "benign intracranial hypertension" due to excessive production of spinal fluid. best to consult a physician if these symptoms continue.
what happens if central. sleep apnea goes untreated? i had a sleep study and can't tolerate the cpap. i'm so scared. what test should i have?
there is mild moderate or severe obstructive sleep apnea. mild forms can be helped by weight loss sleep position modification. more severe ones needs cpap and better off treated then not (helps headaches energy level promotes weight loss potentially prevents accidents strokes heart attacks etc). there are many versions nowadays of masks nasal one might be better tolerated. good luck!
i have severe enlarged tonsils (grade 4) causing sleep apnea. i refused treatment but ent said very dangerous. what can happen?
in an old western movie one guy might shoot another for annoyingly loud snoring. in the real world sleep apnea (osa) causes daytime drowsiness and fatigue so driving can kill someone. nightly low blood oxygen can cause sudden death from heart arrhythmia. heart artery disease heart attack heart failure stroke memory problems morning headache mood swings depressed feelings irritability.
i have stomach cramps headache craving for food & couldn't sleep at night breast pain. n feel uneasy. could this be due to pregnancy?
if you want to know if you are pregnant take a test. in today's world you do not need to wonder if you are pregnant or not based on symptoms. pregnancy tests are available at any pharmacy and in minutes you will have your answer. they can detect a pregnancy 7-10 days after conception. the best time to take one is when you miss your period.
left side pain during intercourse family history with cancer and cyst problems also have headaches tiredness and weight gain tummy. plz help!?
i am not sure if all the symptoms you listed are related but i would start with seeing a medical provider. start with a comprehensive history intake and physical exam. you may need vaginal exam to rule out problems causing painful intercourse. maybe some blood studies to rule out fatigue causes. urinalysis/culture may be helpful to determine ongoing bladder issues. have your provider work u up.
left side pain during intercourse family history with cancer and cyst problems also have headaches tiredness and weight gain tummy. plz help!?
you should seek the advice of a gynecologist.
low bp with weight gain is it due to sotret?
normal bp is in a range. if you have no symptoms your bp is normal for you. if you are fainting with low bp your dr needs to evaluate you. weight gain is not due to this med. expect dry lips skin nose eyes watch out for headaches.
mood changes headaches frequent urination food cravings but my last period was april 14th. could it be? still too early to tell
unless you want to conceive - use protection whenever you have sex. if you miss your next period wait a week and do a test. your signs can be from anything or nothing and may be unrelated to each other. try to learn factual info about reproduction - it's good to know. best!
numb legs severe headaches & hair loss extreme weight loss low ferritin weird hand bumps what is wrong with me? my neurologist doesn't know.
whatever symptoms you have are a multifactorial consequence of hormonal immune system and nervous system dysfunction resulting from genetic predispositions and dietary and environmental insults. there are numerous internal & external stressors that can contribute to this syndrome. find & rx.
ringing ears from using phentermine? about 2 weeks into a regimen of once-daily phentermine last november my ears starting ringing. i quit phentermine 3 weeks ago but my ears are still ringing. will they ever stop?
that is very concerning. please see an ent (otolaryngology) physician immediately and have a complete evaluation. be sure you aren't on any other medications or herbs that could cause these symptoms (aspirin is notorious for causing ringing in the ears). you may need testing performed to evaluate your nerves to your ears. if you have any hearing changes worsening ringing headaches weakness or vomiting then you would need to be see as an emergency.
there is a drug called ( lipo 6 black ultra concentrate ) i heared it helps to lose weight quickly i wanna know wt are the side effects of it?
possible lipo 6 black ultra concentrate side effects include headaches jitteriness nervousness irritability insomnia indigestion nausea dizziness anxiety facial flushing insomnia headache drowsiness dry mouth and an elevated heartbeat. some others also include heart attack stroke renal failure and kidney damage.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
your symptom of acid reflux for 10 years is not causing your symptoms but it is in your interest to get that treated to prevent esophagitis and other complications. your sode throat and cough are probably due to an acute viral or bacterial infection and you should see your doctor to find if you need antibiotics or not. aand also discuss you weight loss and acid reflux and treatment.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
with gastric reflux could be barretts esophagus. see an md asap.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
you have a lot going on. you should be evaluated for tonsillitis for the throat issue.
the right side of my throat hurts while swallowing and hurts at light touch. i have had daily headaches and acid refux for the last 10 years. i also have cough and have had minor weight loss. what should i do?
see a physician for a physical exam. may have tonsillitis strep throat etc. regarding acid reflux try over the counter antacids like omeprazole daily. see you physician.
i am experiencing headache and pelvic pain. the following also describe me: difficulty sleeping obesity light sensitivity vomiting and fatigue.
there are too many possibilities to answer in this type of forum. you will need to set up a consult here on this site with a physician or go to see your regular practitioner. you have a variety of symptoms that could indicate a number of different problems.
i am experiencing headache and pelvic pain. the following also describe me: difficulty sleeping obesity light sensitivity vomiting and fatigue.
your questions was truncated so we don't have all the details but it sounds like you need to see a doctor and make sure you don't a serious problem like pid appendicitis or other problems.
i have very enlarged tonsils meeting in midline that cause sleep apnea. will ignoring/not treating it be dangerous?
in an old western movie one guy might shoot another for annoyingly loud snoring. in the real world sleep apnea (osa) causes daytime drowsiness and fatigue so driving can kill someone. nightly low blood oxygen can cause sudden death from heart arrhythmia. heart artery disease heart attack heart failure stroke memory problems morning headache mood swings depressed feelings irritability.
my husbands oxygen level came at 93% he is overweight and feels shortness of breath on exertion. he has no lung desease. feels headache most of the tim?
he appears to have obstructive sleep apnea. this is where the airway is blocked when he sleeps. this leads to decreased oxygen in the blood and the tissues and a rise in co2 which causes headache and in the long term early dementia difficulty losing weight and elevated blood pressure. it can also lead to heart disease. this is a serious condition. needs sleep study and see lung md.
my husbands oxygen level came at 93% he is overweight and feels shortness of breath on exertion. he has no lung desease. feels headache most of the tim?
first off an oxygen level of 93% is generally normal. although it needs to be interpreted in the correct context. shortness of breath with exertion has many causes such as deconditioning or heart/lung problems. maintaining a healthy weight will help him feel better in all aspects of life.
my blood pressure reading today was 169/117 i am 43 female obese my job is. very stressful and i get headaches and occasional tightness acros?
43f of unknown ethncicity notes "my bp was 119/117. i am obese and have stressful job. but asks no question. these are dangerous pressures and you need to see your dr immediately to find out what is going o and to get it down to a healthy level. consider bcps if you are on them. i specialize in hbp and happy to do 2nd opinion.
my dr told me i need to use cpap for moderate osa. i am only 24. will refusing treatment be dangerous?
in an old western movie one guy might shoot another for annoyingly loud snoring. in the real world sleep apnea (osa) causes daytime drowsiness and fatigue so driving can kill someone. nightly low blood oxygen can cause sudden death from heart arrhythmia. heart artery disease heart attack heart failure stroke memory problems morning headache mood swings depressed feelings irritability.
neck pain cracking sounds when i turn my head headaches mri and ct on head/brain normal. blood work normal. have small hiatal hernia. help! thnx!
there are multiple potential causes among them symptomatic facet joints are often the cause of posterior based neck pain and headaches and are often under appreciated on imaging studies even such as an mri or ct scan. consider asking to be referred to an interventional pain specialist where you may be a candidate for radio frequency ablation a no surgical treatment for facet mediated pain.
obesity after controlled diet n exercise extreme hunger dry skin no satiety after eating daily headache from 3 to 5 noon freq urination normal thyroid?
achieved w/good fats. low fat diet will not do it. please see a nutritionist and a trainer at a gym after you see your doc for clearance. good fats include olive oil fish oil and coconut oil. avoid transfats found in packaged foods. peace and good health.
obesity(bmi=45). blood pressure=110/75 in bed. if i stand up dizziness/headache for few seconds and pressure=142/85or 125/96. should i see a specialist?
our blood pressure varies during rest and physical activities. the best thing you can do for your health is to take control of your diet exercise and stay under the care of a physician. make sure a physician clears you for an exercise program. take complete control of your diet and habits that may cause your obesity. change your foods. start to exercise gradually and stay consistent. good luck.
obesity(bmi=45). blood pressure=110/75 in bed. if i stand up dizziness/headache for few seconds and pressure=142/85or 125/96. should i see a specialist?
the blood pressure numbers don't worry me. it's typical for the bp numbers to go up a bit like that when you stand up and as long as the numbers go down as you noted then that's fine. but your bmi does put you at long term risk for high bp diabetes and heart disease. you should see someone to help you lose weight - dietitian perhaps.
please help! at er w tension/pressure headache- face has been puffy when wake up- my bp was 147/90- i did take adipex 8 hrs ago- should i b worried?
call a doctor or your doctor to get their opinion. if you do not feel well go to urgent care.
respected sir i am 34 years old i am doing bodybuilding before competition my trainer advice me to take testostrine injection so i wan know side effe?
of testosterone injection includes breast enlargement headache anxiety increased hair growth numbness tingling in limbs and decreased sexual libido. long term testosterone injections lead to shutting down of testes function (gonadal suppression) which will cause shrinkage of gonads heart attack stroke and blood clots.
recently lost 48 pounds been getting way more migraines then i would when overweight why do you think this is?
rapid weight loss can be associated with chemical imbalances in the body which can in turn lead to problems such as headaches. blood work and headache calendars may be of assistance.
recently lost 48 pounds been getting way more migraines then i would when overweight why do you think this is?
estrogen which is stored in fat cells is thought to be a cause of migraines. fluctuating levels with that much weight loss may be the source of your headaches.
rapid weight gain/hair loss/trouble urinating/constant body pain & discomfort/bloat/pain in stomach/abdomen/headaches & eye issues. what could it be?
i would suggest you see an astute internist who can tie all the symptoms together and provide you with a satisfactory answer and the necessary therapy. the symptoms are too multiple to come up with a simple answer for you in this format.
symptoms are pcos wild temperature changes obesity all over muscle tenderness & tightness random intense sweating fatigue headaches! help! ?
weight reduction is recommended baseline blood work is also helpful. best is to connect with a provider who treats pcos and see what other options you have
sleep apnea moderate condition. do i have to use the apnea machine?
yes cpap v surgery. osa sx: excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
still can't find what's wrong with me. ive been having yellow tongue joint pain weight loss of 4kg fatigue lump feeling in throat and headaches.
for these types of symptoms you need to have a proper diagnosis. in fact diagnosis means 'through knowledge'. once the cause is known then you can get the right treatment. there are various infectious and inflammatory diseases that could cause these symptoms and i would not wait much longer to get diagnosed. call your primary doctor today to get back on the road to health.
tender breast smell sensitivity extreme fatigue nausea food cravings light spotting frequent headaches but negative prego test what's next?
that is a lot of symptoms. since the pregnancy test is negative we can exclude that. i would schedule a primary care visit to go through the long list one by one and an organized process for testing and evaluation can be done.
yellow tongue fatigue globus sensation headache joint pain and weight loss of 4kg. have seen many specialists already. is it some unknown virus?
unfortunately this q & a box is not intended to answer complicated questions nor to diagnose conditions. an in box text consultation at health tap may be helpful. you would need to upload results of any tests if available as well as your medical history. you would need to make yourself available for 24 hours to reply to any questions from the physician. also consider crowdmed. com
swollen hands face and knees lymphodema low body temp hot red skin & headache every night. what could cause this? i also have asthma & raynauds.
i'd get a battery of general tests - complete blood count comprehensive metabolic profile and thyroid to begin with. also compliment those with a physical exam by a medical professional.
swollen hands face and knees lymphodema low body temp hot red skin & headache every night. what could cause this? i also have asthma & raynauds.
are you taking prednisone or other steroids? also sometimes raynaud's is treated with calcium channel blockers that cause leg swelling. can be hypothyroidism nephrotic syndrome heart failure. you need a workup.
within the last 5 days i have become more and more nausea with headaches & breast soreness. had my cycle roughly two weeks ago?
one thing is required to possibly be pregnant. if you have had that and have symptoms suspicious for it you should take hpt to confirm. it is possible to have a "normal" period while pregnant.
what are some common side effects of herceptin (trastuzumab)?
can cause allergic reactions infusion issues can damage the heart can cause scar of the lung - depresses the immune system. fever and chills nausea vomiting pain (in some cases at tumor sites) headache dizziness shortness of breath very low blood pressure rash lack of energy and strength.
can you by diet products containing ma huang?
ma huang contains a potent stimulant ephedrine; very dangerous to use. you never know how much a product might contain. it can cause harmful side effects including death and therefore the fda has banned its use. it can cause dizziness palpitations tremors high blood pressure headache chest pain heart attack stroke seizures and psychosis even if you don't die. it's illegal. stay away.
can weight gain lead to frequent headaches?
weight gain is directly related to increased blood pressure (also known as hypertension). hypertension is commonly associated with headaches. see your primary care physician to be assessed for your blood pressure and new headaches.
can weight gain lead to frequent headaches?
if your weight gain has led to high blood pressure and or diabetes there could be a vascular problem. also if you are under a lot of stress which could be concomitant with the weight gain this could lead to more frequent and severe headaches.
can too much weight gain lead to more frequent headaches?
headaches can be due to many different causes. a very common cause of headaches is high blood pressure (hypertension). when people gain lots of weight hypertension can be the side-effect of the weight gain and then the hypertension can cause more frequent headaches.
can too much weight gain lead to more frequent headaches?
obesity can clearly increase the incidence of headache. after weight loss surgery we find most patients resolve their frequent headaches. the cause may be related to an increased intracranial pressure.
cure of sleep apnea?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
how do i stop snoring without seeing the doctor?
sleep on your side lose weight dont drink alcohol at night. if you have trouble breathing through your nose try a salt water rinse or even try a "breathe right strip". however most patients find that although the above does help it is not enough. if you snore and have difficulty with daytime sleepiness morning headache difficulty concentrating you should be evaluated by an md for sleep apnea!
how can a person know if he has sleep apnea type of snoring if he lives alone?
that person can wakes him/herself up snorting will be sleepy and/or tired during daytime can have dry mouth and sore throats in the mornings headaches irritability poor memory and problems to concentrate. probably will be overweight and also can have htn diabetes coronary artery disease tia/strokes. go to the website of the national sleep foundation or visit www. remsleepcentersga. com for.
how exactly does bariatric surgery affect health?
bariatric surgery has a major impact on diabetes hypertension sleep apnea joint disease gastric reflux infertility high cholesterol headaches urinary incontinence and depression. the latest press showing dramatic correction of diabetes should make anyone with a bmi over 35 (70 pounds overweight) and diabetes really think about bariatric surgery.
how di u know u hsve sleep apnea?
the most obvious sign is if someone witnesses you stop breathing and then wake up on a regular basis while you are asleep. other things that may tip you off to the diagnosis: snoring sore throat or very dry mouth in the morning morning headache or extreme fatigue during the day despite adequate sleep. a sleep study will provide a definitive diagnosis.
have headache and burping a lot with bloated stomach. what should i do? does it have to do with a low carb diet?
more info would be helpful. if eating a low carb diet and not drinking enough water you could be feeling bloated (especially if over-eating) and could be getting headaches from being chronically mildly dehydrated. definitely check with your doctor before starting any new diet or if having a problem with a new diet. use a calendar to track the headaches and to show the doctor when headaches occur.
have headache and burping a lot with bloated stomach. what should i do? does it have to do with a low carb diet?
most people who burp are seeking relief of an uncomfortable feeling in their stomach. they swallow air & bring it right back up. to stop burping stop burping! you are describing symptoms of dyspepsia which can be caused by many problems (medications infection food intolerance gastroparesis constipation). you should review with your doctor in more detail. eliminate soda and eat slowly.
how can i tell if i have sleep apnea? i live alone. is snoring related to apnea?
do you have other signs or symptoms such as grinding your teeth day time sleepiness morning headaches overweight greater than a 15" neck diabetes lack of concentration memory problems? if yes then you should talk to your doctor. sleep apnea is the #1 cause of hypertension.
how can a person know if they have sleep apnea if they live alone and don't know if they snore?
there are other clues. not feeling refreshed on waking up in the morning and daytime sleepiness/fatigue despite adequate number of hours of sleep. early morning headache waking up at night with a sensation of gasping/choking. waking up during the night for no apparent reason and insomnia could be due to sleep apnea. being overweight also is a risk factor. a sleep study may be needed to confirm.
can weight loss surgery help any other physical conditions?
the bypass sleeve and band can resolve diabetes in 90% 85% and 30%. gastric reflux is resolved in 95% 70% and 30%. all procedures can help resolve: high blood pressure sleep apnea joint disease urinary incontinence headaches pcos high cholesterol snoring and infertility. the predicted weight loss is calculated for the % excess weight and is 75-80% bypass 70% sleeve & 50% band.
how can you get rid of a migraine headache while you are on a detox diet?
schedule appt. with neurologist for assessment & treatment options.
can you be addicted to coffee?
yes you can become addicted to the caffeine in coffee. one of the hallmark symptoms of caffeine withdrawal is a migraine-like headache that responds well to nsaids and/or caffeine. however a modest amount of coffee is considered safe for most people and is a part of culture in the usa.
can taking fastin (phentermine) cause severe headaches?
it's not common but it happens and it's probably not a good medicine for you. most people have no problems with it but some are very sensitive and have spikes in blood pressure or other severe symptoms and they shouldn't take it without discuss first with their doctor.
can taking fastin (phentermine) cause severe headaches?
fasting would cause hypoglycemia which in turn would commonly cause severe headaches.
can adderral make you lose weight? how well does it work?
although common side effects of adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine) are a loss of appetite and weight loss the medication also has many other potential side effects some of which are quite serious. insomnia rapid or uneven heartbeats lightheadedness increased blood pressure tremors hallucinations muscle twitches headaches dizziness diarrhea or constipation sexual dysfunction and changes in mental state.
headache and discomfort due to over eating possible?
yes you can get headaches from overheating but stomach aches are more common <positive_smiley> seek medical attn if headache persists more than an hour or two or if excruciating.
how can i treat my mouth breathing?
mouth breathing can occur mainly due to obstruction in the nasal passages which can be due to structural obstructions inflammation as well as dry air. the simplest solution is to try a humidifier at night. if you have any symptoms like headache snoring gasping or sinusitis contact your ent physician. mouth breathing by itself is not a disorder which has to be treated. hope this help!
headaches every day snoring at night?
headaches and snoring can be symptoms of sleep apnea. there are ways to diagnose your sleep disorder. consult your md and see if a sleep study may be in order.
headaches every day snoring at night?
you should be checked for an airway obstruction. your snoring can be associated with sleep apnea. your tongue may be restricting air flow and a morning headache is common when this happens. talk with your doc. about having a sleep study.
hi i am 33yrs old and weigh 143kg i had my period in oct & was 18 days late in nov. i was suppose to start on 18 dec but still not being21 days now.?
always check a upt. if negative likely due to pcos. probably benefit from metformin. buproprion may be beneficial if you have depression. if u snore and have high bld pressure consider sleep apnea. topirimate if you have headaches can help your weight as well. the extra weight is related to irregular menses but is interwoven in metabolism likely high insulin mood and reward system. gdluc.
what are the risks with herceptin (trastuzumab) therapy?
about 4% of women treated with herceptin (trastuzumab) develop some weakness in their heart as measured by a muga test. this decrease in heart function is reversible when the drug is stopped. other side effects of herceptin (trastuzumab) can include allergic reaction fatigue headache and diarrhea. most of my patients have no side effects!
how long does it take for sleep apnea to cause hypertension? i am a 24 y old and i have hypertension. should i have a sleep study for sleep apnea?
do you have other signs or symptoms such as snoring grinding your teeth day time sleepiness morning headaches overweight greater than a 15" neck diabetes lack of concentration memory problems? if yes then you should talk to your doctor. sleep apnea is the #1 cause of hypertension.
how to tell if my son possibly still has obstructive sleep apnea?
a sleep study is the only way to determine if your son still has sleep apnea. signs that you might notice suggestive of sleep apnea are daytime sleepiness snoring tooth grinding. gasps for air in his sleep irritability morning headaches and gerd.
headaches itchy skin numbness in arms runny nose couching sneezing fatigue weight loss loss of appetite nausua for about 2 months. help?
if you have been ill with this complex of symptoms for two months you need to see a doctor in the very near future. need a full history physical exam and probably some imaging studies and lab tests for a clear assessment of what is going on. please see somebody soon and get better.
what are the common side effects of tamoxifen?
the most common side effects of tamoxifen include hot flashes changes in menstrual period vaginal dryness headaches fatigue and gi upset. less common but more serious side effects include blood clots strokes uterine cancer and cataracts.
can over weight cause headaches?
headaches could be coming from tension eye strain tooth grinding dehydration lack of sleep/poor sleep skipping meals stress sleep apnea/snoring (which can happen more often when you are overweight) or chronic sinus problems.
can over weight cause headaches?
your weight has little to do with headaches unless you have low thyroid function or some other metabolic problem. this is likely an additional problem which needs attention.
can over weight cause headaches?
pseudotumor cerebri is associated with headaches. also you should be screened for obstructive sleep apnea and nocturnal hypoxia.
can inflammation of the meninges be caused by sleep apnea? thanks.
meningeal inflammation is not caused by sleep apnea directly. untreated sleep apnea can lead to a number of significant medical problems though. including symptoms that make you feel as if you might have "meningeal inflammation. " fatigue trouble concentrating headache and dizziness are common in untreated apnea patients.
can i take hydroxycut while i'm on levothyroxine?
none of the stimulant weight-loss products on the market are safe. they are known for causing cardiac arrhythmias headaches urinary retention anxiety & depression renal insufficiency sleep disorders and fatigue. there is no such thing as a fat burner. see your doctor for diet and exercise recommendations and do not take any supplements unless under a doctor's management.
can having weight loss surgery make my migraines get any worse?
migraines can be the result of a variety of environmental hormonal and dietary factors. some medications may be helpful in controlling the symptoms. some patients have improvement in their headaches with weight loss. but some patients may experience worsening of their headaches related to low blood sugar or dehydration. this could be compounded if there is any medication malabsorption.
can having weight loss surgery make my migraines get any worse?
generally i am not aware of migraines being related to the obesity or that they improve or worsen after bariatric surgery. you need to know that after the gastric bypass you need to stay away from nsaids such as motrin ibuprofen alleve naprosyn (naproxen). discuss the medications you use for migraine headaches with your pmd neurologist andvd bariatric surgeon to make sure all are on the same page.
whats intron a (interferon alfa 2b)?
is a treatment for chronic hepatitis c and is also occasionally used in certain types of lymphoma and leukemia. it is a manufactured protein that is derived from a real human protein. there are some very significant side effects that include severe flu-like symptoms depression nausea diarrhea headaches.
can i combine hydroxycut performance series with paracetamol or ibuprofen? i suffer migraine
at some point your migraine headaches will lead you to a local primary care doc. there are lots of prescription medications that may help you more then over the counter combinations. caffeine does help with some migraines. be well okay to make appointment to address migraines.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
more likely come from ulcers & hiatal hernia than from diverticulosis. ejection fraction on hida scan varies according to source: some give 30-35%; others give 35-75%. r u being treated for the ulcers & probable reflux from hiatal hernia? if not see doc for rx: h2 blockers like zantac (ranitidine) or better proton pump inhibitors like prilosec/prevacid/protonix; dos may also rx 1 of those + 2 antibiotics.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
these symptoms are more likely related to your gallbladder. most docs would tell you to remove your gallbladder but this can create problems too. i've had many patients have great success with natural therapies to dissolve gallstones & flush them out of the liver/gallbladder. see <link> & the amazing liver and gallbladder flush by andreas moritz.
can diverticulitis cause headache nausea and belching. i have these a lot. have diverticulosis ulcers hiatal hernia. gallblader was 33% on hida scan.
can cause nausea and abdominal pain.
cannot quench extreme thirst. appetite decreased weight loss bruising headaches hip and leg pain along w dull ache fatigue insomnia diarrhea?
this combination of symptoms suggests possible severe illness and requires immediate medical attention. schedule appointment to see doctor as soon as possible.
how bad is hydroxycut max? will it effect my physical and blood work?
it can affect your blood pressure cause headaches and ruin your liver.
how to reduce snoring?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eva
can diabetes mellitus cause regular headaches in kids?
high blood sugar levels are responsible for a variety of immediate symptoms and long-term complications. including headaches symptoms in type 1 diabetes usually over 2 to 3 weeks or less. high blood sugar levels cause the child to urinate excessively. this fluid loss causes an increase in thirst and the consumption of fluids. some children become dehydrated see your md asap.
can diabetes mellitus cause regular headaches in kids?
depends on the blood sugar levels and when it is poorly controlled. if the headache persisted needs to have headache evaluated. this may be a different problem.
had unprotected sex a week and a half ago 2 days after period ended. have waves of headaches dizziness nausea bloating food cravings. pregnant?
only way to know is check a pregnancy test.
what does it mean when my hair starts falling out a lot and one breast hurts i get headaches a lot i feel so weak i don't eat much?
your symptoms may or may not be linked to one cause. a good start would be to see your doctor who can test routine causes and include testing for thyroid etc to identify possible reasons behind your symptoms. best wishes dr m
can i be addicted to paracetamol or is it just my head making me think i need it? how do you know if your addicted?
paracetamol is acetominophen which is not an addictive substance. if you take it daily however you can get what are called rebound headaches. rebound headaches is the body's response to taking analgesics daily. when the medication runs out of your system you get a headache. the only treatment is to stop taking the medication and the headaches will go away by themselves.
how can i differentiate between my cravings and real hunger? also why do i always feel hungry when having a bad headache?
craving is related to need to indulge with food. hunger is the discomfort associated to lack of proper nutrition. it is common to see 5 stages in migraines: prodrome aura headache attack resolution and post headache. in the prodrome patients crave for foods specially for those that tend to aggravate headaches like chocolates peanuts citric juices. this is likely due to neurochemical effect.
how can i differentiate between my cravings and real hunger? also why do i always feel hungry when having a bad headache?
cravings occur when you wanting something but are not displaying signs of hunger. your headaches could reflect hypoglycemia and your body's way to tell you that you need to eat.
could i literally be addicted to coca-cola? i drink at most a half of a 16. 9 floz every day?
sugar is very addicting. . try not drinking any switch to water if you can't you'll know its addicting. you may get headaches when trying to stop if you fight through it they will stop.
what are risks of the cancer drug herceptin (trastuzumab)?
about 4% of women treated with herceptin (trastuzumab) develop some weakness in their heart as measured by a muga test. this decrease in heart function is reversible when the drug is stopped. other side effects of herceptin (trastuzumab) can include allergic reaction fatigue headache and diarrhea. most of my patients have no side effects!
does being overweight have anything to do with having migraines?
obesity and migraines i am not so cerain. very obese and obese persons can have a conditon called pseudotumor cerebrii. this is a condition that causes increased pressure in the brain a prominence of the optic disc when looking at the back of the eye and a syndrome of headaches. if concerned see your pcp or a neurologist.
how do i know if i have sleep apnea? i sleep really smoothly at night now (as far as i know! ) no snoring. my only complaint is being easily startled.
the only way to know for sure is with a sleep study. besides the conditions you list other signs of sleep apnea are: morning headaches poor memory irritability & personality changes gerd bruxism and night sweats to name but a few. being overweight is a big risk factor and snoring is a frequent sign.
can phentermine be taken while on zoloft (sertraline)?
combining ssri's with phentermine has been associated with toxic reactions described in the literature [bostwick jm brown tm. j clin psychopharmacol 1996;16:189—90]. i recommend against this combination. phentermine is a stimulant which can leads to effects like dizziness dysphoria headache insomnia overstimulation restlessness and tremor. the appetite loss effect wears off quickly too.
do breathe right strips work for snoring?
occasionally you need osa eval. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eva
have had multiple episodes of hiccups that last for about 2 to 3 hours. it started this morning. no temp change or overeating or pop. any concerns?
try to stop the hiccups with a teaspoon of dry crystal sugar it calms the nerve in the esophagus. if you have taken over the counter antihistamines for your allergies it may be the problem. if you have headache or change in vision get to medical attention immediately.
headache numb right leg tingling left hand im on diet pills n im anemic n i do smoke. was that signs of heartattack or low iron or stop taking pills?
diet pills and anemia are a poor combination. stop taking the pills and start taking iron for your anemia.
could sleep apnea be diagnosed with embletta?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
headache at night at back and side of head recently > 9pm. burp and dizziness. no vomiting. age 27 overweight. what i ate for dinner doesn't make diff?
your headache may be due to migraines and could be affected by the food you're eating.
how many times a day can i consume green tea? iam overweight by 20 kg due to taking oral steroids? need good advice as iam not active physically!
i suppose it depends if the tea has caffiene or not. drinking more than 1-2 servings of caffeinated beverages daily and then sudden discontinuation can cause caffiene withdrawl headaches. using caffiene for weight loss is a double edged sword. it might help with appetite suppression; however without portion control calorie diaries and physical toning wt loss can be a very frustrating thing.
what causes herceptin (trastuzumab) headache?
the thoery is herceptin (trastuzumab) infusion cause contious vasodilatation which is thought to provoke the headache.
what causes herceptin (trastuzumab) headache?
it is a monoclonal antibody so you can react to the mouse antibody. this is not uncommon. hope this helps.
could a bed wedge help reduce snoring?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
does prolactinoma affect water retention & weight gain or loss?
excessive production of prolactin causes infertility loss of libido and other sexual dysfunctions. a large tumor will affect vision cause headaches and deficiency of other pitutiary hormones that may cause the symptoms you listed. see this site for more info: <link>
how to know if i have sleep apnea or something else?
if you snore have excessive daytime sleepiness trouble falling or staying asleep morning headaches fatigue trouble concentrating periodically stop breathing at night have a dry mouth night time acid reflux sleep paralysis and/or hypnic jerks you could have sleep apnea. if you have sleep concerns please see a sleep medicine specialist.
can getting my tonsils removed help my snoring?
in children enlarged tonsils which significantly reduce the airway space are one of the main reasons for sleep apnea ; removal usually results in improvement in symptoms. in adults tonsils do not usually obstruct the airway nearly as significantly. but if you do snore have excessive sleepiness morning headaches ; periodic cessation of breathing in sleep please see a sleep dr. for evaluation.
how to tell what are symptoms of sleep apnea?
snoring is a warning sign that sleep apnea may be present. other complaints include awakening gasping/choking for air dry mouth/sore throat urinating multiple times at nights morning headaches unrefreshing sleep cognitive impairment and excessive daytime somnolence. talk to your doctor about any of these symptoms. a sleep study would have to be done to confirm the diagnosis.
had heartburn and headache since sleeve gastrectomy 4 days ago. tried liquid tylenol (acetaminophen) for headache and gasx strips and zantac for heartburn. plz help!
in the early post-op period if you are continuing to have heartburn or abdominal pain you should are your surgeon. some patients after gastrstrectomy are started on antireflux meds such as protonix (pantoprazole) or omeprazole. in regards to the ha it can sometimes be related to caffeine withdrawal if u r are coffee or tea drinker. other possibilities could be related to medication or anesthesia. see surgeon
what are the final symptoms or stages for someone with stage 4 breast cancer that has mets to brain?
size number and location of the mets. mets cause swelling which can result in headache nausea weakness seizures or difficulty with thinking speech or vision depending on the part of the brain. in patients who succumb to the mets it is usually swelling leading to difficulty breathing and loss of consciousness. steroids and radiation (possibly surgery) are treatments that may help!
any idea of what i might have? i have had a headache off and on anemia upset stomach dizziness lack of energy a skip in periods increasingly strong appetite but no weight gain lack of energy and low temperature for about 6 months now but more and
anemia could be the cause of your headaches dizziness and lack of energy. make sure your doctors find the underlying cause of your anemia and address that as well. also make sure you are taking enough iron. in addition you should be screened for anemia thyroid issues etc. please see your doctor for a complete history and physical and work up of your current complaints. best of luck.
could diet pills dehydrate your body and lead to tooth decay?
side effects of the prescription diet pills include dizziness insomnia dry mouth headache and constipation. when dry mouth without saliva tooth decay and gum disease are more likely to occur. your health care provider or your dentist can recommend appropriate treatment. take care.
does hydrocephalus cause major weight loss?
hydrocephalus is a neurologic condition that refers to a collection of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) that accumulates in the cavities (ventricles) in the brain. it can cause weight loss if it is associated with the known symptoms of nausea with or without vomiting. also having headaches and being fatigues tend to diminish ones caloric intake which can affect weight. i hope this helps.
what would sore nipples and sharp pain going through breast be?
one of the most common causes of breast pain is too much caffeine. cut back slowly to avoid withdrawal headaches.
ate a burger from a fast food place; about 3 hrs later i began experincing cold like symptoms. scratchy throat headache etc. is it related 2 what i ate?
it is doubtful that the burger caused your symptoms. it is more likely due to the high school kid working on the 'burger line' who coughed on your food!
can you take fastin with paxil (paroxetine)?
i would not recommended due to increase effects on cardiovascular system more anxiety & mood changes severe headaches & blood pressure changes impotence & changes in libido.
does tmj have anything to do with sleep apnea or could tmj cause any problems happen cuz of this?
not usually. it can be a cause of headaches though. it can also lead to dental issues if grinding your teeth is the cause.
during evening chasing son heart rate drops to 60 or below. chest pain headaches stomach pains. overweight 19 yrs old. c-section 2012. cause?
the combination of complaints does not suggest a coherent diagnosis. perhaps something in your endocrine system. sounds worthwhile seeing a doc and getting an exam and if indicated a workup.
any bad side effects of phentermine?
side effects: insomnia dry mouth constipation fast heart rate tremulousness euphoria headaches etc.
could i use phentermine without any health problems?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
can you tell me is adipex a bad option?
potential side effects include: palpitations rapid heart rate ^ blood pressure ischemic event anxiety insomnia headache tremor dizziness dry mouth diarrhea or constipation & sexual dysfunction. when a medication containing phentermine in combination with fenfluramine/ dexenfluramine was on the market – pulmonary hypertension & heart valve damage occurred.
headaches and migraines almost everyday. sometimes i feel like vomiting when the pain gets bad. i eat healthy no changes in life. ?
there are medicines and diet restrictions--no red wine no cheese. if these headaches are so frequent see a neurologist--you do not need to suffer--they can be treated and atleast become less frequent.
have insulin resistance and low blood sugar and get dizzy a lot especially after exercise and get headache. does this need treatment? what type
the diet is full of sugar
how to get rid of acne around my face and body?
if you are overweight (bmi over 30) snore loudly wake up tired fall asleep easily during the day have reflux or morning headaches then you could have sleep apnea. unless you are obese it is less common in your age group - risk is increased after the age of 50
how can i stop snoring?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
headache mostly localised behind r ear. physical test ok. mri &ct last year ok. migraine history. on high protein diet. stif neck sholder. cancer or stres?
findings likely due to migraines or mastoiditis
add. symptoms-basal temp 96. 9 exc. hairloss/breakage cold intol. low energy weight gain brain fog dry skin brittle nails headaches irrit. bowel moody.?
please see your physician to assess for hypothyroidism. this will involve checking a blood tests (at least a tsh). other conditions can cause these signs/symptoms however this is the classic presentation you submitted.
can bipap help with sleep apnea bipap?
yes but cpap is more effective for osa sx& excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp
can protein shakes containing rice protein and flax seeds attribute to headaches? i am experiencing all day long slight headaches.
some food itself or the additive will do it. more commonly the preservatives/ coloring cause ha.
does garcenia cambogià the diet pill that rachael ray took affect you if you take blood pressuremedicine?
there is inadequate information on drug interactions with garcinia cambogia at this time. however it can cause headaches so for that reason alone you may want to think twice about it.
how to cure snoring?
it may be : osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap vs ent for upp eval.
how does obesity specifically affect children?
metabolic syndrome consisting of hyperlipidemia hyperglycemia and hypertension is often noted. some other effects are: fatty liver pcos slipped capital femoral epiphysis bowing of legs increased incidence of headache flat feet and low self esteem.
why my mother have headache and dizziness and vomiting for a week till now she was treated from breast cancer last year now she take hormone therapy?
potential. so have her seen may need ct scan to rule out head problems.
can you tell me how your body react to artificial sweeteners (aspartame saccharin etc)?
if goal is to avoid sugar try 3 calorie-free: 1) stevia: natural but fda approved use of reba not whole leaf & crude extracts; 2) aspartame: synthetic & breaks down with heat so don't cook with it; can trigger headache & gi upset; 3) sucralose--non-absorbed sugar; can cause headaches & gi upset. can also consider these 3 caloric naturally sweet products--1) pure maple syrup; 2) agave; 3) honey
can removing your tonsils cure snoring?
it may: osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap vs ent for upp eval.
can your doctor say to you definitely you do not have sleep apnea but you went to a sleep study specialist he told you do have osa?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night study and cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options.
can a medical doctor said to you definitely you don't have sleep apnea but you went to a sleep study specialist he told me i have osa?
osa can be suggested by history and physical. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night study and cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. nuvigil/provigil help with fatigue.
does snoring relate to having a deviated septum? i cannot breath while snoring and i often wake up with headaches.
waking up at night frequently because of difficulty breathing and an associated headache in the morning is a sign of sleep apnea. see a sleep specialist to help with sleeping reducing snoring as well as headaches.
does snoring relate to having a deviated septum? i cannot breath while snoring and i often wake up with headaches.
get a sleep study and have your nose evaluated by a board certified otolaryngologist.
does snoring relate to having a deviated septum? i cannot breath while snoring and i often wake up with headaches.
often due to insufficient airway size/volume in relation to excess speed of air flow. especially seen in cases of weight gain or lack of tissue tone or the aging process. this can make treatment difficult because sometimes removing tonsils can increase airway size but reduce tissue tone. deviated septum may make one side more closed but the other side should be more open.
does snoring relate to having a deviated septum? i cannot breath while snoring and i often wake up with headaches.
deviated septum can lead to partial obstruction of the nostril leading to snoring.
does snoring relate to having a deviated septum? i cannot breath while snoring and i often wake up with headaches.
snoring the noise that originate from the soft tissues of the oropharyngeal walls during inspiration can become a component of sleep apnea. this usually does not occur until the age of 30 to 40 and may be connected with weight gain. see your pcp for evaluation.
does garcinia cambogia cause acid reflux?
according to webmd this can cause gi upset headaches and nausea. i did not find specific mention of gerd but gerd is one type of gi upset. best wishes.
hi i am curious what happens if you have fast food a lot.? could it give you headaches and stomach aches. also what does fast food do to you.
as a sensible 19 year old young woman you should be able to know whether your eating habits are good or bad. there is plenty of prepared food you can get that is not bad for you.
am i at risk of having a stroke if i have sleep apnea?
osa increases the risk of stroke. sx:excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
as a bariatric patient is it safe to take energy shots and drink muscle milk with caffeine in it?
too much caffeine can speed up gastric emptying make you shaky increase blood sugar and cause headache. be sensible and follow the the nutrition guidelines given to you by your surgeon!
hi i can't find a dr. here in dickinson nd that uses the hcg diet. any ideas of how i can get started?
the reason you're having such a tough time finding a doctor is that the hcg diet is not a great idea. it is a severe calorie restricted diet. you may initially lose some weight quickly but the effect will not last. studies of the diet have shown no value in managing obesity and it carries significant potential for side effects including blood clots headaches and hair thinning among others.
how are fatty liver and sleep apnea related?
obesity inc risk of both. osa:excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ vertigo/amheadaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp eval.
how addictive is phentermine and is it safe for me to take metformin while taking it?
i would not recommended due to increase effects on cardiovascular system more anxiety & mood changes severe headaches & blood pressure changes impotence & changes in libido. addiction is very likely with continued use.
side effects of tamoxifen?
hot flashes weight gain mood changes vaginal dryness headaches fatigue cataracts nausea. serious side effects include blood clots strokes and uterine cancer.
sore breast want to vomit and a bad headache and neck pain tireness?
those symptoms may be found in someone who is pregnant. if one is not pregnant then it could mean that someone is having a migraine headache (bad headache neck tightness or pain associated w/ nausea/vomiting) during the week before the period is due (sore breast). however always best to check w/ one's doc.
sore breast want to vomit and a bad headache and neck pain tireness?
all of these symptoms sounds like an infection. things like achiness fever headache and nausea are common with viral infections (a "bug") but can also be more serious depending on the quality of some of those problems. the breast soreness makes me concerned about a breast infection called mastitis. it can spread to involve the whole body creating such symptoms. best to be seen.
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
if not already done it is worthwhile to check with your doctor and medicaid formulary for the popula drug imitrex (sumatriptan) as an alternative in the meantime while trying otc pain relief. you should also learn to recognize and avoid the triggers for your migraine headaches.
waiting for medicaid to approve midrin script. meanwhile what can i do? can't take otcs w nsaids or caffeine--severe ibs&anxiety&fibrocystic breasts!
primrose oil otc for fibrocystic breasts and supportive bras ice packs. tylenol extra strength 650mg for headache rest ice pack massage. deep breathing relaxation biofeedback techniques. loperimide (immodium) for diarrhea. miralax (polyethylene glycol) for constipation. benadryl for sleep
can celiac disease cause bad body odor?
celiac disease can cause a whole host of problems and is one of the great mimics. it can cause headaches weight loss anemia infertility abdominal pain. and some patients do complain of a change in their body odor. i would ask your doctor to check your blood tests for the typical antibodies associated with celiac disease and if you carry the diagnosis explore possible gluten contamination
side effects of herceptin (trastuzumab)?
about 4% of women treated with herceptin (trastuzumab) develop some weakness in their heart as measured by a muga test. this decrease in heart function is reversible when the drug is stopped. other side effects of herceptin (trastuzumab) can include allergic reaction fatigue headache and diarrhea. most of my patients have no side effects!
breast sore sensitive nipples fatigue bloat vaginal discharge mood swings headaches stress dizziness food cravings no pregnant test taken yet= pregnancy?
best answer for this one is a pregnancy test taken a week after a missed period.
breast sore sensitive nipples fatigue bloat vaginal discharge mood swings headaches stress dizziness food cravings no pregnant test taken yet= pregnancy?
if you are more that two weeks overdue for your period it would help to do a home pregnancy test on first morning urine by following the directions in the package insert. see this site for information on signs of pregnancy. <link>
breast sore sensitive nipples fatigue bloat vaginal discharge mood swings headaches stress dizziness food cravings pregnancy test negative?
your symptoms are not instantly diagnostic of any one particular illness or problem and so you should see your physician for an evaluation. have you had any changes in vision? unusual hair loss or hair growth? are your periods still normal? these are all relevant questions you should be asked and can answer to help guide further workup. i don't want to scare you with vague possibilities.
could artificial sweeteners such a sacrament give you headaches?
artificial sweeteners can cause several non-specific systemic symptoms - fatigue drowsiness achiness headaches - especially if used in large amounts throughout the day. stop using the for a while drink enough water through the day to that your urine is almost clear and see if the headaches go away. if not (give it a few days) see your doctor.
for sleep apnea why is cpap prescribed more than oral appliances?
cpap is more effective for osal. excess snoring/daytime sleepiness/apneic episodes/ am headaches. and the exam obesity/small oral airway/collar size>18. the definitive test is a psg with split night/cpap titration. i would request copy of sleep study and get a second opinion if you are not satisfied with the options. you are young cpap can be difficult to tolerate. ent for upp
face swelling on right side with headache above eye brows as well as body pain. weight gain also noticed to my wife. ?
could be a sinus infection or something even more serious.
any home remedies for relief from migraine headache? any diet plan? please let me know. also what to do while a spell of migraine is going on
for home relief of a migraine headache try some caffeine (coffee or tea) and ibuprofen 200-400 mg at the time of headache onset. for frequent migraine headaches consider using magnesium oxide 500 mg daily to prevent headaches.
can a problem with your thyroid cause headaches swollen glands tiredness and weight loss?
thyroid abnormalities can be easily detected with a couple of blood tests. you may wish to consult your doctor for these tests though it is unlikely that thyroid issues will cause swollen glands other than thyroid itself.
can levofloxacin cause muscle atrophy?
levofloxacin can cause tendon rupture especially achilis tendon mostly in elderly. tendinitis can be caused by this. muscle atrophy has not been described. should not be used routinely in younger than 18 or above 70. caution must be exercised if qt prolongation in ecg. headache insomnia pain dizziness &fatigue are some of the side effects.
could a 44x12mm right infratentorial arachnoid cyst cause night sweats weight loss abdominal pain headaches ulcers or vertigo? non-congenital.
arachnoid cysts usually aren't the cause of problems they're found when doing a scan because of the problem but are usually not the cause of the problem.
dear doctor my wife has following symptoms. unexplained weight gain; anxiety; cyclical headaches; lethargic depression; rapid weight gain; mood swing; anxious depression; thinning hair on the head & hair fall; restless legs; sometimes get urinary tracts
it sounds cliche but in your wife her hormones definitely seem out of kilter. of course what's causing that is another question. she really could use a good physical examination followed by appropriate lab and/or diagnostic testing.
every time after eating my meal i feel heart burn and headache heaviness i'm obese lady37with2kids not on any medication of&on high bp border linsugar?
get rid of sugar!
for mood disorder are there any mood stabilizer drugs that don't cause weight gain fatigue or headache? already have migraines and fatigue.
lamictal usually doesn't but you have to go on it slowly to avoid a rash & if you miss a days dose you have to start over with the dosing--most pts like it however.
fatigue headaches overweight! tsh high@9. 79(scale0. 49-4. 67) ttl testosterone low@7<negative_smiley>scale348-1197) free testos low@3. 1(scale7. 2-24). treat thyroid first then testosterone or treat both at same time?
you need to check with your md both need to be treated. . it will be up to your physician on how. we usually treat both!
fatigue headaches overweight! tsh high@9. 79(scale0. 49-4. 67) ttl testosterone low@7<negative_smiley>scale348-1197) free testos low@3. 1(scale7. 2-24). treat thyroid first then testosterone or treat both at same time?
see endocrinologist to discuss your therapy options.
fly went in my ear. now i have a headache. is it serious?
it is doubtful that these two things are connected one to the other. if the headaches persist see a doctor and be evaluated. best wishes.
fly went in my ear. now i have a headache. is it serious?
the fly in your ear may cause an infection and that could cause a very bad ear ache and a headache. please see a doctor who can use a device called an otoscope to remove the fly and determine if you have an infection that needs antibiotics.
fly went in my ear. now i have a headache. is it serious?
know? did the fly come out of your ear or build a nest and set up housekeeping? if he came out you're in no danger. if he stayed you have the right to charge him rent by the month.
female bmi 17. 47 lost around 13 lbs in a few months on adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine). some days eats well but others very little. today ate very little and she had headaches and tremors. could it be from malnourishment?
yes symptoms could be from malnutrion low blood sugar etc. however it is important to r/o other causes have thyroid level checked and see doctor for workup for other causes and consider evaulation for eating disorder.
female bmi 17. 47 lost around 13 lbs in a few months on adderall (dextroamphetamine and racemic amphetamine). some days eats well but others very little. today ate very little and she had headaches and tremors. could it be from malnourishment?
adderal is a stimulant used in a variety of medical conditions. one of the side effects is suppression of appetite and weight loss. other side effects can include tremors and headaches. these may be caused by too much medication or low blood sugar levels. it is important to be monitored closely by the prescribing physician for side effects when starting a new drug.
gluten free diet. is this a fad? is there any point if you don't have celiac disease?
yes it is a fad but for good reason. while less than 1% of those in the us have celiac disease experts estimate ~10% have gluten sensitivity distinct from celiac which often causes gi symptoms headaches & fatigue. tests for celiac are negative so a trial of avoiding gluten is the best current test. see www. webmd. com/digestive-disorders/celiac-disease/features/gluten-intolerance-against-grain.
read a side effect of cymbalta is breast growth caused by hormone imbalance. does hormone imbalance (gh) from cymbalta also cause growth in height?
top 5 ae of cymbalta (duloxetine) nausea dry mouth headache somnolence fatigue. not seen as much are constipation dizziness anorexia (weight loss)insomnia diarrhea. cymb may sometimes makes people feel well enough that they may have an increase in suicidal thoughts! this is an awesome med not only for depression but also neuropathic pain. may take 10 d + to overcome ae (max 60mg 2xd)
trying to concieve cramping headache lower back pain white clear discharge and sometimes sore breast period 7 days late pregnant test came negative?
continue trying and talk to gynecologist if in results in 6-12 month. if your symptoms are new talk to you gyn.
trying to conceive for 2nd time period 5days late white clear discharge headache back pain cramping sore breast dizziness pregnant test negative?
repeat pregnancy test in 10 days and keep trying. see your gyn.
took my first tamoxifen pill yesterday. i am having headaches today could i take aspirin advil or tylenol (acetaminophen)? are headaches one of the side effects?
treat symptoms as you normally would. however if they continue contact your doctor. tamoxifen increases risk of blood clot and stroke. benefit greatly outweighs this risk.
throbbing headache at night tired feeling trouble sleeping blurry vision at times high bp no interest in anythg. diagnosed with dcis in 2012.
i understand your distress. “throbbing headache tired feeling blurry vision at times” are likely due to high b. p. which can increase further with stress. “trouble sleeping no interest in anything” are likely due to anxiety and depression. see your physician for high b. p and dcis. see psychiatrist for therapy for stresses of relationships separation loneliness insomnia and medical illness.
unpleasant side effects of herceptin (trastuzumab)?
about 4% of women treated with herceptin (trastuzumab) develop some weakness in their heart. this decrease in heart function is almost always reversible when the drug is stopped. other side effects of herceptin (trastuzumab) can include allergic reaction fatigue headache and diarrhea. most of my patients have no side effects!
are there any migraine preventatives that don't interact with prozac (fluoxetine) or cause weight gain?
behavioral approaches to treatment do not interact w/medication or cause weight gain. treatments such as biofeedback clinical hypnosis guided imagery etc. can provide tools you can use effectively. a clinical psychologist who treats headaches would be most skilled in these things. peace and good health.
are high-protein diets safe for weight loss?
such diets may help with weight loss by making you feel fuller. however the risks of using a high-protein diet with carbohydrate restriction for the long term are still being studied. several health problems may result if a high-protein diet is followed for an extended time: some high-protein diets restrict carbohydrate intake so much that they can result in nutritional deficiencies or insufficient fiber which can cause problems such as bad breath headache and constipation. some high-protein diets include foods such as red meat and full-fat dairy products which may increase your risk of heart disease. a high-protein diet may worsen kidney function in people with kidney disease because your body may have trouble eliminating all the waste products of protein metabolism. . if you want to follow a high-protein diet choose your protein wisely. good choices include soy protein beans nuts fish skinless poultry lean beef pork and low-fat dairy products. avoid processed meats. the quality of the carbohydrates (carbs) you eat is important too. cut processed carbs from your diet and choose carbs that are high in fiber and nutrient-dense such as whole grains and vegetables and fruit. it's always a good idea to talk with your doctor before starting a weight-loss diet. and that's especially important in this case if you have kidney disease diabetes or other chronic health condition. finally keep in mind that weight loss may be temporary especially if you return to your previous way of eating. the best eating plan is one that you can stick to long-term.
been diagnosed with hiatus hernia. on meds. but keep getting bad bouts sickness severe headaches major acid reflux and insomnia. wat else can i do?
elevate the head of the bed and abound eating at least two hours before going to bed. also make sure nothing else is wrong and causing your symptoms. not sure why the headache. is the hernia very large?
brown discharge one week before period due. low back ache nausea cramps constipation headaches tired/weak strong food cravings sore throat?
check urine /blood hcg. or may be variation in period or vaginal infection / pid. consider ultrasound to rule out ectopic/. fibroids/ovarian issue. the sore throat may be incidental or can be from reflux due to abdominal/pelvic dysfunction( try maalox or ranitidine or prevecid). .
can you tell me how ephedra (not ephedrine) effect body organs?
ephedra consumption may include severe skin reactions irritability nervousness dizziness trembling headache insomnia profuse perspiration dehydration itchy scalp and skin vomiting and hyperthermia. more serious potential side effects include irregular heartbeat seizures heart attack stroke and death.
can eating unhealthy (junk food) every day cause vomiting dizziness tiredness and headaches? is this my body warning me?
has a lot of additives preservatives transfats and sugar in the various products. thus you can get symptoms such as gi distress fluctuating blood sugar etc. talk to your doctor about shifting to a low carb and higher protein diet so you will have energy from good fat rather than from sugar. your cravings will gradually diminish. peace and good health.
every morning i wake up with a migraine it seems like. i have a headache almost 4-5xweek can this be from sleep apnea?
have you been checked for sleep apnea yet? set up an appointment to see a sleep specialist.
every morning i wake up with a migraine it seems like. i have a headache almost 4-5xweek can this be from sleep apnea?
when deprived can give you headache. a sleep study and a visit to a headache specialist is reasonable.
every morning i wake up with a migraine it seems like. i have a headache almost 4-5xweek can this be from sleep apnea?
if you have sleep apnea you need to be evaluated. dont pay any attention to the neurotransmitter issue.
ent able to diagnose me with a nasal polyp and if so how long would it take? and can a nasal polyp cause sleep apnea and cause eye/forehead pressure?
on site size and cause of the nasal polyp sleep apnea isn't caused by nasal polyps forehead/ eye pressure or headaches can be caused by nasal polyps if obstructing sinuses drainage causing pressure build-up your ent will recommend what suits you for treatment often times surgery isn't needed local treatment would suffice with treatment of the cause if polyps are due to allergies for example
everyday im congested headache neck pain ent dr thinks is just sleep apnea i couldnt do excersice cause vertigo what should i do? im type 2 diabeti
your doctor may be correct about your sleep apnea but you must be referred to a specialist that can help you. regarding type 2 diabetes - please stop that term. type 2 diabetes can be totally removed once you have a good diet and good exercise. please have your doctor refer you to a dietitian. you can and will get rid of type 2 diabetes once you get in under control.
ear discomfort cervical headache neck pain and pulsing/ring tinnitus for years. recently headache/pain won't go away with otc. overweight 26 f?
overweight is the cause for many aches/ pains all over the body. it can cause you stress and related migraine headaches. you need to create a better order in your daily life. this should include exercise(walking outdoors for 20-30 mins daily) and reduce your calories slowly but with each meal take smaller portions. avoid foods with too much sugar or fat(no fried foods). results will show in 6 mon
father 54y have type 2 diabetes mellatus &triglyceride. from 2days he suffered from occipital pain when standup only what is reasons &any food causes?
high triglycerides get better with sugar control. get your bp checked. occipital headaches could be from high bp.
frequent infections headaches large weight loss abnormal wbc fatigue. want a second opinion. cancer runs strong in my family and i'm concerned. ?
please talk to your parents and explain your concern. i am confident they will locate a different specialist for you. it is unlikely that you have cancer at your age but you will not be comfortable until you have seen a second specialist. please keep me posted how things go.
following low carb diet currently 50days last 3 days ketones are reading 4. 9 i'm lethargic and dizzy and have heavy jelly like legs slight headache?
sounds like you are ketotic. discuss with the dr. recommending this diet.
got stomach problems with sore throat headaches vomiting starvation fever lost appetite. what should i do? thank you.
you sound quite ill and in need of an extensive evaluation. do not delay any further. go and be seen.
gastric sleeve patient only med class that works on my cluster ha's are nsaid's. apap or triptans don't work either. are there any safe alternatives?
here's an article that may clarify: <link> emedicinehealth. com/causes_and_treatments_of_migraine_headaches/page3_em. htm
getting visual aura right after waking up for 2 weeks. lasts 20 mins. and goes away. no headache. only after waking up. been on low-carb diet as well.
could be migraine or ophthalmic migraine. could be related to diet. see "migraine diet" at cremersmd@blogspot. com
getting visual aura right after waking up for 2 weeks. lasts 20 mins. and goes away. no headache. only after waking up. been on low-carb diet as well.
a specific migraine syndrome called typical aura without headache has been described in which an aura- most often visual- emerges not followed by headache but accompanied by numbness and/or tingling of the face or extremities. it would be helpful to know if you have a history of classic migraine headaches or a maternal lineage history. the onset of aura on awakening is a typical migraine feature.
getting visual aura right after waking up for 2 weeks. lasts 20 mins. and goes away. no headache. only after waking up. been on low-carb diet as well.
it suggests that you might be having low glucose in the early morning because of your low carb diet. given all of your other conditions and concerns you should probably keep an accurate food and symptom diary for a couple of weeks and make an appointment to see your provider. also be sure to have a snack at bedtime (protein is best). good luck!
getting visual aura right after waking up for 2 weeks. lasts 20 mins. and goes away. no headache. only after waking up. been on low-carb diet as well.
this could be the beginnings of an atypical ophthalmic migraine. they are not necessarily accompanied by headaches and usually only involve eye symptoms. see your doctor and optometrist for evaluation of your eyesight and formal examination.
can u get pg on the iud mirena (levonorgestrel) been having a lot of symptoms swollen sore breast come n go nausea on & off headaches peeing alot moody thirstier?
still in correct location then it is rare. those symptoms are also side effects of mirena (levonorgestrel). if you want to be sure take a home pregnancy test. contact the doctor that placed the iud if you have further concerns. good luck.
if i got a neg. hpt but have sore breasts with bumps on my areolas and white discharge mild headaches frequent gas and back pain can i be pregnant?
if you want to know if you are pregnant take a test. in today's world you do not need to wonder if you are pregnant or not based on symptoms. pregnancy tests are available at any pharmacy and in minutes you will have your answer. they can detect a pregnancy 7-10 days after conception. the best time to take one is when you miss your period.
im almost 2months delay but im irregular im expericing headache sore breast back pain slight cramps bloated tummy tiredness and always sleepy?
did you see your doc yet.
i have body aches headache and my right breast hurts a lot especially when breadt feeding. what could it be?
could be unrelated viral illness or mastitis (infection of the breast tissue). you can see nipple discharge fever and/or skin redness but you should call your doctor now. antibiotics are needed if it's mastitis. you can keep breast feeding. good luck!
i have body aches headache and my right breast hurts a lot especially when breadt feeding. what could it be?
a common problem with breast feeding can be an infection called mastitis and can give you the symptoms you describe. it is not uncommon and can be treated with antibiotics and breast pumping for a period of time. warm soaks to the breast may help. i would suggest a call and possible visit to your ob.
i have body aches headache and my right breast hurts a lot especially when breadt feeding. what could it be?
this could be a mastitis or infection in your breast and it may require antibiotics. other possibilities are a cold or flu associated with breast congestion. see your ob/gyn or pcp to examine your breast or at least a breasfeeding specialist.
i've not been feeling good for a couple of weeks now i keep getting headaches dizziness tender breasts and tiredness what could it be?
there are a lot of things that could be wrong. with breast tenderness tiredness & dizziness i'd do a pregnancy test as well. good luck!
i've not been feeling good for a couple of weeks now i keep getting headaches dizziness tender breasts and tiredness what could it be?
be pregnant if you are sexually active. go see your doctor about it. may also have viral illness
im 31. changes n period severe breast tenderness hot flashes/really cold fatigue headaches what could cause this? mom is post menapausal at 47
your symptoms are nonspecific to a particular condition. start with the basics : sleep nutrition and stress management. hot flushes may result from hypoglycemia and low thyroid (hypothyroidism). fatigue may be from both of these and poor sleeping (time and quality). see a caregiver who is willing to tackle the whole patient and not someone who will only test your hormones. good luck!
im 31. changes n period severe breast tenderness hot flashes/really cold fatigue headaches what could cause this? mom is post menapausal at 47
i recommend consultation with your gynecologist.
i have not got my period this month i feel nausea and i have sore breast could i be preganant
hello. if you have been sexually active without use of protection you might be pregnant. classic pregnancy symptoms usually begin at the time of the missed period or shortly there after. they can include: nausea vomiting lack of period tender or swollen breasts urinating more often abdominal enlargement headache insomnia feeling tired etc. the only way to know if you are pregnant at this time is to take a pregnancy test.
is it normal to have enlarged breasts taking emergency contraception?
potential side effects with emergency contraception can include: tender breasts; changes in menstrual flow (spotting bleeding early or late period); loose stools; dizziness; headache; nausea/ vomiting; abdominal discomfort or feeling tired. if you develop chest tightness difficulty breathing swelling of lips mouth throat – call 911. notify your doctor if you miss your period. see below.
is there a disease that would lead to nipple discharge headaches and vision changes?
yes. there can be a tumor in your pituitary gland. the tumor can cause prolactin secretion which will cause nipple discharge. you need to see your doctor.
is there a single condition that could be characterized by severe cramps breast tenderness headaches and backache bloating and constipation?
all of those symptoms can occur with pms. if they are persisting longer than 1 to 2 weeks they may be due to a ovarian cyst which is continuing to make extra progesterone. see your doctor for an exam and ultrasound.
i think i may be pregnant. i have a headache gas bloating tender breasts ect. i've taken two hpt both neg. if i'm not pregnant then what's wrong?
he/she can do a serum quantitative test and additional studies if needed to see what's wrong.
is a headache a sign of falling hair when you undergo chemotherapy for breast cancer?
some patients will have aches and tingling at the hair roots after chemotherapy. a headache is typically related to something else.
iam 11 days late on my period im feeling symptoms like sore breast pee often very hungry cramps and some headache but i took 3 hpt and all neg.?
you could be pregnant but its too soon to test. wait 10-14 days and repeat a home pregnancy test. you tested too for an accurate result.
i haven't had a period for 6 months now i've took a pregnancy test it came back negative i now have breast pain for about 2 weeks now and headaches?
the first thing to do is blood tests for thyroid disorder and abnormalities in prolactin hormone.
i haven't had a period for 6 months now i've took a pregnancy test it came back negative i now have breast pain for about 2 weeks now and headaches?
you need to have yo urself checked for polycystic ocary syndrome. you are not ovulating. when you do not ovulate your uterine lining does not break down. this can cause a condition called hyperplasia.
i been having upper back pain sore breast tiredness headaches lightheaded and some what of chest pain. i am worried can it be from my heart?
low chance based on your description but as a doctor my decision about whether or not to check your heart in the office would be based upon your risk factors for heart disease and your description of the pain itself. for example: is it brought on by eating? breathing in? exerting yourself? how long does it last for when you have it? is it always in the some place? what does it feel like?
i been having upper back pain sore breast tiredness headaches lightheaded and some what of chest pain. i am worried can it be from my heart?
it is unlikely from the heart. you probanely have some kind of viral illness causing all these aches and pains and breast soreness and lightheadedness but you should check it with your doctor.
i have a left breast lump burning stomach pain (on tecta) headaches (lots of pressure) enlarged left chest bone occasional tight chest pain. help.
it doesn't sound like a lot of the above problems are related however you really need to see your doctor to sort this out especially with the breast lump.
i have a left breast lump burning stomach pain (on tecta) headaches (lots of pressure) enlarged left chest bone occasional tight chest pain. help.
this sounds very serious! you need to seek help now. please do not delay. best luck!
i have not had a period in 6weeks. i jave headaches sore breasts and thick discharge?
i would advise that you have a pregnancy test done - this can easily be accomplished by purchasing a pregnancy test kit at the pharmacy or visiting with your physician.
i have not had a period in 6 weeks i have sore breasts headaches and thick discharge. i have dne a pregnancy test but came back negative? !
it's likely that you did not ovulatie this cycle which results in an irregular cycles and symptoms of estrogen excess such as tender breasts. most of the time this corrects on its own but occasionally will require correction with medications.
i am 35 year old female. had 6 ct plus 2 mammograms and a few x rays in the last 2 years. just learned about radiation danger. now i am terrified. what can i do to repair cell damage. please so scared?
the past is the past. antioxidants and healthy living are the best recommendations for you. if down the road you get systemic symptoms such as weight loss or chronic headaches please see your physician. an mri is a radiation free test that if you need one you should have instead of ct or x-ray. relaxation techniques may be of benefit to you as well.
having trouble sleeping feel exhausted but never sleep long feel hot toss and turn and i have tender breasts and headaches every day! what's wrong?
these symptoms can have a variety of causes and you certainly should see your healthcare provider since your life is being disrupted. don't ignore these symptoms. good luck!
having trouble sleeping feel exhausted but never sleep long feel hot toss and turn and i have tender breasts and headaches every day! what's wrong?
i see this kind of thing all the time and bad diet is a major cause. try getting rid ot the "junk" especially the sweet stuff including diet drinks.
i have clear and milky nipple discharge when squeezed both breast is this something i should be worried about?
you have galactorrhea. this may be a benign condition but you should see a doctor to check your prolactin level especially if you have any headaches and /or blurred vision. you could have a prolactin secreting tumor in your pituitary gland in your brain. please see your doctor. good luck.
headache dizzie/lightheaded fatigue nauseated and sharp breast pain. period came on for month of dec. and jan. whats wrong?
pregnancy is a possibility. purchase and perform a home pregnancy test. it shoould become positive around the time you're a week late. if it's negative repeat in a week and call your doctor.
im 27 experiencing a stiff neck burning headache tingling feet a painful lymphnode close to breastbone and in neck is it metasised breast cancer?
while you don't mention fever it's most important if you have a headache and stiff neck to rule out meningitis which should be done immediately in the er. meningitis should be identified and treated as early as possible. if meningitis is ruled out you should seek eval for your headache and consider tension ha which may also account for the neck stiffness. migraine ha can cause neuro sxs.
have the iud but recently have backache abdominal pain sore breasts missed period headaches heavy discharge and constipation pregnant?
if you're sexually active then no method of birth control is 100% effective. an otc pregnancy test will help to figure this out. if this is a brand new mirena (levonorgestrel) then pregnancy would've been ruled out before placement. new mirena (levonorgestrel) can cause some pregnancy-like symptoms but then the pregnancy test will be negative.
have you ever had fatigue headaches and sore breasts after a period is over?
your symptoms might represent an underlying infection and it would be a good idea to get examined by a practitioner if your symptoms persist.
my mom is getting extreme headaches from tamoxifen what should she do? she completed chemotherapy and radiation a few months ago. she is now taking tamoxifen and she is having extreme headaches. are these side affects of tamoxifen? also she was still ge
tamoxifen causes side effects in many women. headaches are a common side effect. your mom should ask her oncologist about this. sometimes it just takes time to adjust to the medication. other times women are changed to a medication called an aromatase inhibitor but only if post-menopausal. it's really important for her to talk to her doc and get this problem solved! (and it can be solved! ).
my mom is getting extreme headaches from tamoxifen what should she do? she completed chemotherapy and radiation a few months ago. she is now taking tamoxifen and she is having extreme headaches. are these side affects of tamoxifen? also she was still ge
this is conversation that you be having with your heme/onc physician. this should be done immediately and make sure that you provide him/her with all the symptoms she is experiencing.
my menstural period was 2 weeks late. i finally get it and it last 3 days. i had breast pain back headache fever and chills. can i be pregnant?
in today's world no one should have to worry whether or not they are pregnant. over-the-counter pregnancy tests are very inexpensive and are reliable. if you're concerned you might be pregnant please check a test. if you don't want to be pregnant please see your doctor to begin an effective type of birth control.
do you think i need a boob reduction if d?
some reasons for breast reduction surgery include neck back or shoulder pain as well headaches due to a large chest. if your chest is not in proportion to your body frame this may be more of an issue. it is a personal decision.
my mam is suffering really bad headach es where she says she can hear her heartbeat really loud so bad that she can't sleep no headache tablets help?
have the blood pressure checked. headache has many causes most are not brain tumors. ask your primary care dr. if ct or mri of the brain is indicated.
my mam is suffering really bad headach es where she says she can hear her heartbeat really loud so bad that she can't sleep no headache tablets help?
have her seen by her primary care doctor for initial evaluation. she may be having high blood pressure that can be addressed by primary care doctor. if needed appropriate referrals can be made to ear nose and throat doctor or other specialists as needed.
my period was 4 days late then lasted 9 days it's normally 6. 6 days later i'm having light bleeding headaches bloating sore breasts. ttc.
menstrual abnormalities are common and if you wish to have a more normal menstrual cycle your doctor can help you.
a week before period fatigue nausea slight cramping low back pain increase urination some headache breast tenderness pms or pregnancy?
pregnancy is always a consideration. buy a home pregnancy test. they turn positive at about the same time you'd be due to start your next expected period. if it's negative repeat in 1 week and call your doctor.
does radiation help with stage 4 breast cancer that has mets to the brain?
radiation is very important to control symptoms like headaches or seizures. in rare cases surgery or gamma knife are used but only if there are only a few mets and the rest of the disease is under control.
am i pregnant? i'm experiencing nausea headaches enlarged breasts darkening of nipples as well as white on the tips of my nipples
you can buy a home pregnancy test kit at a pharmacy to test if you are pregnant or go see a doctor they could also do a blood test to check if you are pregnant.
am i pregnant? i'm experiencing nausea headaches enlarged breasts darkening of nipples as well as white on the tips of my nipples
start by purchasing an otc pregnancy test. if negative still see a physician.
am i pregnant? had sex with condom hot period that night. had dizziness sore breast spewing headaches and heart burn.
if you had your period the same day (night) as you had sex then you can't be pregnant from that encounter.
breast reduction i am 33 without children i have constant pain in my neck back and shoulders and very bad migraines which i'm not sure if that can be a factor as well. i am considering breast reduction surgery i know i will have to quit smoking before
breast reduction surgery for women who have large breasts and suffer from chronic neck upper back and shoulder pain is certainly a reasonable possible course of action after other courses of action have been exhausted. it often makes the muscular headaches better. it does not unfortunately improve migraine headaches. that will need further evaluation and is often improved with medication diet alteration and avoiding migraine triggers. mammography or breast ultrasound is a very reasonable test due to your strong family history of breast cancer. you will need to speak with your physicians and insurance company to see if this is a covered benefit. remember that a test may be reasonable but still not covered by your insurance company. you might need to be forceful. hope this info helps.
breast implant surgery feb 7th starting to feel sick with headache and flu symptoms. can i take nyquil? i am suppose to only take tylenol (acetaminophen) for pain.
yes the use of this medication should not pose a problem. however be careful that you inform your surgeon if you remain ill immediately prior to the procedure; patients undergoing elective breast surgery should be free of any source of potential bacteremia and free of any pulmonary involvement… best wishes.
breast implant surgery feb 7th starting to feel sick with headache and flu symptoms. can i take nyquil? i am suppose to only take tylenol (acetaminophen) for pain.
this should not be a problem. within 3 weeks of surgery you should be able to take this medication without concern. however i would speak with your physician to confirm.
breast implant surgery feb 7th starting to feel sick with headache and flu symptoms. can i take nyquil? i am suppose to only take tylenol (acetaminophen) for pain.
the pain medicine in nyquil is tylenol (acetaminophen). depending in the type of nyquil the other medicine in it is a decongestant and/or a cough suppressant neither of which will interfere with subsequent surgery.
i've been taking augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate) 875/125 mg x5 days for mastitis. have had diarrhea headache & fatigue x3 days (after taking augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate)). is this normal?
you could be having reaction to augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanate). suggest you call dr and change antibiotic
period due before march 11 but nausea headaches some breast tenderness twinges of pain slight gas light headed very tired back pain mood swings?
see a dr. for a pregnancy test and physical exam.
period due before march 11 but nausea headaches some breast tenderness twinges of pain slight gas light headed very tired back pain mood swings?
first check a pregnancy test. . pms or currently known as premenstrual dysphoric disorder which becomes more common in your late 20s/early 30s. i assume you are 29. it pregnancy is negative and your symptoms get better after each of your period then you have yourself a diagnosis of pmdd. check with your doc. good luck.
pregnant? nausea headaches period-like cramps without a period brown spotting mood swings breast pain uti like cramps/peeing frequent but no pain
urine test strips are cheap and quite effective. if not pregnant retest in several more days or go and see a gynecologist.
breast pain nausea headaches dizzyness non stop periods while on amethia lo? prescribed due to pcos
can be very common side effects in the first 3 months. should improve for most women after this. if not ask you obgyn to try a different type of pill.
during a breast biopsy my doctor asked me if i've had headaches which have recently started for me just wondering how this could be related? thanks
think there is a relationship there.
during a breast biopsy my doctor asked me if i've had headaches which have recently started for me just wondering how this could be related? thanks
but part of a routine "review of systems". although hormonal changes which can be part of breast issues can certainly cause headaches in many women. either way it's a good thorough doctor to inquire.
my big boobs hurt my back after prolonged standing. will need breast reduction surgery in the future?
large breasts can cause back neck and shoulder pain; chest wall pain; headaches; poor posture; shoulder grooving; numbness and tingling of the hands; shortness of breath sleep disturbances rashes under and between the breasts and low exercise tolerance. nonsurgical treatment is not often very effective but only you can decide if surgery is right for you.
yesterday i had a severe blackout without nausea dizziness or pain. it lasted for a solid 5 minutes then was fine. should i be concerned?
blackouts aren't normal and you state you have a history of dizziness hypoglycemia migraine and headaches. so 5 minutes of a black out is 5 minutes too long and needs to be further worked up by your doctor or referred to a specialist depending on the findings. you do not want something like this occurring if your driving or operating machinery that could endanger lives (yours or others).
yesterday i took a dosage of ibuprofen for a menstrual headache. afterwards i became so dizzy that i could barely walk my heart rate sped up and be?
sounds like a migraine but it could be a reaction to too much ibuprofen. make sure you're not taking more than 3200 mg per day and no more than 600 mg at a time. make sure you're drinking plenty of fluids.
yesterday i was diagnosed with a concussion after hitting my head when i passed out. i feel very disconnected and a lot of pain. revisit the er?
if you are getting worse more headache new symptoms- yes i would get reevaluated.
green and white nipple discharge left side milky discharge right side. will soak bra pad. horrible headaches. no sex drive. not pregnant. any advice?
the combination of headaches nipple discharge and lack of sex drive may indicate that you have a pituitary gland issue that is producing too much prolactin a hormone that normally stimulates milk production but in high quantities can interfere with other hormone levels. pituitary gland enlargement can also cause headaches. the greenish discharge may indicate infection. talk to your doctor!
having period for 4 months(4-5)days wasnt feeling nauseous during that time no heightened sense of smell no nipple discharge and test on the day of period this month came out negative but experiencing stomach growling and mild headaches is it possib
it can be hard to tell if a woman is pregnant because some of the symptoms seen in early pregnancy can also happen in non-pregnant women. home pregnancy tests are very accurate when done correctly. one can test about 3 weeks after sex (when conception might have occurred) 1 week after missing a period or 1 week after starting a "weird" period.
i am experiencing nipple discharge of dark green breast tenderness to touch not pregnant and constant headaches. what's wrong with me?
the symptoms you described suggest infection/inflammation of the breast. it is imperative that you see a doctor for an evaluation to get the proper treatment. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex. get hpv vaccine.
negative pregnancy test. i have cravings tender breasts when i touch my belly it hurts headaches urine more than usual what could it possibly be?
depending on your cycle it could be early pregnancy or premenstrual syndrome or a urinary tract infection. recheck a pregnancy test 99 cent ones work well drink water try ibuprofen and tylenol (acetaminophen) and if you have pain with urination go to a provider to rule out infection. if this comes monthly its your cycle especially in light of a neg preg test.
not on my period but i have stomach pain breast pain back pain milc headaches and mild leg pain is this normal for an 18 year old?
pain is a symptom designed to let the person know something is wrong. you need to have a medical evaluation. contact your p. c. p.
no ejaculation and plan b within 2 hours. have sore breasts and headaches am i creating my own symptoms?
there are sperm released even without ejaculation. plan b should be effective. biggest problem is why on earth are you having unprotected sex? it's a good way to get pregnant or an std or both>.
nipple discharge thick white pregnancy symptom?
nipple d/c in early pregnancy. classic pregnancy sxs don’t begin until period is missed or thereafter (6-8 wks). these can include: tender /swollen breasts nausea or vomiting; lack of period; ^ frequency of urination; headaches insomnia fatigue. moodiness mild cramping food cravings ; aversions; passing gas; enlarging waist line. etc. may be ^ white milky vaginal discharge. take hpt to know.
newly dx w/breast cancer idc er & pr postive. i don't want to sound like a hypochondriac. recent rib pain incontinence and headache. do i tell team?
your doctor(s) should know every symptoms every doubt you have need to be cleared. once you tell them about rib pains they will do test and make sure it is not the spread to ribs it is important please call your oncologist
newly dx w/breast cancer idc er & pr postive. i don't want to sound like a hypochondriac. recent rib pain incontinence and headache. do i tell team?
you are correct that you may be being overly cautious but let the team know. based on your tumor size and stage they can advise you or offer reassurance. so just touch base and get their thoughts.
not on any medication. my prolactin was 242 mu/l. fsh 0. 7 lh 0. 4. suffer from nipple discharge mucus in period tiredness thigh pain headache anxiet?
you really need to go see a gyn md as your elevated prolactin can be treated with bromocriptine mesylate (parlodel) which will certainly improve some of your symptoms. this is caused by a very small growth in the pituitary which is suppressed by the medication.
high heart rate and headaches are they related? also having cramps lower abdomen period is supposed to come sunday. any ideas of what it could be?
elevated heart rate and blood pressure. it is body's response to adverse events.
what is african trypanosomiasis?
is a parasitic disease of humans and other animals. it is caused by protozoa of the species trypanosoma brucei. first stage of the disease there are fevers headaches itchiness and joint pains. this begins one to three weeks after the bite. weeks to months later the second stage begins with confusion poor coordination numbness and trouble sleeping.
my partner is 44yrs old. always complains of feelings of anxiety the shakes headaches muscle pain heart palpitations and generally just unwell?
partner needs a full medic. al evaluation. online could only speculate and that without good data.
my 8 yr old daughter has a bp of 121/40 is this normal? she c/o palpitaions with dizziness and headaches on occasions and also c/o blurred vision. sho
bring her to a pediatrician to check up immediately. her systolic pressure is on a high side of the norms and diastolic pressure is too low. she also has a wide pulse pressure. with the combination of the above symptoms you have described she needs to be seen asap.
what is the reason of high potassium and low white cell in blood since i have ibs(consumption)? dry eyes feeling dizziness nausea headache sometimes.
high potassium is usually seen with kidney failure or taking certain medications. low white blood cell count is usually due to viral illness or bone marrow disorders. dry eyes occur in some autoimmune diseases. your physician would be best qualified to evaluate you.
what are the symptoms of chronic anxiety especially the chest area?
physical symptoms of what could be a generalized anxiety disorder include fatigue headaches muscle tension muscle aches can't relax and sleep problems. if you think you have an anxiety disorder the first person you should see is your family doctor. about your symptoms to make sure that another physical problem isn't causing the symptoms. help is available so get it checked out now!
why do i feel extreme headache vomiting weak shaky heavy eyes fast heart beat and hungry all of a sudden? i have migraine.
migraines rapid heartbeats stomach symptoms are often associated with dysautonomia / mitral valve prolapse syndrome - neither are usually life threatening but both cause patients anxiety about their symptoms. see doctor to be checked. read dr. richard hoffman's book on mvp on amazon. com. increase fluid intake try magnesium supplements.
is naproxen safe to take when you have a chest infection? i have a migraine on propranolol for that and amoxicillin for chest infection
no probably to take naproxen along with amoxicillin or propranolol. just don't overdo it. if you are using naproxen to specifically treat your headaches then you do not want to use it on more than 10 days out of any given month otherwise your headaches could be caused to get worse. good luck.
would heart problem show up on ekg blood work or xray had all of them done good results doctors says its anxiety. headaches both legs tingly faint?
first the chance that a 25 y/o would have a heart attack is very small. making a diagnosis is a combination of detailed history physical exam and selected tests. for heart disease family history and risk factor analysis are very important. can these tests be negative and miss something? yes but a 25 y/o with all neg tests the chance is very small. if you are still concerned then get 2nd opinion.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic nervousness and headaches? on bp depression and anxiety meds.
antidepressants to varying degrees can have sympathomimetic properties particularly the snri's (effexor cymbalta (duloxetine) pristiq) and maoi's. the risks and benefits should be weighed.
what can cause a fast heart rate high blood pressure especially diastolic nervousness and headaches? on bp depression and anxiety meds.
anxiety is at the top of the list of potential causes here some bp meds especially that dilate arteries strongly can cause reactive fast pulse and jittery/nervous feeling. hyperthyroidism can cause this cluster of findings as well. finally you will find "pheochromocytoma" if you google these symptoms and yes it can mimic the above things but is hardly ever found--speak to your doctor about it.
i was sleeping and then woke up suddenly with a very fast heart rate. it was back to normal within 3-5 minutes. was this heart related or panic attack?
brief episode of heart racing can come on with activation of your flight or freight mechanism ( sympathetic nervous system) it's ok to have this racing of ur heart provided is sporadic and back to normal when situation improves. panic attacks can accompany heart racing too. if having difficulties during the day especially headaches and somnolence may want to check for sleep apnea. good luck.
what does heart attack shoulder or arm pain feel like? i've never had it i don't think.
classically it's pressure numbness or heaviness. however people have described other feelings like sharpness aches or no pain at all except in the chest. basically if you feel anything abnormal plus suddenly weak short of breath headache pain etc. see a doctor.
i feel nausated dizzy and have a headache even if i eat and have slept cause? not pregnant hist: hbp palps tachycardia
to high bp. what has it been running & how is it being treated? have you followed up with your primary?
i take topamax (topiramate) 150 mg per day for headaches/seizures. is it possible those med adjustments cause my hypokalemia?
yes indeed topamax (topiramate) can cause infrequent side effects of dehydration low potassium (hypokalemia) and low calcium (hypocalcemia). severeal medical studies support this finding. definitely discuss this with your doctor and see if a different medication might be better for you.
is oxycodone the same as oxycotin. can oxycodone given at 325mg cause hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest?
oxycontin is a brand name for oxycodone. it is a schedule ii controlled substance. the most common side effects are nausea vomiting dizziness or headache. most serious side effect is respiratory depression or arrest. the "325" you mention is not the oxycodone dose. must be the acetaminophen (tylenol) content. stay under 4000mg/day of acetaminophen to avoid liver damage.
i've noticed that my pulse rate has become very slow recently - 50-60 bpm is this something to be concerned about?
a pulse in the 50's without any other symptoms is usually the sing of an efficient heart. this is common in endurance athletes. symptoms of headache lightheaded ness fatigue warrant a trip to the doctor.
is it normal to have a fast heart rate when you have a really bad headache?
any heart rate could accompany severe pain.
i have a swollen tonsil and extreme pain. should i go to the er? one of my tonsils is swollen my throat is swollen i am having a hard time breathing massive headaches - shooting pains. only on the right side of my head heart flutters and shakes. i h
trouble breathing can be a scary symptom and an emergency. if youfeel it is an emergency then definitely go to the er. a swollen tonsila nd sore throat can be as simple as a virus or can be serious. a full history would include how long youhave had these symptoms. if it is acute and accompanied by fever then you should see a primary care doctor for a possible strep throat. you doctor can determine if this is appropriate. if it has been there longer than 2-3 weeks is getting worse you have other lumps int he neck then you should go to your doctor to rule out other serious conditions.
i have a swollen tonsil and extreme pain. should i go to the er? one of my tonsils is swollen my throat is swollen i am having a hard time breathing massive headaches - shooting pains. only on the right side of my head heart flutters and shakes. i h
if you are having trouble breathing then it may be a good idea to go to an er (or urgent care clinic) to be seen sooner and to get an examination.
i am 20 and my pulse is 89 i gao into a car accident 2 days ago. i hit my head really hard and i n now i have really bad head ache blurry vision i feel very weak n really depress is this normal? or what shoul i do? also i feel my eyes very heavy n the
a concussion is a traumatic brain injury that impacts the way your brain functions - usually caused by a blow to the head but can also be caused by violent shaking. you don't need to lose consciousness to have a concussion. if your symptoms are worsening - you should definitely be checked out sooner rather than later. your severe headache and blurry vision is concern enough to go to the er. other reasons to seek emergency care are: -vomiting -worsening headache -confusion -loss of consciousness -slurred speech -changes in behavior such as increasing irritability or fussiness -worsening coordination such as trouble walking or clumsiness -seizures -changes in pupils such as one larger than the other -lasting or recurrent dizziness -blood or fluid coming from the nose or ears - large bumps or bruises on areas other than the forehead - especially in infants a good rule of thumb is when in doubt get it checked out!
i have had migraine headaches for years. i take beta blockers. for the last year the top of my head hurts whenever i bend over sneeze or cough. ?
several issues must be reviewed: 1 sleep problems? even you might not realize that 2. any trigger points or painful points in neck as they give referral pain in head 3. is there any medication withdrawal or sudden stop? 4. is scalp tender on top of head? see your doctor for assessment.
i have had migraine headaches for years. i take beta blockers. for the last year the top of my head hurts whenever i bend over sneeze or cough. ?
the symptoms you're describing could be related to increased pressure inside your skull. this could be due to many things including a mass high blood pressure or a vascular malformation. it is definitely something you need to discuss with the doc treating your headaches right away.
i keep getting these splitting headaches everytime i do some form of weightlifting. it comes immediately after palpitations and stays for hours?
talk to your doctor before you lift weights again. it is important to rule out any aneurysms in your brain.
i keep getting these splitting headaches everytime i do some form of weightlifting. it comes immediately after palpitations and stays for hours?
these symptoms combined likely mean you have high blood pressure or aortic disease. you should be evaluated by a doctor.
i have a fast resting heart rate and low blood pressure. does this mean my heart is not efficient? could i have heart trouble valve or myopathy?
although there is very little other information you could possibly have paroxysmal orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. the increase in heart rate would in particular occur upon standing. this can be accompanied by associated decrease in blood pressure - with lightheadedness fatigue excessive thirst. if chronic can prompt cold extremities shortness of breath headache restless sleep gi symptom.
i have a massive headache my left arm hurts and my pulse is beating at over 100 per minute what could this be?
if you are having these symptoms. . especially if they are new to you. then you need prompt medical attention to rule out a heart attack or stroke! please go to nearest er to be seen as soon as possible! or call 911 if necessary!
i ve had hbp ranging from 170 /110 and pulse at about 100 120 most of the time for about a week despite taking bp drugs. ekg was negative. thoughts?
you seem to have a high blood pressure for no other issues. this might be a catecholamine producing lesion in your body called a pheochromocytoma. this does have other symptoms like sweating headaches palpitations and weight loss but the biggest thing is pronounced hypertension. it might also mean the bp meds need more time. get a urine catecholamine metabolite 24 hour collection to see.
i think i have spordaric fatal insomnia. i can't produce tears stiff neck can't feel sleepy increased pulse rate headache muscle spams. do i have it?
a work up with a sleep study and a neurologist can help.
i think i might have drank too much coffee. i'm experiencing hallucinations head ache irregular heartbeat. what to do? i need coffee to stay awake
do not believe caffeine will cause hallucinations it can cause palpitations and headache especially when you crave more caffeine would try to limit intake to 1-2 cups a day.
i think i might have drank too much coffee. i'm experiencing hallucinations head ache irregular heartbeat. what to do? i can't stop drinking coffee.
excess coffee can cause extra systoles and thus a seemingly irregular heart beat headaches are usually eased with caffeine but hallucinations do not fit. are you sure this is a coffee category or should we evaluate a different situation. do you have atrial fibrillation or another primary cardiac arrhythmia do you have a thyroid issue do you have new medications? get this diagnosed.
i am a 44 year old male who is on beta pace for afib and aflutter. i'm lethargic and am having leg pain headache and dizziness. thoughts? thanks!
sotalol may slow heart rate and creates some of symptoms described monitoring or ecg may be useful
i am a 44 year old male who is on beta pace for afib and aflutter. i'm lethargic and am having leg pain headache and dizziness. thoughts? thanks!
consider getting the a. fib. /flutter permanently ablated by an electrophysiologist. betapace (sotalol) can cause all of the side effects you are describing.
i suffered a concussion last week. today was told i had a vagal response. how long does that take to heal?
generally should resolve within a week headaches can persist.
is there a link between heart palpatations and chronic tension headaches? i have had headaches for years but the heart palps r new all tests negative
they are unlikely to be connected unless you're taking meds with caffeine in them to treat the tension type headaches.
i am taking nortriptaline 30mg for migraine 2 days now. having rapid heart beat after taking. shall i continue taking? quit it cold? taper off?
you are having adverse rxtn to the nortriptyline and the dose you are taking is far too low to really prevent future migraine headaches. if you increase dose you will have more problems. there are far better prophylactic options and it is best to find a headache specialist and consider other meds or even otc preps which are safer more effective and have less side effect potential.
is there a difference between generalised anxiety disorder and mitral valve prolapse. i have had clear ecg/chest x rays but still getting symptoms!?
anxiety disorders are a spectrum of issues one of which is panic dosorder. people with anxiety frequently do not filter extraneous signals from the body and feel more. more pain more gi symptoms headaches. often sleep is poor. these patients can also have chest pain. the ability to feel the prolapse in other words is linked to anxiety.
i have cankers sores in throat headaches slight fever and low back pain and feeling weak and rapid pulse for six days now should i see a doctor?
you seem to be describing a viral infection and the length of time you have noted is long enough for you to seek counsel from your md. good luck!
i have cankers sores in throat headaches slight fever and low back pain and feeling weak and rapid pulse for six days now should i see a doctor?
with all these symptoms lasting for 6 days you should see a doctor.
i have low blood pressure & high potassium (blood results) i am fatigued with headaches sore skin and pains in my left leg? i am generally fit.
what you describe is consistent with adrenal insufficiency or addison's disease. low aldosterone levels can lead to both low blood pressure and high potassium. see an endocrinologist.
i have low blood pressure & high potassium (blood results) i am fatigued with headaches sore skin and pains in my left leg? i am generally fit.
low bp and high potassium could be due to dehydration. certain medications can cause it. important certain hormonal conditions can cause it. eg adrenal insufficiency. consult endocrinologist
i feel like i have a racing heart when i get up. 37/no smoke/drink. echo/stress/ecg normal. yoga regularly. anxiety disorder. on paxil (paroxetine). no caffeine?
paxil (paroxetine) has been known to do this because it is the shortest acting ssri-has a short half-life which can lead to dips in the blood level within a 24-hour period that are not tolerated by some individuals. manifestations would be anxiety sweaty hands headache and the like. discuss with your doctor possibility & about a different medication that would target your symptoms the same eg another ssri.
i have got hand tremors and i feel headache and dizzy. sometime i have fast heart beating and my face getting red and my whole body shaking. help me?
before considering anxiety other systems has to be checked like thyroid kidney heart.
i sweat a lot even when i walk. is it normal?
many people sweat more when active even if it's just walking. if you have other symptoms such as shortness of breath chest pain dizziness or headache or visual changes you should see a doctor or go to the er.
i have pvc i've noticed weird gurgling sound occurring with palpitation also chest pain headaches. on labetalol tambocor aldactone (spironolactone). should i worry?
you have history of heart disease and you are having chest pains and palpitations you should call 911 and go to the nearesr er.
i have mild headache and pain behind my neck stomachache. come and go. what can this be? it occurs at night. i take amlodipine5 & omeprazole20. im 25 f
you may have to check to see if you have ischemic heart disease. get a multifunction cardiogram! <link>
i am 22 my heart rate gets up to 193 when i'm not working out at 80%. i also have a pressure headache dizziness chest pain and shortness of breath?
if your symptoms are paroxymal the consideration should include pheochromocytoma and toxicology.
i am 22 my heart rate gets up to 193 when i'm not working out at 80%. i also have a pressure headache dizziness chest pain and shortness of breath?
you have chest pain shortness of breath heart rate at rest cose to 200 what are you doing on this site asking questions. call 911 and go to er asap it ia an emergency
i am 22 my heart rate gets up to 193 when i'm not working out at 80%. i also have a pressure headache dizziness chest pain and shortness of breath?
at 22 your maximal heart rate is predicted to reach 198 bpm. i don't know what you mean by "not working out at 80%" but if this heart rate is occurring at rest it could be another rhythm. a continuous monitor (holter event recorder) can catch that rhythm and help doctor make decisions about diagnosis/treatment. most important information while wearing that monitor is activity at the time.
i am 22 my heart rate gets up to 193 when i'm not working out at 80%. i also have a pressure headache dizziness chest pain and shortness of breath?
if you mean your heart rate gets to 193 at rest then you should see your doctor and get checked out.
i am always having heaaches can anyone tell mw what's the problem. i did my ecg eeg test all was ok?
have to work with your doc lots of causes of headache some relatively simple like neck or scalp muscle spasm all the way to big deal neurological problems. can't tell over the web.
i take hctz (hydrochlorothiazide) for hbp and tylenol(dont know why). why do i have headaches and rapid heart beat.
neither the tylenol (acetaminophen) (t) or hctz you take are known to cause rapid heartbeats (r). you need to see a doctor to find out why you have your r and why the headaches you have are not being helped with t. good luck.
i take deralin 10 2x a day i've had holter monitor n ultrasound of d heart. all fine but i still have the missed heart beat. why?
beats are benign especially in young people. if not accompanied by other symptoms like passing out dizziness chest pain fatigue and headaches these skipped beats are not of concern. discuss with your dr for any concerns or questions.
i had my cycle april first thru 5. i had unprotected sex on the 12th of the month. two weeks later having hot flashes heart palpitations slight cramps headaches started spotting on 27th heavier sp?
the first thing to rule out is pregnancy. purchase and perform a home pregnancy test. it should turn positive when you are 1 week late. if it's negative repeat in 1 week.
i had my cycle april first thru 5. i had unprotected sex on the 12th of the month. two weeks later having hot flashes heart palpitations slight cramps headaches started spotting on 27th heavier sp?
it is obviously early. the fetus may be secreting enough hormone if present to change a upt? nausea can be on a continuum hot flashes may b a sign it is coming or may be unrelated? i would check a pregnancy test if positive its likely due to hormones. gd luck.
i always stay dizzy and have a pounding heartbeat. numerous headaches all the time what can cause this? . i've had ekg's chest xray's and other test
well anxiety can cause it and perhaps a tranquilizer would help - like xanax (alprazolam) or propranolol (a beta blocker). it would be helpful to record your heart rhythm for 24 hours to rule out a more concerning rhythm disturbance (holter monitor). echocardiogram thyroid function and electrolytes should also be checked.
i always stay dizzy and have a pounding heartbeat. numerous headaches all the time what can cause this? . i've had ekg's chest xray's and other test
anxiety certainly could cause all this but in an individual need to have history exam and other data to make diagnostic conclusions.
i experience sudden weight gain head ache and palpitation. is there something wrong with me?
sudden weight gain is usually fluid retention. the headache could be related and the palpitation also. would recommend getting checked out.
i get really bad headaches alongside left arm pain and heart palpitations. what do you recommend?
severe headaches should be evaluated with a full exam + or - imaging like a ct or mri. left arm and palp needs attention too. a holter or event recorder to assess the rythm and correlate it with symtoms. full battery of labs. a review of the meds you take including any suplements and over the counter meds. echocardiogram or stress test as indicated.
i'm on metoprolol to control tachycardia could it cause bad headaches where i'm dizzy and stumbling? i don't lose consciousness & er is not an option
if the metoprolol is causing hypotension. . what is your bp with these episodes? cuttin metoprolol is 1/2 may provide arrhythmia protection but reduce side effects.
if i have shortness of breath heart palpatations feel weak headachey what's wrong. heart and blood tests normal but somethings not right any thought?
what heart tests? what blood tests? many reasons for shortness of breath palpitations weakness & headaches. avoid stimulants. if not heart lung or thyroid perhaps anxiety? not enough info so open to too much speculation. go see your family doc for more testing.
i think i have a pinched nerve coming from my upper left back gives me arm and chest pain all on left side. is that possible. ekg ecgstress test normal?
you may have a pinched nerve in your neck. this could cause arm pain interscapular pain and or headaches.
i suffer from migraines and hear it may make me at risk of stroke female of 45 non smoker meds are bisoprolol for svt and tegretol for epilepsy ?
migraine headaches alone are a low risk factor for the development of cerebral stroke.
is inderal (propranolol) good med for skipped beats and fast heart rate. my dr just put me on it. 10 mg twice a day. 48 year old female with normal bp.
management of hypertension; angina pectoris; pheochromocytoma; essential tremor; supraventricular arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation and flutter av nodal re-entrant tachycardias) ventricular tachycardias (catecholamine-induced arrhythmias digoxin toxicity); prevention of myocardial infarction; migraine headache prophylaxis; symptomatic treatment of hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.
i've got a headache my ears are pounding and my face hurts llike it's on fire and my heart is racing what is this? <negative_smiley>
please check with your doctor you might have htn or cardiac arrythmia.
i have postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome from lupus. i only take plaquenil (hydroxychloroquine) since lupus gave me pots is that a poorer prognosis since its the nervous system (i heard if it affects cns its bad)?
few listed: cardiomyopathy (rare relationship to hydroxychloroquine unclear) central nervous system: ataxia dizziness emotional changes headache irritability lassitude nervousness nightmares psychosis seizure vertigo dermatologic: alopecia angioedema bleaching of hair pigmentation changes (skin and mucosal; black-blue color) rash (acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis etc.
i have a headache rapid heartbeat sometimes. get a strange feeling of weakness in left leg sometimes; becomes shaky when lifted. what could this be?
unfortunately this is not enough information to guess at a cause. for best assessment and recommendations you need an in-person visit with your doctor. then your whole history can be part of the conversation along with thorough physical exam too. best wishes for your health!
i have always had real bad migraines. the thing now days about getting them is i have a pacemaker for my heart. i can't keep on like this much longer.
i am not sure why you have a pacemaker at such a young age but the device should not be contributing to your headache. in addition many of the drugs used to treat migraines have warnings about the heart. that is not related to pacemakers. it more for people who have blocked arteries. migraine drugs can cause spasm of the artery and result in some chest pain.
what else can i do for ice pick headaches other than use a beta-blocker?
there are many treatments both medical and nutritional to help with cluster headache or migraine. decreasing stress avoiding stimulants such as caffeine and nicotine and avoiding dehydration are a start. many people get rebound headaches from taking pain medication regularly. these can be severe like a migraine or a cluster cycle headache. lastly there are a number of classes of medication.
what else can i do for ice pick headaches other than use a beta-blocker?
ice-pick headaches are another name for cluster headaches. sometimes typical migraine treatment (imitrex etc) can help. an old remedy that sometimes works very well is oxygen. next time you're having a headache see if your doctor will administer oxygen. if it's going to work it typically works in less than 5-10 minutes. if so it can be an inexpensive easy solution even for home use.
why is that after i eat a moderately sized meal. within 30 min i'm fatigued i get a pounding headache and heart palpatations? . i'm not diabetic
it sounds like your blood sugar is rising quickly after you eat. if you are not diabetic this means that your body is able to get the sugar back to normal limits by the usual two hour testing time. however you may be in the pre-diabetic stage. talk to your doctor about this and perhaps get some more detailed siugar metabolism tests.
when masturbating is it bad or harmful to the brain and/or heart? cuz at times my heart is racing and i get a random headache before and after i cum?
masturbation in and of itself is not harmful. excessive masturbation may cause injury to the genitalia. ejaculation occurs at the height of sexual excitation. increased heart rate and respiratory rate are part of the sexual "high" or orgasm. many people feel guilty when they masturbate but almost everyone does it at least once.
when masturbating is it bad or harmful to the brain and/or heart? cuz at times my heart is racing and i get a random headache before and after i cum?
masturbating would not be different from any other form of sexual activity. if you have a heart condition it would have the same risk as other types of physical activity so ask your doctor. if you are healthy it should not be a problem. that said i would be concerned about loss of vision. (jk) (if you don't understand the joke ask someone older than you. ).
i'm wondering why can i feel my heart beat in my head and hear it? does it have anything to do with headaches?
if you have migraines it would be expected that you could feel your heart beating in your head as a manifestation of your headache which is typically described as "throbbing" or "pounding. ".
i'm wondering why can i feel my heart beat in my head and hear it? does it have anything to do with headaches?
either you might be suffering from high blood pressure or cerebtral anuerysms or feeling carotid upstrokes. you need physician consultation for correct diagnosis and treatment.
i have mvp and ocd. heartrate 90 temp around 37. 3 celsius. cant workout as it causes headache. what should i do? was on propranolol for 1 year.
your heart rate is still in the normal range. you are on zithromax for some sort of infection but your temperature is not bad at 90. 1. normal is 98. 6 with fluctuations throughout the day. i know that you were on propranolol before. if you are getting headaches while exercising then i would hold off on the exercising today. wait until your infection clears and you are feeling better and then you can go back to exercising. if your heart rate goes over 120 or for any reason becomes significantly abnormal then you should contact your doctor. best wishes.
what should my grandmother do to lower her blood pressure? my grandmother has high blood pressure. she currently takes the following medications for it: -losartan potassium 100mg once a day -coreg cr 40mg and 20mg (60mg total) once a day -clonidine
by the date of this post almost a week has passed. i will assume that your grandmother has seen or spoken with her doctor. if not she must do so immediately. for the future if her bp rises that high along with having symptoms (in her case she had severe headache and nausea). this is reason to take her to the urgent care or at least give a call in to her doctor for instruction. it sounds like your grandmother needs a change in her treatment plan in order to lower her bp. all the best.
i've had headaches nosebleeds heart racing eyes bloodshot?
heart racing is probably from cardiac arrhythmias. need to undergo ekg holter and/ or event monitor to diagnose it. nosebleeds and eyes blood shot is probably from spontaneous submucosal or conjunctival hemorrages. headaches - in your current situation need to rule out spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage. either your bp is too high or your capillaries are too fragile. you need workup.
i was taken off my bp meds olmetec 20mg will i have any withdrawles from stoping them cold turkey?
you could suffer from rebound hypertension/headache etc (not in all people).
what are side effets of metorolol tratrate 25 mg after surgery i went into a-fib and was put on this medicine. feeling a lot of anxiety that i didn't have before. could this be caused by this medicine?
anxiety is one of the side effects of metoprolol tartrate. here is a list of central nervous system side effects listed on the package insert: headache dizziness mental depression lightheadedness concentration impaired anxiety weakness fatigue sedation somnolence or insomnia vivid dreams/nightmares vertigo paresthesia hallucination nervousness impotence/sexual dysfunction amnesia/memory impairment confusion. a link to the complete package insert with all side effects is attached below.
is heart pain a sign of anxiety? i sometimes have dull and achey pain sometimes sharp localized in the heart area. i'm 18 female. ekg is 'normal'
people often take their anxiety out on their body. for 1 person it leads 2 headaches or backaches 4 others it could involve stomach disorders. having a "heart aches" is another common complaint. sometimes it is a metaphor 4 the issues that r bothering u relationships. speakwith a therapist about stressful aspects of your life and 2 learn some relaxation techniques. get massages; take warm baths.
i have visible throbbing under my left eye with puffiness and a mild to moderate daily headache and a heart rate of 109 with little activity. ?
a fever the heart rate is concerning. how is your blood pressure you need full exam with emphasis on the headaches and heart rate. good luck.
i took 7. 5 mg of synthroid (thyroxine) 3 days ago. i have been experiencing palpitations racing pulse headaches. will it get worse?
7. 5 mg = 7 500 mcg! the usual dosage of synthroid (thyroxine) is 25-200 mcg. 7. 5 mg would be life threatening! were u taking armour thyroid or some other form? if it was synthroid (thyroxine) was it possibly 75 mcg? synthroid (thyroxine) should be started at 25 mcg/day and gradually increased to the target dose like 25 mcg/day increase every 4 weeks. you should stop if you get racing heart or chest pain (from the pkg insert).
i have stiff neck how can i tell if its a symptom of heart attack or meningitos. mo fever no nausea no dizziness or anything just neck pain?
with a heart attack you most likely would have pain in the left side of neck with radiation down your left arm sweating fast heart rate nausea and chest pain. not likely meningitis without fever headache nausea or dizziness. try gentle massage heating pad tylenol (acetaminophen) or motrin. make sure not to sleep with head in awkward position or have cold air blowing on your neck. if persists seek help.
i'm having a lot of lower pelvic pain and i am very bloated headaches heart palpitations and shaking. my blood pressure is normal tho. i am on bc?
pelvic pain bloating shaking / chills and elevated heart rate sounds like a good story for a possible infection. instead of guessing go get checked out by a doctor.
i'm extremely hungry all the time and i'm always tired but barely sleep. af is 2 weeks away. is it pms or eating disorder?
pms doesn't present with hunger nor does eating disorder. usually anorexic folks have aversion to food or if they eat they make themselves vomit or cause a bowel movement to purge what's been eaten. pms is moodiness bloating headaches breast tenderness. insomnia is a common symptom of many disorders.
i'm 23 my heart is racing at over 100bpm i'm short of breath and have a headache. what could be happening to me?
tough to say without an exam but an anxiety condition can cause these symptoms along with several other possibilities. get an exam and be diagnosed. get well soon.
i'm 23 my heart is racing at over 100bpm i'm short of breath and have a headache. what could be happening to me?
control of anxiety may help symptoms. work with a counsellor and your psychiatrist on optimal medication and behavioral interventions.
is rapid heart beat hyperventillation and headache be due to anxiety? very anxious since few months. (19 yrs male)
mention can be from anxiety or they can be from other things such as thyroid heart issues etc. please see your doc to get a diagnosis and you can go from there. anxiety can bee treated by a mental health professional. the relaxation response book by cardiologist herbert benson may also be helpful. peace and good health.
i have strong heart palpitation. my left hand is weak. no power to lift things or hold them. strong headache. what kind of doctor i should see. ?
you should see an arrhythmia specialist/cardiologist. you are likely having recurrent arrhythmias.
i have a normal resting pulse of 85-95 beats per minute. i'm on my third day of a caffeine detox and have a resting pulse between 107-120. why up?
common symptoms of caffeine withdrawal are headache nausea irritability. while some individuals actually have lethargy and a lower pulse (also true of cocaine and amphetamine "withdrawal. ") it is also common to have elevated blood pressure and pulse for a short time. these rarely reach any levels of health concern and are self-limited.
i get sob walking up steps or slight hill and now i also get a headache. i also have been getting awakened by fast heart rate.
new shortness of breath with mild exertion and awakening with rapid pulse are not normal and need evaluation. possibilities include anemia heart failure heart rhythm disturbance. please see a doctor.
i get sob walking up steps or slight hill and now i also get a headache. i also have been getting awakened by fast heart rate.
should see a dr. and get evaluated with a potential stress test to measure and check your heart etc.
i have chest pain. resting heart rate low as 48 sometimes. short lasting mild headaches daily for past week. tightness on sides of head and face.
in the absence of any drug reactions i would recommend you see your doctor. you did not mention any symptoms of dizziness shortness of breath or cough.
i skipped my beta blocker for a fews nights and i feel blood rushing to my head is that normal? plus i have a bad headache i just starting twice a day
if you missed the dose take your beta blocker as soon as you remember. do not take a double dose just go back to your regular dose. beta blockers are good headache and migraine prophylactic medications. talk to your pcp for more information.
i have mvp and taking metoprolol. but i'm having bad headaches when i wake up and head rush with dob if i get up quickly. are these related to mvp?
mvp does not cause such symptoms. for the vast majority mvp is simply a variant of normal. for the roughly 5-10% with severe mvp the symptom when it finally occurs after many years is shortness of breath. many years ago when mvp was first recognized it was incorrectly associated with chest pain but that turns out to be wrong. the metoprolol may be making your bp too low-causing dizziness.
ive been having alot of symptoms for 3 years dyzziness headaches tired inthis i felt my heart beat fast and?
impossible to diagnose your illness in this setting. with chronic fatigue dizziness and headaches a full evaluation is justified. germany has an excellent healthcare system - i urge you to take advantage of it. best wishes and viel glück!
i have wolff parkinson white syndrome & i'm on propranolol! my pulse is normal during day but drops to 40-50 at night. doc isn't worried is this ok?
i agree. not only is that a good drug to be on when you have wpw most sources name it to be the drug of choice for treatment. although a pulse of 40-50 is considered lower than normal as long as you are not having symptoms (e. g. dizziness lightheaded headache loss of consciousness) the benefits of the drug outweigh the risk of these potential side effects.
i am having headaches and heart palpatations what this caused from?
most likely you have anxiety or stress-related palpitations. we would need more details of what exactly you feel to give you better definition of condition and how it should be treated.
i am having headaches and heart palpatations what this caused from?
have you check your blood pressure?
why do i get slight headaches everyday all clear for. doc. blod tests ekg hrt moniter etc all good but slight headache everyday?
you could be possibly having tension type headaches; it is a very common type of headache and is also called muscle contraction headaches and tend to be most commonly in the temples of the head.
why do i get slight headaches everyday all clear for. doc. blod tests ekg hrt moniter etc all good but slight headache everyday?
i would ensure vision is okay and most likely tension headaches stress a common cause.
im 13 weeks pregnant why is my heart rate always above 100 and i have frequently headache?
pregnancy causes an increase in blood volume in the process of adding 1500 to 2000 cc's of additional blood. unfortunately the red blood cell component of the increased volume often takes up to three months to catch up ergo anemia. prenatal vitamins help but remember you have added an extra blood "circuit" with the fetus. have your ob check for anemia.
i had a mild migraine and tachycardia all afternoon. i usually have migraines but this symptoms are unusual for me. what can i do?
migraine headaches with tachycardia. i choose medicine speciality because i got cluster headaches coming every year lasting whole month of september for 15 long years till i found natural cure for migraine headaches. i do not have any migraine headaches for 34 years. i have cured over 400 patients. i studied homeopathic & auruvedic medicine. migraine is produced in stomach causes kinins acting on ext
i was prescribed celexa&metoprolol to help my depression&anxiety. i've been trying to stay off crystal meth&what would happen if i mixed these drugs?
its fine to take the two just take them as prescribed. if you haven't already started the citalopram then you could have some side effects the first week or so but they shouldn't be bad maybe a little headache upset stomach or just feeling off for a few days. you need to watch the opiate use are you taking all those at the same time?
with a blister aneurysm ica when i cough yell sneeze etc i get a sharp pain that throbs for a few seconds with my pulse. is it related?
where is your pain? if its a headache it is more likely that you are just aware that internal body pressure changes cause headaches but its possible that the aneurysm is causing headache. talk to your neurologist.
what could cause chest tightness? i had normal ekgs and lab work but having these pains for weeks now?
it is usually associated with other symptoms such as fatigue heart palpitations undue sweating headaches etc. it also comes and goes. if this applies to you it could be as simple as diet particularly the junk. symptoms are often just "alarm bells" ringing in a complex system and provide warning that all is not well.
what are the symptoms of hypokalemia?
based on following thousands with low k i can list 1. fatigue 2. muscle cramps 3. brain fog 4. getting up at night to pee more than once. 5. paralysis 6. irregular heart beats 7 glucose intolerance aka diabetes but this is a sign. 8. if caused by excess aldo: high blood pressure but not a symptom it is a sign. 9. if 8 then headaches. 10. heart failure. 11. drop dead. find cause and correct it.
woke up with headache and sinus and throat inflammed and heart rate between 90 to 105. cooked on charcoal grill last night smoked out really bad?
sounds like smoke inhalation form ur barbecue! try salt water gargles and sinus rinse with saline solution. it will soothe your nasal mucosa.
i have wpw syndrome and im on propranolol. i just had 5 pvc's in a row which i've never had before. their gone now but should i go to er?
if asymptomatic with no chest pain headache dizziness or recurrence it is ok to continue medications and monitor until you can get in with your doctor. if you become symptomatic or it is frequently recurring go to closest ed.
what are the side effects of olmesetran drug?
the most common listed side effects occurring in between 1 and 10% of patients include: dizziness headache increase in blood sugar increase in triglycerides diarrhea back pain bronchitis sore throat flu-like symptoms and occasionally blood in the urine. note: just because they occur does not mean that the drug definitively causes them. it's just that they have been observed.
i have a pulse of 158 and my bp was 147/101. is this something i should worry about? i'm on 150mg of metoprolol 2x daily but now i have a bad headache
uncontrolled high blood pressure can lead to other medical complications ( e. g. hardening and thickening of the arteries). see your pcp for consultation tests and medication adjustment.
i yawning a lot during exercise and often i have headache. i have people in the family with vasovagal syncope can this be related?
it seems to be related to your insulin/ sugar.
i've been having pounding headaches with pounding heartbeat after phys activity. er visit no heart attack normal sinus rhythm. what could it be?
the headache usually pops up at the height of exercise and lasts 15 minutes to a few hours. however in certain cases the exertion headaches can last up to two days. see your pcp for diagnosis evaluation prevention and. treatment.
i'm 23wks preg and i'm having headaches heartrate ranges from 98-111bpm heartburn is increased and baby is kicking is it normal? i take 2ltrs+ water
heart rate can increase in second trimester due to increase in blood volume. headache may be migraine ( more common first trimester) tension stress hormones. dehydration or foods keep a diary. do you have ankle swelling? blurred vision? since you are > 20 weeks check your blood pressure and urine for protein you may have pre-eclampsia. see your doctor/ ob over next 24 hours.
i'm 23wks preg have headaches heartrate 111bpm & baby is kicking is it normal? i take 2ltrs+ water ankles are fine and vision is fine
at 111. you could be anemic. ask your geburtshelfer to check for anemia. glückwünsche
i've got a horrible headache. everytime i stand up i get very dizzy and everything goes black. my head will throb and my heart beats really fast. ?
your symptoms are concerning for orthostasis make a prompt appointment for a thorough history and physical examination including checking of blood pressure supine sitting and standing
what are hypokalemia symptoms?
based on following thousands with low k i can list 1. fatigue 2. muscle cramps 3. brain fog 4. getting up at night to pee more than once. 5. paralysis 6. irregular heart beats 7 glucose intolerance aka diabetes but this is a sign. 8. if caused by excess aldo: high blood pressure but not a symptom it is a sign. 9. if 8 then headaches. 10. heart failure. 11. drop dead. find cause and correct it.
i have been diagnosed with graves disease. i suffer severely from headaches only on the right side temple. it's not migraine. i am on 80mg beta blocker?
will only blunt some of the effects of the elevated thyroid level. the basic thyroid problem still needs to be treated either with radioiodine or anti-thyroid drigs. work w/your physician also have your eyes checked with an opthalmologist.
is heart palpitations with throbbing headache at the same time normal? is it dangerous? had palpitations for years
all kinds of things can cause palpitations and another bunch chest discomfort. for most people its no big deal especially in a 22year old. if you are concerned you should consult your doctor who can do a history and physical and advise from more information.
i have continues headache(little) and my b. p. is 150/110mmhg and my pulse rate varies from 70-100. please advise me what to do?
should be treated very soon. consult with your doctor about lifestyle changes and medication if necessary don't delay this. your headaches may or may not be related but that is besides the point see your doctor as soon as possible.
is it normal that i hear my own heart beat? my heart rate was up but i hear it.
if you hear your heart beat in your ear called tinnitus it is often benign however there are rare disorders that you should discuss with your doctor to determine in a specialist check-up (ent) is in order. this is particularly reasonable for you as you noted sinus surgery migraine headaches and nasal congestion.
with atrial fib can u have symptoms of chilling and fever and leg pain headache?
with atrial fib you have an irregular pulse that may be normal fast or slow. you would never have chills or fever or headache from a. fib. see your doctor if you feel sick.
with atrial fib can u have symptoms of chilling and fever and leg pain headache?
those are not common symptoms of atrial fibrillation.
what's the best pain reliever for headaches if you have heart palpitations?
or tylenol (acetaminophen) is probably your best bet since ibuprofen and naproxyn have some heart and stomach side-effects.
is it safe to switch from sodas and energy drinks to coffee?
what would be safest is to limit your caffeine to 1-2 servings per day (about 100 mg of caffeine). above that whether from coffee colas/sodas or energy drinks caffeine can increase anxiety insomnia elevate pulse and blood pressure and complicate high blood pressure etc. if you don't guess right on the equivalency you may get headaches with the switch.
i have heart disease. for the past 2 days i have been tired &experiencing headache & shortness of breath. is that a symptom of irregular heart rhythm?
your symptoms could be a symptom of arrhythmia or the heart disease. as you don't say what 'heart disease' it isn't possible to say more than maybe.
what fluctuates bp been low 91/58 t o normal. 136/59 had thyroid removed to being over after n causing afib have a lil dizziness n a slight headache?
did the whole thyroid come out? if so get your thyroid level checked. you may not have enough thyroid hormone replacement. check your heart with an ekg you may still have runs or afib. tonight check your pulse. is it regular and the same rate? if so you are not likely in afib which would make. your heart beat irregularly irregular. blood pressure meds can also make you dizzy. feel better soon.
when is bradycardia an issue after ecg 24h ecg echo cardiac angiogram cardiac mri. hr sometimes 52 resting or resting in bed 48. age 22 male.
have symptoms along with it such as dizziness feeling of passing out weakness headache chest pain etc. people who do strenuous exercise including athletes have slower heart rate as their heart is more efficient than average individual. though their heart pump slower the amount of blood coming out of the heart from each heart beat is greater. follow up with your cardiologist. take care!
what causes rapid heart beat headache fever muscle aches and tender on right side of neck. i am 39yrs old female with asthma and high blood pressure?
it appears you have a viral upper fespiratory infection. . see your doctor for a throat culture to run out a strep throat.
im having headache and rapid heart beat for the last 3 days. what is it doctor? i didnt take any medication.
with available info. are you well hydrated? any upper respiratory symptoms? medical eval would be your best source of info on this one. take care.
im pregnant with twins throbbin headache it pounds everytime my heart beats gettin up/down makes it worse all that helps is laying down completly stil?
plan and simple you need to be seen to evaluate this especially if this is a new onset of headaches or the worst headache you have ever had
i had protected anal and oral sex. and one day later i had some flu symptons. get searching and i found that hiv have similar symptoms has the flu. mi symptoms are fever sore throat headache and sinus pressure with mucus?
it is unlikely that your symptoms are due to hiv 1 day after unprotected sex. it may be an upper respiratory infection that has occurred coincidentally. usually 6-8 weeks after the virus enters your body you may start to experience the flu-like symptoms. get tested and practice safe sex always with condoms to prevent hiv and other sexually transmitted infections.
i had protected anal and oral sex. and one day later i had some flu symptons. get searching and i found that hiv have similar symptoms has the flu. mi symptoms are fever sore throat headache and sinus pressure with mucus?
first you have to find out hiv status of your partner if negative you don't have to worry too much you still may be at risk for other std s. you have to get tested for hiv and need to be tested for at least 6 months. if yur partner is hiv positive you may have to take prophylactic dose of medication consult i d specialist.
what are the symptoms of soduim and potassuim defeciency in elderly people?
sodium and potassium deficiencies can cause fatigue muscle weakness nausea vomiting headache dry skin and slowing of reflexes.
why is it that i get sinus pains or headaches whenever i have heart palpitations? my tests say that everything is fine do i have something different
migraine like headache can be caused by a bone spur in the nose. a ct scan of the sinuses is indicated and if the spur is present a septoplasty to remove it is indicated. i provide relief to almost 90% of patients with this problem. could your palpitations be caused by the pain? visit my website for more information at www. kevinsmithmd. com.
why is it that i get sinus pains or headaches whenever i have heart palpitations? my tests say that everything is fine do i have something different
the nature of your palpitations should be investigated. some people have a very forceful heartbeat that they feel in their head. i would avoid herbals for now as some are cardiac stimulants. a 24 hour to 30 day event monitor would be very helpful. sometimes medications that reduce the forecfulness of contraction (betablockers) are very helpful in this setting depending on your results.
what can i do if my heart rate is very low but bp is high am i in risk?
you could be at risk depending on what those values of heart rate and blood pressure are and if you are experiencing symptoms of lightheadedness chest pain shortness of breath headache palpitations. it also depends on how fit you are from an exercise standpoint since the hr tends to be lower in physically fit people.
i take atenolol 12. 5mg. heart rate 75-82 when i combine same dose with i fish oil capsule heart rate 62-74. why is this?
fish oil shouldn't affect your heart rate but regardless as long as you don't have dizziness faint headache or nausea that heart rate is normal. also sometimes the act of digestion will cause a noticeable heart rate decrease - which is what is supposed to happen. the fish oil tablets may be doing this.
hello i was wondering if you could tell me what is going on with my body im only 19 yrs old i have been having sever chest pain headaches heat flashes sweaty palms tired ness fast heart beat lower pain in the back and stomach numbness in the arms a
these are symptoms of panic attacks:"racing" heart. feeling weak faint or dizzy tingling or numbness in the hands and fingers sense of terror or impending doom or death feeling sweaty or having chills chest pains. breathing difficulties feeling a loss of control. your symptoms suspicious for panic attack. please get checked by md and get treated.
hello i was wondering if you could tell me what is going on with my body im only 19 yrs old i have been having sever chest pain headaches heat flashes sweaty palms tired ness fast heart beat lower pain in the back and stomach numbness in the arms a
you have a lot going on and should be concerned. the foundation of these symptoms can be anxiety/panic attacks stress a cardiac issue an infectious process. the numbness and chest pain you are feeling should prompt a visit to the emergency room. go to the er.
i'm 21 yr old female. i have low blood pressure night sweats palpitations headaches nausea and tiredness. any ideas on possible causes?
could be a variety of things including but not limited to anxiety anemia hypothyroid hyperthyroid leukemia or lymphoma migraine the list goes on. be sure and see your family physician or internist soon. this will require a careful history physical exam and blood work to figure out.
is it normal to be up most of the night (every night) with episodes of rapid heart rate difficulty breathing cold rush through bodu feel super excited/nervous dizzy headache? feeling fed up!
if you have a personal physician contact her/him immediately about your severe symptoms. if not go to the nearest appropriate medical facility. anything from panic attacks to heart problems can cause this constellation of symptoms. treatment is available and there's no need for you to go through this nightmare every night.
what would cause a very fast heart rate when standing or walking even at a slow pace? it doesn't happen every day but when it does my pulse is 120+
other symptoms associated like chest pain dizziness sweating tremors headaches fear sensation? possible causes at your age are: coffee and energy drink dehydration cold medicines street drugs like marihuana hyperthyroidism arrhythmias anxiety attacks and etc. please see a physician or write back to talk more.
how does the headache change while taking imdur?
ha can get worse because imdur dilates the blood vessels. but some people tolerate well may not get a headache at all.
heart racing hard to breath weak rib's sore headache asthma dizzy no equallibriam?
you really need to be evaluated immediately. you should go to the er so you can be evaluated and treated. shortness of breath especially with your other symptoms can be life-threatening so go to the er so this can be diagnosed and treated urgently. good luck!
heart racing hard to breath weak rib's sore headache asthma dizzy no equallibriam?
you sound as if you are quite ill. strongly recommend going to nearest emergency room and be seen quickly.
in the past 3 years experienced dizzyness tachycardia short term memort loss headaches apathy i stare alot muscle twitches. all tests negative?
39 fem w. chronic "apathy dizziness headaches tachycardia anxiety memory loss muscle twitches" has multiple births unrevealing studies uses nsaids. symptoms suggest fibromyalgia. women w. hypermobile joints & multiple childbirths loosen pelvic ligaments; leading to body tilt muscle spasm restless sleep; begetting depression & fibro-fog. chronic neck tilt w. muscle spasm causes headaches.
in the past 3 years experienced dizzyness tachycardia short term memort loss headaches apathy i stare alot muscle twitches. all tests negative?
which tests have you had which are negative? these symptoms could be a multitude of conditions. best to follow up with a cardiologist and or neurologist to determine the root of your symptoms
i worked out for 8 mins n then took a rest. i felt like i'll faint. had headache. why is this so? is that due to lack of nutrition or something?
can be due to a wide variety of reasons including de conditioning from a sedentary lifestyle relative dehydration pregnancy anemia thyroid disorders heart/ lung problems and many many other things. your personal physician can help you sort this out!
i had a sudden painful headache in the back of my head(slightly to the left) and i was able to hear my heartbeat for the first 3 minutes?
headaches can be a concerning symptom and can have many causes. some are deserving of emergent treatment. warning signs are chronic headaches that suddenly change in quality or intensity multiple headaches a week new onset headaches that affect one's ability to function associated vomiting associated dizziness/double vision/neck ache/fever/weakness or the need to take daily pain medication.
i had a sudden painful headache in the back of my head(slightly to the left) and i was able to hear my heartbeat for the first 3 minutes?
how long does it last? any previous episodes? history of headaches? need more information to help you.
what are the symptoms of pheochromocytoma? can it cause taccycardia weakness shakiness.
a pheochromocytoma is a tumor that secretes excessive adrenal hormones causing life-threatening spikes in blood pressure. symptoms include sweating palpitations headaches nausea and rapid increases in blood pressure. think of it as adrenaline surges.
how long do the headaches from imdur last?
once the effect of nitroglycerine wears off- usually quickly. within half an hour.
i have bad headaches. hard to breath like chest is full. had a echo ekg 4 month ago came normal could be stress i lee thinking. loose stool?
not sure that all of these things go together or that any one in and by itself has significance. best to be medically evaluated by your family physician and if no organic cause for your symptoms discovered perhaps referral to a mental health professional might be warranted.
i get high heart rate due to dysautonomia (pots) i just took zithrmoax for sinus headache about 2 hours ago but now hr very fast concerning?
if you have a very rapid heart rate you need to see your doctor as soon as possible. if she/he cannot find a solution you must be referred to a cardiologist!
i've been having tension in my neck & shoulders along with headaches. this cause me to hear my pulse in my ear. it is like woosh woosh & it scares me?
not to worry. what you are experiencing is quite common when you are having tension.
i've been having tension in my neck & shoulders along with headaches. this cause me to hear my pulse in my ear. it is like woosh woosh & it scares me?
try to minimize stress. warm shower may help sore muscles. have physician check blood pressure. goodluck
i went to the el last night for a severe reaction to allergy shots. they gave me a shot of prednisone 125mg. today i took one 10mg prednisone now i am having chills feel feverish and scratchy throat and headache and fast heart rate. i do not want to take
doctor you need another evaluation a biphasic reaction is possible meaning that you can have the same symptoms again but with a lesser degree within 24 hours of the first reaction or it might be something else hence a doctor's evaluation is important good luck
what could cause 1 to 2 episodes of lightheadedness dizziness heart palpitations sweaty palms numb hands and headache?
if you go long periods of time without eating you can have all of these symptoms. you can also get these due to anxiety. try to have small frequent meals and stay away from sugar and caffeine. f/u with your dr. for annual check up and labs if you haven't done so already.
why do i constantly feel faint & headaches when i sit up or even walking around from a laying position. this has been happening for at least 3 months?
you probably have a low bp -- and that can be caused by dehydration malnutrition drug abuse and other sickness -- please see your doctor for help!
i'm on propranolol for svt. i had an episode today and since it stopped i have a terrible headache and feel lightheaded. is this normal?
it's not normal.
i have vertigo&i feel dizzy&sometimes my heartbeats fast &sometimes i feel like fainting but i never faint! my doc suggested betaserc. what u think?
a last resort take it only if all other reasons have been ruled out and natural and general measures eg: biofeedback hydration anti anxiety med if needed does not work. it has some minor side effects and some serious like live and headaches. call again.
hi i'm on ranitidine i have awful palpitaions and headaches will this go away i'm very breathless too.?
ranitidine is known to cause headaches. palpitations may be caused by something else. if you are early in this treatment the headaches may abate. if not talk to you physician about switching to another drug in this class. this sometimes works.
having constant throbbing ha and passing out had a mri eeg ekg ct scan urine test blood test nothing shows no history of migrains what could be wrong?
if you've had all the workup of which you've spoken then the serious diseases should be ruled out. therefore you can see a neurologist who specializes in headaches and try some different therapeutic alternatives to relieve your headache. find a neurolgist specializing in headaches in charlotte and keep pursuing the cause of your headaches.
i have sinus probs for 4wks now. i noticed my pulse rate has gone up to 110. do i have infection? not on antibiotics doc gave me irbesartan 2wks ago.
rapid heart rate may be due to fever or infection. therefore if you have sinusitis type symptoms such as head congestion headache or cheek discomfort along with nasal discharge or discolored mucus see your physician for diagnosis and treatment.
i went through an eeg test today and since i've felt really off anxiety dizziness rapid heart rate fatigue can eeg trigger a migrane or something?
an eeg is just a measurement. in some tests a strobe is used to evoke some responses which in a reactive person can lead to a headache but also worry brought on by the act of having the test itself can trigger a stress response resulting in a headache. if you do not feel calm after resting for a while call the doctor who requested the test and let them know your concerns.
i have severe headaches that last between 4-7 days and occur 3-4/mo. propanalol hasn't helped and otc meds are failing. mri fine too. i'm on topamax (topiramate).
not sure what the topamax (topiramate) dosage is but your best bet is to revisit your treatment & discuss with a neurologist.
i have severe headaches that last between 4-7 days and occur 3-4/mo. propanalol hasn't helped and otc meds are failing. mri fine too. i'm on topamax (topiramate).
you likely have migraines and your pattern sounds rather progressive. am not impressed by your preventatives. wonder if botox would help break up the process. have found that purified butterbur and riboflavin work well. find a headache specialist consider occipital nerve blocks and maybe brief course of steroids and/or depakote.
when i get worried or anxious i get palpitations headaches and i can't sleep with all the thoughts in my head! and i lose my appetite? what is it?
you describe a classic stress reaction. check out this great web site to help deal with your feelings: <link> try reading at night to ease your mind take it off your daily apprehensions and drift to sleep. it can be anything in the world that you enjoy. there are so many lovely books- from self help to romance to mysteries. enjoy!
what effect can caffeine have on the body over time? im worried i consume to much and that my heart flutters are associated with my caffeine intake.
too much caffeine can give you headaches insomnia stomach pains increase urination increase heart rate. one or two cups a day is okay.
what are the most commom symptoms of endocarditis? could cause endocarditis bradychardia or only tachycardia? fever level by endocarditis? thanks
throw some infected clots to parts of the body including the brain. there can be brain abscess with headache and confusion fever slow or fast heart rate depending on areas involved in the heart. flame hemorrhages in eyes and under the nails sob chest pain blood in urine joint pains body aches murmur. so you see the signs and symptoms are so varied you have to rely on your doctor.
woke up w/ a really bad headache stuffy nose and fst hrt beat what could this b?
there are many possible causes of your symptoms. one common cause is upper respiratory infection (viral uri) with a fever. if it doesn't get better soon see your doctor.
woke up w/ a really bad headache stuffy nose and fst hrt beat what could this b?
nasal cogestion due to obstruction of drainage of frontal ; facial sinuses could cause irritation of underlying sinus mucosal membranes that manifests itself through headache. this nasal congestion could develop just because of cold air or viruses or allergies. i suggest keeping yourself; especially your head; warm ; lavage with luke-warm salt water.
how to prevent a low pulse rate in the morning causing headache?
need to assess why your pulse rate is slow as could be excellent conditioning familial tendency but also cardiac arrhythmia. perhaps a holter monitor study of value. the headache may or may not relate. this is complex enough to visit your doctor and at least get an ekg.
headache dizzy eyes hurt feel my pulse in my hands?
many headaches are often centered around the eyes but the eyes are usually not a cause of headache. however the symptoms of dizziness and pulse sensation in the hands could indicate hypertension or other medical problems so this should be looked into asap.
i have strained eyes head pressure at front headaches heart palpitations dizziness nerve pains in joints and pompholyx. what could this be?
could all be related to stress from you life work and anxiety disorder or some combination. best to see your primary care provider for a more complete evaluation. hope this helps!
i have a sore throat earache light headache. started monday i dont have fever and now im getting. muscle aches in mi neck shoulder and legs?
viral or bacterial origin. an ear infection also needs to be ruled out. see your doctor to get checked.
what can cause chronic spiking hypertension that is not caused by issue with kidneys hormones or heart? had normal. sono echo ekg and bloodwork.
extreme spikes in blood pressure with headache and tachcardia occurs in pheochromocytoma and anxiety situations and in poorly controlled htn.
what type of health issues include skin odor that recently and consistently smells like urine with an ekg that shows ischemia increased wbc w/o fever severe fatigue headaches and pain in the body?
you may have reduced kidney function high blood pressure and an infection not helped by tamiflu. you need to see a doctor urgently for an examination and for blood tests to clarify these issues. please don't delay!
what type of health issues include skin odor that recently and consistently smells like urine with an ekg that shows ischemia increased wbc w/o fever severe fatigue headaches and pain in the body?
quite a plethora of symptoms findings. not sure if all connected. i would start with that ischemia see if it is real or not. see your doctor sounds like few more tests need to be done + good exam/ sounds like a case for dr. house md. / some medications and certain foods can cause odors. anything?
hypertension in the age of 17? hyperuricemia episodes of hematuria anemia heart block a-v i dizziness headaches nausea.
symptoms merits further evaluation with your physician as there is too much going on than can be adequately here.
i have wpw and lbbb and have been having chest pains and heart flutterings and now i'm sweating and have a headache. what should i do?
go to the hospital! wpw with a lbbb is vey problematic.
is it possible to have a cold/sinus infect for 1 day? had left cheek pain nasal drip & headache. bad short breath&heart weird. have dcm. woke up fine.
upper respiratory infections don't start and clear up in a day. maybe transient sinus blockage? if also general nasal congestion drip etc probably allergy or some sort of physical irritation. shortness of breath also could be from allergic reaction triggering bronchospasm. not sure meaning of "heart weird". if dcm means dilated cardiomyopathy immediately contact your cardiologist or internist.
why do i have dizziness shortness of breath headaches and palpitation with hb of 11. 5 4 days after heavy periods while other people show no symptoms?
you obviously had blood work to determine that your hemoglobin was good i would make sure that you are well hydrated and eat plenty of green leafy vegetables to make sure it is not a nutritional issue. if this does not work have an ent check you or a neurologist. i know the ent can do balance tests to further check this. good luck!
heart rate 79/min bp : 90/60 always tired though i sleep well. constantly thirsty and having headaches. what's wrong with me?
it's hard to pinpoint down but constantly thirsty with low blood pressure and tired bring to mind either adrenal insufficiency or diabetes which cause these symptoms through entirely different mechanisms. there may be other concerns that arise as well but it all boils down to needing to see a doctor for further evaluation exam and testing. good luck!
heart rate 79/min bp : 90/60 always tired though i sleep well. constantly thirsty and having headaches. what's wrong with me?
go see the doctor you may have diabetes and are relatively dehydrated or other process causing similar type symptoms. its worth checking on defintely.
i take 50mg atenolol on a split dose. sometimes i get slight headache and heart rate is 58-60 mainly at night. is this ok? or the dose is too strong?
would need to know why you are taking atenolol. generally 25 mg of atenolol twice a day is a common dose. the slowing of heart to 58-60 would be expected. headache is one of the non serious side effects known to be caused by atenolol. it is usually given as a once a day pill tho it can be given twice a day. but u should check with ur doc since he/she knows ur case.
i experienced heart palpitations and a fast heart rate after taking a nasal decongestant (otrivine) is this normal?
here is reference from drugs. com:f any of the following side effects occur while taking xylometazoline nasal check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible: blurred vision. dizziness. headache or light-headedness. hives. nausea. nervousness. pounding irregular or fast heartbeat. rash.
i am extremely nauseated to the point of crying dizzy and burping an hour after eating. my pulse is 108 heart racing. i am not pregnant. headaches.
i would keep a diet history and follow symptoms. could doo a food elimination diet. 2weeks of rice ground beef and veges(except nghtshades-tomatoes potatoes and peppers) then introduce one food category per week and see if pbms-keep track easiest to work closely with a practitioner-need to eliminate foods with neg rxn
i am extremely nauseated to the point of crying dizzy and burping an hour after eating. my pulse is 108 heart racing. i am not pregnant. headaches.
not normal. see md or er asap.
is bystolic (nebivolol) good for headaches and is it basically used to lower heart rate. if above 120 consistently?
bystolic (nebivolol) is a beta blocker and this class of drugs is useful in treating certain headaches particularly those of the migranous variety. it's properties cause slowing of the heart rate
weakness chest pain lightheadedness muscle pain chills tingling limbs headaches nausea lightheaded rapid heartbeat on movement palps. cause?
your symptoms may be related to a heart issue but due to your age and unknown other medical history this is less likely. there are also many other causes that may produce these symptoms like stress reaction or anxiety. however the latter causes are not serious thus it is important that if these symptoms persist that you seek out medical attention to further identify the cause.
what to do if i have headaches nosebleeds heart racing eyes bloodshot?
see your doctor asap. you may have high blood pressure that is causing your symptoms
was working outside all day very sore and tired with headache. now i'm resting and my heart rate is high and don't feel good! any ideas?
you probably are dehydrated and have heat illness. stay in a cool room drink lots of water. take tylenol (acetaminophen) or ibuprofen for achenes. if you don't feel better by tomorrow or if you start vomiting or chilling see a doctor.
i am having a 3. 1 blood count low potassium and vit d. i feel so awful my neck is stiff and my low back and head is pounding. er or no?
i am assuming you mean your wbc is 3. 1 and you feel your neck is stiff and have a severe headache. not knowing your baseline wbc and the fact you feel your neck is stiff a er visit is the way to go. you need a full exam to determine if you have fever and why you have a stiff neck and headache. severe infections can present such and need to be taken care urgently. seek immediate care in an er
i tried propranalol 2 separate times for migraines both times within a day or 2 it gave me terrible constrictive feeling headaches. weird reaction?
neurological disorder. once a diagnosis of migraine has been made effective management of migraine involves three specific strategies: 1) patient education 2) nonpharmacological management and 3) pharmacological (medical) management. see an orofacial pain or headache specialist for evaluation and professional management.
i have had a tension headache for the past hour now it's gone but i feel light headed and and feel my pulse in the back of my neck and back of my head and i have insomnia and anxiety could that have anything to do with those feelings i'm experiencing?
need to be evaluated by your doctor and the same goes for the other symptoms you mention to rule out medical conditions. if this is an anxiety disorder you can see a clinical psychologist to learn some stress management techniques. peace and good health.
is it safe to take caffeine pills and energy drinks together?
consuming 4 to 12 mg/kg of caffeine has been associated with undesirable symptoms including anxiety and jitteriness. headache and fatigue commonwithdrawal symptoms can occur after short-term high-dose use. caffeine intoxication is a clinical syndrome of nervousness irritability anxiety insomnia tremor tachycardia palpitations and upset stomach. seifert et al 2011. its high risk behavior
i'm having a sharp pain located in 1 small portion of my head and it's causing me a panic attack and it has caused my heart rate to raise. i feel nasueas. it's reccuring?
you should get referred to a neurologist for an evaluation. cluster or migraine headaches can cause pain on one side of the head. there may be other causes as well. your panic attacks may be related to the pain. see your primary care or mental health provider for an assessment and treatment of them.
i've been experiencing vertigo palpitations sweating and a continuous headache for the last 4 months. could this be anxiety?
why speculate when you could see a dr about it?
why my heart beats fast? and weird like i'm scare or nervous?
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. symptoms of severe anxiety: insomnia chest pain shortness of breath nausea palpitations teeth clenching/grinding and headache.
why does my heart beat fast when i'm eating like i'm nervous or scare? it never happen before.
is state of tension apprehension worry uneasiness or fear. it may be related to anticipated danger or arise for no apparent reason. while mild episodes of anxiety are common and do not usually require treatment more severe forms can be chronic and debilitating. symptoms of severe anxiety: insomnia chest pain shortness of breath nausea palpitations teeth clenching/grinding and headache.
headaches blood in my saliva pain in my back/throat muscle spasms pale diaherria blood work normal ct of head normal chest x-ray normal ekg normal?
by a local physician.
i've been diagnosed with ibs and gerd my stool is random almost never good shape (yellow). also i seem to have headache tingling/crawling skin dry mouth. and pvc's when i lay what's related?
your symptoms don't seem to be related to a single physical illness but may be related to anxiety or stress which can affect widespread areas of the body. the mind-body connection is real. there is constant back and forth communication between your brain and your organs not only by nerve connections but also by neuropeptides generated by both which travel in your blood><link>
i have a dull pain in my left temple that throbs in time to my pulse. i feel a sense of pressure there as well. what should i do?
the differential diagnosis is migraine cluster headache and temporal arteritis. you need a complete evaluation to distinguish which is the cause. the treatments are different.
what to do if i have a pacemaker for tachy brady (sick sinus syndrome) what to do if i have had wierd episodes of chest pain headaches ?
those symptoms are not related to your pacemaker. you need to be checked out just like someone who doesn't have a pacemaker.
headaches back pain neck pain tingling in right foot and pain in leg weak tired not eating or drinking. blood work ecg holter echo stress test-normal?
need to rule out cervical spondylosis.
headaches back pain neck pain tingling in right foot and pain in leg weak tired not eating or drinking. blood work ecg holter echo stress test-normal?
a severe case of infectious mono or epstein barr virus disease can give these symptoms. you should have your ebv titers checked and if igm is positive you have active mono. next in line would be possibility of multiple sclerosis. must see a neurologist to evaluate you and your mri to rule in or rule out ms. god willing it is not ms.
headaches vomiting felt dizzy heart racing feel like my arms and legs are heavy cool skin just feel strange not sure what to do?
with all of the separate symptoms i first think of a viral syndrome. see your doctor soon.
headaches vomiting felt dizzy heart racing feel like my arms and legs are heavy cool skin just feel strange not sure what to do?
i recommend seeing a doctor.
headache with pain in the back of the neck and back pain? is it stroke or heart attack? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg stress test chest xray is it alarming
with all of those negative tests in an otherwise healthy 32 year- old it is most likely a musculoskeletal cause. a physiatrist can perform a thorough history and physical to confirm diagnosis and give you treatment options.
headache with pain in the back of the neck and back pain? is it stroke or heart attack? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg stress test chest xray is it alarming
i wonder if you've been in an accident or anything that could cause a whiplash to the neck. that's a first thought. stress is a second. you'll want a good diagnostitian who will listen to you carefully.
how can i differentiate panic attacks or anxiety from heart attack if they have the same symptoms? normal 2decho jan 2013 ecg threadmill stress test
panic attacks can develop rapidly ; include: marked anxiety; rapid pounding heart beat; chest tightness or pain; shortness of breath with hyperventilation; hot or cold flashes; a sense of butterflies in the stomach nausea or even vomiting; tingling of mouth or extremities; increased sweating; feeling faint or lightheaded; headache or shaking. there may be difficulty swallowing or tight throat.
heart is racing at 120 fever body aches and headache. this came on like an hour ago. she has taken al-hist pe. could this be a common side effect?
its active ingradient is phenylephrine. it could cause palpitations tachycardia and supraventricular tachycardia (fast beting arrythmia). in addition fevet itself could increase heart rate. for every 1 degree centigrade heart rate increases by 10 beats approximately.
i have chronic migraines. i have tried various preventatives ( topamax (topiramate) propranolol amitriptyline etc) and none work. what would you suggest next.
can be treated in various ways at headache clinics at some local hospitals. your doc may refer you or search one out yourself. you can also consider natural approaches such as a food sensitivity panel from great plains laboratory in ks. peace and good health. biofeedback and clinical hypnosis are also possibilities.
i hear a heart beat in my ear. is this normal do i need to go see my doctor?
this is likely occurring while you are lying in bed and not distracted. it is usually nothing to worry about. if it is associated with headaches or visual problems i would have your blood pressure checked at your doctor's office.
issue: throbbing headache increased pulse upon standing from seating. / regular bp @rest 110/76. studying in cold room-- feet/hands often cold.
do you only have headache when standing? an increased pulse when coming to standing is normal; caused by blood rushing to the legs from other areas. the body compensates by raising blood pressure and heart rate so you don't faint. very common in healthy young women to feel faint at first if standing up suddenly. a headache along with this could be due to drinking too little water or other reason.
i also have a heart rate of 124 when laid down and chest pain lost a lot of weight and have a severe headache?
asap please don't wait or better go to er you need immediate medical attention wish you wellness
heart attack brain aneurysm or anxiety attack how can i tell the difference?
sometimes it is hard to differentiate between a heart attack and and anxiety attack because of overlapping symptoms of chest pain/difficulty breathing. however a brain aneurysm rupture is hard to miss. the typical symptom is the sudden onset of the "worst headache of one's life". the pain is excrutiating and often produces coma. neurosurgical attention is needed immediately.
i had skip beats almost treated it (potassium deficiency maybe) now i have insane twitch crawling around body mostly bottom half calf tighten some headache arm ache(rare) could it be magnesium?
19m from cleveland asks about skipped beats and almost treated it (potassium deficiency maybe) twitching crawling around body could it be mg. this can all come from low k and much less likely low mg. but you need to see what your blood k and mg are. skipped beats due to low k are dangerous and you need to see your team again.
i had skip beats almost treated it (potassium deficiency maybe) now i have insane twitch crawling around body mostly bottom half calf tighten some headache arm ache(rare) could it be magnesium?
you have an electrolyte deficiency or overload. potassium overload or magnesium deficiency comes to mind. you could also have some calcium problems. please get to the primary care healthcare provider for proper diagnosis and treatment.
i have been getting headaches for the past week that are in front of head pounding with my heartbeat and they only happen at night. any ideas why?
this could be a tension headache classically described as a rubber band being tied around your head. usually associated with increased stress try excedrin over the counter to see if this helps and follow up closely with your primary care provider.
ive been experience headaches and my left eye have a pulse and i feel weak. chest pains and heart flutter. what could be wrong with me?
if you are experiencing chest pain & palpitations - recommend that this be medically assessed. need to rule out cardiac problem.
i notice i regularly experience heart palpitations the week before menstruation. could the palpitations be directly related to hormonal changes?
premenstrual dysphoric syndrome is a syndrome similar to pms and can be associated with headaches joint pain mode swings panic attacks irritability and palpitations. it is due to hormonal changes which occur with ovulation. it is treated with drugs that suppress ovulation.
i'm on buspirone for anxiety and was just prescribed 40mg twice a day of propranolol to help with my gad and heart rate. my dr knows i have asthma. ?
which can increase heart rate. buspirone is for anxiety. having propranolol with buspirone may have headache dizziness lightheadedness fainting see a physician for asthma; psychiatrist for diagnosis medication interactions benefits and side effects dose triggers of asthma and therapy for stress in your life.
why do i get a fast heart rate shake and get a little headache at random times. it does mostly happen at night but it also happens during the day.
hard to tell from here. i'd see if there is any temporal relationship to certain eating habits or food items and relationship to specific activities? do you ingest a lot of caffeine? any consumption of energy drinks? any recreational drug use? if not i'd see a doctor and get a 30 day event recorder a device you can activate when you have these racing spells to see if rhythm abnormal
what would be your symptoms if the dose of premarin (conjugated estrogens) is too high? experiencing dizziness heart palpitations restless sleep and tremors
the most common symptoms of excessive dose of premarin (conjugated estrogens) would be breast tenderness nausea abdomen pain headache flu like symptoms back pain. the symptoms you describe are very serious & you should seek medical attention immediately. premarin (conjugated estrogens) therapy can cause serious side effects with increased risk of stroke pulmonary embolus deep vein thrombosis. see medical doctor right away
what could be the reason for heart beating fast in pregnancy week 35? any suggestions to avoid it
for your baseline heart rate to gradually increase during pregnancy. your exercise and activity tolerance will decrease so that toward the end of pregnancy simple activities will seem to take more effort. you should still bring this symptom up with your doctor to verify that it is not sign of something else. if there are other symptoms like dizziness or headaches see your doc right away.
what do you advise if i have chest pains bad headaches rapid heart beat after k2?
not sure what you mean by k2. if you are having repeated episodes of chest pain and rapid heart beat you should see your doc and be checked out.
i fell badly and hit my head on a toilet and passed out about 4 weeks ago and i still have a tender bump on the top of my head. should i be worried?
signs of concern are headaches confusion visual disturbances disturbed sleep. the bump is form the impact if nothing else is going on it should resolve without incident and no need to worry. but since you had a loss of consciousness getting checked out is a good idea. .
is one troponin t test within 7 hours of symptoms enough to rule out heart attack. it as neg but i'm still having symptoms. i read a series sb done.
there are no hard & fast rules. each case must be evaluated on its own. yes in certain circumstances one troponin 7 hours after onset of symptoms can rule out some heart damage;but not necessarily a'heart attack ' per se. you can have a bad headache without having a stroke right? also depends on your personal story family history lifestyle diet activities stress factors smoking drugs. find a good doc
my blood pressure is 147/103 my heart rate is 107 bad headache on the left side only & heart skipping a beat i am 45 female do i need to go to hospital
if you are still experiencing these symptoms you need to see your doctor right away. if you are unable to get an appointment then you should present to the urgent care. you need to be treated for your high blood pressure and you need an ekg to check for an irregular heart rhythm. also a cause for your headache needs to be investigated. you may also need blood tests etc. best of luck.
what to do about headache & heart racing when i wake up?
a headache that is mostly in the morning may be caused by sleep apnea bruxism anxiety or depression. in the early morning hours (between 3 and 8 a. m. ) our body has its lowest levels of endorphins so most primary headaches may present. see your pcp for consultation tests and possible referral to a headache specialist.
what to do about headache & heart racing when i wake up?
is your room exposed to carbon monoxide? your symptoms suggest toxic exposure.
what causes delayed burping pain in the back of neck difficulty breathing and choking feeling headache and fast heart beat?
honestly i wish i could ask you more questions to better answer this. i am assuming all these symptoms are happening at the same time and have a seeming relationship with each other? how often does it occur? is it sudden? if all at once suddenly have to think about an allergic reaction to something or maybe infection like meningitis. need more info. if this is now and u can't breathe well seek care now
what causes delayed burping pain in the back of neck difficulty breathing and choking feeling headache and fast heart beat?
burping releases gas which enters the stomach during swallowing. shortness of breath choking sensation neck pain and rapid heartbeat could be due to spasm of the esophagus and it could be associated with headache. however these symptoms could be due to other problems as well such as high blood pressure. all this merits a careful exam by ones doctor.
what classifies as 'stress related illness? ' sx:muscle tens fatigue irritability hrt palps. complete workup. no clinical illness. this is dr's dx.
illness is a broad term. examples of conditions which can be impacted by stress include: irritable bowel syndrome chronic fatigue syndrome asthma tension headaches migraine headaches etc. changes in heart rate may occur with anxiety/ panic.
healthy eater only water. why does my bp spike every couple of days & sometime bp is normal & heart rate is in the 90's. could this be anxiety?
you need a full medical evaluation of this problem to be sure. you also list "headache pain dizziness" in your clinical findings -- and they may be connected with your blood pressure changes. bp and pulse can vary as these respond to activity level. if associated with symptoms they need investigation. please start by seeing your family physician.
had headache earache and watering eyefor 6 months had sinsus ct came back normal. ent says headache is migraine and prescribed beta blocker. correct?
worthwhile to try a preventative medication and beta blockers are approved for migraine but they may have nasty side effects such as wheezing fatigue cognitive slowing exercise intolerance slowing of pulse and dropping of blood pressure and depression. other meds may be tolerated better such as topirimate or divalproex sodium. perhaps see a neurologist who focuses in headache management.
had headache earache and watering eyefor 6 months had sinsus ct came back normal. ent says headache is migraine and prescribed beta blocker. correct?
migraine does not usually affect the ears and thus you may have another kind of headache altogether or in addition to migraine. beta blocker is often used for migraine prophylaxis but if you have more than 15 episodes a month botox may be another option. do consult your dentist to find out if you have a jaw problem called tmd.
had headache earache and watering eyefor 6 months had sinsus ct came back normal. ent says headache is migraine and prescribed beta blocker. correct?
migraines do not typically cause tearing. however pain from dry eyes is poorly localized and so dry eyes could potentially cause all 3 symptoms. try otc artificial tears as a trial.
heart skipping beats 1-2 times every 5 minutes chills high blood pressure and pulse at 110 so nasea what can it be?
did you catch cold? it sounded like viral or bacterial infection -- sore throat coughing or congestion headache?
i woke up feeling like this: stiff neck red and yellow spots in my vision increased heart rate dizzy numbness and headache. what can it be? never happened to me before.
you have given very little history. this could be related to some central nervous system issue. this could be infectious such as having been bitten by some insect or other type of infection. i would see your doctor tomorrow or if possible would go to an urgicenter tonight. this problem is concerning and would not blow it off. best wishes
i have throbbing in my head and chest for weeks which is in multiple places and skips "beats". what could this be?
see your gp if you are feeling missed beats. may need hotter. discuss the headaches at the same visit
i have been having chest burning. doctor told me it was anxiety and heartburn. ekg was clear. gave me zantac and buspar (buspirone). how long does it take to work?
zantac acid reducer w side effects of headache + loose or hard bm's. tell md if stool problem buspar (buspirone) is antianxiety w many se. chest burn prob esophagitis from gerd u r decreas acid but enzymes to digest food&inflammation still present&must heal. to stop gerd no lie down 2hrs aft meal&slight elev of head&uptorso w pillow(gravity). gi doc if not better in 1-2 wk. no spicy food. u take oth med?
my son was diagnosis with entomoemba histolytica given metronidazole for 8 days but is still sick. can this cause rapid heart rate stomach upset dizziness?
side effects include: nausea vomiting dyspepsia diarrhea seizures hypersensitivity rxn leukopenia optic neuropathy headache dizziness confusion dark red-brown urine dysarthria and others.
my doctor said the veins in my heart are in spasm what does this mean and how is it treated. i have had attacks like a heart attack starts in my upper back going into my chest throat and jaw lasting about 15 to 20 minutes. he also said i have no blockage
prinzmetal variant or vasospastic angina are all the same. the coronary arteries go into spasm and reduce blood flow just like a migraine headache. it is treated with vaso-dilating drugs like calcium channel blockers (norvasc procardia (nifedipine) diltiazem verapamil). it can cause heart attacks but only in rare instances. the cause is endothelial dysfunction get tested for insulin resistance.
my blood pressure has been elevated in the morning for the past two weeks ranging from 162/112-- 141/101. i take lisinopril/hctz 20/12. 5 and meteprolol 25 both once daily what do u recommend?
your bp is not under control. the meds you are on are good ones but the bp is too high. any recent increase in salt or caffeine? any symptoms of headaches chest pain shortness of breath you need to see your doctor. the doses of both meds can be doubled but other choices are available best decided upon by your doctor who is following your response to these meds.
my daughters 13 and she is complaining of her throat being soar and it looks like there are bumps on the back of her throat she also feels like she mi?
seems like she has exudate in her tonsils. check for strep tonsillitis if with sx of headache chills and bodyaches.
my bp is 89/55 and my pulse is 62i am having headaches dizziness and chest pain. what could this be?
could be a problem with skin nerves muscle shoulder lung heart or stomach. see your doctor for a more thorough history physical exam and further evaluation.
my bp is 89/55 and my pulse is 62i am having headaches dizziness and chest pain. what could this be?
if you usually have low bp those vital signs can be entirely normal. if the bp is low for you it suggests that you're not eating and drinking enough. if you have fever or uncontrolled diabetes (other causes) it could be more serious. headache dizziness and chest pain raise the question of an infection in your chest. it could possibly all be related. for instance pneumonia could do everything.
what could cause a headache & heart racing when i wake up?
most of these complaints are due to normal reaction of the body with position adjustment after a prolonged period of rest. however early morning headache may indicate elevated blood pressure. you need to be evaluated. also stay hydrated-headaches are often a symptom of dehydration that happens even in colder climate due to dry air.
what could cause a headache & heart racing when i wake up?
this could be normal for you but further investigation including a thorough history and physical examination by your doctor will be invaluable. your doctor may decide to do bloodwork ekg heart rhythm monitoring and possibly sleep evaluation. they may refer you to a cardiologist or heart rhythm specialist. take care.
what could be the cause of weird slight tingling in left foot? no other symptoms except for occasional headache. 33/yo & healthy. irregular heart beat.
could be a mechanical problem due to tight shoes. unless u have af occasional skipped beats are not dangerous.
what could be the cause of weird slight tingling in left foot? no other symptoms except for occasional headache. 33/yo & healthy. irregular heart beat.
tingling sensations are typically off neurologic origin likely best evaluated by a neurologist to determine the level of origin of symptoms i. e. brain versus spinal versus local foot pathology.
woke up with headache not typical migraine. hands & upper body shaking badly. fast pulse. light sensitive. no pain w/ movement.
is very common viral infection with symptoms you have described. usually the condition resolves on its own with home care. drink water and get a good rest. tylenol (acetaminophen) is also recommended every 6 hours. if concerned see your pcp after 7-8 days or so.
woke up with headache not typical migraine. hands & upper body shaking badly. fast pulse. light sensitive. no pain w/ movement. hallucinations.
needed. what sort of hallucination? is it shaking or jerking and is it one side or both? do you have a fever? any stiff neck? neurological assessment is needed. if fever you need a urinalysis possibly an lp. you may need an eeg and a brain imaging study. tardive dyskinesia from reglan (metoclopramide) produces random movements of the face tongue limbs that are often painful and may respond to tetrabenazine.
hyperparathyroidism with low vit. d and slightly elevated potassium. what does this mean to you? could high potassium cause headaches? dizziness?
it means you do have hyperparathyroidism and since you are less than 50 years old you are a candidate for parathyroid surgery to cure it. you need vit d supplemet depending on your level. high pottasium level has been described with hyperparathyroidism and may cause headace
hyperparathyroidism with low vit. d and slightly elevated potassium. what does this mean to you? could high potassium cause headaches? dizziness?
high potassium does not cause these symptoms. high serum calcium (associated with hyperparathyroidism) can cause weakness fatigue nausea and constipation among other symptoms (possibly to include dizziness) but generally not headaches.
how just "anxiety" can cause chest pain shortness of breath arms and kneck pain diziness headache sudoration palpitations? all chardio tests done. txs
anxiety attacks account for a large number if emergency room visits. when anxiety hits the body releases adrenaline and corticosteroids- which impact a lot of organs and systems in the body. if you were physically cleared i suggest you seek counseling to find tools to learn to handle the anxiety better.
i have really bad ear ache a headache a tight chest and a fever i've started to be sick too is this something i need to be really concerned about?
the simple fact that you describe a "really bad ear ache and headache" should warrant a visit to the doctor's office to be officially evaluated and properly diagnosed to see if you need any medication to treat and improve your condition. best wishes.
ive had a headache for 3 days! the pain is all round my head but the worst pain in my forehead! i feel dizzy when i stand up and i have an earache in both ears a tight chest and extremely sore throat! my headache throat and chest are the worst though e
it sounds like your symptoms are more than you can handle at home. you've tried taking over-the-counter therapies like paracetamol? you should call your doc since you have dizziness and could be dehydrated. i recommend chicken soup fluids and rest until you can be seen. you need something for the chest too-like an inhaler (albuterol). limit stress and sleep well to avoid these type of infections
my mom(50) she took 2 dose of primolut n is stressed alot. she was having severe head spinning swollen neck got high bp 150/90 and ecg is not normal.?
primulotin? never heard of it; do you mean premarin (conjugated estrogens)? her situation is multifactoral and complex. the anxiety and headaches can be related if she clinches her teeth at night ( bruxism); if she snores badly could have sleep apnea. swollen neck is it big or acutely enlarged? if big and she snores loudly consider a sleep study. some can do home sleep studies but may need to be evaluated.
will propranolol treat a migraine?
propranolol can help minimize the number of migraines in some patients. it doesn't treat the acute headache
what are beta blockers used for?
beta blockers are used to treat so many different conditions from elevated blood pressure to irregular heart rhythms to anxiety to tremors and migraine headaches. this just names some of the uses!
i'm curious as to what could be going on with me. severe headaches feels like my heart is skipping beats shortness of breath and left arm pain.
if of sudden or recent onset you may have developed an arrhythmia; go get a physical evaluation including ecg
i am on clarithromycin for tonsillitis as allergic to penicillin and am experiencing a bit of chest tightness and light headed is this a side effect?
clarithromycin is usually well tolerated. main side effects of clarithromycin are headache insomnia gassy diarrhea nausea abdominal pain
i have a headache chest pain nausea left arm is uncomfortable dizziness ringing ears and weird a numblike feeling under tongue. er or no?
chest pain with nausea and left arm symptoms requires an urgent evaluation to rule out a cardiac event. please visit your closest emergency room.
i have shortness of breath and the constant feeling of phlegm in the back of my throat causing me to cough a lot. now my upper chest hurts like someone is sitting on it and i have a headache. yesterday i took claratin-d and ibuprofin.
please call your physician for an examination and evaluation
im taking venlafaxine as a preventive & sumatriptan at onset of migraine but it's not helping. tried all sorts of meds incl beta blockers. what next?
am not impressed with venlafaxine as an effective migraine preventative and do not use. sumatriptan works well if taken with the first hour but not so good later. there are many migraine preventatives that do work such as depakote topamax (topiramate) but also could try botox. see a headache specialist and get this under control.
i get woke up with bad headaches feels like it is hurting with heartbeat only happens when asleep only last few seconds citalopram 20 mg ability 20 m?
headaches including migraine equivalents are often hard to diagnose the cause especially over the computer. there are multiple factors that can be involved so best advice for you is to see your doctor and get the full history and physical done so the best and most accurate cause can be found to assure the best treatment. good luck!
im 31. i have pain on the side of my abdomen by my hip bone. i press on my stomach i feel my heart beats? no appetite no sleep chills nausea headache
in an otherwise healthy female in 30s pain that is located in the right lower abdomen with symptoms such as fever/chills lack of appetite nausea should be evaluated immediately for possible appendicitis or ectopic pregnancy. there are many causes of right lower quadrant ab pain but these are two situations that should have emergent evaluation. recommend consult for appropriate next steps.
im 31. i have pain on the side of my abdomen by my hip bone. i press on my stomach i can feel my heart beats? no appetite no sleep chills nausea headache
left lower quadrant pain can be from intestinal tract but can also radiate from upper abdomen or pelvic region. women of childbearing years should have pregnancy test. further testings based on history and physical by physician to determine blood tests urine test and possible imaging.
what will happen if i overdose on isosorbide mononitrate?
if you are talking about accidentally taking an extra dose you should expect a headache and possibly some dizziness from your blood pressure dropping.
weaning off propranolol(on it for anxiety/headaches/dizziness) eversince suffer wi a bad stomach. could this be due to anxiety? dont feel anxious
however this is not a common effect of propranolo. please get an abdominal examination and medical evaluation.
weaning off propranolol(on it for anxiety/headaches/dizziness) eversince suffer wi a bad stomach. could this be due to anxiety? dont feel anxious
possible.
help i have blackouts when standing up increased heart rate severe headaches hear heartbeat in ear?
blackouts on standing strongly suggests orthostatic hypotension. there are many causes. a few examples: gunshot wound sepsis many medicines internal bleeding sunstroke anaphylaxis - and many others.
hi my problem is that i constantly get headaches and feel very dizzy also heart rate rises my blood pressure is good i've been thinking anemia?
constant headaches can be caused by many things. i would see your doctor to determine the cause of your headaches. anemia can cause some of your symptoms but i would get it checked out and get some blood work which will easily tell you if you are anemic.
i'm having headaches cold sweats mood swings thirst & feeling like fainting. my dad was a type 1 diabetic. are these signs and should i be tested soon?
of the signs of possible diabetes. go to your gp asap and take someone with you or have them drive just in case. do some research on diabetes on your own so you are informed when at the doc's office. take care of this soon.
i have been having sudden severe headaches on both sides of myhead in my temples when my heart rate accelerates. itis severe throbbing pain?
although sounds like you are suffering migraines would see a neurologist and get this all evaluated. if migraine many interventions can get this under control.
moving headache low grade fever neck and shoulder stiffness fast heart rate and feeling like blacking out even laying down? what could this be?
what you are describing could be an infection see your doctor soon.
high bp heart skips morning headaches lips and inside of thighs a blueish colour i think emphysema? had 1 episode of afib
you have multiple symptoms which cannot be answered online without a comprehensive physical exam blood testing pulmonary function testing ekg and cardiology consultation. it appears that you are also on a detox program and i suggest a review of all meds.
high bp heart skips morning headaches lips and inside of thighs a blueish colour i think emphysema? had 1 episode of afib
you should see a cardiologist to evaluate your heart function and structure. it's unusual to have these symptoms at such a young age. a lung doctor (pulmonologist) can help diagnose emphysema. call 911 if chest pain passing out weakness dizziness partial paralysis or short of breath. take care.
have had headache head pressure tinnitus neck pain blurry vision and tachycardia for three weeks. what could this be from? csf leak?
in csf leak the headache is worse when you sit up and improves when you lie down. visit er. many clinicians consider parenteral administration of dhe 45 (dihydroergotamine) ketamine lidocaine other agents to be a very safe and reasonable treatment for intractable migraine. good luck.
hi i have severe headache from 1 week and pulse rate is 80 is it normal?
there are many types of headaches and many reasons for each type. you should see your primary care physician first who can refer you to a neurologist. it would be helpful for you to keep a "headache calendar" by noting down the frequency duration location and intensity of your headaches along with associated symptoms. <link>
hi i am having slight centric chest pain for almost a week. neck pain shoulder pain jaw pain nausea headache one sided giddiness fever ecg normal?
any time one experiences chest pain with jaw shoulder and arm involvement ruling out a cardiac cause is paramount. once done though your cervical spine can be the underlying trigger for most of these complaints. have your doc look into your neck as the cause where you might need pt injections and meds to clear things up.
i have bad chest tightness with a headache and dizziness my pulse is always high 107-110 what could be wrong with me?
prob is viral but also possibility of bacterial. if you have a temp worsening of symptoms then suggest dr visit.
i feel like im not breathing enough and headaches everyday er did chest exray is was fine and ekg was fine?
sounds like you've been going through a rough time lately including going to the emergency room. you should establish care with a neurologist for your daily headaches. you may also benefit from relaxation exercises a great website to check out for relaxation exercises is <link>
i had a bit of a headache earlier from crying that lingered throughout the day. but later as i went to have warm bath soak i got a bit lightheaded getting out and now an hour later i still feel disoriented and a bit dizzy. my hr when out was 160.
since you already take triptan u must have chronic recurrent headaches. the warm bath could cause vasodilitation then tachycardia with resulting disorientation&dizzy d/t diversion of blood to skin away from brain. drink fluids. rest with feet elevated. tylenol (acetaminophen) for ha. if this persists for more than one hour then see your doctor
i had a bit of a headache earlier from crying that lingered throughout the day. but later as i went to have warm bath soak i got a bit lightheaded getting out and now an hour later i still feel disoriented and a bit dizzy. my hr when out was 160.
although this may be related to other issues. your heart rate is very high: normal is 60-100 bpm. your dizziness may be related to the elevated heart rate which must be evaluated diagnosed and treated.
i had a bit of a headache earlier from crying that lingered throughout the day. but later as i went to have warm bath soak i got a bit lightheaded getting out and now an hour later i still feel disoriented and a bit dizzy. my hr when out was 160.
sounds like you may have been dehydrated. i recommend you drink a couple big glasses of water. that should help your headache and also prevent that lightheaded feeling when you stand up. your heart rate will slow down too. lie down when you feel dizzy.
i woke up today with a bad headache so i took excedrin. while at work i started feeling worse really lightheaded and nauseous all day. i took pepto and didn't work. my headache is gone still kinda queasy. hx of syncope. i just want to feel better?
sounds like a migraine. have you had headaches like this before? migraines are very severe and are accompanied by nausea as well as an aversion to light and sounds. this episode will pass in short order but these headaches are episodic so you will likely get another at some point. you may need some diagnostic testing and certainly need some treatment options.
i woke up today with a bad headache so i took excedrin. while at work i started feeling worse really lightheaded and nauseous all day. i took pepto and didn't work. my headache is gone still kinda queasy. hx of syncope. i just want to feel better?
sounds like migrane headache but tou should be seen promptly by your md.
i'm taking metoprolol 50mg succ. (in the a. m. ) for anxiety related sinus tachycardia. is it safe to take melatonin 3mg to help with sleep issues?
the most common melatonin side effects include: •daytime sleepiness •headaches •dizziness other less common melatonin side effects might include abdominal discomfort mild anxiety irritability confusion and short-lasting feelings of depression. in addition melatonin supplements can interact with various medications including: •blood-thinning medications (anticoagulants) •medications that suppress the immune system (immunosuppressants) •diabetes medications •birth control pills
my doctor says i might have low magnesium. palpitations daily up to 2 hours at a time feel very cold too. how dangerous is this?
magnesium is a essential for the function of over 300 enzymes & needed for muscle nerve & heart function. low magnesium can cause or aggravate muscle spasms anxiety insomnia migraine headaches hypertension fatigue palpitations constipation asthma osteoporosis etc. the best magnesium supplements are magnesium taurate glycinate citrate & aspartate. see <link>
my doctor told me my heart palpitations are benign but they have gotten worse since then. they even keep me up at night and cause difficulty breathing?
that decision? ekg holter test stress test thyroid test? are you having anxiety attacks? here is few causes of benign heart palpitations: excess caffeine energy drinks cold medicines dehydration pots( palpitations appearing after assuming standing position from sitting) streets drugs like marihuana asthma/allergies hyperthyroidism (associated with sweating tremors headaches).
what are some of the side effects for toprol (metoprolol)? is headache and weigh gain side effects
toprol (metoprolol) a bbeta blocker can cause weight gain and headaches. in general headaches improve after 2 to 3 weeks. weight gain is just finding a balance of caloric burn / intake
heart rate is 58 right now at rest im freaking out its normally 74 help anyone i feel fine just scared what it will be tonight?
seeing that you are on propranolol (a beta blocker) that works to lower heart rate i am not surprised by your heart rate of 58 bpm. suspect you are taking it for headaches? as long as you do not feel as though you are going to pass out you are fine. if you exercise or are fit your resting heart rate may be low and then lowered further bc of propranolol. normal hr 60-
have blood pressure problems my blood pressure was 149/107 heart rate 101 i am dizzy weak and head pounding. came home took my bp meds still feel bad?
i think you may have the cart before the horse. you're ill. you have a headache. your bp and pulse rate respond to your stress and distress. neither are abnormal enough to cause your symptoms. do you have a fever? do you get migraines? have you had upset stomach? vomiting? diarrhea? have you been exposed to someone ill? have you been to w. africa? you may have a "bug" that just needs to pass.
i weigh 33kg. i eat on time but i seem to get thinner. i feel tired all the time and i have headaches and chest pains and stomachaches.
thank you for expressing your concerns about your health. “headaches chest pains and stomachaches” are due to stress causing anxiety. weight of 33kg and “seem to get thinner” is likely due to depression or a medical condition. see physician for diagnosis of low weight and treatment see psychiatrist for anxiety and depression; medication therapy for stresses of traumatic experiences relationships
i have been experiencing a chocking feeling in the neck and a heavy feeling in the chest along with headaches and other symptoms. what could this be?
you do not give enough information to give a formal diagnosis but a lump in the throat sensation is referred to as globus sensation. this can be caused by stress or anxiety but a more formal h & p needs to be done to rule out other causes which may include inflammation of the throat from sinus drainage or ge reflux dysfuntion of the muscles in the esophagus etc. make an appt with your doctor
my husband had the body trembling headaches arrhythmia and lost sleep. your coloesterol is 246. he may have a heart attack?
many symptoms with many possibilities. time to see your doctor for diagnosis and treatment.
my husband had the body trembling headaches arrhythmia and lost sleep. your coloesterol is 246. he may have a heart attack?
heart attacks may manifest in different symptoms. at times it is silent (no symptoms). or it's only heart racing sensation. typically though it is more than that. chest pain (i am not talking about a discomfort but crushing agonizing pain) sometimes upper stomach pain shortness of breath etc. the symptoms you are describing sound more like he may have had a mild flu. see your dr if persists.
my gp ordered stool sample and says im anemic. my iron level is 8 and hemoglobin 116 (can value). i have rapid heartrate and headaches. immed danger?
blood loss from excessive menstrual bleed from possible uterine fibroids or from. stomach/ intestinal bleeding from ulcers tumor polyps hemorrhoids etc. the stool test is to check for intestinal bleeding. you're not in imminent danger. follow up with your pcp. god bless u! <link>
my gp ordered stool sample and says im anemic. my iron level is 8 and hemoglobin 116 (can value). i have rapid heartrate and headaches. immed danger?
your hgb is probably 8 which is low the hgb level would not be 116? etc? depending on your symptoms some patients will benefit form a transfusion under 8. if you are relatively health and you can take iron your count can slowly start to come up with replacement therapy but is can take 3 months for new rbc's to develop. follow-up with your dr for a assessment and plan. best wishes.
my gp ordered stool sample and says im anemic. my iron level is 8 and hemoglobin 116 (can value). i have rapid heartrate and headaches. immed danger?
yes. you need to do what your doctor recommends which is most likely to get to a gastroenterologist and to have a colonoscopy urgently. you are losing iron and you are losing blood. this is dangerous and must be figured out and corrected urgently.
what can cause rapid heart rate (up to 174 bpm) severe headache rapid breathing adrenaline rush to occur multiple times a night every night.
all these symptoms are a warning that are telling you to be seen when we lie down fluid changes in our system can trigger underlying heart disease and trigger some of your symptoms and could also be an endocrine (gland and hormone) problem so please get to your doctor and get this evaluated right away!
what causes ketonuria (4+) and hypotension (bp 95/49 pulse 105) in pregnancy (22wks)? fainting spells palpitations headaches nausea/vomiting fatigue. not dehydrated (normal urine color).
these are not normal normal signs or symptoms of pregnancy. in fact this is an extremely serious situation until proven otherwise by a medical professional. you must get evaluated now!
what causes ketonuria (4+) and hypotension (bp 95/49 pulse 105) in pregnancy (22wks)? fainting spells palpitations headaches nausea/vomiting fatigue. not dehydrated (normal urine color).
have you been checked for gstational diabetes?
heart rate usually 55bpm blood pressure 10<negative_smiley>70 today it's 110bpm 129/96 with a pounding headache body pain conjestion stuffy nose chills and 99. 1 temp?
in this vignette there are a couple of key points. one is the bp and heart rate being lower in baseline. an increase in both + particular symptoms could mean a viral infection in this case of the upper respiratory tract. low grade fever. in this cases taking tylenol (acetaminophen) is reasonable to deal with symptoms also degongestants. a quick visit to your md should take care of this quickly. cheers c
heart rate is around 95 i have a huge headache dizzy leg pale and warm foot cold blurred vision taking shallow breathes legs want to give out on me
you need to consult a doc or go to an urgent care asap. you will need a full examination and more detail history to help with diagnosis.
i am a little concerned because i keep getting dizzy spells continuous mild headaches and chest pain. why does this happen?
require an examination evaluation testing diagnosis and treatment. please close your computer a go directly to the er or uc clinic-now!
i have got a moderate headache in temple region after bearing down for svt episode? what could this be?
if persistent then be physically examined ;valsalva can dramatically raise bp with theoretical vascular risk eg pre existing berry aneurysm etc
worsening high blood pressure 155/95 heart rate 100-120 jumps to 150 when i stand and get dizzy with sharp headaches. only last for a few sec. help?
you have high bp for a 19 years old and have a rapid heart beat and you feel dizzy and headache you should go to er and get checked
within 1 mth now i have experienced a severe headache behind one eye that quickly leads to sweating shakiness nausea and heart racing! ct was normal?
this could be a variation of migraine headaches. should see a neurologist to rule out more serious things and discuss medications if headaches return.
what side effects are associated with apixaban?
common are anemia hemorrhage nausea low blood pressure peripheral edema dizziness headaches vertigo cataracts upper respiratory tract infection chest pain fever uti blood in urine muscle spasms & aches increase glucose decrease appetite depression insomnia rash.
hi i am on deanxit withdrawal i am doing ok with headaches dizziness and mild insomia but i am feeling that my heart palpitations arent ok is it a sy?
deanxit is a combination medication with a lot of possible side effects. it was banned in the us due to the side effects. withdrawal of the medication can cause an increase in the anxiety and heart racing. it needs to be monitored very carefully. if you are having heart palpatations then call your doctor to have them evaluate you.
how likely is it getting pregnant for the second time can make lupus fibro neuropathy sjogrens raynauds irregular heart beat worse?
25y w. "fibro neuropathy & arrhythmia" has symptoms found in hypermobility syndrome; wherein mitral valve prolapse is often operant. collagen disorders manifest in both heart valves & ligaments. ligament laxity begets joint subluxation & neural impingement. impingements of autonomic nerves manifest as functional organ disorders; such as ibs panic attacks migraine headaches & sweating.
i was treated for paracetamol od a week ago but have since had right chest pain vomiting and headaches should i be concerned? should i go back to dr
i would suggest to check your liver again. so yes you should go back to the doctor.
is headache a side effect from propranolol? i get a weird feeling in my head and neck when i take it. it was prescribed for akathisia from geodon (ziprasidone)
with some important exceptions like the treatment of nausea from cancer chemo treating the side effects of one drug with another is or should be a last resort to be gone to only if the first drug is the only one that works after exhausting the full range of other candidate agents. please repost with that information.
i have ploycythemia. and i had chest pains n shortness of breath all day and a headache. can the polycythemia be the cause of that? how serious is p
sudden onset of chest pain and shortness ob breath in a patient with p. vera raises the possibility of dvt and pulmonary embolism. to be safe go to the er for evaluation.
whenever i get nervous or excited anything that makes my heart beat fast i would always have headaches and my forehead would either feel hot or cold?
this sound like it is an exaggerated hormonal normal response to stress. have your doctor assess your vital signs under stress (treadmill stress test). some individuals have exaggerated responses requiring medical therapy (eg: beta blockers to counter act the sympathetic surge)
have temper/severely impatient which i never had before coupled with episodes of hr up to 180bpm tingly hands headache butterflies shaky? reason?
you need some further workup here. an overactive thyroid is one possible cause of increased heart rate (and blood pressure too) as well ad irritability nervousness shakiness insomnia and weight loss. some simple bloodwork could explain this. sometimes urine tests are ordered to test tor the levels of stress hormones put out by the adrenal gland which could also be a possible cause.
hi i get very nervous/excited feeling in my stomach fast heart rate tingly left hand sob headache dizzy blurry vision. not thyroid/heart/anxiety?
do all of these symptoms occur at the same time? are they constant or episodic? tingling in the left hand that may be easiest to explain. which fingers does it affect? headache can be caused by a lot of things. can you describes anything else about this? maybe separately.
hi i have had a resting hr of 155+ i have recently suffered from a virus and have had dizziness lightheadness headaches possible for me to have pots?
pots is only one possiblity for a fast resting heart rate. my suspicion would be more towards dehydration from your recent illness as the main culprit without my knowing any other information. the best step would be to see your pcp sooner rather than later to investigate all possibilities.
headache on right side. it's the 4th week now. 1 ibuprofen works good for me for 12 hours. i hear my pulse on righ ear. pain front top and back?
if you have a daily headache for 4 weeks in the same spot you need evaluation for the cause as that is not the pattern of a simple tension headache.
how does anxiety cause funny vision n lightheaded daily 24/7 for over 5 yrs sometimes fast heart head funny swaying just off feeling?
anxiety can cause many different physical symptoms. the way our bodies feel is controlled by the brain and anxiety is a brain signaling condition so it can result in very real physical symptoms. dizziness tremors headaches are common. anxiety can make a person feel out of control and that can result in dizziness. but if anxiety is properly treated these symptoms should improve too.
i am taking metoprolol because i had a afib episode a year ago today i have a very bad headache can i take ibuprofen 600mg?
yes
i did a kardia phone app ecg. i do them all the time. this time my heart was racing out of the blue. kardiasaid its sinus tachycardia. i'm so worried. ?
if you don't know what you are looking why buy a program and cost headache and cost to yourself and your insurance co. by the way sinus tachycardia is normal. please get advise from your family doc when you do these kind of practices. little knowledge is not good
mild fatigue. heart palpitations queasy irritability lower lumbar pain insomnia mild headache. i have been under stress. no fever.
get in 2 c ur pcp u have many symptoms of depression. don't b ashamed or bashful b honest & open so u get the proper care. depression is of many types. familial situational short term or sometimes longer lasting. also post delivery or post menopausal. @ least take the first step!
headache when my heart rate is increased even during masturbation?
both masturbation and headache will cause your heart rate to increase not the other way around. headache isn't usually caused by masturbation. that sounds like coincidence. if you're getting frequent headaches they should be addressed as a separate problem.
i suffer from chronic headaches constipation bloating and muscle cramps that often disturb my sleep. my serum sodium /pottasium is 133. 3/3. 38. ?
your symptoms are nonspecific. sodium level is borderline low. if a repeat test shows definite hyponatremia it could explain some symptoms. the potassium level is normal but recurrent muscle cramps may be caused by calcium and magnesium deficiencies as well as low sodium. i recommend an evaluation by an endocrinologist for diagnosis and if needed further testing and treatment.
i have chronic daily migraines/tension headaches. currently taking propanolol 120mg at night and fioricet (acetaminophen butalbital and caffeine) for ha. not much help. ideas?
this is daily issue in neurology and headache medicine. there many factors poor sleeping poor diet too much fioricet (acetaminophen butalbital and caffeine) etc. kindly visit with your neurologist.
i have been suffering from severe fatigue dizziness headaches body aches chest pain numb hands and fingers back pain room spinning?
you have multiple symptoms and would be impossible to pin your diagnosis without a good physical exam. seek medical attention and good luck
i'm on both beta blocker and ccb for elevated hr. ive been getting a lot of headaches since i started. is it a side effect? i'm 17
at 17 y/o i hope someone is looking more closely form why you have such a high heart rate & not just treating the sx's. this would be true if the two are being used for high blood pressure. bb's and ccb's are both classes of meds. some of each class can h/a's so it's poss. but uncontrolled bp too slow a hr or some causes of abn hr or bp in people your age can also cause h/a's. why & which meds?
strong presistent headache getting up causes sounds of wooshing rushing pulsating waves hearing fades muffeld and strong head pressure for 1-3min?
it sounds like you are experiencing a significant drop in your blood pressure when you get up. . have your doctor or a health provider check yout blood pressure and pulse rate after you have been flat for a while and then again when you stand up quickly. i'll bet that your bp drops when you stand up. then you need to figure out why it does that.
strong presistent headache getting up causes sounds of wooshing rushing pulsating waves hearing fades muffeld and strong head pressure for 1-3min?
this problem mandates a real-time (face-to-face) meeting with a doctor. a history has to be taken along with a examination as well as labs and other tests. only after all this will your doctor be in a position to tell you what's wrong and what needs to be done to help you.
suffering from svt and i think theres a lump on right testical but can't find it when see doc get pains in back+feel sick twitching+headache left eye.
if you could. if you feel that there is a lump talk to a urologist and have him do a physical exam on you to ensure that it is not test ocular cancer. . then sort out the causes if your back pain fast heart rate etc. but please relax first it might slow you heart down! best luck to you and happy easter weekend!
suffering from svt and i think theres a lump on right testical but can't find it when see doc get pains in back+feel sick twitching+headache left eye.
as you suggest see a doctor and get checked out lots of things possible.
what are the extraintestinal symptoms of ibs-c? can patients experience fatigue poor sleep headaches back pain and heart palpitations?
technically speaking ibs-c (constipation predominant) shd only affect the bowels. ibs isn't a systemic disease like ibd (inflammatory bowel disease - crohn's or ulcerative colitis). that being said ibs can certainly cause anxiety / panic disorder (it has a way of affecting the mind sleep & there4 personality) which can then explain the symptoms u describe. ttyd & perhaps a counselor regarding
how do you know if you're having a heart attack?
although chest pain or pressure are the most common sx. other sx include pain fullness or squeezing sensation of the chest; jaw pain toothache headache; shortness of breath; nausea vomiting upper middle abdominal discomfort ; sweating; heartburn or indigestio; arm pain l>r. ; upper back pain gerneral malaise; lightheadedness; or no symptoms at all. seek prompt medical attention for mi
hi im 22 and recently had a baby(vaginal)i recently went to the er 1 week after having my baby with chest pain trouble breathing swallowing headaches and neck pain. they did an ekg x-ray of my chest and a cat scan of my chest and lungs the dr said e
a good follow up check up and echo cardiogram would help to evaluate for in detail see your primary physician for referral for specialist to r/o post postpartum cardiomyopathy
how does propranalol prevent migraines? by causing vasoconstriction? or by some other method? what would that be?
beta adrenergic blocker. they act by depressing the peripheral beta-adrenergic receptors that promote vasodilatation. propranolol was discovered accidentally when a patient who was taking this medication for heart disease noticed that his migraine headaches ceased.
i fainted in the shower not sure if i hit my head but there are no bruises/bumps i have a very bad headache/dizzy though that has lasted about 2 hrs?
a loss of consciousness dizziness and headache are symptoms that warrant a call to 911 to go directly to the emergency room asap. it is very important that you do not drive yourself.
i fainted in the shower not sure if i hit my head but there are no bruises/bumps i have a very bad headache/dizzy though that has lasted about 2 hrs?
if you fainted in the shower - you definitely hit your head especially if you woke up and were on the floor of the shower. this is treated as a potential head injury. you should go to the hospital or your pmd and have yourself checked out.
i have been having chest pain headaches loss of balance vision problems and general weakness is this a sign of brain tumour?
such as you describe can be due to many different disorders. this combination of symptoms are common in fibromyalgia (see: <link> or may be related to stress physical or emotional. depending on how long you have had the symptoms and if symptoms are worsening a brain tumor is a possibility and can be ruled out by a careful eye examination or ct scan.
my pfo was closed 10/15/14. i now have more migraines tingling/numbness in my hand and heart flutters when on my back. is this normal? i take plavix (clopidogrel)
the symptoms you mention are not the result of your heart surgery! they are also not related to the plavix (clopidogrel) you are taking to keep clots away from the surgical site! speak with your general medicine health care provider about your increased headaches and other symptoms! hope this helps dr z
my mother has chf and arythmia. her blood pressure is 127 over 93. she has a headache-severe. should we take her to hospital?
yes she needs to be evaluated to make sure she is not going to have something serious as stroke.
my mother has chf and arythmia. her blood pressure is 127 over 93. she has a headache-severe. should we take her to hospital?
immediately for evaluation. a severe and sudden headache along with other symptoms such as nausea and vomiting could potentially be a brain hemorrhage (especially if your mother has risk factors). if this is the worst headache she has ever had i would take her to the er now.
my mother has chf and arythmia. her blood pressure is 127 over 93. she has a headache-severe. should we take her to hospital?
this is hard to know from only the bp and the words 'severe headache' - but i would say "yes". if you find that they don't think her condition is bad - ask for full detailed descriptions of what you should see - how to evaluate the need. the cost in time/$ will be worth it for the learning. try to keep mother from panic. say you just want to know more. it's a good idea to see her dr too. best!
my mother has chf and arythmia. her blood pressure is 127 over 93. she has a headache-severe. should we take her to hospital?
is she on warfarin or other anticoagulation meds? if yes call 911 -- because she may have intracranial bleeding?
my friend is 54 and is never sick. she said her chest feels heavy and back hurts and kinda a headache and fast heart rate no fever or coughing?
it sounds like she may have a bit of a cold but with the chest discomfort and fast heart rate she should get checked out. best of luck to her!
my son (20 yr)was diagnosed w/ heart murmur (leaky valve). he drinks lots of redbull in college. lately complaining of chest pain. could it be from rdbul?
redbull should not be causing the heart murmur but it it does cause the heart rate to be higher chest pain and headaches.
say i have knee inflamation from my sinus headache/infection does that mean its bacterial?
it is certainly better to have a normal ecg than an abnormal one. it doen't prove nothing is wrong but makes it more likely.
should i be concerned about fast heart beat and chest pain from quitting smoking?
anxiety can cause excess cortisol os adrenaline secretion which can cause a number of symptoms including dizziness lightheadedness rapid heart beat palpitations chestpain headaches etc. try calming yourself down by concentrating on slowing down your breathing over a few minutes if this doesn't help see your primary provider for further evaluation. good luck!
slow heart rate at rest occasional skipped heart beats sluggish headaches breast tenderness - is this perimenopause?
none of the symptoms you list are typical of menopause.
sudden severe headache. vomiting. left arm feels numb and painful at same time. heart beating fast.
new or have it for a while? have you seen neurologist and diagnosed with migraine? if this not the case please see your doc /neurologist and evaluated urgently. best case scenario could be migraine but could be something else. good luck
sudden severe headache. vomiting. left arm feels numb and painful at same time. heart beating fast.
you are having a migraine so take your migraine medication and see where it goes from there. good luck.
went to cardiologist for skip beats did ekg said (extra electricity) prescribed betab but potassium seem to help i get random twitch everywhere (calf/thigh mainly) tightened leg feel headache
electrolytes are a fancy term for salts & minerals including but not limited to potassium magnesium & calcium in addition to plain ol' table salt nacl or sodium chloride. all these minerals need to be in balance for optimal function of muscles including your heart. perhaps your potassium is low (uncommon unless taking water pill or diuretic) which is why you feel better. go see your familydoc
went to cardiologist for skip beats did ekg said (extra electricity) prescribed betab but potassium seem to help i get random twitch everywhere (calf/thigh mainly) tightened leg feel headache
not completely clear on the dx but one thing that might address your issues is magnesium glycinate starting at 400 mg and increasing up to 1000mg/d (too much causes loose stools). work with your cardiologist and maybe you won't need a beta blocker. make sure your diet is not processesed foods rich in nuts and seeds fruits and veggies. we may develop symptoms like this when we are deficient.
why do i have bradycardia but no one can tell me why. ekg. echo stress test all normal. started 2 weeks after baby was born. 7 months postpartum.
how slow is your heart rate? are you symptomatic from this? if you have fatigue decreased exercise tolerance dizziness chest pains headaches then i would consider seeing a cardiologist who specializes in eps - electrophysiological studies. if you are completely asymptomatic can exercise normally and/or are an elite athlete then the bradycardia may not be anything to worry about.
wet my bed last night 1st time since childhood. woke later out of breath chest pain and clicking noise from my heart. today headache and exhaustion?
evaluated. make an appointment with your health care professional for a thorough examination and laboratory testing. if your symptoms worsen go to the er otherwise make an appointment for this week.
wet my bed last night 1st time since childhood. woke later out of breath chest pain and clicking noise from my heart. today headache and exhaustion?
strongly urge you to be seen immediately at your nearest emergency department. you need an electrocardiogram (ekg) at the very least and possibly an echocardiogram as well depending on the judgment of the physician who sees you there. i i hope that there is a simple explanation that is not serious but my advice is to be seen immediately to rule out a heart issue! good luck!
headache progresses at night top head then moves to eye/forehead pulsates w heartbeat pressure in ears worsen when bow sinus clear sleep help 1month?
these symptoms can have several potential causes and warrant a thorough medical evaluation. top of the head pressure/headache can indicate sinusitis in particular sphenoid sinusitis but can also be caused by other headache syndromes. pressure in the ears can be caused to "eustachian tube dysfunction" (often related to nose and sinus problems). other severe causes also need to be ruled out.
hyperthyroidism not under control having chest pain palpitations burning in chest all day nausea threw up & headache & dizzy. what should i do?
head to ed. you might be having symptoms of thyroid strom which can be lofe threatening.
headache tingling in arms+legs slight trembling flushed face and fast heartbeat after drinking 1 refresher from starbucks. caffeine toxicity?
as just the normal response to a large amount of caffeine. try decaf next time!
ive been on clarithromycin metronidazole & omeprazole to fight h. pylori. but ive been experiencing headaches flu symptoms head aches chest pain.
it sounds like you caught a regular cold virus or maybe influenza (it's early but flu season is starting). anyway these symptoms prorbably have nothing to do with helicobacter pylori or the antibiotics. if in doubt discuss with the doctor treating you. good luck!
if i take excedrin for my headache will it trigger my pvcs? since it has caffeine.
it certainly could. there are many headache medications that do not contain caffeine you could try these first.
i passed out last thursday for unknown reasons throughout that day i felt cold and tired. since this ive had a headache everyday is this normal?
you must be examined and have blood testing as well as a cardiac and neurological exam
since imdur is a long-acting formulation of nitroglycerin can you take 30 mg er imdur instead of nitroglycerin 0. 4% ointment to treat anal fissure?
the nitroglycerin ointment is applied for its local effects. imdur taken orally would have more systemic effects such as lowering blood pressure and possibly headaches.
side effects of nortripline. doc said take at night for headaches. worried about side effects while i'm sleeping. like fast heart beat. i have murmor?
nortriptylline has few and easily managed side effects. a murmur in general would not be affected in any significant way by nortriptylline. d.
why am i feeling my heartbeat when i wake up? i am currently on prozac (fluoxetine).
prozac (fluoxetine) can cause heart palpitations as a side effect. other side effects include headache gi upset dizziness nervousness insomnia changes in appetite and sexual side effects. are you on any other medications? certain medications interact with prozac (fluoxetine) affecting its metabolism in the body. recommend contacting your doctor for further evaluation and recommendations. all the best.
while taking lexapro (escitalopram) 10mg for anxiety disorder can i take flunarizine 5 mg at once when having migraine? can lexapro (escitalopram) itself prevent me from migraine?
once a diagnosis of migraine has been made effective management of migraine involves three specific strategies: 1) patient education 2) nonpharmacological management and 3) pharmacological (medical) management. see an orofacial pain or headache specialist for evaluation and professional management. lexapro (escitalopram) is helpful for migraine prevention.
hello i have been experiencing an echo in my ear for about 4 days now. what can be causing this? i feel ok! no headache fever or nausea. however i will say the first day it happened i felt dizzy and weird almost like fainting but i didn't. ju
it may be associated with the ear canal or middle ear. i would try an anti histamine as it may be due to a block in your eustachian tube. if it persists let your physician check your ear
hello i have been experiencing an echo in my ear for about 4 days now. what can be causing this? i feel ok! no headache fever or nausea. however i will say the first day it happened i felt dizzy and weird almost like fainting but i didn't. ju
possible causes for your symptoms but most of them involve the external middle or inner ear. wax impaction middle ear infection and inner ear inflammation are common causes. there's no substitute for a qualified health care professional doing a physical exam and finding out what is or isn't causing your symptoms. i urge you to see a doctor about this. best wishes. dr. anne
hi i just passed out while sitting down and my head neck and upper back fell backwards. i regained consciousness. should i have a headache after?
but you must get evaluated by a doctor maybe the fall caused head injury. you need to get checked by a doctor to know the reason of the pass out.
hi i just passed out while sitting down and my head neck and upper back fell backwards. i regained consciousness. should i have a headache after?
syncope or passing out has multiple causes and warrants work up as it is potentially dangerous. in common vasovagal syncope post episode headaches are common. i suggest seeing your physician as soon as possible and refrain from driving and stay hydrated until then
have headache stuffy nose swollen glands dizziness chills &sweating. cold or flu? i take lopressor (metoprolol tartrate) for pots/tachycardia. what cold meds should i avoid?
afrin will help with nasal congestion & when used correctly has little systemic effect. the drug alone can only be taken short time or stops working. i suggest u ask physician for prescription of fluticosone propionate which sprayed in nostrils & breathed in once daily can help u to take the meds longer. reasonable to test for flu & take tamiflu if positive. tylenol (acetaminophen) or asa for other symptoms
hey doc i have really bad acid reflux and i have started to experience chest pain dizziness and being light headed. what do you think is going on with that? i get a bad headache with the dizziness and light headed feeling
besides an exam you may require blood work and a scope. one concern is that you are loosing blood which would cause your symptoms. all the best.
headache jaw pain/pressure fatigue palpitations sharp pain in left chest i feel really weak completely exhausted feel like i am not getting enough air?
chest pressure chest pain or trouble breathing are signs meaning go to the e. r. chest pain symptoms can be a heart attack. one should not drive herself (it's safer to go by ambulance). if she turns out not to have myocarditis or heart attack symptoms the e. r. will also have evaluated for chest problems such as a collapsed lung or a pneumonia. chest x-ray ekg and labs can be done at the e. r.
my 14 yo son is having random bouts of chest discomfort and palpitations. recently got over pneumonia. has barky cough head hurts when he coughs?
by an allergist seems that he has reflux may be the cause for the barking cough source of cough needs to be investigated repeated cough can cause headaches chest discomfort and palpitations also needs to be evaluated either by his doctor or a cardiologist
mild:neck pain head tightness&pressure&headache with palpitations and twitching. what could this be? just come off propranolol. thanks.
those symptoms could be a tension headache. propranolol is sometimes used for the prevention of migraine headaches these are different. some people who rapidly decrease the dose of propranolol could feel temporary muscle twitching.
pvc are back wondering why no heart dissese?
pvc's can be found in normal people-one common trigger is stress-just like a headache is not proof of a serious illness pvc's come and go and are not necessarily proof of hear disease.
pain in back and nape in morning and evening. mild headache and chest pain for 2weeks. normal ecg and 2d echo. what can this be?
heart disease doesn't present like this. you don't have the space to provide sufficient information to determine the cause of your symptoms. you need to have a comprehensive checkup.
sudden blood pressure 210/106 then back down and up for my father who had a heart attack last april. what could be the issue? meds?
the er or urgent care for extremely high bp higher than 160/110 esp. if he has symptoms like headache vomiting dizziness passing out etc. uncontrolled hypertension warrants the needs for two or more bp meds. <link>#maincontent.
should i go to the er if i have chest pain a headache a low heart rate and dizziness?
if your symptoms have never occurred before and/or never been looked at by medical personnel then i believe you should be seen right away in a medical setting especially if you've also taken acetaminophen and ibuprofen for pain or any other reasons which you mention in your profile. all the best.
should i go to the er if i have chest pain a headache a low heart rate and dizziness?
although you are young i think you should be checked because of chest pain and low heart rate and dizziness. you need to be checked for cardiac arrythmia low blood pressure or blood clot.
should i go to the er if i have chest pain a headache a low heart rate and dizziness?
hi. at the ripe young age of 21 hopefully it's nothing but it could be something you wouldn't want to miss. discretion is the better part of valor. don't be "brave" and tough it out. without examining you i'd have a low threshold to say "go to the er".
sharp and sudden pain on the left side of my head above my ears where i can feel my pulse. lasts for 5-10 seconds?
the temporal artery is normally felt where you're noticing the pulse - that's okay. the headache is likely either muscle contraction pain ("tension headache") or (if it's lasting longer especially with sensitivity to light and nausea) a migraine.
whenever i get drunk i notice my heart rate increase to 100-110 bpm (fitness tracker says). also the next morning it beats fast too. is this normal?
you may be sensitive to the poisonous nature of alcohol. it can directly affect the heart muscle. but more likely alcohol can be a stimulant and that in itself will cause a rapid heart beat. if you really hung one on you still will be stimulated - with a headache!
hi. i am 30/female. have high bp. now having bad headaches neck pain and chest pain that comes and goes. am i okay?
you should see a doctor for more evaluation. if your chest pain becomes more frequent or prolonged not resolved with rest you should go to er. if it only lasts a minute or two and is infrequent you can wait a little but shoukd still see a doctor soon.
headache. shaky hands. tiredness. pain in right chest and sometimes in left as i breath. high pulse rate now and then.
the symptoms described are concerning but also too general to make a determination. these symptoms can result from simple causes such as lack of sleep diet and dehydration. however much more serious conditions are possible. a physician needs to examine you and get more information in order to make the correct diagnosis. if you consume coffee alcohol or other substances best to stop until seen
i have a cough headache chest pain. what kind of cold medicine can i take? some cold medicines make my heart race or i get anxious. or what to lookfor
or promethazine dm
i have had headaches and intermittent chest tightness for over a year. i feel really i'll but so far nothing on blood tests or heart workup. insomnia.
if your physician cannot ascertain a medical condition underlying your symptoms you may need to have an evaluation by a psychiatrist or psychologist to see if there can be a role in these symptoms
my stool always changes continuous headaches around head skipped beats but gets better when eating bananas twitching all over body (mainly legs) balance problem when standing still sometimes.
not really sure how all of these symptoms tie together. certainly can't diagnose with the information available. could consider consulting with healttap prime or concierge. take care.
my ekg shows swelling of the left ventricular what is that? i have shortness of breath chest and shoulder pain nausea loss of appetite headache.
left ventricular swelling is not a term which we use in reading the ecg. your symptoms suggest you should be checked by a physician. there are lots of possibilities for their cause.
medication reaction? extremely high bp with crying. strong pulses in head that made me cough and have dry heaves. vomit 3rd. started lamictal ystrday
up to 20% of people can can have nausea &vomiting and that alone could cause the high blood pressure as part of the stress reaction. i don't know if you took your blood pressure but symptoms of headache or migraine may also occur. although it can happen high bp itself is very uncommon though. call prescribing doc immed. try 1/2 strength gatoraide. if not able to take fluid go to er.
please help. everytime i have my period my anxiety and panic attack gets worse is it normal? having normal 2decho ecg and stress test to not be alarmed
i'm glad you've got a healthy heart as your test results show. your anxiety may be part of premenstrual syndrome. core symptoms of pms include affective symptoms like depression angry outbursts irritability and anxiety plus body symptoms like breast pain bloating and swelling & headache. exercise; avoid sugar salt & caffeine; consistent sleep; may need magnesium; possibly ssri.
since weening off propranolol 160mg for anxiety/headaches ive suffered with acid reflux. will this stop when ive completly come off propranolol?
propranolol doesn't treat or prevent acid reflux. the issues are unrelated and their timing is coincidental. try one of the many over the counter acid reflux treatments and avoid eating within 2 hours of bedtime even water. keep your meals smallish.
severe throbbing headache on both temple upon standing. had inverted t wave but echo/stress test normal. decreased blood flow in veins. spine trauma.
see doctor/urgent care. may be orthostatic hypotention see if getting up slower helps. make sure you are not dehydrated. may be abnormal reflex from spinal trauma/meds. structural heart defect unlikely with normal echo. may have defect in vessals could get carotid u/s or dsa of head. if intermittant autoimmune disease unlikely but check sed rate ana
stop taking propylthiouracil 10/16 now feels headaches often can sense fetal and own heartbeat. is that normal?
hi. your symptoms make me think that your graves' disease may be coming back (which is not unexpected when you discontinue ptu (propylthiouracil)). i know your ob or your endocrinologist is following your thyroid labs. why was the ptu (propylthiouracil) stopped? assume either you were hypothyroid on it or you had drug rash etc. follow labs. your doc will know what to do. your ob will also check for fetal goiter.
why does propranolol cause headaches when it is leaving the system when it is supposed to treat headaches?
you can have many different symptoms upon discontinuation of many medication because you have "shocked" your system with a sudden change. most if not all drugs you have taken for a sustained length of time (especially propranalol) should be weaned down over a couple of weeks.
hey i never get sick and i have never had a medical issue i now sometimes get ah little chest pain in the upper left side of my chest have no signs of a flu no headache no fever no cough i had a cold about ah month ago and a half ago but nothing else i al
in general we are going to take chest pain seriously and advise evaluation. you don't want to miss something important. an otherwise healthy young woman with chest pain could be evaluated further by going through a detailed history of the symptoms. sometimes tests may help. consider seeing a doctor or discussing with one here on healthtap.
hello i just recently got some heart palpitations followed by dizziness and a brief headache. would this constitute an emergency room visit?
if it is ongoing you should go to er. otherwise see your regular doctor
hello dr. butler. i am 18 years and i get palpitations shortness of breath headaches light headed and nausea. i get them for time to time.
i would suggest a holter monitor and cardiology evaluation soon. pulmonary arterial hypertension should be considered.
i have been put on sumatriptan 6mg/0. 5ml fir migraine & cluster headaches but have now started getting chest pain & jaw pain is it related?
chest and throat tightness can be a side effect of sumatriptan sc
i'm having cramps but no period why? and it's been 2 months. i've been fainting a lot headaches sometimes it's hard for me to breathe.
may have been passing out from low blood count (anemia) or low blood pressure (hypotension). either of these conditions could alter your cycle especially if chronic. please see a healthcare provider to help figure out what is going on and get properly diagnosed and treated. thanks for trusting in healthtap.
i suffer from migraines. i fainted three night ago and was treated with meds via iv last night. woke up with the same headache today. what do i do?
i would ask the team who have you the iv meds.
i am experiencing headache (occurred: > 3 hrs). i've started having headaches ever since i started 3 days ago taking high blood pressure medicine?
i am experiencing headache (occurred: > 3 hrs). i've started having headaches ever since i started 3 days ago taking high blood pressure medicine? ans: i specialize in high blood pressure and with 2nd opinion can get to the cause and treatment of your hbp and headache quickly.
mom felt nausea dizziness headache and had a heart rate of 47. she was sent medication for the n+d but was told low heart rate happens. is this true?
your mom got meds for symptoms but (im guessing) a person of ~67yo needs a dx. treating symptoms w/o a dx in person ~67 is not safe. she should see primary md soon.
my hands are often grayish or purple because of my pots but today both of my arms are gray? i have a bad headache not sure if the 2 are related.
in patients with pots but it's common in the general population as well so it's hard to say if pots is the cause. purplish discoloration of the legs is common in pots but not usually in the hands or arms. that's more likely a symptom of raynaud's phenomenon. if you're on medication for pots that can further confuse cause & effect. you should consult your treating physician about this.
my mum before 3 days got a headache in her face then she cannot see and she fainted the doctors said that's because the anemia but i feel it's not!
you are describing what a patient would say is a "fainting spell or passing out". the medical term is syncopy. only about 50% of the time do we ever know exactly why these occur. the most life threatening is the heart. then all of the other metabolic reasons including blood glucose as well as anemia. anemia can increase the chance of a headache called a migraine.
pupils enlarged rhr 110 palps angina feel hb in upper abdomen dizzy disoriented weak headache jaw discomfort. 27yo f epss 5mm ef 52. 8%. related?
get evaluated for panic disorder and hyperthyroidism
super dizzy tachycardia headache.? these symptoms going on 2 years. very dizzy today. causes
your heart is beating abnormal and may be irregular which is making you feel dizzy. get it check up by your physician or a cardiologist.
stomach pains with nausea and mucus diarrhea (a lot of mucus) can see white seed looking peices. headaches always tired and hard heartbeat.
the symptoms you are having may be due to several different problems. without knowing your health history nor the ability to question and examine you it's impossible to give you really helpful advice. you should see a physician to have a proper diagnosis and treatment. don't try to self diagnose your problems online as you won't find it helpful. it takes years of study to interpret symptoms.
slight headaches and can see my heart beat in my vision. like i see a shadow in my peripheral as my heart beats. don't matter if its bright or dark?
hi there carolyn the main thing we want make sure is ok is your blood pressure as well as the health of your eyes with dilated eye exam to your eye pressure and to check the retinal blood vessels. otherwise you are just one very astute observer of a natural phenomenon. take care. dr rebecca in nyc
severe shortness of breath warm skin no fever headache fast heartrate when standing worsening daily. ekg. xray normal. no anxiety meds wont help.
a variety of illnesses some serious could be causing these symptoms. please see your doctor for examination and appropriate tests.
severe shortness of breath headache fast heartrate when standing warm upper body no fever lasted over week worsening daily. normal ekg xray oxygen?
it is impossible to diagnose illnesses over the internet and that is not the purpose of this website. you need to be seen by a doctor provide a full detailed history and undergo a thorough physical exam. good luck and i hope you are better soon.
shrppain in ❤️during wlk for abt 10sec now left shldr pain n headache mult er trip and seen cardio inpst w/ neg ekg bld wrk n holter. wht cud this be?
there are many causes of chest pain the heart is one intestinal gas and thoracic musculoskeletal pains are very common anxiety and panic attacks likewise are frequent causes. you should always ask the doctors who see you what they think is the problem you came for and what to do about it. yours sounds musculoskeletal perhaps intercostal muscle spasm
tachycardia after food waking and standing. constant headache (worse upon waking). elevated bp pvcs ears ringing. bright vision after meals. cause?
you are experiencing cardiovascular problems. it's time to seek help from your doctor asap. good luck!
tinutis heart palpitations headache increased bp and heart rate are symptoms of?
hyperthyroid comes to mind but the symptoms listed could be many things.
taking 300 wellbutrin 30 cymbalta (duloxetine) just added yesterday headache dumpy fast heart rate feel buzzed pupils slightly more dilated will this subside?
adding a new psychotropic (a drug that works on the brain) may cause symptoms such as you described. sometimes they will subside over time. if not you have choices: discontinue the new medication. lower the dose of the new medicine and increase very slowly (start low and go slow). decrease the dose of both medications and if needed increase them slowly. consult a pharmacy and your doctor.
whats better for prinzmetals angina verapamil or diltiazem? how much better? whats correlation w migraine? does treating one resolve other?
verapamil has been time tested for treating both prinzmetal angina and migraine headaches. they have similar mechanisms of vaso-spams of the coronary and cerebral small arterioles causing the pain symptoms.
what happened to me? i go to a physician for headache/neck pain he want me to consult cardiologist by seeing my ecg.
you have an unusual ekg. post it
hi my heart rate is 119 resting plus i have quite intense headache. it unusual as my heart rate is normally 60-70. recently had blood work done all?
hello and welcome to healthtap. if the heart rate is regular and less than 120 could be d/t increase in sympathetic response. if that is the case then please be seen by your doctor as soon as possible you would need a baseline ekg and some dedicated blood work. meanwhile try to stay away from caffeinated baverages. if it seems to be irregular then please go to the er. i hope it helps! thx
i am experiencing high blood pressure (hypertension) rapid heart rate shaking hands or tremor and headache (better by: rest nsaids (ibuprofen .
if someone has high blood pressure it can be caused by many thing - stress medications caffeine thyroid issues are some of the causes. headaches can cause pain which can cause bp to rise or bp can cause headaches. if some is having these symptoms it would be best to go to the doctor to get evaluated.
i have mono rapid heart rate 104 bpm elevated wbc 14 000 chest hurts under left shoulder light headed and head ache my left side weaker than right?
the heart rate is not very significant & is well tolerated by your heart/system at your age. i don't consider the wbc you list as really elevated. the discomfort you feel on your left side probably reflects pressure of an enlarging spleen. it is located in that area and often enlarges for several weeks in mono. the headache & discomfort are also common. you may want your doc to verify these issues.
im 19 weeks pregnant & i have a fever of 99. 4 i also have a sore throats headache a bad cough & almost fainted earlier today. i was wondering if i sho?
all of these issues should be presented to your presently treating ob md for his/her assessment during your pregnancy. if you haven't seen one yet start now.
my creatine kinase value is 351 u/l. i have been having headaches and some chest pain. what questions should i ask my doctor today. hospital needed?
if you're taking a statin and have widespread muscle pain / weakness / myoglobinuria this is serious. intense athletes often run ck's in the many-thousands and even a little exercise can bring it up like this. mild muscle disease including dystrophy carriers have high ck's. your history and physical exam will determine what's needed not this lab. best wishes.
pain in left arm back and chest. also have headache. 24 hour holter came back normal two weeks ago?
the holter is not a high probability study for explaining left arm back and chest pain. the normal result you got doesn't really say much about the symptoms you are having.
past week experiencing headaches fatigue trouble breathing chest path on left side stabbing pain ekg and echo ok?
do you have a fever or chills coughing? any history of asthma? any h/o reflux esophagitis? i'm glad your ecg and echo were done and fine. does your chest hurt when you push on it? it would be rare to still have a cardiac problem without family history and with your normal heart studies. is your trouble breathing due to chest pain hyperventilation wheezing or stuffy nose? breathe into paper bag.
past week i keep getting heart palpitations nausea lightheaded and a severe headache episodes. it gets worse each time. any idea of what it could be
there are many things that could cause this. it would be good to see a doctor and have an exam and some basic blood tests looking at for anemia and thyroid disease. in the mean time avoid caffeine nicotine and alcohol and drink plenty of water at least 6 large glasses a day.
past week i keep getting heart palpitations nausea lightheaded and a severe headache episodes. it gets worse each time. any idea of what it could be
these symptoms can be caused by a thyroid problem hypertension or a heart rhythm problem. at your age it may be an early warning sign that you have to visit your family physician now for a through exam and blood tests.
rhr 80-100. standing up 110-140. 140-190 doing exercise. echo blood holter stress test all fine. dizziness/headaches/faint. i don't understand? !
i'd probably check some endocrine markers like your thyroid and adrenal function. possibly a heart rate variability test (hrv or ansar) test could be helpful to see if your autonomic nervous system is fine. sounds like your heart is solid.
rhr 80-100. standing up 110-140. 140-190 doing exercise. echo blood holter stress test all fine. dizziness/headaches/faint. i don't understand? !
your heart rates are borderline or abnormal. you need to have more exams. perhaps your problem is glandular e. g. an over active thyroid can cause all your symptoms.
shortness of breath elevated heartrate anxiety head ache trouble sleeping. been a few days and seems worse. what could this be?
shortness of breath increased heart rate headache anxiety and insomnia are a constellation of symptoms that could signal many problems both physical and emotional. among the physical possibilities is overactive thyroid. with a complete medical history physical exam and appropriate tests your doctor can help sort this out.
swollen lymph node headache left eye pain sore throat hard to breath especially outside heart racing heart racing joint pain weight/hair loss nosleep?
your symptoms suggest you should seek help. you need to be seen examined and test done to determine the underlying issue. i would seek help asap
swollen lymph node headache left eye pain sore throat hard to breath especially outside heart racing heart racing joint pain weight/hair loss nosleep?
without delay you must go to the nearest emergency facility for initial evaluation of your many medical issues.
slight chest pain nausea headache severe weakness cold sweats normal bp and pulse. could this still be a heart attack?
any chest discomfort in a patient over the age of fourty needs to be evaluated asap as symptoms of heart artery blockage are often atypical and vague. take an aspirin and call 911 if severe or if not severe have someone drive the patient to the nearest er asap. in the case of heart attacks time is of the essence in reducing residual heart damage. do not delay. prevention works!
take 20mg propranolol daily. past few days bp has been in the 140s/90s range & headache all day. is it possible it's not as effective anymore?
there are multiple possibilities. as 20mg daily of propranolol is a low dose it is possible that you need more as one of the possiblilities.
take 80mg propranolol for bp. have bad sinus headache over a week tylenol (acetaminophen) doesn't help what can i take. also take 10mg prozac daily?
you may try ibuprofen for relief. if still persists see your pcp for further management.
how do i get a doctor to pay attention to more than just my bloodwork? i have fatigue headaches chest pain digestive issues numbness and more.
if you are not satisfied with the treatment from your current doctor it is reasonable to see a different doctor. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex.
how do i get a doctor to pay attention to more than just my bloodwork? i have fatigue headaches chest pain digestive issues numbness and more.
every doctor has a different bedside manner. sometimes doctors feel supported to have laboratory testing and radiographic testing to support their diagnosis. i would suggest asking the doctor if you could have his attention for a few questions. write down the questions. if he still doesn't listen consider another consult. unfortunately many doctors have forgotten the art of conversation.
i always sweat heavily during sleep even room is cold. have fast heartbeat restlessness and feeling headaches before during and after sleep. normal?
night sweats are not normal but if you have no aircondlting and it is hot then may be normal. are others sleeping with you sweating as well?
i have been missing taking my propranolol in the am. i remember to take at night. after taking i feel blah headachey dizzy. should i take in the am?
why do you take it? thyroid hypertension anxiety heart rhythm headaches? if it makes you feel bad you should not take it and would discuss it with the prescribing physician for an alternative medication.
i have automatic dysfunction low blood pressure and chronic lyme mvp irregular heartbeat. bad headaches when laying down that ease when i sit up? why?
you got bitten by a tick. and everything can be due to that. unless autonomic came first.
last night when i got home i started shaking i was nauseated and i had a headache. my heartbeat was fast. what could be causing these symptoms?
its tough to tell without a full history and physical. it could be the rate caused your symptoms its more likely the underlying problem caused the heart to go fast. this is called a reactive tachycardia. simply put when the body is "stressed" the heart reacts by increasing it rate. sounds like maybe you have a viral syndrome like the flu that set thing off. see your family doc.
my blood sugar is low and i am dyhydrated most of the time my lips get white i feel dizzy and i have headache. fast heart beats. anixiety.
is not from anxiety although it can produce mood swings and other symptoms. please see your doctor for treatment. peace and good health. if you also have significant anxiety please see a mental health professional for stress management training.
my chest feels full i feel like i can't feel my heart even when trying to work it up or working out. headache and weight loss. had ekg stress echo and x-ray and bloodowork panel and cbc and endoscopy and colons was
your symptoms can be from a wide array of potentials: heart lung gastrointestinal muscle and bone or psychological it is important to know the results of the investigations that you did
my chest feels full i feel like i can't feel my heart even when trying to work it up or working out. headache and weight loss. had ekg stress echo and x-ray and bloodowork panel and cbc and endoscopy and colons was
your symptoms may be caused by chronic stress and anxiety. it is not unusual to be unable to appreciate your heart beat. your cardiac testing revealed no abnormalities which should reassure you. weight loss can be caused by thyroid overactivity or diabetes which i assume have been ruled out. stress management therapy may help resolve your symptoms. discuss this with your physician.
need expert help here. what are beta blockers mainly indicated for?
in addition to what dr. kasasbeh mentioned beta blockers are offered to those who've suffered a heart attack and/or heart failure regardless of their blood pressure. obviously we don't want their bp to drop too low such that they pass out but studies show that judicious use of beta blockers can prevent bad outcomes in these conditions. some are also used to prevent migraine headaches.
nortriptyline safe? doc said will help headaches. i looked up side effects. fast heart rate. low blood pressure. hepatitis. these common side effects?
as long as the dose is started low and gradually increased until you have pain control there should be no problem with lightheadedness or dizziness. it is a safe medication and in fact was the most commonly prescribed antidepressant up until about 1985. i have treated hundreds of patients with it and have done research with it as well. the most common side effects in the long run are dry mouth constipation difficulty urinating if the doses too high especially andblurred vision only close up reading. an occasional patient will also have g. i. upset. lightheadedness and dizziness is a function of dose and can be regulated by checking a blood level if necessary. if you find yourself being lightheaded or dizzy make sure that you get up slowly from a lying or sitting position and dangling legs over the side of the bed especially the middle of the night for about 30 seconds will allow the blood to move up up towards your head so you won't get lightheaded or dizzy standing. anoccasional craving for sweets can occur with this medication and is to some degree dose dependent. best wishes.
nortriptyline safe? doc said will help headaches. i looked up side effects. fast heart rate. low blood pressure. hepatitis. these common side effects?
nortriptyline is a medication that has been used for decades can help headaches and generally does not have the extreme adverse effects that you have described though fast heart rate and low blood pressure among other adverse effects could occur. as with any medicine benefits versus risks must be considered. by starting low and increasing dose slowly most side effects can often be avoided.
numb right arm foot headache in temples extreme exhaustion palpitations. what could these symptoms indicate?
you may simply have migraines but detailed history and exam is necessary. you may need imaging.
new clubbing fing/toes episcleritis headache parasthesias joint/chest pain. chest xray chest ct w/contrast abd ct w/contrast head ct cbc cmp esr crp tsh pft ekg ecg all normal!? !
marfan's and other general medical problems can present this way. get the rheumatologist and cardiologist involved with your care
new clubbing fing/toes episcleritis headache parasthesias joint/chest pain. chest xray chest ct w/contrast abd ct w/contrast head ct cbc cmp esr crp tsh pft ekg ecg all normal!? !
it is unlikely that some doctors online who have never actually seen you to evaluate you are going to have insight that your treating physician hasn't had. i sure wish you the best.
please help! given decadron (dexamethasone) at er for severe headache and meclazine for vertigo. ct is ok but since given decodron at 6am via iv my pulse is 120's and bp 150's over high 90's. rest and ride it out?
decadron (dexamethasone) is dexamethasone a corticosteroid which in its nature does not cause tachycardia. for someone who is 42 i would be between a supraventricular tachycardia or atrial fib/flutter. unless you are still having pain which could give you sinus tachycardia. obtaining an ekg will be helpful in determining the etiology. in these cases an alivecor could be beneficial.
please help! given decadron (dexamethasone) at er for severe headache and meclazine for vertigo. ct is ok but since given decodron at 6am via iv my pulse is 120's and bp 150's over high 90's. rest and ride it out?
those issues should resolve.
right now having palpitations chest hurts pretty bad. it kind of stings in a sense. mild headache. 84 bph though. should i go to the hospital?
nope. this is your anxiety. it is extremely common that young people get worked up to a state that their physical body wants to just shout back. you need to breathe deeply and slowly and try to calm your mind a bit. you probably need to sleep.
resting hr 120; usually 80. got faintish yesterday. palps few times/day. headache. what is going on? i'm 32 and have never had heart problems.
you should avoid any caffeinated products. i would increase fluid intake. should these symptoms persist then you really need to see your pcp or a cardiologists and get a cardiac monitor ; thyroid function test. other tests might be warranted as well.
random little heart flutters last quite a while an a headache i'm starting to worry it was happening since earlier this afternoon how can i stop this?
this is not a valid format for diagnosing your particular condition but we can give some information. a few irregular beats of no significance happen to everyone. serious electrical abnormalities can occur at any age. tape recording heart rhythms with a holster monitor are needed to diagnose and treat
silent migraine. 1hr l8r while sitting. suddenly felt head violently moving. nausea &almost passed out. lasted 1 min. headache 4 2days after. 2connected?
migraine headaches last for hours not minutes if the vpain continues you should see your doctor
strong headache ribs pain back pain pinkish vomit temperature on cheeks 39. 5 c and rapid heart beat in 26 yo male please help?
how can you be on the internet when you [or someone] is so sick? you must go to the emergency department for immediate attention.
should i like lay off all caffeine? i took 1 excedrin migraine because i was feeling bad with a headache. my heart rate is now up to 156.
caffeine could be one of many causes of rapid heart beat. you need to see a doctor to explore other causes of rapid heart beat asap.
shortness of breath tight chest with cough sore throat headache & constant fatigue. is it more then a cold?
the combination of symptoms could mean that a simple viral upper respiratory chest infection is now tracking lower down into the lungs. the shortness of breath and tightness could indicate development of an early pneumonia. you need to visit your nearest accident and medical clinic for further evaluation and treatment.
shortness of breath tight chest with cough sore throat headache & constant fatigue. is it more then a cold?
the shortness of breath is problematic. please proceed to your local physician or uc clinic.
started taking prilosec for gerd. soon after i started experiencing this weird chest pain headaches and a pounding chest ( no hr elevation). ran out and symptoms lessened. took it again and they came back. is it in my head or a reaction to prilosec?
it appears that prilosec can have as an adverse effect severe abdominal pain. this is due to increased intestinal gas. there can also be nausea and vomiting. headaches are also a side effect. it might be a good idea to talk to your doctor about how much you should take since your symptoms lessened when you ran out and this would help to avoid serious side effects. good luck.
shortness of breath racing heart. soreness of neck lower abs. stomach cramps with eating. headache. foggy feeling. started lamictal 9 days ago.
lamictal <link> google. com/#q=lamictal = a single molecule cannot & will not solve complex human life issues & symptoms though can complicate them. then why prescribed? public & doctors usually quick options for complex problems not complex solutions for complex problems including ones which might would work vastly better. life=about learning & solving problems not "easy" "quick-fixes".
the past 3 days straight ive been getting heart pain with severe cold sweats fatigue etc. even with beta blocker. heart attack or anxiety?
beta blockers are prescribed for angina heart attack high blood pressure and anxiety. • beta blockers can cause fatigue cold hands • headache • upset stomach • diarrhea • shortness of breath • trouble sleeping • these are also symptoms of anxiety. see a psychiatrist for diagnosis and treatment including therapy medication and yoga.
trouble breathing dry mouth despite lots of water headache hot face heart palpitations throat tightness lymph near neck enlarged. any thoughts?
"trouble breathing" means one needs to see a doctor because it can be many things such as an allergic reaction a heart problem pneumonia etc. . trouble breathing can also be due to asthma-type symptoms if the person is prone to getting such problems with any cold flu allergy or strep symptoms. in some cases trouble breathing can be due to huge tonsils or a tonsillar abscess.
terrible headache sometimes lower back pain gum hurts sensitive teeth speeding&slowing heartbeat chest pain. no serious problem detected at the clinic?
your symptoms are very vague and do not point to a single illness. if you are going through some kind of stressful situation in your life or hove anxiety then that would cause all the symptoms. if not then you should go and see your regular physician for a complete checkup to rule out any proble. for the tooth and gum problem you should see a dentist.
taking lamictal lithium welbutrin. my heart rate 117-120 when i saw dr a couple times. have headaches. can fast heartbeat cause headaches?
or rapid heart rate doesn't cause headaches. lithium lamictal & wellbutrin (bupropion) each can cause headaches. your medication list implies that your diagnosis is bipolar disorder type i. do not alter any doses of any of med except at your psychiatrist's direction. see your primary md routinely to check your blood pressure weight cbc & other labs since you need to stay on these meds & acetazolamide.
what's the difference between a stroke and a heart attack?
stroke affects brain. heart attack affects heart. stroke is mostly caused due to decreased blood supply to a part of brain or sometimes due to bleeding inside the brain. stroke leads to headache weakness of one side : face hand or leg. heart attack occurs when blood supply to part of heart is blocked or compromised and have chest pain panic difficulty breathing. both are serious problems.
what can cause me to have sharp chest pain associated with high left side back pain up into the back of my neck sometimes causing a headache?
with the limited information the foremost concern would be a heart condition such as angina. i would recommend that you get evaluated as soon as possible. it is possible you have cervical spine or a muscular cause for your symptoms but these conditions are not life-threatening. please get a cardiology evaluation first and make sure you don't have symptoms related to heart disease.
what's the diagnose of an unstable bp(low then high mostly at the same time)with the feeling of dizziness headache nausea blurred vision & heaviness.
it looks like you have concerns about a complex medical situation. you may want to consult with a doctor with a more detailed review of the problems. you can arrange a one on one consultation here or see a doctor in person. diagnosis based on the symptoms you describe would require lots more discussion & depend on the patient (young or old? ) the timing (recent or chronic) the triggers etc.
have pvcs and headaches 2 days now. thoughts?
ni hao. i assume by your name you are chinese. you have 2 problems probably unrelated. pvc's usually are benign. (harmless). headaches have many causes so it depends on a further description. if you haven't had one you need a check up. high blood pressure for instance is a cause of headaches.
having neck pain and headaches with increase in heart rate after a spinal tap.
i would just make sure your doctor that did the tap is aware. there are a number of potential complications that can occur with a spinal tap including a spinal headache. sometimes more needs to be done. let your doctor know.
headache/nausea. later heart pounding then threw up. chest pain/tightness all the next day. soreness from vomiting? or concern? (26 y/o)
the chest tightness could be from reflux from the vomiting wiht or without reactive airways due to acid reflux into lungs. could try some over the counter zantac or prevecid or mylanta. if blood in vomitus go to er. since it is in chest f/u/ w/ doc
hi i have headaches trouble breathing my chest hurts i feel dizzy nausea vomiting.
might have a viral infection. drink fluids and rest and use tylenol if you develop a fever. if the symptoms persist for more than 48 hours make an appointment with a health care provider for evaluation.
i'm getting dizzy slightly blurred vision headache before a bowel movement. it's like i'm about to pass out. this isn't whike bearing down. ?
i am concerned about the symptoms you are describing. if this is the first time it has occurred then it is even more important that you get treatment today. i don't have more information from you to go by but tia strokes htn low blood sugar come to mind. if you are feeling like passing out your body is loudly telling you to get treatment now.
i'm getting dizzy slightly blurred vision headache before a bowel movement. it's like i'm about to pass out. this isn't whike bearing down. ?
you need to see your pcp and he/she needs to consider cardiovascular consult vs neurological consult.
i've stopped taking propranolol as i had a bad wheeze and a chest infection. so i've had bad headaches. i cant take it again. can i increase topamax?
propranolol and topamax are very different medications. propranolol is a beta blocker that can cause decreased noradrenerigic activity which keeps small pulmonary vessels open and keeps your heart stimulated; blocking noradrenergic activity reduces cardiac drive and reduces the tendency toward lung bronchioles remaining open; thus wheezes and congestion leading to infection. consult your pcp.
i have anxiety but dont have panic attack. chest pain near sternum thingling fingers are muscle weakness fatigue headaches burning sensations when i wake up diziness blurred vision brain fog. ekg ul. sound stress t. ok. so maybe is fibromyalga or costo?
in may ways. once can mentally obsess over things that frighten the person or do behaviors to keep danger away e. g. ritual behaviors checking and re-checking. physically there can be heart palpitations shortness of breath sweating sleeplessness etc. please go to a mental health professional for support if you think you have an anxiety disorder. see your doctor first to rule out medical.
i have anxiety but dont have panic attack. chest pain near sternum thingling fingers are muscle weakness fatigue headaches burning sensations when i wake up diziness blurred vision brain fog. ekg ul. sound stress t. ok. so maybe is fibromyalga or costo?
instead of having doctors tell you what isn't wrong ask what is. if they don't know follow their recommendations on what next diagnostic steps to take. in any case you should work closely with your primary care doctor/gp for these concerns. if you're having current symptoms call your doctor or go the the er.
i have anxiety but dont have panic attack. chest pain near sternum thingling fingers are muscle weakness fatigue headaches burning sensations when i wake up diziness blurred vision brain fog. ekg ul. sound stress t. ok. so maybe is fibromyalga or costo?
your doctor can assess for costochondritis or fibromyalgia but these symptoms can also be associated with an anxiety disorder.
i have low blood pressure(av. 80/40)cause on propranolol for headaches from concussion. doc said ok but i get dizzy often-(are there any risks? )thanks!
please revisit your doctor what was your heart rate? propranolol would slow down your heart in addition to affecting your blood pressure. of course dizziness has other reasons given there is a history of concussion kindly confer again with your doctor or get a second opnion no offense it's your right good luck
just upped my dose of nortriptyline from 5mg to 10mg and experiencing some increased anxiety from it. racing heart jittery nervousness. is this normal? i had no side effects intially and it has helped my migraines. wondering if it will go away.
first thing to do is to notify your doctor. may be to much medicine for you. if you are having symptoms may be better to go back to original dose. then see your doctor and talk about the other options for treatments of headaches
keep getting fuzzy head blurred eyes shaking headache heart racing feel like i'm going to collapse what can this be its worrying me?
dizzy spells like this can be due to rapid heartbeats or slow beats or other causes of a sudden drop in blood pressure. your heart racing could be the cause and your doctor will know how to diagnose and treat it. you should get it checked out before you fall down in the street or even worse have a spell while you are driving!
l arm & l jaw pain. no chest pain only feeling dull constriction. bp fine pulse 100 w/mild arrhythmia. headache neck pain nausea. stress?
heart disease is the #1 cause of mortality in women. women don't have to have chest pain for it to be cardiac & in fact that is why delay seeking medical help when it is warranted. your arm and jaw pain is concerning. seek medical attention asap!
l arm & l jaw pain. no chest pain only feeling dull constriction. bp fine pulse 100 w/mild arrhythmia. headache neck pain nausea. stress?
please stop trying to diagnose yourself. you need to go to er now. don't drive yourself. if someone can't take you immediately call 911.
my 74 yr old dad has had nausea and last night he vomited and passed out 3 times he had this once before but he's worried and has bad headache after?
there are a large. umber of possible diagnoses some serious;he needs urgent medical evaluation and ecg
my 74 yr old dad has had nausea and last night he vomited and passed out 3 times he had this once before but he's worried and has bad headache after?
i would take your dad to the dr. for evaluation. ask them to take seated and standing and after exercise bp.
my thyroid was. 14. i was told that was normal but i have symptoms of hypothyroid. palpitations itchy skin hair loss moody headaches high choleste?
your symptoms are not typical of hypothyroidism but are more consistent with hyperthyroidism(overactive). have a complete thyroid panel done rather than one test done to be sure. an endocrinologist or thyroidologist are experts in the field of thyroid disorders.
neck pain major headache pain back of head nausea tachycardia blurry vision. had brain mri which was clear. if not tumour what could it be?
did you get brain vessel imaging? there are many types of headaches including migraines cough cluster occipital neuralgia muscle strain etc. keep a log of the timing duration severity and location of your headaches. also try to identify any headache "triggers" (stress not sleeping/eating). take this information to a neurologist. <link>
nausea dizzy headache sweats joint pain petechiae heart racing med hist. track record of having incorrect blood results but have had a clear cbc help?
hi danielle i'm a little concerned about the petechiae. are you unwell currently with a fever? have you had petechiae before? have you had this group of symptoms before? if you have fever and petechiae now i encourage you to see a doctor
nausea dizzy headache sweats joint pain petechiae heart racing med hist. track record of having incorrect blood results but have had a clear cbc help?
could be systemic infection or allergic reaction. blood tests might help but a clinical exam with vitals is the most important thing here.
normal blood tests rule cancer? my brother died lukemia every doc is saying anxiety. heart doc tests echo / holter / stress echo / ekg lung doc bronchosco / ct scan and full gastro workup / all scopes endo colons capsule. headach daily weak pulse
if normal blood test/normal work ups then i agree anxiety is the culprit of your headaches. recommend sleep at least 8 hours meditation yoga tai chi and iso metric exercises to get your pulse back to being strong!
nose bleeds chest pain dizziness left arm pain headache?
are young - this still should prompt emergency medical evaluation to rule out a cardiac event.
occassional low heart rate tiredness headaches - are these symptoms of perimenopause?
many conditions can cause those symptoms. a doctor can order some tests to confirm perimenopause and/or rule out other medical problems.
out in cold most of night and day and been sneezing and coughing with a little chest pain sore throat headache nausea. cold or bronchitis?
sounds like you're describing an upper respiratory infection which are mainly caused by viruses which don't respond to antibiotics whether you call it a cold or bronchitis. technically speaking chronic bronchitis (<link> is diagnosed after productive cough for 3mo in each of last 2yrs. see family doc if persists
ok i just want to feel better. past years and months been major headaches and like fluid is built up and closing in my heart and now when i workout i feel like my heart beat is weaker and vibrates. not eating not in mood. cancer? which tests to get
headaches and the other symptoms you describe need a full consult with an md. have you had a ekg echocardiogram holter monitor cbc? what is your diet like? do you have a history of smoking? what is your weight & diet like: depending on answers it can be due to as simple as a diet/nutrition issue to cancer (which is unlikely if all of the above are normal or negative). consult with us to help.
problems:headache. faster pulse rate. shaky hands. tiredness. distraction from focusing?
lots of possibilities need to see a doctor to work through them to the diagnosis
previously stressed severely for months. can prolonged stress/anxiety cause chest damage? i've had pinches&pulls since march. echo ekg xrays blood ok.
however prolonged stress can lead to issues with mind body functioning such as ulcers headaches or migraines stomach aches hair loss body pains. also the cortisol hormone is produced in the brain with prolonged stress and there are negative effects to this including medical and psychological conditions.
pain in between breast like crushing feeling and severe headaches on left side for 3rd day today?
anybody who feels she has a crushing feeling in the chest should be seen in the er to rule out a heart attack. calling 911 for an ambulance is the safest way to go. if it turns out to be a different problem such as a collapsed lung the er will still be the right place to be. it may not be a heart attack if such a person is still alive at home still in pain on day 3 but the er needs to check.
pain in middle of chest- pressure and tightness and also pain. fatigue headache back pain. been 2 or so days. 20 yr old f. ?
female at age 20 unlikely to have heart pain but not impossible. do all symptoms occur at the same time? does the chest pain occur with exercise or with taking a deep breath? does any particular body movement cause the chest or back pain? not sure all symptoms are related to the same thing unless they all occur at the same time and occur with a specific activity.
resting hr usually 85-92. today in bed it us suddenly 64-72. i have a slight headache and got a little dizzy getting up. should i be worried?
the normal range for an adult heart rate is between 60 and 100. we all have normal variations in our heart rate based upon our bodies need for oxygen. having a low heart rate (bradycardia) less than 60 can still be normal in a healthy adult who does a lot of cardio. headaches themselves can cause dizziness. if it continues see your primary doctor.
stomach pain headache excessive gas constipation and visible heartbeat in stomach had ultrasound and dr. not concerned about aaa. whats wrong?
prominent abdominal aortic pulsation may be seen in slender people or with hypertension even without aaa. your abdominal complaints may be due to irritable bowel syndrome gluten or lactose intolerance. a consultation with a gastroenterologist would be helpful for diagnosis and treatment.
sometimes i have headaches at forehead left/right nerves (lil bit above eye brows) and they seem to pulsate with heartbeats? how to stop them?
these sound like migraine variants. first get evaluated to rule out inflammatory vasculitis then you can start preventative treatment with medications( topiramate) and ablation meds (triptans nsaids)
sever weight loss with headaches and chest tightness. feeling my heart beat being covered worse and worse daily. had ekg and stress and x-ray all good?
time to go back and see your doc. need a metabolic workup including labs
since waking up my husband is getting severely dizzy with increased heartbeat (goes up 30 plus bpm) when standing better when laying down; bp is ok.
this suggests either decreased blood volume (as in dehydration blood loss diarrhea) or effective volume (eg vessel dilated from infection food poison medications alcohol or poor heart circulation) see doctor asap if fluids like gatorade or soups did not help. urgent red flags include: chest pain shortness of breath other neural problems headache nausea blood pain or heart/ulcer history
sometimes when i sit or lay down i can feel my pulse in the nape if my neck back of head. no real headache. is this just tight muscles?
need u/s of neck to be sure all ok check blood pressure check pulse rate and rhythm
stuffy nose/also runny nose&clear mucus/sneezing with chest pain also stimulated by dust perfume air changing/headache tired chronic very long time?
you could have allergies since long time - and a nasal steroid might be helpful.
trying to find the reason why my wife is having these blackouts many times a day she has migraine and her blood pressure is always low.
get to a cardiologist or neurologist. you need to be sure there is no danger to herself or others. is it a seizure or a heart problem? very unlikely related to headaches alone. the low blood pressure might have a role but prompt evaluation is important. do not drive with these symptoms.
today i had crazy palpitations for 10seconds i was scared my heart would stop beating now i have a headache and a little chest pain what could this be?
when palpitations (the sensation of a rapid or irregular heart beat) are associated with lightheadedness fainting shortness of breath or chest pain they should be evaluated promptly. while most kinds of heart disease are less in young people than in older people there are several conditions which affect children or young adults and which could cause these symptoms.
threw up blood 5 times last night major headache and my heart beat steal feels like it's getting weaker. seen a physco he said there's nothing he can help me with said i'm normal and it's not anxiety or depression. need to see what more tests to do?
31 m notes: threw up blood 5 times last night major headache and my heart beat steal feels like it's getting weaker. seen a physco he said there's nothing he can help me with said i'm normal and it's not anxiety or depression. . need to see what more tests to do? ans: it is never normal to vomit blood. see a real dr. and tell your story and ask what the problem is.
tight chest coughing fever shakes and body aches what could this be im out of town for christmas and im so sick?
if you have headache especially behind the eyes flu is more likely and an urgent care or ht consult could help you get some tamiflu. however if there is any chest pain along with these symptoms pneumonia is possible and an exam is really needed. good luck!
to control chf is it normal to prescribe hydralazine alone or with isosorbide dinitrate? she has no hypertension but af. headache+af worsens wt these
the combination of hydralazine and isosorbide reduce filling pressures in the heart reduce the amt of work the heart must do & reduce the changes in structure to the heart that heart failure brings. this is for heart failure where the ejection fraction is less than 40%.
tsh is 0. 77 free t4 is 1. 14 is this normal? i have a goiter palpitations fullness in neck choking sensation hands and feet are cold headaches
asap your symptoms aren't normal forget about the lab results good luck
tsh is 0. 77 free t4 is 1. 14 is this normal? i have a goiter palpitations fullness in neck choking sensation hands and feet are cold headaches
you lab results are normal and thyroid may or may not be the problem issue. it is not feasible to provide a meaningful opinion without taking additional history physical examination and may be some tests. it would be prudent to see your doctor.
taking pantaprazole 40 for 3 wks & supposed to take for 8 also took it for about 5 wks a year ago now i hear it could cause heart attacks stop?
ppi's in short term can cause some dose-dependent side effects including headache & diarrhea. longer term use carries other consequences (please see my prior answers on this topic in healthtap)--like bone thinning low magnesium. don't confuse lay-press interpretation of retrospective analysis of dissimilar populations with randomized prospective trials & never stop prescribed drugs on your own!
twice pulmonary embolism. ongoing burning pain in chest. can't breath deeply. very sore when trying to breathe. cold fever and severe headache. nauseas?
the cause of your current symptoms. however if you have difficulty breathing - would recommend prompt evaluation.
uncontroled blood pressure 222/12o mmhg normal condition no headache no vomiting no abdomen pain ecg normal blood investigation normal he is driver?
needs to see dr or urgent care to get prescription to start lowering bp to normal which should occur over a few weeks to prevent feeling weak/drained/poorly from the change. cannot drive (us) commercial vehicle with this bp and is called the "silent killer" because it is often asymptomatic until stroke or heart issue. get treatment started asap.
use computer 5h/day. left chest pain rapid heartbeat when anxiety. gum bleeding. headache in the afternoon better with rest. what should i do?
stopping stressors would be the way to go. but given the symptoms and your age - check a ekg and echo to make sure you have a structurally normal heart. check blood work to make sure you don't suffer from bleeding disorders. check your vision. best wishes.
used to be on high dose prescribed ritalin (methylphenidate). now get nightly tachycardia up to 180bpm adeenaline rush sob shak headache. ritalin (methylphenidate) effects?
effects do not persist long-term after discontinuation. a tachycardia of 180 warrants evaluation by a cardiologist who may use a holter monitor to record your heart rate & rhythm for 24 hours. list all of the herbs vitamins supplements & prescribed otc & holistic medications you currently take to share at the cardiac evaluation.
unusual headache behind nose after syncopal episode normal? unresponsive for 3 minutes with heart rate of 40 and very low blood pressure.
syncope needs immediate formal evaluation-go to an er now
under a lot of stress. tired headache and sometimes my chest feels heavy. heaviness doesn't last long. sharp chest pains periodically short duration?
it could be stress but as doctor we emphasize checking in by private provider or doctor or go to emergency room for chest pain as they need to risk stratify if this is cardiac or non cardiac
what doctor should i see seen a lung and heart and gastro for breathless and heart beat feels like it's weak no strength when working out or running over 8 months headaches everyday. ticking feeling and hearing in throat lump feeling. feels cancer?
it would be useful to see a primary care provider an internist or family medicine doctor for an initial evaluation the your doctor will decide if you need to see a specialist. for good health - have a diet rich in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains milk and milk products nuts beans legumes lentils and small amounts of lean meats. avoid saturated fats. drink enough water daily so that your urine is mostly colorless. exercise at least 150 minutes/week and increase the intensity of exercise gradually. do not use tobacco alcohol weed or street drugs in any form. practice safe sex.
what doctor should i see seen a lung and heart and gastro for breathless and heart beat feels like it's weak no strength when working out or running over 8 months headaches everyday. ticking feeling and hearing in throat lump feeling. feels cancer?
sorry you haven't found answers yet. i would recommend you visit a professor of medicine at an academic medical center. these are referral centers where you can get more answers. good luck.
what tests or doctors do i need to see other than lung and heart? ruled those out with bunch tests. shallow breathing sometimes won't inhale for 15 seconds. with headaches daily for months. breathless weak heart beat lump feeling throat clicking nois
u and i get to meet and speak. . much here going on. most headaches come from neck issues and so excellent physical therapy is essential to start. ump feeling in the throat may well be anxiety as all of this may be. low-dose indeeral/propranolol may help you a great deal. i would probably want you to have an upper g. i x-ray. i would have you start icing and internist possibly a neurol ogist luck
what tests or doctors do i need to see other than lung and heart? ruled those out with bunch tests. shallow breathing sometimes won't inhale for 15 seconds. with headaches daily for months. breathless weak heart beat lump feeling throat clicking nois
may all be anxiety related and if that is the cases you are caught in a vicious "circle" your symptoms cause anxity which causes the symptoms which cause anxiety etc etc etc. . this circle must be broken. ask your pcp for a referral to a mental health professional. you have obviously ruled out the "bad stuff" heart lung disease take the next step! be well! hope this helps. dr z
wheezing cough chest pain that goes to shoulder hurts to breathe in 100. 4 fever vomiting headache stuffy nose constant chest pain fatigue.
can't be helped online heart and lungs need to be evaluated wish you well
wheezing cough that causes vomiting constant chest pain severe headache fatigue 99. 5-100. 5 fever flushed face sore throat green mucus. ideas?
from the symptoms you describe fever chest pain headache sore throat and green mucus. it seems you have a respiratory infection. it could be a bacterial infection as you have green mucus. get it checked by your doctor as you may need antibiotics if doctor feels you need after your examination
what are the diff. reasons with explanations pls for this experience: feeling strong throbbing in my eyes and in my ears in time w/heartbeat. thanks?
this sort of throbbing headache can be due to several reasons may be your sinuses and middle ears yes they are one system or may be another type of headache as cluster headache. bottom line you need good evaluation start with your primary doctor who may refer you to other specialities as ent / neurology all the best
arm pain near outer elbow for a few days. now jaw pain in left side too headache and fatigue. could be heart attack or warning to one?
if the pain is days apart especially unlikely. a heart attack usually declares itself within 8 hours. although people can have "silent mis" your age sorta rules that out
pressure headache and tightness and numbness in left arm for days. two days ago added dizziness and room spinning sensation. blood pressure has seemed?
need more information age under lying medical problem and medications etc. if the headache was secondary to elevated blood pressure it should get better with improvement or normalization of the pressure. continuous headache ache may be from different reason. dizziness and spinning commonly from inner ear problem. of course other causes for that too. better have it examined by your physician
what's a hypertensive crisis? if i notice a spike in my blood pressure what should i do?
extremely high blood pressure — a top number (systolic pressure) of 180 millimeters of mercury (mm hg) or higher or a bottom number (diastolic pressure) of 120 mm hg or higher — damages blood vessels. they become inflamed and may leak fluid or blood. as a result the heart may not be able to pump blood effectively. causes of a hypertensive emergency include: forgetting to take your blood pressure medication stroke heart attack heart failure kidney failure rupture of your body's main artery (aorta) interaction between medications convulsions during pregnancy (eclampsia). a hypertensive crisis is divided into two categories: urgent and emergency. in an urgent hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high but your doctor doesn't suspect you have any damage to your organs. in an emergency hypertensive crisis your blood pressure is extremely high and has caused damage to your organs. an emergency hypertensive crisis can be associated with life-threatening complications. signs and symptoms of a hypertensive crisis that may be life–threatening may include: severe chest pain severe headache accompanied by confusion and blurred vision nausea and vomiting severe anxiety shortness of breath seizures unresponsiveness. if you experience a severe increase in your blood pressure seek immediate medical attention. treatment for hypertensive crisis may include hospitalization for treatment with oral or intravenous medications.
shortness of breath and chest pain and chest pressure an awful cough headache after a cold that started a week ago fevers and chills. why?
please get checked at the er now- this certainly sounds like pneumonia with pleuritis ( pleurisy )- and can be quite serious. this will require aggressive antibiotic therapy.
can nausea with migraine cause hypokalemia?
39 asks can nausea with migraine cause hypokalemia. no but if you vomit a lot low k may develop. more likely is that your low k is caused by conn's syndrome: headache is a very common symptom. so if bp high or pee a lot at night come to my yahoo group hyperaldosteronism at yahoo. com. i also specialize in this so you can get my second opinion.
can ehlher danlos make chiari symptoms worse. occipital headache dizziness episodic tachycardia and blurred vision for 15 days. also 15 episodes of syncope in last 2 weeks. all heart/blood normal?
you need immediate evaluation. people with ehlers danlos and hypermobility can have an arnold chiari malformation that is difficult to diagnose. sounds like you are having problems from this. go to the e r please!
what side effects are associated with isosorbide dinitrate?
headache low blood pressure dizziness
should further testing be done to rule out a brain aneurysm?
it depends in your symptoms. if you had the worst headache of your life and a ct scan was negative you may need a lumbar puncture (aka spinal tap) to rule out a small bleed.
smoked weed 2 weeks ago ever since tight right lung heart pounds hars sometimes headache stomach ache and stuffy nose. the pains come and go.
initial impression is to say that you may have a nasal infection ( sinus) with postnasal drip which causes stomach ache and pneumonia. use over the counter saline nasal rinse.
smoked weed 2 weeks ago ever since tight right lung heart pounds hars sometimes headache stomach ache and stuffy nose. the pains come and go.
marijuana's effects usually last from one to three 3 hours. it can have multiple deleterious effects on the body. at this point - recommend that you seek medical evaluation.
symptoms of headache chest pains coughing random bruising infections?
than can be sorted out in 400 characters. need a visit with your doc for a complete history and exam.
should i be worried about a stroke severe migraines the last week have waken me up from my sleep left side feels a little numb vomiting due to headache's my rght hand fingers pinky finger and ring finger have curled a bit headaches go away for a wh
these kind of migraines are not associated with strokes. visit your doc if you ukeep happening them because there are medications to preven migraine headaches. therre is pain meds also. it is difficult to treat migraines that awaken you from sleep. i know because i have had them ever since i was a young kid.
should i be worried about a stroke severe migraines the last week have waken me up from my sleep left side feels a little numb vomiting due to headache's my rght hand fingers pinky finger and ring finger have curled a bit headaches go away for a wh
hello. i don't know if you have suffered a stroke. complex migraine headaches can cause very strange neurologic symptoms. i have listed symptoms for a possible stroke. all of these symptoms would have a sudden onset. numbness or weakness of the face arm or leg (especially if it is one sided); trouble speaking or understanding what other people are saying to you problems with vision a severe headache loss of balance having a hard time walking and feeling dizzy. i do recommend that you get prompt medical care. if the numbness has just started calling 911 would be appropriate. in this type of situation it is best to be prudent. if you have not been evaluated by a neurologist strongly recommend that you do so. take care.
strep throat doesn't cause respitory symptoms such as cough runny nose and trouble breathing right?
strep throat typically causes a sore throat headache abdominal pain and fever. occasionally it can also be associated with a stuffy nose but typically a cough.
what is an episode of pheochromocytoma?
findings of tachycardia elevated blood pressure headache! then flushing chest pain heart pain torn aorta and more! medical emergency!
what's wrong with me i have a heavy cough red eyes stomach hurts trouble breathing very mild headache and little itch bumps that show up at random?
please seek medical attention immediately. you are having stomach pain and trouble breathing. it's not appropriate for you to be trying to avoid seeing your doctor.
what are symptoms of a stroke. ?
symptoms vary for a stroke. if its from hemorrhage can have severe headache. otherwise dizziness lose balance nausea or vomiting loss of speech or vision problems. depends on the type of stroke. if you have high bp or high cholesterol or diabetes you are at high risk. heart disease is also a factor. early symptoms go to the er.
what are the chances of a 15 year old having a stroke i have been having reoccurring headaches on the left side of my head! what could this be?
you may have migraine or tension headache. please see your pediatrician for full evaluation
what happens if someone is being treated for hypertension and is taking 1 tablet of micardis (telmisartan) 40 can he take a little norvasc such as 1. 25mg?
the 2 drugs blend well together but 1. 25 mg of norvasc is a homeopathic dose that won't do anything. if you had a headache would you take 20 mg of tylenol (acetaminophen)?
what are some good otc medications for headaches caused by high blood pressure if the patient is also taking high blood pressure medications?
it really depends on the root cause of the problem. if it is the medication perhaps changing medication would help. if perhaps addressing the cause of the high blood pressure can help you reduce the dose. i have information on natural ways to lower blood pressure on my blog: drfairchild. blogspot. com
what are the signs of a pheochromocytoma?
there are whole books written about the symptoms of pheochromocytoma. classics are hypertension headache hyper metabolism hyperhidrosis and hyper heart rate. some will have cafe-au-lait spots. some will have neurofibromatosis. you can google these images and see if you have them. this is a deadly disease that i specialize in and happy to do 2nd opinion to help you and your team.
what's the symptoms of blood pressure to high or to low?
mild or moderate changes in blood pressure will usually not produce any symptoms. however more significant (or sudden) changes in bp may produce symptoms. low bp may produce dizziness weakness or malaise sometimes with blurry or spotty vision shakiness or even nausea. conversely high bp may produce headache or pulsatilla pressure sometimes with blurry vision or nausea.
what would happen if i don't take my cholesterol medicine? simvastatine medicine gives me bad headaches
if cholesterol medication was prescribed you likely have high cholesterol and are at risk for heart disease. if the medication is causing side effects see your doctor to try a different statin.
what are possible mental side effects to taking prazosin? i've heard they can make you feel numb.
headache drowsiness tiredness weakness blurred vision nausea vomiting diarrhea or constipation may occur as your body adjusts to the medication. if any of these effects persist or worsen tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. lightheadedness or dizziness upon standing may also occur especially after the first dose and shortly after taking a dose of the drug.
what symptom are these? pain in right side abdomen pelvic area hard when pressed. left side is okay. dizzy headache&chest pain sometimes.
checked for problems related to ur intestines pelvic organs etc. likewise migraine blood pressure problems stress and anxiety are other possibilities. consider taking a mini vacation. have fun!
what will taking a high dose of nitroglycerin without heart problem cause?
nitroglycerin can lead to lowering/drop in blood pressure dizziness and headache. these adverse reactions may happen in individuals with or without heart disease.
what are the symptoms of an unruptured brain or aneurysm?
the only symptom is usually headache unless the size of the unruptured aneurysm causes pressure phenomena against adjacent structures. most of these aneurysms are without symptoms until they begin to cause trouble.
what is aspirin rebound effect and who does it effect?
affects people who take and overtake analgesics such as excedrjn aspirin tylenol (acetaminophen) ibuprofen. people who have frequent headaches or tension headaches may take so much of these products that a "rebound effect" takes place. for instance develop a ha from not taking it. it is short-lived and goes away. it's just like de-toxing from anything from afrin to alcohol. takes time.
what is hyperaldostoeroism?
it is a condition in which too much aldosterone hormone is released from the adrenal glands causing excess reabsorption of sodium increased excretion of potassium ; hypertension. it may be caused by adrenal hyperplasia or an adrenal or renal tumor. sometimes a narrowing of a renal artery may be the cause. symptoms include fatigue headache muscle weakness numbness increased thirst ; urination.
what are the side effects of taking 10mg of amlodipine basilate vasoprin and dieuretics daily?
amlodipine can cause swelling in legs vasoprin can cause fatigue dry mouth headache etc. diuretics cause electrolyte problems. most of the side effects are mild and you need to continue taking meds for a good blood pressure control.
what does a headache from pregnancy induced hypertension feel like?
just like headache with pressure or throbbing.
what's drug of choice in pat. with acute migraine and ischemic heart disease?
avoid all triptans but why not just prevent the headaches and this can be done with ongoing acupuncture botox injections and even regular ingestion of otc items such as riboflavin co-q10 butterbur feverfew ? magnesium. a headache specialist could design a specific program.
what can cause pain in top of head vomiting bright red blood in a 59 yr old 214 lb male with hi blood pressure?
vomting can cause a headache and a headache can cause vomiting. but bright red blood while probably benign can be an important tear in the esophagus and should be checked out quickly. i hope your are 6'4" or have a 34" or smaller waist for that weight. see a good internist pdq.
why would i be prescribed delera for chest pains fever night sweats joint pain headaches fatigue and enlarged lymph nodes in thethe chest?
you mean dulera (formoterol and mometasone)? it is an asthma med.
why would i be prescribed delera for chest pains fever night sweats joint pain headaches fatigue and enlarged lymph nodes in thethe chest?
there is no such a drug. you maybe spelling it wrong.
why would i be prescribed delera for chest pains fever night sweats joint pain headaches fatigue and enlarged lymph nodes in thethe chest?
this medication is a combination of steroids to help you breathe more easily. that would be the primary reason that it was prescribed.
with a mri can they tell if u had a stroke. ms. or other things? wat would they see as a result
an mri is great at finding a stroke evidence for ms or a brain tumor. even if a stroke occurred a long time ago an mri can usually see that it occurred although it cannot show when it occurred most often. if you have a tia or a headache the mri is almost always normal.
what does gestational hypertension make you feel like?
in most cases women with gestational hypertension do not have any symptoms and are usually not aware of it. if aware a woman would complain of headaches. the diagnosis is usually made on routine follow up with an obstetrician.
what usually causes chest pain on the left side of chest?
anxiety can cause excess cortisol os adrenaline secretion which can cause a number of symptoms including dizziness lightheadedness rapid heart beat palpitations chestpain headaches etc. try calming yourself down by concentrating on slowing down your breathing over a few minutes if this doesn't help see your primary provider for further evaluation. good luck!
what are some early indicators of high blood pressure?
high blood pressure can cause headaches bloody noses and other symptoms. if you suspect you have high bp you should see your doctor. untreated high bp can lead to stroke heart attack kidney failure and other problems.
what symptoms are common in high blood pressure?
there are few reliable predictable symptoms of high blood pressure unless it is extremely high or 'too late'. for instance if way too high the eyes and brain don't like it and the retina of the eye can thicken or hemorrhage causing visual loss or distortion. mental status changes and headaches can ensue. at worst stroke. mild high blood pressure has no reliable symptoms so get it checked!
what is the next step for an elderly patient with headache jaw claudication scalp tenderness?
this patient may have temporal arthritis an inflammatory condition which affects blood vessels and joints but can also affect vision. with appropriate treatment it can be controlled.
what is the next step for an elderly patient with headache jaw claudication scalp tenderness?
they need a thorough history and physical.
what exactly does it mean when you get sharp pains in your heart area and headaches?
those symptoms are not necessarily related.
what's the difference between a aneurysm and non aneurysmal sah?
sub arachnoid hemorrhage (sah) is blood between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater cover of the brain. two main reasons for it: trauma to the head and spontaneous sah due to a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. severe headache vomiting confusional state coma the symptoms. it is a medical emergency. it is diagnosed easily by mri. early treatment results usually in full recovery.
what can you do to tell a stroke apart from heart attack?
heart attack sx can include: chest pain or tightness shortness of breath increased sweating pain or numbness radiating down the arm (more often left than right) and nausea. there could be pain in the upper back head jaw or teeth. one fourth of people have heart attacks without chest pain. stroke symptoms can include a severe and sudden headache. there can also be nausea vomiting & >>>.
when bp is 164/111 and pulse 102 even with meds what should be done? no other symptoms only headache known rt minimal lung collapse hbp tachycardic
the blood pressure is too high. at this level it will cause damage to blood vessels throughout the body. the rapid heart rate or tachycardia is likely an indication of something additional going on. this requires a careful physician's evaluation.
when bp is 164/111 and pulse 102 even with meds what should be done? no other symptoms only headache known rt minimal lung collapse hbp tachycardic
different bp meds. talk to your physician.
what are the signs when you get a transient stroke?
sudden loss of vision inability to speak focal weakness or numbness loss of coordination lasting perhaps 20-30 minutes and reversing. some of this could be associated with complex migraine but that often is followed by headache. if any of this applies contact your doctor. also for more information go to american heart assoc site for list of stroke warnings.
with my enlarged thymus and ra i all ways seem to have a cold? i have chest pain! and bad headaches on/off for 3 weeks now!
with ra and possibly myasthenia your immune system will be weakened and you will get sick easier. the medications for these problems will suppress your ability to fight infections. the headache and chest pains are not normal and need to be evaluated.
with my enlarged thymus and ra i all ways seem to have a cold? i have chest pain! and bad headaches on/off for 3 weeks now!
this really sounds like you atopy to something and would recommended getting skin tested by an allergist you can't have (real) colds all the time unless you were severely immunocompromised which you are not so you may just have allergies. the headaches could all be sinus related.
when i smell weed i get a huge headache and have difficulty breathing. are those signs of being allergic?
you are lucky.
what are common after effects for a brain aneurysm operation using the coil embolization procedure?
if ruptured or not. if not ruptured may have a headache up to one week or so. very small risk of hydrocephalus or delayed stroke. may have discomfort at the puncture site at your groin for a few days.
what are symptoms right before a potential stroke or an aneurysm?
aha and stroke call attention to f. ace a. arm s speech time call 911 and get to hospital to be evaluated. aneurysm more with headache and collapse! but can be stroke like.
what are symptoms right before a potential stroke or an aneurysm?
different see yuor doctor if you feel you might have these. aneurysms - headache double vision stroke - vision changes motor loss or weakness dizziness dysarthria trouble findings words sensory changes.
why am i having fainting spells headaches loss of coordination and blurry vision?
is serious. you should not drive. you should see a doctor. if progressive see the er doc.
what are the symptoms of vasculitis? is it contagious?
vasculitis' can be congenital or acquired. they can lead to extremity pain vision changes aneurysms and headaches.
what are cerebral aneurysms?
intracranial arteries to the brain develop outpouching or enlargement as saccular or fusiform aneurysms. they are the arteries to the brain-cerebrum. if they leak or rupture the cause subarachnoid bleeding headache stroke etc.
when i go running in the morning i get shortness of breath then headache. what is the problem?
it is of course normal to get short of breath when you run. if you feel that your breathing is abnormal you should be evaluated (there are many possibilities and many tests). the headache is likely unrelated and has its own list possible causes. you should see your family doctor to get the ball rolling.
what could be causing sharp stinging pains in my heart & pain on left side of head? blood tests are ok & i also have a heart murmur.
it's probably not your heart -- but stress that causes chest wall strain and tension in the neck that causes your headaches -- you need to relax and do some exercise -- but if persisted go see your doctor -- and it has nothing to do with your heart murmur.
what causes headaches stomachaches and mild chest pains at the same time?
if you are having angina (chest pain) this could cause stress since it is a serious heart problem that needs to be diagnosed and treated by a doctor. worrying about chest pain causes upset stomach and headaches see a doctor and get the workup to find out if anything is going on with your heart. information and treatment will calm your headaches and stomache.
what are the side effects of taking tricor (fenofibrate)?
the most common reactions are constipation headaches alt ast elevations abominal pain back pain muscle pain nusea. they are more serious complications such as hepatitis pancreatitis myositis myopathy cholelithiasis rhabdomyolysis and stevens-johnson sydrome.
what could cause a headache with a pounding heart?
migraine headaches are often described as pounding or throbbing. occasionally blockage of large blood vessels in the neck can transmit a buzzing or pounding sensation. treatments are available for most causes.
what are the major differences between a migraine and a tia?
migraine is a type of headache whereas tia is a mini stroke the symptoms and signs are entirely different. but in migraine you may have what is called hemiplegic migraine where symptoms may resemble a stroke.
why do i feel dizzy everytime i stand up followed by a headache and shortness of breath? could this combo be related to a bad anxiety disorder?
this confluence of symptoms sounds cardiac in nature. you should see a cardiologist to determine if your blood pressure drops when standing. it's called orthostatic hypotension.
what's the difference between aspirin and paracetamol? which is better for headaches or fever?
they both have their advantages/ disadvantages. either would likely work for headache / fever. which would be better depends on the patient. the major difference is that aspirin has an anti inflammatory effect. paracetamol does not. paracetamol is easier on the stomach. there are products that combine the two (excedrin back and body & goodys back and body)
what's the difference between aspirin and paracetamol? which is better for headaches or fever?
aspirin belongs to the family of non-steroidal antiinflammatory medications that are know to be fever reducers pain relievers and inflammation killers. paracetamol is a stand alone medication in its class and works as a fever reducer and a pain killer. their mechanism of action is different. both can work on headache and fever and can be used alternatively. aspirin is known to irritate gi tract.
what causes throbbing pain in the temples when you bend over?
when you bend over with your head lower the pressure in your head increases. usually a mild sensation but if painful could mean your blood pressure is high. please get in checked. can also be headache prone and minor changes in circulation can trigger headaches.
what might cause head throat and rib pain?
may be a viral illness. this often causes sore throat headache and myalgias (body aches). an upper respiratory infection with a cough can also lead to sore ribs. if this gets worse or does not get better see your doctor to ensure it is nothing worse. if the rib pain prevents you from breathing normally get it checked to ensure it's not cracked rib.
what is the between an tension headache and an aneurysm?
you are having very distressing symptoms. many possibilities. time to call your doctor to determine the cause and give you proper treatment.
what are the side effects of niaspan (niacin)?
all medicines may cause side effects but many people have no or minor side effects. diarrhea; dizziness; headache; heartburn; increased cough indigestion or upset stomach; nausea; temporary skin redness itching tingling or feelings of warmth (flushing); vomiting.
what symptoms would i see if i have a cerebral aneurysm?
usually headache or compressive symptoms if it is intact or stroke if it is ruptured.
what symptoms would i see if i have a cerebral aneurysm?
many people have aneurysms few ever give symptoms. symptoms are severe headache followed by neurological signs in case of rupture cranial nerve damage can be caused by pressure from an expanding aneurysm. if in doubt see your neurosurgeon.
what symptoms would i see if i have a cerebral aneurysm?
you can have a headache cranial nerve deficits a hemorrhagic stroke if ruptured. a majority of patients are asymptomatic.
what are the effects of not consistently taking propanolol?
if taken for high blood pressure headaches and fluctuations in blood pressure occur. if taken for anxiety changes in pulse rate and some apprehension may occur. this is more likely if medication was taken on regular basis.
what might cause the following symptoms: headaches high blood pressure flank pain and excessive thirst.?
blood pressure can be a side effect of kidney disease and frequent urination as a cause of thirst might suggest adrenal gland problems as well. a medical specialist might be needed to test for these causes.
what could numb hands shortness of breath and headache be?
viruses blood clots hyperventilation etc could cause similar problems. less severe but very common causes could also include neck thoracic spine or rib dysfunctions. a med exam is in order asap to rule out anything serious. in addition a good osteopathic doc could not only do the full exam but could add hands-on testing to determine whether there is a simple & treatable musculoskeletal cause.
whats adalat (nifedipine) cc?
this is a calcium channel blocker that has a variety of uses including to treat / prevent headache and control high blood pressure by relaxing vessels.
what symptoms of high blood pressure require immediate medical attention?
usually this is asymptomatic but if you have headaches epistaxis (nosebleed) blurred vision and a history of hypertension you should see your doctor urgently as these indicate severe hypertension. if there is no history of high blood pressure and you have these symptoms consistently particularly if you have all of them see your doctor immediately.
what symptoms of high blood pressure require immediate medical attention?
the most concerning symptoms would include headache chest pain dizziness and shortness of breath. additionaly the presence of any neurologic symptoms such as numbness difficulty talking weakness of an arm or leg.
what are the withdrawal symptoms of topamax (topiramate)?
topomax is helpful to get rid of daily headache seizures work as a mood stabilizer reduce craving to food opiates alcohol depending on the reason for using it --after several month withdrawal can cause weight gain seizures headache.
what are side effects of irbesartan for high blood pressure?
common adverse drug reactions (adrs) include: dizziness headache and/or hyperkalemia. infrequent adrs associated with therapy include: first dose orthostatic hypotension rash diarrhea dyspepsia abnormal liver function muscle cramp myalgia back pain insomnia decreased hemoglobin levels renal impairment pharyngitis and/or nasal congestion.
what are the side effects of lopid (gemfibrozil)?
potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation.
what are the side effects of nitroglycerin for someone?
headache and potentially low blood pressure which would cause dizziness lightheadedness and if low enough can cause one to pass out.
what is the side effect of pravastatin sodium?
the majority of people on pravatatin don't even know they're taking it. occasionally there is generalized muscle aching which improves on a smaller dose. nausea headache rash fatigue dizziness and stomach pain are listed as side effects but i rarely see them. if you think it's causing a side effect the protocol is to stop it till the symptom resolves and then restart it to see if it returns.
what are symptoms of high blood pressure?
for many years hypertension is unknown as a silent killer. because it typically does not have easily recognizable symptoms until late. such as severe headaches strokes heart attacks etc. chronic hypertension is known to cause atherosclerosis increases risk of heart attacks/strokes etc. thus recommended to be treated adequately. so don't wait for symptoms. consult your doc early. good luck.
what are side effects of heavy caffeine use?
eventually u can drink coffee & go to sleep--if u withdraw from caffeine u are tired & get a headache if u stay off of caffeine for a period of time u unplug your receptors and coffee/caffeine will again stimulate u.
what is wrong with me? okay so i have been really sick feeling lately. earlier this year i was fainting and getting dizzy. and now this week i have been feeling really week and stuff and today i went to the nurse bc i was light headed and she said i was
hello. i can't diagnose your symptoms but problems with headaches feeling dizzy fainting can be due to low blood pressure. problems with fainting headache feeling weak dizziness being tired can be tied to dehydration. problems with dizziness feeling weak being tied can be due to anemia. it wouldn't be appropriate to try to provide you with a diagnosis in this format but i would recommend that you be medically evaluated to determine the source of symptoms. would recommend a complete blood count as well as tilt blood pressure and pulse. that is all i can offer you. take care.
what are the tip-offs that you might have carotid cavernous fistula?
ccf classically produces "pulsatile exophthalmos" which mean the eye bulges out and exhibits a pulsatile pattern. the affected eye is usually reddened and there may be visual difficulties as well as headache.
what symptoms typically go along with chronic high blood pressure?
chronic high blood pressure known as hypertension is usually a disease without symptoms. that is why is is called " the silent killer". some individuals may experience early morning headaches which may awaken them from sleep. some may experience ringing in the ears also known as tinnitus. additional symptoms may include fatigue or irritability. chest pain or shortness of breath may occur.
what are the sign for high blood pressure?
the most common symptoms of high blood pressure are no symptoms. the only way to check out your blood pressure is to have it measured. by the time people have symptoms like headache chest pain or shortness of breath they have probably had elevated blood pressure for quite a while.
what are the sign for high blood pressure?
most people do not experience any signs or symptoms of high blood pressure or hypertension which is why many have considered hypertension the silent killer. some people will experience headaches vision changes ringing in the ears and other vague symptoms when their blood pressure is elevated. optimal bp is less than 120/80 with hypertension starting at 140/90 (either value).
what is it? i experienced pain in my head like i was being shocked felt like i was going to pass out and as this happened i repeatedly had cold sweats then had shortness of breath
there is no way to answer this here. it could be just a simple headache a meningeal infection or an aneurysm with lots more options in between. your own doctor.
what is it? i experienced pain in my head like i was being shocked felt like i was going to pass out and as this happened i repeatedly had cold sweats then had shortness of breath
there is no easy answer here. you may be been dealing with a migraine headache tension headache or something called a cluster headache. your primary care provider will be able to take a detailed history and perform an examination in order to make a diagnosis. depending on the outcome additional studies may be needed (i. e. cat scan brain) or even a referral to a neurologist. regardless it's in your best interest to see your doctor promptly. good luck.
what does nitroglycerin do in the body?
it dilates blood vessels temporarily. if it dilates coronary ateries it can stop an episode of chest pain. jf it dilates arteries in the brain it can cause a headache. it can teporarily lower blood pressure.
what are the side effects of having high blood pressure?
hypertension (htn) is a silent killer. patients usually have no symptoms. sometimes patients experience headaches blurred vision or chest discomfort. it is not unusual for htn to be detected on a routine exam. treatment is effective and lowers the risk of heart attack stroke and death.
why do i need to lie down for 24 hours after hydrocephalus shunt surgery?
shunt surgery is performed to divert spinal fluid from the brain compartment to the abdominal or lung cavity to increase the body's ability to absorb excess spinal fluid. staying flat for 24 hours will minimize excessive drainage immediately after surgery and hopefully will prevent severe post-op headaches.
when should somebody be screened for stroke?
strokes can appear in all different kinds of ways. some of the more common ones are severe headaches (aneurysm) change in vision change in speech weakness in any extremities difficulty in forming words or sentences or anything else that is out of the normal. if something just seems "wrong" to you you should seek immediate medical attention. better safe than sorry.
why are headaches associated with hypotension?
low bp can cause headaches is due to changes in the bp of your head occur dramatically. if you bend over and suddenely move upright you may feel pain in your head. once you get trggered with that you get like any other headache headaches are more common when bp is very high.
why are headaches associated with hypotension?
there is a rare cause of headaches related to low pressure in the spinal fluid. it can occur spontaneously or follow a spinal tap. the headache is better lying down and the bp idsnormal. the hypotension is just in the spianl fluid. it is possible that if the bp is low on standing (orthostatic hypotension) the body produces more adrenaline which could cause a headache. (also worse on standing. ).
will a normal ct scan show unruptured aneurysms i had bad headaches yesterday and went to the er and had a cat scan done. i want to know if ct scan can detect unruptured aneurysms without dye.
an er visit and a normal non-contrast ct scan of your head for bad headache is reassuring. however reassuring this is not the complete evaluation especially if your headaches persist. the radiology team will recommend additional imaging mri or contrast ct scan to look for aneurysms. this recommendation should be discussed with primary 1st meds or neurology consult may come before imaging.
will a normal ct scan show unruptured aneurysms i had bad headaches yesterday and went to the er and had a cat scan done. i want to know if ct scan can detect unruptured aneurysms without dye.
ct will define aneurysms in most of the body studied. intracranial may be small and dye can be helpful to demonstrate.
what is a stroke? what are the causes of strokes and what are the signs?
most strokes are caused either by blockage or rupture of a blood vessel in the brain. about three quarters of strokes occur when a blood clot closes a blood vessel in the brain; most of the remainder is due to a blood vessel bursting and bleeding into the brain. major risk factors for stroke include atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) atrial fibrillation (a heart rhythm disorder) hypertension high cholesterol diabetes and smoking. family history of stroke also increases risk. signs of stroke vary. common signs are sudden paralysis in one part of the body such as an arm or leg drooping of one side of the face slurred speech or difficulty speaking. headache and vertigo can be signs of stroke but are much less common. sudden onset of "the worst headache of my life" is very worrisome for a ruptured blood vessel in the brain. if stroke symptoms occur it's critical to take action quickly. stroke symptoms should be treated as a "brain attack" just as urgently as chest pain would be. call 911 or go to the closest emergency room without delay.
what causes sudden collapse followed by temporary paralysis? i experienced severe back and chest pain along with a headache followed by a sudden collapse resulting in temporary paralysis. what happened to me and what should i do?
you need to see a doctor right away. i am not sure what it was but there are some very serious things that can do this. i would be worried about problems within your blood vessels like clots or adissection. if this has happened just recently and you cannot see a doctor very soon you should go to an emergency room. if it happened more than a month ago you probably don't have to go to the er but should still see a doctor soon.
what causes sudden collapse followed by temporary paralysis? i experienced severe back and chest pain along with a headache followed by a sudden collapse resulting in temporary paralysis. what happened to me and what should i do?
need to be evaluated so you get treatment or the next time may not get up to tell about it.
what symptoms appear when your blood pressure spikes from preeclampsia?
the most common signs of blood pressure elevation is headache that does not resolve with tylenol (acetaminophen) vision disturbances excessive swelling and general not feeling well.
what are the symptoms of shunt malfunction for patients with hydrocephaly?
shunts that become obstructed lead to a buildup of csf pressure within the brain resulting in neurological symptoms (somnolence imbalance seizures headache etc).
what are the warning signs of stroke?
sudden heavy feeling or paralysis or weakness of one side of the body drooping of the same side of the face. slurred speech confusion vision changes and headache. these symptoms have a sudden onset and would all happen on the same side of the body. if you or someone you know is experiencing these signs call for help immediately and take note of the time of symptom onset.
what is pheochromocytoma?
the classic triad presentation is headache sweating and fast heart rate. hypertension is the most common presentation. not uncommonly the high blood pressure and high heart rate come in waves. may not be sustained sometimes referred to as paroxsymal. hope this helps.
what is called pituitary apoplexy?
when there is a tumor usually adenoma growing within the pituitary gland at the base of the brain hemorrhage or infarct of the tumor can result in catastrophic headache visual loss confusion disorientation coma and likely death. this event is often terminal.
what is called pituitary apoplexy?
pituitary apoplexy is a sudden hemorrhage (or bleed) into the pituitary gland. this gland sits in your brain behind your eyes where the optic nerve runs. symptoms include a severe headache and vision difficulties.
what is considered high blood pressure for a 20-year-old?
the blood pressure is considered high when it is persistently above 140/90; however if someone always has a blood pressure that is at 90/60 (without medication) for example and feels fine but start having symptoms (headache light headed etc. . ) when the bp goes above the usual 90/60 it can be considered high blood pressure for this particular person even when the bp does not go above 140/90.
why does a doctor give nitroglycerin for a patient with high blood pressure?
nitroglycerin is only used in emergency situations it works by causing dilation of blood vessels which will then help to lower blood pressure. this also may cause a patient to get a headache as nitroglycerin causes widespread dilation of blood vessels including blood vessels in the brain.
what do you feel when you have high blood pressure?
the most common symptom of high blood pressure is nothing! patients tend to feel fine. by the time you develop headaches chest pain or shortness of breath you have probably had uncontrolled high blood pressure for a long time. the only way to know how your blood pressure is doing is to have it measured by a trained professional.
what do you feel when you have high blood pressure?
high blood pressure is called the silent killer because the vast majority of people feel nothing. if you are lucky enough you will feel headaches possible nosebleeds.
what are some of the symptoms of coarctation of the aorta?
coarctation symptoms depend on the severity. many people have no symptoms. but symptoms may include leg/abdominal pain abdominal cramps headache (from hypertension) and possibly chest pain if severe. if concerned please discuss this with your cardiologist.
what are the common side effects of nitroglycerin for someone with no known heart condition?
this is a pretty foolish thing to engage in if there's no clear medical need. you can expect severe headache hypotension loss of consciousness dizziness and racing heart. if you have an undiagnosed condition affecting certain organs death could result.
what are the common side effects of nitroglycerin for someone with no known heart condition?
potential side effects in people with or without heart disease are headache dizziness and a drop in blood pressure. the effect of the drug is only for thirty minutes.
what are the side effects to eecp?
possible complications listed by some eecp centers include: headache dizziness muscle aches skin irritation from the cuffs irregular heart rates and sometimes increased symptoms of heart failure.
what symptoms will help a doctor diagnose brain aneurysm?
very abrupt onset within a few seconds of a very very severe headache (so called "thunderclap headache") is the most suggestive sign since this is how bleeding into the subarachnoid space (in effect bleeding from annaneurysm) within the cranium announces itself.
what symptoms will help a doctor diagnose brain aneurysm?
an ususual severe headache unlike anything you've experienced before would suggest a rupture and a ct scan is the way to diagnose this. otherwise if the aneurysm enlarges sufficiently it may compress other brain structures and cause a variety of symptoms. a cta or mra would be the test to further evaluate those symptoms.
why should someone be screened for brain aneurysm?
if one has a thunderclap headache (sudden abrupt onset within seconds of a very very severe "worst headache of my life") it is standard to screen for an intravranial aneurysm that may have bled especially if there are unusual findings on the neurologic exam. a strong family history of intracranial aneurysms might also trigger a workup as would progressive neuorogic complaints and exam anomaly.
why do cluster headache sufferers get short of breath?
i haven't seen shortness of breath as a common complaint among my cluster patients. it should be evaluated as a separate symptom.
why do cluster headache sufferers get short of breath?
cluster headaches doesn't usually cause shortness of breath. you may want to consult your pcp or a pulmonologist so you aren't missing something.
why do cluster headache sufferers get short of breath?
the person with the cluster headache may be breathing faster due to the severe pain but should not be short of breath.
what is the medical term for arthritis that causes pain in the head similar to hypertension symptoms?
"arthritis" in the head could refer to several things that can cause headaches. tempo-mandibular syndrome is inflammation in the hinge joint between upper and lower jaw often causing various types of headaches. neck or cervical spine arthritis can cause headaches. rarely the temporal arteries in front of & above the ear get inflamed causing temporal arthritis which lead to headaches.
why would you treat children with coarctation of the aorta?
the how is already answered by dr. rubin. if your question is why treat coarctation it is to improve blood flow to the organs of the lower part of the body prevent severe high blood pressure in upper part of body causing headache dizziness nosebleeds shortness of breath and to prevent eventual development of enlarged heart and heart failure.
what is the significance of elevated hypertension?
simply put hypertension-which means elevated blood pressure- can cause symptoms in and of itself in some patients. ( headache blurry vision bloody nose etc. ) more concerning it increases the risk for a vascular event( like stroke or heart attack). in extreme cases what physicians refer to as hypertensive emergency acute end organ damage can occur such as kidney failure or aneurysm.
what are symptoms of hypertension?
usually none; that's why it's a silent killer. if it is very severe it sometimes causes a headache vision and neurological changes.
what are symptoms of hypertension?
usually there are no symptoms. every person's body reacts to elevated blood pressure differently. you can feel generalized weakness and fatigue dizziness or vague fuzzy-headedness headache blurry vision and flushing. people commonly feel vague chest pressure or discomfort as well which most often does not indicate any heart damage or dysfunction.
what are symptoms of hypertension?
"silent killer" is a very fitting description and this is why it is so important to treat high blood pressure even in the absence of symptoms. severely high blood pressure (example 180/120) combined with headache chest pain or vision change is a medical emergency and deserves a call to 911 to avoid permanent damage or even death.
what are common symptoms of high blood pressure?
dull headaches blurred vision shortness of breath headaches dizziness fatigue or a few more nosebleeds than normal. unfortunately there are not often symptoms and that is why some refer to it as the "silent killer. ".
what are common symptoms of high blood pressure?
the most common symptom of high blood pressure is no symptoms. by the time someone has symptoms such as headache chest pain or shortness of breath hypertension has been present for a long time. the only way to know how you're doing with your blood pressure is to get it accurately measured. you cannot tell how you're doing by how you feel. because of this get your pressure checked regularly!
what are some of the symptoms of high blood pressure?
usually elevated blood pressure does not have any symptoms. in severe cases it can cause headache chest pain or dizziness.
what are some of the symptoms of high blood pressure?
as far as symptoms go - if your lucky - its a headache - lucky b/c you might go to a doc and check your pressure - otherwise the "silent killer" is usually true to form and has no real symptoms -.
what can sweaty palms salt cravings headaches tiredness chest pains flu-like symptoms indicate?
lot depends on hx of these symptoms (history leads to over 95% of the diagnoses most of the time testing adds little or confirms the dx of an experienced clinician taking time to listen. within these parentheses lies the answer to a failed health system at double the cost). here the answer is in the hx. is it acute recurrent chronic etc. diangosis is in doc's brain add compassion give all a good 'gp'.
what can sweaty palms salt cravings headaches tiredness chest pains flu-like symptoms indicate?
you are most likely having a panic or anxiety attack. alternatively you could be having flu too. try to relax take a few deep breaths. if you are not able to call your pcp for guidance.
what indicates toxemia? bp high number low number or is it just a change from previous?
toxemia also known as preeclampsia is measured with elevation in blood pressure and protein in your urine. to qualify you will need elevation in bp > 140/90 with a certain amount of protein in your urine. furthermore you may have additional symptoms associated with your elevated bp such as persistant headache abnormal lung/liver function or platelet number that may qualify you for severe state.
what r the signs of fibermyalga swollen feet muscle cramps stumbling slow moving headache jaws hurt skins is feeling like its a hotdog about to burst
you are definitely ill. i recommend evaluation for endocrine and autoimmune diseases. there may be a pituitary problem.
what r the signs of fibermyalga swollen feet muscle cramps stumbling slow moving headache jaws hurt skins is feeling like its a hotdog about to burst
signs of fibromyalgia are: muscle pain muscle spasms or tightness weakness in the arms and legs leg cramps fatigue difficulty sleeping stiffness once you wake up waking stiffness after staying in one position for too long problems remembering and concentrating abdominal pain bloating nausea constipation diarrhea headaches jaw and face pain anxiety depression numbness or tingling in the face arms hands legs or feet urinary changes a feeling of swelling in the hands and feet painful menstrual periods dizziness sensitivity to odors noise bright lights medications certain foods and cold (may not be to all things listed) as you see this is a pretty extensive list and a difficult diagnosis to make at times. please see a medical professional for an evaluation. good luck.
when you have a headache you can sometimes feel "boom-boom" like feeling a heart beeping what's happening?
these throbbing headaches are usually caused by the pulse wave from your heartbeat passing through the vessels of your brain. this may be a migraine headache causing this. call your doctor for an examination to determine what kind of headaches you are having and get proper treatment for them.
what could cause you to have body aches/headaches fever bright red to rusty color sputum sleepy not wanting to eat or drink? i am a 33 year old female with 3 children. my mother passed last year from a massive stroke. the majority of my family are diab
need to consult an internist since there are too many potential causes which can be serious. don't wait.
what could cause you to have body aches/headaches fever bright red to rusty color sputum sleepy not wanting to eat or drink? i am a 33 year old female with 3 children. my mother passed last year from a massive stroke. the majority of my family are diab
the most worrisome symptom here is bright red to rusty colored sputum. things such as tuberculosis influenza (flu) brochitis and pneumonia are all possibilities. you should be evaluted by your doctor right away. if not an urgent care or emergency room visit is in order. lastly all the family history you mentioned is important information to pass onto your doctor so appropriate screening tests can be done. good luck.
why are msg's bad?
msg is an excitotoxin which can stimulate cells to the point of damage or death. there are potential cardiovascular risks in susceptible folks with prior heart disease and can affect glutamate receptors. i have seen ingestion trigger migraine headaches. i do not think it is safe and the "taste stimulation" is certainly not worth it. would avoid it at all times. check food labeling.
what can cause severe dizziness almost vertigo headaches and fatigue?
many different things can potentially cause this constellation of symptoms that you describe including: high blood pressure anemia very high blood sugar abnormal thyroid function abnormal electrolytes and less often neurological illness. given how nonspecific these symptoms are it's important you have a thorough exam and evaluation by a physician.
why do i get a bunch of headaches and a bunch of dizzy spells?
could be related to severe hypertension i would recommend seeing a doctor as soon as possible if have symptoms again call 911.
what would cause low platelets fatigue headaches bruising trigermonial naralgia swelling and pain in ribs back and hips. ?
consider a crp or esr - this to measure general inflammation. because of the headache one might pursue temporal artery biopsy. the occlusion of the arteries can cause headaches jaw pain and even compromise vision. the bruising is due to the low platelets that can accompany vasulitis or temporal arteritis.
what would cause low platelets fatigue headaches bruising trigermonial naralgia swelling and pain in ribs back and hips. ?
cam cause all but the trigeminal neuralgia.
what can cause you to have fluttering in your belly nasuea and pain in your breasts and headaches?
from the number of issues that you have stress could be the cause. are you encountering any unusual events in your life? you will get to the bottom of this by visiting your doctor and letting them explore the causes with you.
why would i have such a dramatic spontaneous fluctuation in my blood pressure? what could be my problem? i' am a 28 year old male in fairly fit condition but for the last three years i have had episodes of dramatic fluctuations in my blood pressure. my no
the most important cause to rule out in situations like this is the presence of a tumor of the adrenal gland called a pheochromocytoma. even with these symptoms such a tumor is rarely found. the diagnosis can usually be made by analysis of a 24 hour urine collection or by blood tests. other possible causes of these types of symptoms include: panic attacks labile hypertension anxiety hyperthyroidism migraine headaches central nervous system lesions seizures carcinoid syndrome drugs (including cocaine lsd amphetamines and others) and tyrosine ingestion combined with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (which are a type of antidepressant drug). in many patients with episodic hypertension in whom a pheochromocytoma is not found the cause remains unknown and treatment is difficult. the symptoms most likely involve activation of the sympathetic system but the cause of sympathetic activation is unclear. it may stem from emotional factors that are repressed from conscious awareness. this condition is sometimes called pseudopheochromocytoma and most often includes rapid elevation of blood pressure; sudden onset of physical symptoms such as headache chest pain dizziness nausea palpitations flushing and/or sweating; and a lack of emotional causes such as fear or panic although fear can occur as a result of the worrisome physical symptoms. episodes can last from ten minutes to several hours; they can occur several times per day or only once every few months. between episodes the blood pressure may be normal or mildly elevated.
what are the symthoms for high blood pressure? it runs in my family.
for the majority of patients high blood pressure is silent. sometimes when pressures are high enough patients will feel tired or have a headache. make sure your physician is aware of your family history.
what are the signs of high blood pressure?
most hypertensives have no symptoms. once they start treatment begin to feel the side effects of the medicines and hate it. when pt feels headache lightheadness dizziness nausea or vomiting earlobe flush erythema facial flush blurred vision pt must check the blood pressure. signs of stroke:language change weakness of limbs asymmetry of face changes in sensation or chest pain: complicatio.
what are the signs of high blood pressure?
frequently none unless really high in which headaches can result. there's a reason they call it "the silent killer".
what can be the cause of a headache in the same location behind my eye almost everyday? i can feel my heartbeat in my head.
a daily headache is a litle different than things like migraines (although they can be frequent and do throb). a condition called chronic daily headache exists that is tough to manage. headaches can have many causes including drugs caffeine otc med use inflammation migraines tension and so on. to diagnose it needs more symptoms and some exam. problems in the eye can also cause headaches.
what can be the cause of a headache in the same location behind my eye almost everyday? i can feel my heartbeat in my head.
this sounds much like a migraine headache. no persistent headache should be taken lightly. see your family md this week and have a thorough evaluation. continuing headaches need evaluation.
what can be the cause of a headache in the same location behind my eye almost everyday? i can feel my heartbeat in my head.
the described symptoms are not often indicative of a significant brain problem. however abnormal clusters of blood vessels in the brain or its coverings can cause the above symptoms and often require treatment. the medical term for these conditions is avm (arteriovenous malformation) or dural malformation.
what changes will occur if i start drinking lots of water and quit drinking caffeine?
you may have some mild withdrawal headaches far afew days. you may also see a mild diuretic effect from increasing you water intake.
what are the most common symptoms of gestational hypertension?
rarely mild headaches and pop up noises in your ear. mostly you dont feel a thing thats why is really important to keep your appt with your ob/gyn and have your blood pressure checked every appointment.
what would cause a severe headache located behind the left ear at the base of the skull. pain meds haven't helped. now what? medical history: heart surgery diabetic high blood pressure
headaches and their causes can be complicated difficult diagnoses to make. with your past history of diabetes and high blood pressure you should make an appointment with your doctor for a complete evaluation as soon as possible. you doctor will take a thorough history and do a neurological evaluation to try and find out what is causing your symptoms. you may want to think about the answers to some of the questions they may ask you such as: - when did it start? - how often do they happen? - are they getting more frequent or more painful? - how long do they last? - what does the headache feel like and can you point to it? - does it occur around the same time at night or does it ever happen during the day? - what other symptoms do you have and when do they occur in regards to the headache? - have you had any big life changes? - how is your lifestyle? are you getting enough sleep eating well exercising? - are you taking any medications? do you drink caffeine and how much? answering these questions may help your doctor figure out what is causing your headaches whether it is a serious problem or not and how to help you. good luck!
what are the most common symptoms of coarctation of the aorta?
coarctation is a constriction somewhere along the path of the aorta. the symptoms largely depend on where the constriction is. you can have high pressure above and normal to low pressure below. these both cause symptoms like headache (from the high blood pressure) and exercise intolerance and pain in the legs along with cold feet (from the low pressure).
what's the best treatment to get rid of pheochromocytoma?
a pheochromocytoma is a tumor that secretes excessive adrenal hormones causing life-threatening spikes in blood pressure. symptoms include sweating palpitations headaches nausea and rapid increases in blood pressure. the definitive treatment is to remove the tumor typically along with the adrenal gland in which it is growing.
what are the symptoms of brain aneurysm i should be looking for?
symptoms of a brain aneurysm include severe headache neck stiffness confusion altered vision and light sensitivity. if you have any of these symptoms you should see a physician immediately.
what are the symptoms of brain aneurysm i should be looking for?
most nonruptured aneurysms cause little or no symptoms depending on their location. ruptured aneurysms cause brain hemorrhage and may cause symptoms ranging from moderate headache to severe headaches loss of consiousness and coma.
what are high blood pressure symptoms?
high blood pressure or hypertension is without symptoms in the majority of patients. one may have dull headaches shortness of breath dizzy spells or more occasional nose bleeds. the major casualty of hypertension results from the longstanding effects of hypertension on the heart blood vessels and kidneys this more likely when blood pressure is very uncontrolled (>180/120 vs 135/85).
what are the core symptoms of pericarditis?
the usual symptoms of pericarditis include sharp chest pain fatigue shortness of breath and possibly exercise intolerance. if the process is acute or sudden onset (often from an infectious etiology) you may also have signs of infection such as fever headache muscle aches/pains etc.
what do symptoms like swollen lymph nodes and headaches for 2 days mean?
these symptoms are not unique to any one disease process and could be caused by bacterial or viral infections along with other non-infectious causes less likely. if things become severe see your family doctor. get better.
what would be a reason to get a cerebral angiogram? i had high blood pressure could this be why? what are other reasons.
a cerebral (brain) angiogram is a specific test examing the arteries of the brain. an angiogram is done when there is suspicion of a 'brain aneurysm' --have you had new onset of severe headaches? another reason for cerebral angiogram is to look for 'stenosis' (narrowing) of the arteries which can cause tia's (mini-strokes) --have you had reversible weakness numbness or speech difficulty. -not bp.
when isit up my heart beats faster and my head hurts until i sit down again i was born with alcohal infant syndrome?
manifestation is not related to kids born of alcoholic mother. it could be postural or related to your nervous sys. tension can bring about rapid heart rate and headache.
what should i do. my son had a blackout in the bathroom this morning i really cannot say how long he was out for. he have a knot above his left eye and now his blood preasure have been high all day. he have no headache but his bp is 153/103/55 and he is n
hello. i would get him medical attention. he had a blackout for unknown reasons elevated blood pressure and a knot that suggests he had a head injury.
what should i do. my son had a blackout in the bathroom this morning i really cannot say how long he was out for. he have a knot above his left eye and now his blood preasure have been high all day. he have no headache but his bp is 153/103/55 and he is n
you son needs immediate medical attention. i'm assuming his blood pressure is not usually high so with evidence of a fall with a head injury one has to worry about a hemorrhage inside the membranes that cover the brain leading by way of a reflex mechanism to increased blood pressure (and slowing of the heart rate). this would represent a neurosurgical emergency if this is the cause. contrariwise he may have more chronic hypertension than you know. his blackout may have been due to a ruptured cerebral aneurysm or a hemorrhage from hypertension in the brain. in either case he needs to rapidly see physicians and to get a head ct scan.
what is a cerebral thrombosis caused by hypertension?
thrombosis in the brain circulation can occur in the arteries as well as veins. hypertension usually causes bleeding within the brain with resultant stroke. cerebral thrombosis on the arterial side can be seen with arteriosclerosis where narrowing of the vessel ends up with sluggish flow then clotting. thrombosis of veins draining the brain presents with headaches seizures weakness.
what are symptoms of stroke from bleeing?
the symptoms are different depending on where the bleed is occurring and the size of the hemorrhage. symptoms can range from only a headache to weakness paralysis numbness loss of speech coma or death.
what are symptoms of stroke from bleeing?
strokes due to bleeding in the brain more often have headaches at onset than strokes due to loss of blood supply to part of the brain. bleeding strokes more often cause loss of consciousness and more often cause vomiting with headache. otherwise bleeding strokes like loss of blood supply strokes can cause paralysis vision loss speech loss and many other symptoms of brain damage.
what would the typical vitals be of someone who is having a hypertensive emergency?
in keeping with theme of treating patients not just numbers we don't have a typical cutoff at which we make a diagnosis of hypertensive emergency. rather we look for associated (potential) evidence of end-organ damage. someone who walks into an office for regular check up w/o complaint might be managed as outpt whereas someone complaining of headache etc might have more aggressive treatment.
what are the long term negative effects of caffeine consumption?
long term excess caffeine use can increase blood pressure cause headaches lack of restful sleep palpitations tremors anxiety nervousness abdominal pain/cramps diarrhea. i tell patients 1 cup of coffee in morning and 1 caffeinated beverage early afternoon is unlikely to cause problems.
what is a pheochromocytoma like?
pheochromocytoma is a tumor of the adrenal gland. these tumors release chemicals called catecholamines which can cause high blood pressure headaches sweating and palpitations and rapid heart beat. the condition sometimes runs in families. the tumor can be diagnosed with urine measurements of the catecholamines. most tumors are benign and are cured by surgical removal.
what is a pheochromocytoma like?
pheos are very rare - about 1 in a million. they cause paroxysms of high blood pressure and rapid heart rate but sometimes cause sustained high blood pressure. other symptoms are palpitations nervousness and irritability headache sweating weight loss. if you think you have one you probably don't! blood and urine tests can confirm or exclude them.
what tests for stroke can we do at home before we call for help?
1 sudden numbness or weakness face arm legs. 2. sudden confusion trouble speaking or understanding 3. sudden trouble seeing blurred or double vision 4. sudden trouble walking dizziness or loss of balance 5. sudden severe headache for no obvious reason.
what are the signs of an brain aneurysm i have been getting sick for the past 6 days also i have been getting real bad dizzy spells and bad head pain above the eyes what could this mean?
there are many causes for the symptoms you have but brain aneurysm is not at the top of the list. migraines can cause headache and "dizzyness" for example. only a physical exam including neurologic evaluation can better define the cause for your symptoms. you may need imaging of your brain depending on the details of your symptoms and the findings on exam.
what are the signs of an brain aneurysm i have been getting sick for the past 6 days also i have been getting real bad dizzy spells and bad head pain above the eyes what could this mean?
aneurysms are small balloon-like outpouchings from the walls of arteries and in most situations they have no symptoms. rare "giant" aneurysms may press on the brain or on a cranial nerve and cause focal symptoms like those of a brain tumor but this is very uncommon. the problem with aneurysms of blood vessels in the head is that they sometimes rupture. this causes sudden severe bleeding in the subarachnoid space the fluid-filled space in which the brain floats. patients who experience this usually complain of severe headache of sudden onset often described as "the worst headache of my life". they may rapidly become unconscious they may have nausea or vomiting but the universal symptom is severe headache. what you describe could be due to an aneurysm but is far more likely to be from another cause. headaches are not trivial you should see a neurologist and be evaluated.
will i feel sedated if i take prazosin hydrochloride?
first remember that everyone is unique and respond to medications slightly differently. some people may feel sedated with prazosin not everyone will. it also depends on what dose you are taking and how often. prazosin trials suggest that about 8 in 100 people feel a sedating effect. dizziness headache and weakness are just as common. always tell your doctor side effects you experience.
what are the side effects of both cilias and levitra (vardenafil)?
depends on dose. common are headache indigestion muscle aches.
what all can be the side effects of lasix (furosemide)?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium >
what are the symptoms of common cold?
common cold symptoms include: cough congestion watery eyes sneezing sore throat mild headache low grade fever & mild body aches.
what are the symptoms of chronic high blood pressure?
uncomplicated high blood pressure is often asymptomatic. there may be vague symptoms of headache and if the blood pressure becomes too high changes in mental status. most of the symptoms arise from the complications e. g. heart failure myocardial infarction renal failure stroke peripheral vascular disease etc.
what are some side effects from caduet?
caduet contains 2 drugs a statin atorvastatin and an antihypertensive amlodipine. one can potentially suffer side effects from on e or both. these may includeswelling in the legs headache fatigue dizziness flushing nausea diarrhea to name a few. muscle aches become more common with the higest dose of the medication.
what are the symptoms of common cold and is there an effective way to relieve them?
common cold symptoms include: cough congestion watery eyes sneezing sore throat mild headache low grade fever & mild body aches. cold tips: for sore throat – gargle with warm salt water (1/2 tsp salt in 8 oz of water). * for congestion – saline nose drops or a neti pot. *for anti-inflammatory effect & mobilizing mucus- homemade chicken noodle soup. **for hydration- lots of water. try clear>
was diagnoaed with major depression and put on effexor (venlafaxine) will this help with ocd dizziness chest pains coordination and headaches as well as eye flutt?
treating depression is probably a crucial step towards improvement in these and other areas. i hope the effexor (venlafaxine) will be helpful but it doesn't stop with the prescription. keep working with a good doctor until your treatment is well established and causing improvement -- then address the remaining symptoms. and of course continue treatment to maintain improvement and achieve further success.
was diagnoaed with major depression and put on effexor (venlafaxine) will this help with ocd dizziness chest pains coordination and headaches as well as eye flutt?
the effexor (venlafaxine) may help with mood and anxiety including ocd symptoms. it may or may not help with headaches sometimes it makes headaches worse and probably won't help eye flutters which are called blepherospasms. some of what you describe dizziness and chest pain sound more like symptoms of anxiety. effexor (venlafaxine) may help that as well. one common side effect of effexor (venlafaxine) can be high blood pressure.
what are the side effects of a drug called lopid (gemfibrozil)?
potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation.
what are side effects of ziac (bisoprolol and hydrocholorthiazide)?
generally well tolerated but the potential side effects are many and may include: fatigue headache dizziness low blood pressure slow heart rate impotence rash shortness of breath to name a few. if you think you are experiencing a side effect contact your doctor asap.
what are the best tolerated blood pressure medications without side effects? what about diltia xt (diltiazem)?
all blood pressure medications have some side effects. some of the perceived symptoms are drug specifics while many symptoms are related to blood pressure lowering (ie dizziness fatigue). in general diuretics ace inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are well tolerated. common symptoms of diltia xr are constipation; dizziness; facial flushing; headache; lightheadedness; tiredness.
what are side effects of isosorbide?
this is a long acting nitrate. usual symptoms are headaches. it can lower blood pressure and cause dizzyness too.
what are the symptoms associated with abnormal heart rhythms?
there are many different abnormal heart rhythm with varying symptoms from cest pain palpitation dizziness headache to syncope. there are basically two kind of abnormal heart rhythm tachyarrythmia(rapid heart beat)and bradyarrythmia(slow heart rate)different arrythmias have different symptoms.
what are the symptoms associated with fetal hydrops?
fetal hydrops usually causes few if any symptoms. decreased fetal movement is an advanced sign. maternal hypertension and headaches may herald the development of ballantyne syndrome (mirror syndrome) when the mother develops preeclampsia in response to fetal swelling. this is a dreaded complication that mandates pregnancy termination regardless of gestational age.
what can cause high blood pressure in a female who was perfectly fine before pregnancy?
preeclampsia is the most common cause of elevated blood pressure in the latter part of pregnancy. it is especially concerning if your blood pressure rise is associated with headache vision changes or nausea and vomiting. see your doctor for evaluation.
what are side affects of gemfibrozil?
gemfibrozil (lopid) potential side effects include: dyspepsia abdominal pain diarrhea nausea vomiting constipation headache vertigo fatigue rash & atrial fibrillation. side effects (
what are the signs of a vp shunt malfunction?
headaches dizziness vertigo difficulty with balance blurred vision difficulty looking up nausea and other symptoms as well.
will topamax (topiramate) and esgic plus work for tension headaches?
topamax (topiramate) is used to prevent headaches-esgic is used as a rescue drug when the headaches occur. if the esgic is used regularly it can trigger medication overuse headaches which become more difficult to treat than the original headache.
what is a stroke like?
sudden focal neurological change (weakness/balance problems/sensory or motor abnormalities). associated headache or mental status change may be present. sudden vision changes or speech abnormalities may be present. facial distortion (like unilateral facial droop) might be present.
what are the possible side effects of topiramate or topamax?
constipation; decreased sweating; diarrhea; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth; flu-like symptoms; headache; loss of appetite; nausea; nervousness; numbness or tingling of the skin; runny nose; sore throat; stomach pain or upset; taste changes; tiredness; trouble sleeping; weight loss.
what are the side effects of using clonidine hydrochloride?
tiredness / sedation dry mouth dizziness and headaches. it is used for high blood pressure most commonly.
would there be any side effects from sandostatin (octreotide)?
constipation diarrhea foul smelling stools gases heartburn headache dizziness nausea muscle pain nose bleed hair loss pain at site of injection rash shortness of breath depression.
what are causes of shortness of breath? i have had a nuclear stress test. an echo gram test? my heart center tests reveal all test are acceptable.
another possibility is sleep apnea and increasingly frequently recognized problem with breathing while you are asleep. talk to your doctor to see if you might be at risk. common symptoms include snoring shortness of breath feeling tired needing naps and waking with a headache.
what to take for headache if i am already on mobic meloxicam?
if you are on mobic(generic=meloxicam) or another nsaid(nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug) you should avoid other nsaids due to the potential adverse affects. however acetaminophen (brand-name= tylenol) can be safely taken up to 4grams total daily. due to acetaminophen being in multiple over-the-counter products be very careful not to exceed 4 grams of acetaminophen total.
what are some vitamins or foods to be taken to relieve my dizziness and headache and improve low bp?
vitamin c has recently been found to be effective in bo. but the headaches and dizziness must get evaluated immediately in this setting.
what do you feel like when you have high blood pressure?
high bp usually has no symptoms - it is often referred to as the silent killer. very high bp may be associated with neurologic symptoms angina or headache.
why i feel high blood pressure symptoms like headaches when my bp is just a little high?
mildly elevated bp is not typically associated with headaches. it is a "silent killer. " it may be that you have headaches and therefore a slight rise in bp.
what is an episode of pheochromocytoma like?
these are tumors of the adrenal gland which secrete hormones that basically raise blood pressure. can have episodic very high blood pressure fast heart rate skin flushing headaches. easy to test for with blood or urine tests.
what are the tests for coronary spasms?
prinzmetal or "variant" angina is chest pain caused by coronary artery spasm typically in a patient with some underlying vascular disease. cold environment stress and stimulant drugs (including cocaine) can trigger spasm. spasm in other vascular territories (such as raynaud's phenomenon) and migraine headache are sometimes associated with spasm in the coronary arteries.
when ever i drink wine about a couple of hours later my hands and feet get super hot and i can feel my heart beating. it makes my sleep aweful?
this is usually caused by the tannins in the wine that creates vasodilation- opening of the blood vessels. as the blood flow increases it can create the hot feet and sometimes headaches.
what ate the dangers of consuming some alcohol while on propranolol 40 mg?
combining too much alcohol with any medicine can be harmful. combining it with propranolol can affect the absorption of it and can affect heart rate or cause headaches.
what are some of the possible side-effects of a doubled lasix (furosemide) prescription?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium >
what is the difference between a head cold vs sinus infection?
head cold gives you congestion in nose and feeling of sore throat and low grade fever with and without headache and usually gets better without treatment in less than a week. sinus infection can be from viruses or bacteria and can cause persitant headache congestion in sinuses high fever and may need t be treated with antibiotics for 10 to 14 days in some caes where you suspect bacterial infection.
what are some of the disadvantages by using isosorbide dinitrate?
some people have issues with headaches or low blood pressure. both of these resolve if the medication is stopped.
why would a doctor give nitroglycerin for high blood pressure?
nitrates are vasodilators but are usually weak bp lowering agents ( not to mention the headaches) and would only be used in pts with angina or heart failure pts. they are also used in pts with coronary vasospasm pts. if pts have one of theses conditions and bp is not optimal the dr may increase your dosage in hopes of treating both conditions.
what pain meds can i use for things like headaches while taking daypro (oxaprozin)?
tylenol (acetaminophen) or tylenol with codeine; ultram (tramadol) are reasonable alternatives to consider in addition to. daypro. more exotic would be a prescription medication such as the anti-migraine triptans group or butalbital/acetaminophen/caffeine preparation or certain injectable pain relievers more common to emergency departments or hospitalized illnesses.
what are some symptoms of heat stroke?
throbbing headache dizziness and light-headedness lack of sweating despite the heat red hot and dry skin muscle weakness or cramps nausea and vomiting rapid heartbeat rapid shallow breathing confusion disorientation or staggering seizures loss of consciousness.
what is the use of propranolol?
for hypertension anxiety/panic angina arrhythmias myocardial infarction essential tremor prophylaxis of migraine or cluster headaches tension headache akathisias from antipsychotic medications aggresion in brain injuries glaucoma post-traumatic stress disorder.
what should i do for headaches caused by cerebral aneurysms?
cerebral aneurysm is risky and can rupture with highly life threatening consequences. get an evaluation from a neurosurgeon asap! if this is a non-operative or post-operative situation medications which can prevent headaches include topiramate depakote beta-blockers etc. otc remedies might include riboflavin butterbur but do not take excedrin or nsaid's or asa due to bleeding risk.
what are the symptoms of the flu and the common cold?
according to mayo clinic flu sxs may include “fever over 100f (38c) aching muscles especially in your back arms and legs chills & sweats headache dry cough fatigue and weakness nasal congestion. ” common cold symptoms include: cough congestion watery eyes sneezing sore throat mild headache low grade fever & mild body aches.
what are the symptoms of the flu and the common cold?
flu can include: fever cough sore throat runny or stuffy nose body aches headache chills extreme fatigue and sometimes vomiting and diarrhea. if progresses and worsens respiratory distress and worse. colds can have the same but usually not extreme fatigue muscle aches and chills.
what are the side effects of nitroglycerin for someone with no heart condition?
nitrates cause lowering of bp which can cause dizziness and a feeling as if one might faint. it can also cause headaches.
what is the use of propranolol (inderal)?
inderal (propranolol) is a so called beta blocher that has many uses it is used for hypertension tremor migraine headaches mild anxiety excessive sweating and to reduce the chances of a heart attack. and tachycardia it is contraindicated in respiratory conditions such as asthma and bronchitis.
what are the differences between the symptoms for heat stroke and heat exhaustion?
what is the difference between heat stroke and heat exhaustion they are on the same track. this often occurs when one starts out behind in their overall body fluid balance. but it could occur if anyone at any time with the right circumstances. generally one has spent time in the hot sun or in a very hot environment while not keeping up with their water intake. many times already starting out partially dehydrated. what happens next is a continuum of symptoms. it might start with fatigue headache weakness dizziness or even fainting. other symptoms could include nausea and vomiting infusion excessive thirst muscle cramping and aching a slow or weakening heartbeat. the patient may also become drenched in sweat. if the above patient is untreated and the symptoms are unrecognized the progression of the symptoms would go from what's described above (heat exhaustion) to what is known as a heat stroke. so to simply put it a heat stroke would generally be a continuation and worsening of the symptoms described above. by the time a person has a heat stroke they have often gone from profusely sweating to not sweating it all from a slow and weak heart rate to a very rapid heart rate from a normal temperature to a very elevated temperature such as 104 -106°f. the patient is generally going to be very confused as they can also be with heat exhaustion. the patient may also have what we refer to as delirium to go along with their confusion and many times though even have a seizure. this is clearly a medical emergency and no time should be wasted in getting that person to the emergency room.
why am i always tired even when i sleep well and have chest pains and headaches that extend into my neck?
go get this checked out as soon as possible. chest pains going up to the neck are really worrisome. you may be having serious problems with your heart or lungs. even at your young age you need to check it out.
why am i always tired even when i sleep well and have chest pains and headaches that extend into my neck?
chronic fatigue could be an important clue to serious problems like sleep apnea & heart disease. these should be checked asap. however nighttime pain also causes chronic fatigue as it doesn't allow restful sleep. chest pains headaches & neck pain can also all be related to dysfunctions in the ribs neck vertebrae or cranial bones. a problem in any one area can affect the others. see your osteopath.
what are the side effects associated with coversyl?
some are fatigue headaches mood & sleep changes cough nausea rash (rare).
work in hot warehouse. hard work. nasty headache there today. feels better now but if i bend over to pick something up my head really hurts. bad?
headaches are noever "normal". if it is just a passing thing don't worry abou it. if repeated see your doc.
what are the symptoms of pheochromocytomas?
symptoms of pheochromocytoma may be very hard to control high blood pressure may have intermittent spikes in high blood pressure fast heart rate sweating intermittent severe headaches. it is an abnormal growth of the adrenal gland and identified by blood tests for certain hormone level & can be seen on ct scan.
what otc meds can be taken while on the prescription nadolol for headaches?
nadolol is a beta blocker similar to inderal. the main side effect is on the rhythm of the heart and low blood pressure. usual pain medications are safe and appropriate including aspirin tylenol (acetaminophen) ibuprofen be careful about the caffeine content.
why do i get headaches about 5 to 10 minutes in to my exercise?
some pts who have migraine do find that aerobic exercise can either initiate or worsen headaches. however neck problems and even sinus infections can create head pain with exercise. if the headaches occur when your arms are elevated such as pull-ups or military weight lifting you could consider thoracic outlet syndrome. if this is migraine preventative measures will work.
why do i get headaches about 5 to 10 minutes in to my exercise?
your headaches could be coming from tension dehydration lack of sleep/poor sleep skipping meals stress teeth grinding sleep apnea/snoring or chronic sinus problems among other things. see a doctor to get checked out so you can get som ehelp for your headaches.
what can be the cause of my chest pain and headache?
headaches can come from fatigue sleeping too much or too little eye strain sleep apnea snoring being dehydrated having chronic sinusitis or allergies too much caffeine or over the counter headache medication high blood pressure or something more serious like a tumor. chest pain can come from skin/muscle/nerves/anxiety/heart/lungs/stomach. see your doctor and get checked.
what can be the cause of my chest pain and headache?
chest pain causes: heart attack musculoskeletal pan coronary artery disease aneurysm pulmonary embolism esophagitis acid reflux pneumonia gall baldder disease etc. get checked with your doctor if you have persistent pain.
what are symptoms of a brain aneurysm and what can be done for it?
unruptured aneurysm may have no symptoms if large it may press on the brain and cause pain behind the eyes double vision weakness on one side of face drooping eye lid&dilated pupil leaking aneurysm may cause sudden severe headache. and ruptured aneurysm causes extremely severe headache nausea and vomiting stiff neck seizures confusion stiff neck ptosis and loss of consciousness rx is surgical clip.
what are symptoms of a brain aneurysm and what can be done for it?
brain aneurysms are usually asymptomatic until they rupture and they present with the worst headache of your life or even coma. there are two main ways to treat them: 1. coiling them 2. clipping them. see your friendly neighborhood neurosurgeon to see which is best for you.
what are symptoms of a brain aneurysm and what can be done for it?
if ruptured generally the worst headache of your life and sometimes coma. if unruptured usually asymptomatic. please evaluate our guide for women with aneurysms www. chicagoaneurysm. com for a nice overview of brain aneurysms symptoms among other things.
what can cause a constant headache and rib pain?
constant headache should be evaluated right away with your pcp or a pain physician.
why do i suffer with a headache after a workout at the gym? i hydrate myself while gyming.
headaches after working out can be due to several different problems. it could be a sign of decreases oxygen delivery to the brain due to vascular insufficiency or cardiac insufficiency. it might be caused by excessive cardiac acceleration or commonly excessive clenching of the teeth. sometimes a drop in glucose levels will result in headache as well. have a complete physical before working out.
what are the symptoms required to be diagnosed with orthostatic hypotension?
1. documented fall of blood pressure at least 20-30 points between sitting/ supine and standing. 2. neurologic symptoms such as tunnel vision lightheadedness fainting headache etc.
what are the warning signs for a brain aneurysm?
an unruptured aneurysm may have no symptoms if it is large it may press on the brain and cause pain behind the eyeas double vision weakness on one side of face drooping eye lid and dilated pupil leakin aneurysm may cause sudden severe headache. and ruptured aneurysm causes extremely severe headache nausea and vomiting stiff neck seizures confusion stiff neck ptosis and loss of consciousness.
what are the warning signs for a brain aneurysm?
the worst headache of your life!
what are the side effects of clonidine?
commonly include: dry mouth fatigue constipation headache bradycardia. a more worrisome side effect is rebound hypertension since it is a short acting drug. speak with your doctor.
what are the symptoms of high blood pressure and what you do for it until you see a doctor?
multiple symptoms including headache blurred vision palpitations etc-avoid salt.
what can cause a racing pulse headache blurry vision and high temperature?
there are various causes. you should call your doctor.
what could cause my heart to beat faster nose get blocked feel headache pain in shoulders hands&legs shaking sweats?
a surge in blood level of epinephrine or norepinephrine can cause all these symptoms. assuming you are not abusing stimulant drugs the statistically most common condition resulting in this condition is a panic attack. also this may be an exaggerated response to early menopause. see your gynecologist.
what are the side effects of verapamil?
include: low blood pressure slow heart rate constipation headache nausea fatigue to name a few.
why am i getting these heart/chest pains when i exercise in some form feels like a headache in my heart and it gets me to the point i want to cry?
it's always important to check out causes for chest pain especially if it happens when you exercise. at your age actual heart disease is unlikely but certainly not impossible. get to the bottom of it so you can stop worrying about it and exercise without pain or fear.
why am i getting these heart/chest pains when i exercise in some form feels like a headache in my heart and it gets me to the point i want to cry?
if you are an adolescent or young adult with a healthy past history these are probably benign symptoms. if you are older or sickly they be more significant. see your doctor to elucidate the causes of your concerns.
why am i getting these heart/chest pains when i exercise in some form feels like a headache in my heart and it gets me to the point i want to cry?
you did not mention your age but chest pain on left side of chest may be due to angina and you need cardiac evaluation ekg blood test to check your cholesteroland sugar etc nuclear stress test and if positive coronary angiogram. so have it checked out we also want to know if you have other risk factors like smoking obesity diabetes hypertension high cholesterol and family history of heart disese.
why is it that when i get sad i have actual physical pain in my chest?
sadness can cause shallow breathing & chest tightness leading to discomfort. depression is assoc'd w/ low serotonin (5ht). 5ht has pain gait-keeping functions & helps keep blood vessels flexible low 5ht may increase pain cause poor sleep & migraine headaches. some antidepressants such as effexor (venlafaxine) and elavil which increase 5ht and norepinephrine are used treat some pain disorders.
when i do intense cardio exercises i feel a sharp pulsating pain in right side neck ear and head. disappear after 30min in repose what can this be?
the symptoms sound most likely migraine headaches triggered by exercise. it may be pain caused by muscular tension. these problems could also be due to a sudden increase in blood or abdominal pressure or may be heart problems. it is possibly you may be hyperventilating. get an evaluation with your doctor while exercising. until then engage in less vigorous exercise.
what are the signs of preeclampsia besides bp?
there are several signs and symptoms of preeclampsia. these can include high blood pressure protein in the urine visual disturbances headaches low platelets elevated liver function tests kidney failure or fetal growth restriction. it is important to remember that these symptoms can occur in other conditions and none of these alone means you necessarily have preeclampsia.
was in the hospital last month with pneumonia. was only 50% oxygen when i went in also have empbyzema. started havi g severe headaches and still do?
anytime i see ppl who have headaches that start in the hospital i always question. . what now is different such as medications (nitroglycerin aggrenox ssris etc) or new electrolyte disturbances. potassium sodium etc.
what are the symptoms for a transient ischemic attack?
sudden numbness tingling weakness or loss of movement in your face arm or leg especially on only one side of your body. sudden vision changes. sudden trouble speaking. sudden confusion or trouble understanding simple statements. sudden problems with walking or balance. a sudden severe headache that is different from past headaches. if symptoms last longer than an hour could be stroke.
what arre the symptoms of sarcoidosis?
they can range from being asymptomatic to cough bloody cough headache gi problems visual problems arthritis the list goe on.
what would be the cause of nausea vomiting headache weakness trouble breathing and loss of feeling in hands and feet.?
symptoms such as weakness loss of feeling in hands and feet can be indicative of an underlying medical problem; consult your doctor.
what would be the cause of nausea vomiting headache weakness trouble breathing and loss of feeling in hands and feet.?
question to the er doctor once you arrive. if one is having trouble breathing i would consider that a medical emergency. you may be experiencing a bad virus of some sort but it obviously needs to be checked out. the vomiting may be causing you to be dehydrated as well and you may need if fluids.
what could be the cause of extreme fatigue ( tired ) foamy pee headache (mild) chest pressure ( made worse by exercise) and thirsty? 19 yrsold
the presence of thirst and headache makes me feel you should consider diabetes though many of the other symptoms are nonspecific.
will taking lasix (furosemide) lead to dehydration?
lasix (furosemide) side effects may include: v'ed blood pressure w standing dizziness headache drowsiness blurred vision abdominal cramping poor appetite diarrhea constipation dry mouth ^ thirst ^ urination muscle cramps weakness sun sensitivity fever dehydration rapid weight loss hyperglycemia or hyperuricemia (gout). it may be ototoxic. low blood levels of potassium sodium calcium
what causes chest pains/headaches/stomach inflammation/muscle pain all over/ear infections/cough?
this is a problem that requires a face-to-face meeting with your doctor. in that meeting your doctor will listen to you perform a throrough examination and possibly order labs or other tests. based on this information he/she will be able to tell you what's wrong and what to do about it.
what causes my hands to get extremely numb when laying down. feel heartbeat everywhere. headaches. fatigue. muscle twitching. tiny red spots on skin.?
changes in body position can frequent cause symptoms such as lying down. you may have spinal stenosis or narrowing if spinal canal that is not symptomatic when standing. this could lead to muscle spams and then fatigue. talk to your primary doc and consider neck mri.
what causes my hands to get extremely numb when laying down. feel heartbeat everywhere. headaches. fatigue. muscle twitching. tiny red spots on skin.?
you should really see your doctor about this as there can be many potential causes. he/she should do a throrough physical exam.
what medication can i take for headaches if i am already on mobic meloxicam for back pain?
headache has several subtypes. the treatment depends on the cause of your headache. some medications can cause headache and you must stop them to relieve your headache. besides meloxicam some of other medications used for headache can be topamax (topiramate) tca anti-seizure medication triptans.
what medication can i take for headaches if i am already on mobic meloxicam for back pain?
ask your doctor if you're taking the maximum amount of meloxicam. you can also take acetaminophen.
what are the signs of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm?
almost all patients who present with a ruptured cerebral aneurysm describe a severe headaches or "the worst headache of my life" and that is the least severe presentation. in more severe cases patients can have depressed levels of consciousness all the way up to a coma. a specific aneurysm location can also cause a enlarged pupil.
what are the signs of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm?
nothing asymptomatic and found at death from anything else. leak and rupture and sudden death can occur. more commonly severe headache when leaks are limited and survival.
what are the signs of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm?
a severe headache. see brainaneurysm. com and taafonline. org for complete discussion of symptoms.
what does having a strong pulse in the middle of your head and a sharp pain in your right eye indicate?
you could be migraines. try icing the area for a few minutes (5-7 minutes) and see if it helps. you will most likely benefit from tylenol (acetaminophen) or ibuprofen. if it is a severe headache with any other symptoms contact your pcp or a neurologist.
what are the signs and symptoms of idiopathic intracranial hypertension?
most common symptoms are headaches if the pressure gets high visual blurriness and visual loss can also occur.
what are the signs and symptoms of idiopathic intracranial hypertension?
moderate to severe headaches that may originate behind your eyes wake you from sleep worsen with eye movement ringing in the ears that pulses in time with your heartbeat nausea vomiting dizziness blurred o dimmed vision brief episodes of blindness lasting only a few seconds difficulty seeing to the side double vision seeing light flashes neck shoulder or back pain.
woke up 5am bp 73/50 hr 83. bp 80s/50s & hr~94 all day. well hydrated yet dizzy/shaky/headache/chest pain. temp 97. 2 @6pm. need urgent help raise bp.?
if you are dizzy with a low bp you should see a doctor immediately so an emergency department is the safest place for you.
woke up 5am bp 73/50 hr 83. bp 80s/50s & hr~94 all day. well hydrated yet dizzy/shaky/headache/chest pain. temp 97. 2 @6pm. need urgent help raise bp.?
if i am not mistaken you also have problem with severely fluctuating blood sugars you really need to check with your doctor it sound like you have serious medical problem and you shouldn't try to treat yourself. if your blood glucose going down to 40th and your blood pressure drops so significantly you might have a tumor or serious endocrine problem go to your doctor.
whats olopatadine effect?
is an antihistamine/anticholinergic eye drops used to treat allergic conjunctivitis. it is also available as nasal spray & in japan as tablets. it can cause headaches burning stinging dry eyes lid edema symptoms of flu & taste perversion.
what can i be? i have constatly headaches chestpain and i have notice that either my legs or hands fall asleep. im 35 years old.
sounds like there is disturbance of nervous and circulation balance. you will need whole panel of lab tests to rule out the cause.
what causes lower back pain headaches nausea sharp pain in chest light headed pain in lower stomach runny nose and sore joints? 17 years old female
flu and other virus. if you have a new kissing friend- mono. uti / gi infection also. see your pmd.
what to do when blood pressure is elivafed n humira (adalimumab) prednisone and lotabs forra feel very depressed nervous and headache
humira (adalimumab) rarely has any side effects and elevated blood pressure is not one of them. blood pressure can be raised by prednisone but also due to pain which i assume u have if you are on lortab. you may have essential hypertension which is not due to any medication or specific illness--this should be controlled since it can lead to heart failure over years. see your doctor so u can be evaluated & treated.
what isitthat causes svs &overdrainage due to vp shunt? why does this occur? if it changes answer vpshunt is for idiop. intrac. hypert not hydrocephalus.
idiopathic ich is usually treated with lumbar shunt not ventricular shunt. treatment can be difficult due to drop in pressure that can cause severe headache and stress effects. these symptoms may be so severe that shunt has to be revised or taken out.
what can cause shortness of breath unable to breathe in deeply sharp chest pain sudden headache and feeling of being light headed after running?
drink more water or gatorade pain is most likely from muscular issue from poor hydration status so also lightheadednesss.
what is the dose of aspirin that should be administered and for how long do we have to give aspirin-?
the usual dose for headache or minor pains is 1-2 325mg tablets every 4 hours for up to 12 tablets in one day. but watch for stomach upset bleeding or ulcer disease. for middle age cardiovascular event/ tia/stroke prevention 75-325mg (baby aspirin to regular dose aspirin) is recommended. for acute heart syndrome or chest pain of possible heart attack chew 325mg tablet (tastes bitter but ok).
went to the doctor was diagnosed with pneumonia was put on z pack take the last pill today but having chest pains in the right upper right of my breas?
headache and chest pains according to the zithromax package is a reason to stop it and call your doctor. please do so.
what are some side effects of using patanol (olopatadine) eye drops?
theadache blurred vision burning/stinging/redness/dryness of the eye eyelid swelling or a feeling as if something is in your eye may occur. if any of these effects persist or worsen notify your doctor or pharmacist promptly.
what could be causing left sided headache and a weird feeling in the left side of my neck? paranoid side of me thought stroke due to one-sided.
doubtful it's stroke. could be migraine. those cause one sided headaches and can have a component of neck pain or discomfort. however there are other more serious conditions which also could present similarly so it's best to get checked out.
when patients have a symptom of headache for a stroke is it the most severe headache (thunderclap. ) or can it be a minor h/a that doesn't get worse?
headaches are a very common complaint and most people get it now and then. a thunderclap headache however is most often associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage it can also be from any process that acutely increases intracranial pressure. the key about headaches is whether or not they are very unusual for you (location duration severity). if its unusual or severe: seek medical attention.
when patients have a symptom of headache for a stroke is it the most severe headache (thunderclap. ) or can it be a minor h/a that doesn't get worse?
different types of stroke can be associated with different headaches. a stroke can be occur without a headache or with a severe thunderclap headache.
what is the definition or description of: hypertensive emergency?
blood pressure greater than or equal to 180/120 with signs of organ impairment such as chest pain headache blurry vision nausea vomiting nose bleed etc.
what is a over-counter pill that u can take for chest pain?
the first thing you need to do is to pick up the phone and make an appointment with your physician for a propr evaluation. chest pain is not something you can pass like a headache. if it is associated with shortness of breath and other physical symptoms may be go to er. after ruling out underlying medical condition anxiety often presents itself with symptoms mimicking heart attack.
what are the symptoms of brain aneurysm?
cerebral aneurysm can lead to a sudden and unusually severe headache nausea vision impairment vomiting and loss of consciousness or it can be asymptomatic. ruptured aneurysm lead to severe headache nausea vomiting drowsiness and headache. it can also cause stroke like weakness and sometimes seizures.
what are the symptoms of brain aneurysm?
if ruptured generally the worst headache of your life and sometimes coma. if unruptured usually asymptomatic. please refer to the brain aneurysm center for women guide at www. chicagoaneurysm. com for a nice overview of brain aneurysms symptoms among other things.
what are the symptoms of brain aneurysm?
occasionally headaches visual changes or changes affecting the cranial nerves.
what are the symptoms of a brain aneurysm?
the worst headache of your life!
what are the symptoms of a brain aneurysm?
no symptoms to severe worse headache of a persons life to mild or severe neurological deficits. the classification is between ruptured and unruptured. there are mounds of data on how to treat. see a neurosurgeon.
what are symptom of bleeding in the head while on warfrain?
nausea vomiting headache and impairment of level of consciousness!
what causes severe and frequent headaches other than stress and anxiety and could low blood pressure be affecting my headaches and if so some ways of?
there can be many causes some quite serious and someone with severe and frequent headaches and blood pressure fluctuations should have their questions first adressed by their primary care physician or neurologist before dismissing them as due to stress or depression. muscle tension stress and depression can make headaches worse but proper medical evaluation is the first step.
what is the difference between tia and hemiplegic migraines both come back with neg mri?
tia / stroke both characterized by sudden onset of neural deficit generally as bad as it is going to be at outset. hm typically have evolving pattern of aura which may progress through stages and involve complicated patterns of neural involvement. tia less likely to give "positive" symptoms such as paresthesia and visual effects and less likely to be associated with nausea and headache.
was this tia? 7 mos pregnant and get random migraine auras & no pain. was sitting & briefly one eye went out of focus and lost side vision. lasted 10 secs
its likely migraine since u have them and they are common and tia is uncommon. make sure u are sleeping well at night contrlling sinuses or anything that sparks a headache. fioricet (acetaminophen butalbital and caffeine) can be helpful.
what is the cause for a constant headache for three months with head tremors a heartbeat sound in your head ad ears and stiff neck.
this is a problem that necessitates a face-to-face meeting with your doctor. this will allow him/her to examine you ask specific questions. and possibly order tests to find out what's wrong and what to do to help you.
when i cough my chest hurts and burns i'm sick with cold like symptoms when i cough sound like a bark at times what could be wrong?
all these things could occur with a cold. colds lasting more than 10 days may have developed into a sinus infection. if you have fevers and a headache influenza is a possibility. pertussis could give you a cough that just won't let up give you barking cough or make you cough until you vomit. if your symptoms seem to be going on too long see your primary physician.
why does terazosin give me headaches and sometimes makes my heart pound harder?
if it does stop taking it. we are all different and react to medications in our own unique way.
what are the symptoms of a brain aneurism?
depends on location but headache visual disturbances neurologic findings etc.
what are the symptoms of a brain aneurism?
frequent headaches dizziness numbness weakness should be evaluated. aneurysms however often have no symptoms until they burst.
when i smell weed i get a huge headache and i have difficulty breathing. are these signs of being allergic?
the stench of weed can also trigger all those symptoms due to vasovagal and/or emotional responses.
what's wrong with me? if i sometimes feel pounding pain in my legs bad headaches and chest pain
speculate without more history & examination. would encourage you to talk to your physician.
what is best treatment for cough syncope besides quitting smoking?
you said it and you're right. to avoid cough syncope you must avoid coughing. if you asked:"how do i stop a headache when i'm banging my head with a hammer? " we would agree that you must stop banging your head right?
what are the symptoms of a panic attack? are they similar to heart attacks?
develop rapidly ; include: marked anxiety; rapid pounding heart beat; chest tightness or pain; shortness of breath with hyperventilation; hot or cold flashes; a sense of butterflies in the stomach nausea or even vomiting; tingling of mouth or extremities; increased sweating; feeling faint or lightheaded; headache or shaking. there may be difficulty swallowing or tight throat; a sense that you.
when i get up from the sitting or crouching position i get the following symptoms: liteheaded neck& back strain chest pain headache b/p 82/6l?
blood pressure is on the low side. if on any medication these need to be assesed. otherwise need evaluation as to why this is occuring.
what are the risks of having botox while on warfarin? i'm currently taking 11mg
i've been injecting botox for 18 years for chronic migraines cluster headaches trigeminal neuralgia and other conditions and over the years have had a good number of patients on warfarin (coumadin) and they usually don't have more bleeding than patients who are not on warfarin. patients on aspirin are more likely to bleed a little more.
what to do if i think i may have high blood pressure. what are the signs?
the most common symptom of high blood pressure is nothing. by the time symptoms develop pressure is exceedingly high or has been high without being detected and treated. headaches bloody noses chest pain strokes kidney failure or shortness of breath can occur due to untreated hypertension.
what are the early signs of having a brain aneurysm?
aneurysms of the brain usually have no symptoms. they present when they rupture with the sudden onset of the "worst headache of their life". however large slowly growing aneurysms may have symptoms of mass effect depending on location. this can include a dilation of the pupil on one side because of compression on the 3rd nerve.
what are the early signs of having a brain aneurysm?
there are usually none. . unrelenting headaches may be only warning sign if at all.
what would the side effects be from taking lisinopril and metoproplol be?
both lisinopril (l) and metroplol (m) treat hypertension and are from different classes of drugs that do so. l can cause a dry cough that is worse at night. it can also cause nausea vomiting skin rash and swelling of the lips. m can cause fatigue upset stomach loss of erectile function in men and a headache. using them together does not increase any side effect to occur more commonly.
what symptoms or signs would tell a person that they have high blood pressure without going to a doctor or drug store?
some people with high blood pressure might have a headache or blurry vision. however most people cannot feel or tell what their blood pressure is. the only reliable way to check your blood pressure is by using a blood pressure cuff.
what physical symptoms of high blood pressure and diabetics are there?
high bp usually no symptoms. if bp is very high then you may have headaches or blurry vision. high bp can cause strokes and heart attacks. diabetes can also be asymptomatic. early symptoms include increased thirst increased urination and fatigue. possibly weight loss.
when im stressed or my pressure is high i get headaches what can i take for it i take my bloodpressure mads but still get a headache?
try learning to meditate it can help your reactions.
when im stressed or my pressure is high i get headaches what can i take for it i take my bloodpressure mads but still get a headache?
you need to learn to let go -- and let god sort things out for you.
what are the causes of brain aneurysm and how to prevent them?
this is incompletely understood. it starts with a localized weakness in blood vessels no known way to predict in whom. risk factors include cigarette smoking high blood pressure increasing age rare predisposing weaknesses of arteries known as "familial aneurysms" and some rare predisposing conditions which your doctor should evaluate. if headaches are present get screening with mri/mra.
what would you do to decide if you're having a brain aneurysm?
brain aneurysms are usually undetected except when they rupture. when this happens it is cataclysmic with the sudden onset of the "worst headache of ones life". this can lead to neck stiffness sensitivity to light nausea/vomiting coma. the headache is often described as a "thunderclap" headache. immediate medical attention shoudl be sought.
what would you do to decide if you're having a brain aneurysm?
a bleed in the brain aka subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) if it's not initially lethal is usually characterized as "the worst headache of one's life. " there are grades 1-5 (hunt-hess). headache per se is not indicative of cerebral aneurysm. ct head cta brain mra brain are imaging to elucidate the vascular anatomy of one's brain. diet plays an important role in inducing headache.
what can i take for a headache when i'm taking lovenox and coumadin (warfarin)?
i agree with dr. ho. tylenol (acetaminophen) is the way to go.
what can i take for a headache when i'm taking lovenox and coumadin (warfarin)?
regular tylenol (acetaminophen) as needed would be safe for you.
when i feel my heart it's pumping very quick after climbing steps is that dangerous? do i have to stop this activity every day?
still alive! any physical or strenuous activity will make your heart race to increase flow and supply blood and oxygen to different parts of the body esp the muscles of the extremities. certain symptoms such as chest pain passing out dizziness headache with physical exertion warrant more work up.
when i breathe in i am struggling my chest is tight and the pain is traveling through my ribs and stomach with some bad headaches?
sound like treatment is indicated. talk to your physician.
what to do if i wake up with headaches most days and on others go to bed with one. blood pressure?
daily headaches need to be evaluated by your medical doctor as they have many causes. get yourself checked today. feel better.
what type of doc to diagnose headache fatigue ab. pain neck pain side chest pain. when no one can figure it out who to see other than my fnp &er doc
abdominal groans. the above are symptoms of parathyroid disease. i would start with an endocrinologist at this time. may be able to lump all these symptoms together. or more likely explain some. attack one piece at a time. move on to a neurologist for headache. gi doc or general surgeon for abdominal pain. etc.
why do i get pounding headaches when i stand up chest pain and feel very weak?
postural hypotension hypertension anemia endocrine issues can cause such symptoms.
why do i get headaches every single day? i suffer migraines and i take inderal (propranolol) for them but i'm still getting really frequent and hard headaches!
migraines are generally triggered by certain foods or food additives poor sleep stress frequent use of analgesic or anti headache medications and hormonal conditions (like thyroid disorders). inderal (propranolol) is a great medication but requires that you practice adequate diet and sleep pattern. rebound headaches occur when using frequent pain medications. check with your md for proper diet and tx.
what are the signs when you get a heart attack and stroke?
heart attack sx can include: chest pain or tightness shortness of breath increased sweating pain or numbness radiating down the arm (more often left than right) and nausea. there could be pain in the upper back head jaw or teeth. one fourth of people have heart attacks without chest pain. stroke symptoms can include a severe and sudden headache. there can also be nausea & vomiting.
why do i get headaches a lot and also the back and chest pain. headache is more than the back pain. why do i get the headaches almost everyday?
see a doctor to evaluate and diagnos a cause. aneck injury or weak ligaments in the neck could cause the problem. visit www. getprolo. com or www. aaomed. org to find a doctor to help you.
will headaches be caused by heart problems?
more common causes such as migraines htn hyoglycemia etc are usually checked out first. input from neuro may be helpful too. if all is negative. then echo holter tilt table test etc can be done.
what can i do if my blood pressure is 96 /65 which is very low and i have a dull headache. how about coffee?
the last thing you need is caffeine.
wayne wants to know if the blood pressure med hydrochlorothiazide can cause the headaches he is experiencing.
there are many possibilities for the cause of headache. hydrochlorothiazide is not high on the list.
what could be the reason behind getting headaches from fish oil capsules? i have narrowed this down and it is definitely when i take these capsules
still need more investigation whether fish oil or those specific capsules. don't know what is in the capsules.
why do i always get headaches after eating lunch? i also start shaking and heart beats faster. it happens no matter what i eat
could be lots of causes including what and when you eat meds caffeine intake work environment underlying medical issues-diagnosed already or not etc. need to see md give history bring diet diary (with symptoms) get examined tested or referred to specialist (e. g. ophthalmologist neurologist endocrinologist cardiologist) as appropriate.
why do i get lightheaded a lot had normal mri 4-18-13 & normal mra dec2012 no high blood pressure or any other health problems is this bad? & head pain
you have symptoms that suggest a problem called autonomic insufficiency (dizzy spells passing out headaches). this is common in young women. essentially the brain can misread the signals being sent by the heart and blood vessels and cause the pulse to go fast (or slow) and the blood pressure to fall making you lightheaded. a tilt table test can diagnose this problem. talk to your md.
which symptoms do you get if you have high blood pressure?
most people with high bp dont get symptoms until they have a heart attack or a stroke (part of brain dies from bleeding into it). that is why high blood pressure is called the "silent killer. " however some people have headache blurry vision chest pain or out of breath with very high blood pressure.
what could cause headache fatigue and chest pain?
depression anemia hypertension infection cardiac ischemia and multitude of others causes. see physician for evaluation.
what could cause headache fatigue and chest pain?
accelerated hypertension (high blood pressure that emerges rather quickly) can cause such a constellation of symptoms as well. depending on your other risk factors this may be the most critical to rule out as it can cause cardiac dysfunction and stroke. please see your doctor as soon as possible.
what are symptoms of a stroke?
two main types of stokes: hemorrhagic and ischemic. in hemorrhagic mostly severe headache of abrupt onset may loose consciousness nausea. in ischemic and in hemorrhagic depending on location weakness or numbness typically one side double vision speech (slurring or inability to understand or being understood) swallowing difficulties balance problems and memory (cognitive) problems.
what could cause sudden headache and vomiting without a fever yet blood pressure and body temperature are both normal?
migraine commonly presents with headache and vomiting food poisoning neurological events and other things.
what is good for acid reflux if i don't have any tums (calcium carbonate)? i have chest pain and headache too
can sometimes be used.
what are common symptoms of a brain aneurysm?
50 % of ruptured berry aneurysm patients do not make it alive to a hospital. those that do well describe the "worst headache of their lives " associated with a stiff neck nausea and vomiting severe malaise confusion delirium and maybe visual problems depending on location of the aneurysm. this is a true medical emergency and requires intensive attention and perhaps surgery.
what are common symptoms of a brain aneurysm?
from nothing and only asymptomatic and found at death from anything else. leak and rupture and sudden death can occur. more commonly severe headache when leaks are limited and survival.
what are prazosin side effects?
effects are low blood pressure especially with the first dose dizziness nausea headache palpitations to name a few.
what are the side effects of red yeast rice and niacin non flush?
ryr can cause abdominal pain allergic reaction dizziness liver and muscle inflammation with muscular pain flatulance (gas) stomach pain and headache. aside from flushing niacin can cause liver damage itching low blood pressure upset stomach diarrhea vomiting gout rashes headache diabetes liver inflammation and blurred vision.
what neurological problem(s) could cause severe headaches for more than 1 week? hist:headaches for almost 2 weeks taking ibuprofen 600 mg hbp tachy
possible migraine at your age. if it's that severe see your pcp/ pediatrician as soon as you can.
why do i get headache have difficulty breathing feel tired and have irritation between upper middle chest and throat a little pain during breathing?
many issues here:? anxiety but start by calling your md.
what are some natural vasodilators or things i can do to prevent vascular headaches?
vascular headaches result from vasodilation. medications used to treat migraine headaches constrict blood vessels or block (beta) adrenergic (vasodilating) substances. alternative medicine approaches include the use of omega 3 fish oil feverfew co-enzyme q10 and melatonin. massage therapy aromatherapy acupuncture and acupressure have also been used. feverfew has scientific support.
what are some natural vasodilators or things i can do to prevent vascular headaches?
nutrients in nutraceutical doses are sometimes vasodilators but many support energy production and downregulate neuroexitotoxity. magnesium riboflavin (b2) and coq10 are useful. also anti-inflammatory herbs feverfew butterbur. melatonin and 5htp also sometimes useful. there are herbs and nutrients that can produce vasodilatation in other settings (like raynaud's) but they work less well.
what does having a stroke feel like?
the classic signs of a stroke include weakness or numbness or a facial droop on one side of the body. there can also be speech problems with slurring of speech or difficulty finding the right words. in certain types of stroke such as a hemorrhagic stroke the symptoms can include severe headache and decreased mental status. sometimes the patient may not recognize the symptoms but family should.
what are the first signs of heat stroke or exhaustion?
lethargy confusion headaches. facial flushing or turning pale depending on the hydration status. for heat exhaustion thirst is the very first warning sign which is often ignored.
wat is it if u have severe pain in left shoulder short of breath dizzy headaches.
considering your history of a heart stent you need to seek medical attention immediately as this could be a heart attack. hope you feel better.
what are symptoms differences both common carotid arteries are compressed from that when both jugular veins are compressed?
when you compress both carotids you only have two tiny arteries ("vertebrals") left supplying the whole brain. ergo you hit the ground unconscious. if the compression isn't relieved you die fast. the veins are more compliant but less redundant. compression of the jugular leaves the brain with no backup drainage. you'll get a phenomenal headache as pressure builds up then something will pop.
woke up feeling really nauseous with headache. i have hbp checked it was at 120/85 pulse 101. what could be the reason? hist: pcos hbp
your bp is normal and pulse mildly elevated. there can be a number of reasons for ha. migraines medicines. you have pcos are you on birth control this can sometimes cause migraine. other meds lack of sleep water food can also lead to headaches are well as other things. best to see your doctor for eval.
woke up feeling really nauseous with headache. i have hbp checked it was at 120/85 pulse 101. what could be the reason? hist: pcos hbp
possibly you're having a migraine attack which manifests itself with headache and nausea. blood pressure is normal so less likely related to your blood pressure problem. migraine headaches can be one sided or both sided frequently throbbing in nature there is sensitivity to light and noise. see if that fits your presentation.
waking up everyday feeling weak and entire body hurts. headache everyday when i wake up too. causes? seeing cardiologist for heart issues related?
there are many causes for fatigue and headaches sleep apnea autoimmune metabolic and thyroid related issues are just a few. you need a physical exam and blood work.
waking up everyday feeling weak and entire body hurts. headache everyday when i wake up too. causes? seeing cardiologist for heart issues related?
include thyroid/ autoimmune condition fibromyalgia stress anxiety chronic medical illness etc. hopefully you'll get better soon. take care!
wat are the main causes of feeling light headed when u stand and walk around. blood pressure seems to be fine.
if you have headaches one common migraine equivalent is a feeling of light headiness on standing or turning rapidly. orthostatic bp drop seems unlikely as you state. anemia and thyroid problems could be explanations. some medication adverse events could do this also.
wake up sometimes in middle of night with headache check bp and it is llw 100-105 / 55-65 take ramipril for hign bp iis this concerning?
suspect headache has nothing to do with your hypertension or ramipril. the bp usually is lower in the evening hours compared to the daytime hours when you are awake.
what causes right side upper chest pain?
anxiety can cause excess cortisol os adrenaline secretion which can cause a number of symptoms including dizziness lightheadedness rapid heart beat palpitations chestpain headaches etc. try calming yourself down by concentrating on slowing down your breathing over a few minutes if this doesn't help see your primary provider for further evaluation. good luck!
will taking strattera (atomoxetine) for only a month have any effect on my heart? also what are the pros and cons to taking strattera (atomoxetine)?
unless yoiu have an unusual reaction to strattera (atomoxetine) like an arrhythmia or allergic reaction the major heart change will be prolonged qt syndrome and excessivly rapid heart rate. the pros - help adhd mild anxiety relief possible mild anti depressant the dcons - most commonly: sedation headache irritability tachycardia prolonged qt interval and stomach irritation.
why does my chest hurt every time i yawn and i get headaches and feel tired and hungry?
it is hard to say about your chest and yawning but people get headaches when they are hungry as it could be a sign of blood sugar dropping.
what is the term for visual changes with headache due to preeclampsia?
moms who experience visual changes should see a health care provide right away.
what is the term for visual changes with headache due to preeclampsia?
keep in mind that visual aura of migraine is not exactly like the visual changes with preeclampsia.
with the concerns about acetaminophen and ibuprofen and liver effects is it safer to take aspirin for inflammation? headache? pericarditis?
it depends on what your trying to accomplish by taking these medicines. if you are taking pain meds once a week anything should work. however aspirin taken frequently can reduce headache and other pains but aspirin increases bleeding potential and tinnitis (ringing in the ears). if you are taking a lot of pain meds contact your physician or pharmacist for knowledgeable info.
with the concerns about acetaminophen and ibuprofen and liver effects is it safer to take aspirin for inflammation? headache? pericarditis?
each choice has benefits & risks. tylenol (acetaminophen) in appropriate doses is very safe for pain relief but has no anti-inflammatory effect & can be dangerous with alcohol or overdoses. ibuprofen is generally safe if not taken on an empty stomach--not generally concerned about liver effects but can be hard on stomach & kidneys with chronic use. aspirin may increase bleeding risks. discuss with your pcp.
what do you take to get rid of a high blood pressure headache?
if you have a headache secondary to blood pressure elevation you need to have your blood pressure appropriately treated. if and only if you are addressing the root problem then you can take tylenol (acetaminophen) or motrin for your headache in consultation with your physician.
what is the definition or description of: transient ischemic attack?
the warning signs of a tia are exactly the same as for a stroke: 1. sudden numbness or weakness of the face arm or leg especially on one side of the body. 2 confusion :sudden confusion trouble speaking or understanding. 3 trouble-seeing: sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes. 4 dizziness: sudden trouble walking dizziness loss of balance or coordination 5 headache: sudden severe headache.
what does nitroglycerin do to the body?
in the heart that can increase blood flow to stop an angina (chest pain) episode but it also can produce side effects of low blood pressure (so take it sitting down) or headache.
what soes a blood pressure headache feel like?
high blood pressure does not cause headaches. thousands of patients with very high bp are walking around with no symptoms at all. on the other hand often patients present to er with headaches and their bp is found high due to pain of headache. once the headache is gone the bp becomes normal. often patients are erroneously told that headache is due to high bp.
what could be the cause of microvascular ischemic if u have no diabetes no high blood pressure and no high cholesterol? had an mri and waiting appt
a vasculitis could cause those changes as well as chronic headaches. ask for crp possibly as a non specific marker of inflammation.
when should i go to the hospital for high blood pressure. i am reading 180/105?
it depends on symptom. if it associates with symptoms such as severe headache chest pain or shortness of breath etc.
worst headache 5 years ago lasted seconds couldnt wiggle toes next day eventually recovered never got it checked was 23 then. stroke or spasm?
sounds like vasospasm more likely than a stroke. intense physical activity can rarely induce vasospasm or even non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. if it recurs a ct head would be recommended. family history of aneurysms may necessitate mra head. good luck!
what does headache pain from high blood pressure feel like?
if you have regular headaches it will feel the same as those. if you don't have headaches it could feel like a pounding squeezing or throbbing pain. the trick is to get control of your blood pressure eat healthy foods avoid caffeine completely and exercise. if you still have high blood pressure and headaches see your physician to discuss medical testament for your elevated blood pressure.
what are clomifene citrate bp 50mg effects and side effects?
the drug is indicated for induction of ovulation in women and to induce production of sperm in men. side effects: blood clots multiple pregnancies severe visual disturbance. ovarian cancer with long term use. less serious side effects: flushing abdom distention nausea vomiting bresat tenderness blurred vision headache pelvic pain.
went to er on weds. neck pain and stiffness. headache and nausea. four days later same symptoms plus chest pain. sense of hearing and sight intense?
if you have fever neck stiffness headache then you need to get lumbar puncuture to rule out meningitis baes on what you are saying it could be flu. i would recommend go back to er.
woke up in middle of night with left arm pain and numbness headache and nausea what could this be only health issue acid reflux?
osteoarthritis of neck with pinching of nerve is most common cause of such symptoms. see a neurologist.
would a brain mri show and un ruptured aneurysm? would one appear in a month? pregnant with ehlers danlos hypermobility developed ice pick headache.
rather than a standard mri you should have a mra or ct with angiography. these modalities are able to detect aneurysms as small as 2mm. as a pt with ehlers-danlos and pregnancy you likely know that you are at high risk. make sure you are being taken care of by a perinatologist (expert in pregnancy) who can assist you in order screening exams monitoring pregnancy for safe healthy mom ; baby.
would a brain mri show and un ruptured aneurysm? would one appear in a month? pregnant with ehlers danlos hypermobility developed ice pick headache.
respectively.
woke up feeling really tired after 7 hrs of sleep chest discomfort and a headache cause? history: htn pcos provera (medroxyprogesterone) lisinopril hctz
that is more than likely the cause in someone your age. especially if you start coughing. there are lots of viruses going around this time of year. did you get your flu shot yet? that is important too. if it gets worse and you get a high fever you should seek care otherwise comfort measures are usually the norm for the first few days.
what are signs of stroke?
sudden numbness tingling weakness or loss of movement in your face arm or leg especially on only one side of your body. sudden vision changes. sudden trouble speaking. sudden confusion or trouble understanding simple statements. sudden problems with walking or balance. a sudden severe headache that is different from past headaches.
what happens if a person having chest pain from a reason not cardiac related takes nitroglycerin tab?
ntg has headache and decreased bp as side effects.
what can cause headache fatigue loss of appetite craving for weird things (ice dirt) shortness of breath and chest pain?
please check your blood work up as it seems that you may have low blood count. please see your pcp as soon as possible.
what causes sudden spike in blood pressure and zig zag flashing vision?
ocular migraines are a form of migraines that take place in the occipital cortex (part of the brain that interprets/controls vision). they lack the severe headache as common migraines. the symptoms are usually all or mostly visual and are typically described as flashing of light or ziz-zag lights in the vision. they usually last less than 30 minutes and affect the vision out of both eyes.
what causes sudden spike in blood pressure and zig zag flashing vision?
sounds like migraine. if no headache there is a common painless form usually the visual effects go in 20 min. talk to your dr.
why isn't my doctor concerned about my current blood pressure reading of 180/110? i feel okay with no headache or dizziness but i am under significant stress.
hopefully your doc is concerned. there should be a discussion about which medications to start home blood pressure monitoring and dairy of results and monitoring for results. at your young age cardiac imaging should be considered. take family/friend and blood pressure diary with you to your next appointment. be well.
why isn't my doctor concerned about my current blood pressure reading of 180/110? i feel okay with no headache or dizziness but i am under significant stress.
i fail to understand and finf hard to believe that your doctor will ignore to treat bp of 180/110. it is high and need to be treated and corrected. discuss it with your doctor or get a second opinion.
why isn't my doctor concerned about my current blood pressure reading of 180/110? i feel okay with no headache or dizziness but i am under significant stress.
one should be concerned about a blood pressure this high. it merits a relatively urgent effort to treat it. it would be advisable for you to seek urgent care to eliminate the unnecessary risk of uncontrolled hypertension.
why isn't my doctor concerned about my current blood pressure reading of 180/110? i feel okay with no headache or dizziness but i am under significant stress.
high blood pressure with or without symptoms poses a health risk and needs to be better controlled.
why isn't my doctor concerned about my current blood pressure reading of 180/110? i feel okay with no headache or dizziness but i am under significant stress.
there should be concen about a blood pressure of 180/110. a 33 yo female should not have elevated bp. you should undergo a work-up to try to detect an underlying potentioally correctable cause for your bp elevation.
what is considered dangerously high bp?
a number is difficult to specify. more important are symptoms that may develop with elevated blood pressure such as a new headache or different headache sudden muscle weakness or difficulty speaking--these make urgent evaluation necessary. elevation of blood pressure over about 115/70 is associated with increased cardiovascular risk but this is over an observation period of years.
what is cause of a severe positional headache light sensitivity stiffness in neck after microdiscectomy? small hairline anyerusm on ct scan post op.
you should have this evaluated. sometimes there is some cerebrospinal fluid that leaks from the linings over the spine. this can lead to the symptoms of spinal headache that you describe. not sure if the aneurysm is related to this-particularly if you are talking about a brain aneurysm.
what are the symptoms of stroke? could this be related to nerve pain/damage in any way?
stroke is a medical emergency. recognizing and responding immediately to the signs of stroke by calling 9-1-1 can significantly improve survival and recovery. 1. weakness-sudden loss of strength numbness in the face arm or leg 2. speech changes- difficulty speaking or understanding. 3. visual changes 4. headache-sudden severe unusual 5. dizziness- loss of balance.
what does headaches nauseous and short of breath mean?
a doctor would need to get a more detailed history as the symptoms are to vague to diagnose you> you would also need a physical exam to try to diagnose you. .
worst headache ever as well as feeling as if about to faint. could this be due to ocular miagrane?
sounds like a migraine not an ocular migraine. regardless there are other causes of headache that should be considered. rule of thumb: "when one encounters the 'worst headache ever' consider intracranial hemorrhage. " - you need a ct. hope you feel better!
why when my bp goes up when emotionally stressed do i get an extreme headache & really red & hot to touch? hist: htn pcos lisinopril hctz provera (medroxyprogesterone)
response. under stressful conditions the bp normally rises and comes diwn upon relaxation.
when i am stressed my bp goes higher than normal (130/90 normalized w/meds) get headache really hot to touch and red cause? hist: htn pcos
some people feel hot on bp meds that are vasodilators (lisinopril). talk to your doc about your symptoms another type of blood pressure med may help with your symptoms.
what exactly can numb hands shortness of breath and headache be?
at your age the most likely mechanisms linking these diagnoses would be anxiety. this is certainly not to say that something more sinister may be lurking but statistically those would be much less likely. if truly bothersome seek attention from your primary care provider since fairly simple tests can help you categorize these symptoms into either benign or more worrisome. good luck!
would most people with intercranial hypertension have headache?
intracranial pressure may rise from hydrocephalus bleed clot aneurysm tumor and many will have serious headache.
would most people with intercranial hypertension have headache?
yes. it causes headache.
wife has dizziness headaches passing out episodes and numbness of both legs to the point she can not use them?
grave symptoms as she does can't be diagnosed in a forum such as this. good examination proper tests have to be done so proper treatment can be given. go to your doctor so referrals tests and procedures can be done to expedite diagnosis and treatment.
wife has dizziness headaches passing out episodes and numbness of both legs to the point she can not use them?
i am not sure why you would be using the internet for medicine when your wife has a truly urgent medical problem. please sign off of the internet and get her to medical care urgently.
wife has dizziness headaches passing out episodes and numbness of both legs to the point she can not use them?
that's sounds ominous - take her right to the er.
what does it mean if i have low bp when sitting and when i stand up it drops more can it cause the shakes nausea hot flashes pelvic pressure headaches?
yes and you may have pelvic congestion syndrome -- abnormal venous return in your pelvis. i recommend obgyn and vascular consult.
what are the signs that your carotid artery is clogged?
signs of carotid artery stenosis are bruit tia or stroke. the symptoms of a tia may include sudden weakness or numbness in the face or limbs often on just one side of the body inability to move one or more of your limbs trouble speaking or understanding speech sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes dizziness or loss of balance sudden severe headache with no known cause.
what to do if i have frequent headaches without hight blood pressure.?
high blood pressure is not a particularly common cause of headache. you should see your physician to be evaluated to find out what might be the cause of your headaches.
what are antibiotics? and should i take them if im having on and off chest pain headaches slight ear and neck pain and a gurgly stomach?
antibiotics are meant to kill bacteria. you have to have a bacterial infection in order for them to benefit you. you have a lot of symptoms and you should talk to your doctor about this. good luck.
what can cause lower back pain cramping in lower part of stomach headache's swollen feet (once) & hips pain. can it be my period?
yes if you are close to getting periods or on menstruation you can get pain in those areas. it should subside with your menstruation.
would idiopathic intercranial hypertension usually cause headaches? how often? how severe? etc
the correct term is intra-cranial meaning inside or within the cranium headaches are often the result of this condition and can be severe as well as frequent. a good neurologist can give you more information after an examination and imaging studies. also be aware that an imaging study of the head is mandatory prior to a spinal tap in patients with this condition.
would idiopathic intercranial hypertension usually cause headaches? how often? how severe? etc
idiopathic intracranial hypertension often referred to as pseudotumor cerebri usually presents with severe headaches. these can be frequent and constant. work-up includes an mri scan of the brain (to rule out a mass lesion) and spinal taps to document the increased pressure. there are medications that may help as well as surgical procedures that may help with the symptoms.
what are the symptoms of high blood pressure?
retinopathy kidney problems erectile dysfunction heart diseases stroke headache visual changes difficulty breathing chest pain.
where is the location of a headache from intracranial hypertension? i have a headache on the top of my head its not bad just feels tight and achy?
it's all over but you can't diagnose ich by the location of a headache since it's non-specific and much more common causes produce headaches in the same location.
what is the high side of blood pressure that you would require medicine for?
is defined as equal to or greater than 140 on the top number were equal to or greater than 90 on the bottom number. high blood pressure is usually silent without any symptoms. occasionally people to know they have high blood pressure with vague symptoms of headache or pressure. the reason we treat it is to prevent complications including heart attacks strokes heart failure and kidney failure.
what to do if i have headache - sinus infection or blood pressure?
headache as an isolated symptom is rarely caused by sinus infection. although supra-orbital pain can be associated with frontal sinusitis the symptoms of sinusitis include nasal blockage nasal congestion yellow-green nasal discharge pain and pressure in the face above the teeth and pain between the eyes. if pain in head is on the side of your head it is not sinusitis.
went to family gp tension headache said its anxiety as bp ok. but i have pinkish mucus forehead ache & top face pressure for more than one month.
please communicate your new and persistent symptoms and include your temperature to your gp. it sounds like a sinus infection.
went to family gp tension headache said its anxiety as bp ok. but i have pinkish mucus forehead ache & top face pressure for more than one month.
tth tension type headache is your major problem. the management of episodic and chronic tth consists of psychological support physical therapy and pharmacotherapies. rec. : see an orofacial pain or headache specialist. pinkish mucus is second problem and can be a sign that you are at risk for or already have gum disease. rec. : see your dentist.
what to do if i'm experiencing frequent headaches without hight blood pressure.?
there are many causes of headache. onset of headaches at age 47 obviates an evaluation which should include a fundoscopic exam careful musculoiskeletal exam examination of the facial sinuses a check for glaucoma in some cases and a good neuro exam. often a ct scan of the head is obtained depending on the current signs and symptoms. best of luck.
what to do if i have headache chest pain and severe dizziness associated with high blood pressure?
this question and the issues it might be are very complicated. you should see your doctor for evaluation. if this is an acute issue you might want to go to the emergency room at the hospital.
what to do if i have headache intermittent pain one side. aneurysm?
aneurysm is possible but migraine is more likely. one is rare (aneurysm) and the other is common (migraine). both cause unilateral throbbing headache. if you are female migraine is more likely if it cycles with the time of month migraine is more likely if light hurts your eyes migraine is more likely. if there's nausea = migraine. if this is a brand new symptom migraine is less likely.
why does my chest hurts every time i wake up in the morning and have headaches thereafter?
due to gerd mitral valve prolapse anxiety. consider migraine headaches costochondritis.
what is wrong if i have chest pains severe headache dizziness sore throat and white tongue with red spots?
surely sounds like an acute pharyngitis infection - can be strep mono neisseria but a viral infection is the most common cause. a throat culture (or strep screen) is indicated since untreated that brand can lead to serious complications including rheumatic fever and abscess.
worried about brain tumor. had a couple of episodes of deja vu within the last few months. mild headache off and on. no other symptoms. ldh = 125.
is the only sure fire way to know.
went to docs told i had viral infection and gave me nystan for my tongue. feeling worse worse headache sore throat kidney and chest pains help?
your doctor just saw and examined you - let him/her know you're worse. call the doctor back before they go home for the day.
what to do if i have been prescribed verapamil tablets can you tell me if it is for use with headaches?
it's prescribed for migraines among other things.
will having 13<negative_smiley>62 blood pressure cause headaches? and my face is so red
your bp is normal and your red face is unrelated to your bp.
what are the symptoms of preeclampsia?
symptoms can include excessive weight gain swelling high blood pressure protein in the urine headaches abdominal pain and others.
why i feel tired and sluggish all the time? i have headache high blood pressure.
your symptoms warrant an in-person evaluation and medication to control blood pressure. the subject is not suitable for this forum.
what condition could have abd pain/swelling severe fatigue/weakness shortness of breath headache and absence of menstrual period (not pregnant) ty?
this could be a sign of early menopause. you are a bit young but menopause can be a procees that can go on for a few years. you can have hormone levels checked to see if it is. you could also have thyroid disease and this could be checked with hormone levels too.
what is proper time for dsa test for a patient suffering sah and vasospasm if aneurysm not detected in ct angiography headache started on 13 th april.
traditionally if an angiogram wasn't done at the time of the event we usually waited about 14 days for the vasospasm to cease. of course it was always at the discretion of the neurosurgeon and neurologists involved. not all cerebral aneurysms will be at the circle of willis. close discussions with the treating doctors is really need. best wishes
went camping next day all mussels n joints hurt plus headache n chest pain. nothing is helping. please help?
many different maladies could be causing your symptoms. it is difficult to tell exactly what you have with limited information. you could have something simple like a viral infection. classically tick borne illness and parasitic infections such as lyme disease are associated with camping.
what to do if i have had a bad headache for 3 weeks the 2nd week i went to the doctor and they put me on meds called inderal (propranolol)?
this is not the place to second guess your dr. if he gave you medications: take them. if you want to know why how long what for side effects and the likes the time to ask the question is at the doctor's office or give him/her a call. trust him (or get another that you trust and whose advise you are willing to follow). otherwise you are waisting your time (and your doctor's)
what to do if i have slight discomfort in my head sometimes. will it be related to dropsy?
dropsy is an antiquated term for congestive heart failure. (you must be reading too many 19th century novels! ). chf does not cause headaches. you don't have vapors or neurasthenia either!
was in the sun for 20 mins(temperature ~ 118 f). i am completely hydrated and taking liquids. but i have a severe headache now. is it heat stroke?
heat stroke is the most serious form of heat injury and is considered a medical emergency. if you suspect that someone has heat stroke -- also known as sunstroke -- call an ambulance immediately and give first aid until paramedics arrive. <link>#1
was in the sun for 20 mins(temperature ~ 118 f). i am completely hydrated and taking liquids. but i have a severe headache now. is it heat stroke?
it does not sound to be heat stroke if the headache is the only symptom you have. heat stroke is a severe condition where the internal body temperature rises to a dangerous level due to prolonged exposure to excessively high temperatures. symptoms of heat stroke would be more varied and severe than than just a headache. consider wearing a wide brimmed hat when out in the sun.
would my regular ct scan have picked up an unruptured brain anurysm? i'm so scared tht i have one
it depends what type of ct scan you had. some scans may miss a brain aneurysm. usually a ct scan with angiography will be able to unveil a brain aneurysm. brain aneurysms are rare and an unlikely cause of headache.
what to do if i take norvasc klonopin accolate ambien (zolpidem) and remeron. and is there a safe pain killer to take?
what type of pain are you trying to treat? if this is due to arthritis any nsaid like naprosyn celebrex or ibuprofen can help. tylenol (acetaminophen) may also be helpful. these medications can be used for headaches toothaches or muscles aches. post-surgical pains may need a stronger pain medication initially such as hydrocodone or at the discretion of the doctor.
wat can cause on and off headaches and chest pain and tightness even through the night for last ten days? been on antibiotics for. 5 days.
sinus infection?
what to do if i have headache confusion 165/110 blood pressure do i go to the hospital?
with such an elevated blood pressure along with symptoms such as headache and confusion that may be related to effects on the brain it could be what is called a hypertensive emergency and you should go to your nearest er or even call ems right away.
what to do if i have headache confusion 165/110 blood pressure do i go to the hospital?
the bp isn't all that high but the bigger issue is headache and confusion. yes those should be checked at the hospital er asap.
when my blood pressure goes too high like 160/100 or higher in get bad anxiety and headaches. why? i don't check it until after symptoms start.
many people don't find out about bp issues until it's too late because often there are no noticeable signs. perhaps it is a good thing that your body is successfully letting you know. you need to pay attention. there are of course medications but also there are behavioral health strategies that are excellent too. a health psychologisy can also address the anxiety if it hits at other times too!
will i be able to drink alcohol while taking acebutolol?
use may result in medication interactions. per drugs. com drug interaction checker -"additive effects in lowering your blood pressure. you may experience headache dizziness lightheadedness fainting and/or changes in pulse or heart rate. "
what to do if i am 17 can i take nitrolingual (nitroglycerin) pump spray?
it will give you a terrific headache and won't do anything good for you. i'd advise against it. btw your profile says you're 32. what's up?
what should i do been having chest pain on left side back pain dizziness blurry vision heavy nose bleed headaches nausea?
if your regular doctor can't see you now you should head to the emergency room. i don't like what i am hearing.
what reading on blood pressure do dr tend to worry more about systolic or diastolic i know both are important?
the bottom number or diastolic is more often concerning if over 90 however if both numbers are elevated or if you have symptoms such as headaches vision problems shortness of breath chest pain or swelling along with elevated bp it is concerning and requires evaluation by a dr and likely medications and checking bloodworm urine and sometimes an ekg for completeness.
where is my right caroitd artery in my brain? i had an aneurysm coiled a year ago wonder if the pain on right in the base of my skull is connected?
artery supplies the brain through the anterior neck after common carotid artery divides into external and internal branches. i don't think your headaches are connected to your corrective procedure. you should consult with your neurologist again.
what vitamins/ supplements could help chronic cluster headaches and safe with verapamil combination? melatonin? vitamin b? what dose and for how long?
cluster headaches are more resistant to these otc remedies but might apply migraine approach with vitamin b-2 riboflavin 200 mg twice daily or perhaps co-q10 300 mg twice dally. if one or the other works use for about 3 months after headache has ceased.
what happens if you use nitroquick (nitroglycerin) will it cause heart problems?
but if you're not used to it it will give you a very unpleasant headache and if you overdose it will cause you to black out.
what do you suggest if my dr. put me on. 3 mg of clonidine and 50mg of trazadone for sleep what could the side affects be?
i would worry about low blood pressure dizziness dry mouth headache fatigue feeling faint feeling slowed heart rate too slow and constipation. might be difficult to wake up.
what can an obgyn do to treat chronic headaches during pregnancy when high blood pressure isn't an issue?
treating chronic ha requires knowing type of ha (migraine tension cluster etc) ha history trimester other medical conditions on folic acid drug allergies clinical course of ha's since pregnancy began & compliance issues. choices are limited since most ha regimens carry no better than a cat. c rating (meaning we don't know how the drug affects preg) there is sootheaway device. google it.
what can an obgyn do to treat chronic headaches during pregnancy when high blood pressure isn't an issue?
please read below hope this helps: <link> org/pregnancyhealth/headaches. html
what can an obgyn do to treat chronic headaches during pregnancy when high blood pressure isn't an issue?
from your symptoms your obgyn can determine what type of headaches you are having and may be able to determine the appropriate medications to help relieve them. you can help by knowing exactly where it hurts the characteristics of the pain alleviating and aggravating events etc. different types of headaches are treated differently so the more you know about your headache the better.
what should one do when ones blood pressure is high at the moment?
depends how high the bp is and if you are having any associated symptoms with it like chest pain shortness of breath splitting headaches vision chnages numbness weakness which would warrant a visit to the er.
where should i go? for past 3yrs i have been having right side chest pain cardiac ruled out. radiates up neck ends with bad headache and fatigue.?
more information needed. what are the circumstances that bring the pain on? is it positional? is it worse with deep breathing? how long does it last? is it possible that is related to your bulging discs? is the pain reproducible by deep palpation? how about meals making it worse? good answers to the above questions and any other pertinent observation will help your doc understand your symptoms.
would i know if i had a carotid artery dissection? last couple of days facial tension no pain or headache. its not numb. tingly lips today. age 28.
if you have no history of trauma- spontaneous dissection typically affects persons in middle age.
will a 10mg dose of aventyl (nortriptyline) have the cardiac side effects that come as a warning? if so will a reduced dose help?
in my experience an extremely small percentage of people with adversely react to 10 mg. of aventyl (nortriptyline). in fact that is precisely why i titrate nortriptyline starting at 10mg. and escalate slowly by only 10mg. weekly when treating my headache patients just to be able and gauge potentially intolerable side effects. only handful in over 25 years who have major disaster at lowest dose
why do you get headaches when you stop drinking caffeine?
this is a withdrawal symptom of caffeine withdrawal. it is related to adenosine and dopamine levels in the brain.
what are causes for severe hypertension episode (12 hours) >200 in a person that does not have hypertension?
there are too many possibilities to list: you need a full evaluation. the list includes but is not limited to: stress anxiety exercise fever infection kidney stone urinary obstruction adrenal tumors headache licorice various drug interactions excessively salty meal spurious reading incorrect measurement technique and many others. treatment is based on average bp.
why does the back of my head keep going numb? i have no neck problems that i no if. this has been happening since i have birth 1yr with dizzy spells
these symptoms may represent a headache or other neurological condition. you should keep a log of the location timing duration and intensity of these episodes and take the log with you to a neurologist. <link> <link>
why my chest pains are more often before and during period and they are reduced in the middle time of menstrual cycle? hormone related?
certainly your observation suggests that. we know many non-pelvic symptoms are related to the menstrual cycle. many women get arrhythmias (palpitations) at different times of the month. sleep disturbance headaches appetite fluid retention mood etc are all related. why not chest pain?
would an inr level of 10 cause headaches back ache and stomach ache as well as lose of appetite. generally feeling unwell?
inr of 10 is never normal and if it still at that level you need it assessed and corrected. this can cause increased risk of bleeding. please go to the emergency room or call 911
what location of a headache would be concerning with a brain aneurysm on your opthalmac artery?
both localized (near orbit) or diffuse migraine type headaches can occur. headache warning signs can include a change in headaches or persistent head pain when it was not there before. other warning signs can include visual loss new onset seizures drooping eyelid double vision dilated pupil. loss of color vision in one eye with eventual catastrophic headache if a bleed occurs.
why i'm i bleeding for 10 days still after my period with right upper pain nausea headaches cough fatigue and shortness of breath with fever occasiona?
you may have a pelvic infection with liver involvement (adhesions). in addition you may have anemia from excessive bleeding which may be contributing to your headaches fatigue and shortness of breath (sob). in any case sob should be evaluated as there may be other serious causes such as blood clots in your lung pneumonia etc. see your doctor for an evaluation.
what are manifestations of ebola virus? can it cause changes in cardiac function?
high fever severe headache muscle and joint pains are the first symptoms. dirrhea (bloody) nausea/vomiting raised rash and bleeding from mucus membranes occurs. this family of viruses doesn't cause cardiac disease per say but left long enough hemodynamic changes occur and chest pain and cardiac failure can occur.
what are manifestations of ebola virus? can it cause changes in cardiac function?
per cdc incubation period is 2 to 21 days w average of 8 to 10 days. early sx's: high fever chills sore throat weakness fatigue malaise headache lack of appetite low back pain & muscular /joint aching. sx's may progress to nausea vomiting abdominal pain diarrhea (potentially bloody) marked weight loss chest pain coughing hemorrhagic rash over body bruising red + swollen eyes & >
what are the health consequences of an aneurysm?
aneurysms are enlarged arteries. in the head can cause headaches. in the abdomen unusually no symptoms unless it gets very large or ruptures. ruptured aneurysm is the dreaded complication. patients can bleed to death quite rapidly after a ruptured aneurysm. the risk of rupture is related to the size of the aneurysm. commonly repair is suggested before such a bad event.
what are the risks associated with taking nifedipine for preterm labor?
nifedipine has been shown in small trials to be useful as a tocolytic (stop uterine contractions and thus labor) and is used when traditinal medications fail. the side effects can range from mild dizzyness to hypotension and near fainting. it can also cause swelling constipation headaches and reflex tachycardia(fast heart rates). as always discuss options with your doctor.
what do i do when my blood pressure goes up to 120/100 with a terrible headache?
a headache is not uncommon with uncontrolled hypertension. the bottom number known as the diastolic blood pressure signifies that your heart is not sufficiently in the relaxation phase after a contraction. be sure to get a full evaluation from your doctor and take medication for life if warranted. a low sodium diet and weight loss will lower your blood pressure as well.
what do i do when my blood pressure goes up to 120/100 with a terrible headache?
unlikely that bp 120/100 cause of your headache. headache can cause bp to go up do to the response of the body to the pain from the headache. best to see your doctor for an evaluation of your headaches. hope this helps. best of luck. dr r
what do i do when my blood pressure goes up to 120/100 with a terrible headache?
when the diastolic (bottom number of the blood pressure) reaches into the mid to high 90's and into the 100's you could be facing a medical emergency and the headache is a sign of severe hypertension also. you should get to a doctor or an emergency room immediately!
weird symptoms past 2 days. can't sleep (4 hrs in 2 days) increased thirst chest pain and upper back pain headache cough?
hi. that could be any number of things. are you peeing more? any fever or sweats? any sputum production? shortness of breath? your doc can do a history physical exam and appropriate diagnostics and see if anything needs to be done. good luck and get well soon!
what is an episode of pheochromocytoma?
pheochromocytoma (pcc) is a rare tumor of adrenal gland tissue. when functional they cause adrenal glands to make too much norepinephrine and epinephrine. with hormone release there are usually has three classic symptoms headache sweating and heart palpitations in association with hypertension. other conditions that can arise are anxiety nausea profound sweating and severe headaches :
what can ease a nitroglycerin headache taken by heart patient in response to pain? aspirin is part of daily meds; not allowed to take advil (ibuprofen).
if you have no contraindication take acetaminophen. try 650 mg first dose. see how it works. can take 1000 mg as a dose. do not exceed 4000 mg per 24 hours
why do they have otc aspirin 500mg tablets when the controversial maximum single dose is 325mg. i get chest pain and headaches and usually take two.
is adequate for headache.
why do they have otc aspirin 500mg tablets when the controversial maximum single dose is 325mg. i get chest pain and headaches and usually take two.
aspirin is recommended in doses in the 81-325/ day for prevention of cardiovascular events- heart attacks strokes. higher doses 1-4 g are used for anti inflammatory effects- migraine or arthritis for example. hope it helps.
what is idiopathic intracranial hypertension (also known as pseudotumor cerebri)?
is caused by an imbalance of csf production vs. resorption. the list of causes is lengthy. low vit a or iron elevated vit a female gender obesity or weight gain tetracycline exposure obstructive sleep apnea and endocrinologic disorders are contributory. the headaches are typically mild to moderate diffuse and worsen with reclining. there may be blurring of vision or diplopia.
would sharp head pain caused by anuerysm or tumor hurt more when pushed on the painful area?
scalp tenderness is not usually associated with intracranial pathology. other causes of headache such as sinusitis tension or neuralgia may have local tenderness. thanks for trusting healthtap!
what causes arm weakness in right arm? it's been there since yesterday. i'm not having any other symptoms- no headaches trouble walking chest pain.
exam is in order. go from there. i cannot speculate beyond this.
should i go into the e. r. right away? or stop my antidepressant (welbutrin100mg. 2x's aday0? iam 30 am over wieght by 100 pds i'm on a methadone program and also on highblood pressure med. i woke up with blood vessles in my left eye broken & have had excru
subconjunctival hemorrhages in the eyes are usually benign but if you are having severe headache and a history of hypertension you should seek medical attention asap. wellbutrin (bupropion) is somewhat stimulating and can itself raise blood pressure. it does not have any interactions with methadone; however methadone itself is associated with weight gain and a reduction in dose should be discussed.
should i go into the e. r. right away? or stop my antidepressant (welbutrin100mg. 2x's aday0? iam 30 am over wieght by 100 pds i'm on a methadone program and also on highblood pressure med. i woke up with blood vessles in my left eye broken & have had excru
my main concern with your headaches and broken blood vessels is that your blood pressure may be dangerously high. this would be a good reason to either call your doctor for advice or to go to the er to be checked. uncontrolled high blood pressure can lead to serious life-threatening conditions such as heart attack and stroke. this needs to be ruled out first before considering other causes of your symptoms.
should i go to the emergency room for my headache? i have 3 brain aneurysms and this is a different headache than i have ever had. this headache comes on strong and is a throbbing headache. it only last for no more than a minute and goes away for about
usually when an aneurysm ruptures patients describe the worst headache of their life. if your headaches have changed in intensity or quality the safe thing to do is to go to the er for confirmation that it is not from a rupture or a sentinel bleed signaling imminent rupture.
should i go to the emergency room for my headache? i have 3 brain aneurysms and this is a different headache than i have ever had. this headache comes on strong and is a throbbing headache. it only last for no more than a minute and goes away for about
even though most headaches are harmless without examining you i cannot tell whether your headaches are concerning or not. with your history of aneurysms the safest thing for you to do is to be seen by a doctor as soon as possible. if it is during office hours call your primary care doctor for advice. they may want to see you or may advise you to go to the emergency room. better to be safe than sorry! good luck!
stroke & tpa my husband had a stroke in 2007 at the age of 56. his first symptoms although he had a headache/ vomiting which we thought was a touch of flu it wasn't until a few hours later that he developed double vision numbness & loss of balance.
i'm not sure your question. this does sound normal for a stroke but my greatest concern is the comparatively young age i hope this has been well evaluated and possible problems treated to reduce the risk of recurrence.
stroke & tpa my husband had a stroke in 2007 at the age of 56. his first symptoms although he had a headache/ vomiting which we thought was a touch of flu it wasn't until a few hours later that he developed double vision numbness & loss of balance.
there are two types of stroke: thrombotic (a clot blocks flow) and hemorrhagic (bleeding into the brain). thrombotic strokes are the ones that arise from areas of narrowing in the arteries that flow to the brain as it sounds like your husband has. so yes it's possible that the clot dissolving drug tpa (alteplase) might have helped him. on the other hand tpa (alteplase) is not a benign drug: it can cause hemorrhagic strokes. in fact bleeding into the brain is the biggest risk to using it and the likelihood of that outcome increases with the time since since symptoms began. because of this risk tpa (alteplase) is usually not used for thrombotic strokes unless the stroke is really severe. the last thing you want to do is convert a mild thrombotic stroke into a fatal hemorrhagic stroke. so based upon what you've said i think that your husband probably would not have qualified for tpa (alteplase) because 1) his symptoms were relatively mild (enough so that they were not even recognized as being an acute stroke) and 2) those symptoms had been present for several hours before he was seen.
shortness of breath for couple months. just checked pulse it's 75. have been having headaches. also have history of anxiety so maybe i'm crazy. help?
it is important with concerning medical symptoms to rule out medical causes before attributing them to psychiatric cause. chronic sob is common with many medical conditions including congestive heart failure respiratory issues obesity pulmonary hypertension cardiac issues. see your pcp to have them work it up.
shortness of breath for couple months. just checked pulse it's 75. have been having headaches. also have history of anxiety so maybe i'm crazy. help?
your symptoms of headaches and shortness of breath can be secondary to anxiety. if you are not in therapy i would find some. there is a book "anxiety for dummies" that can help.
should i get a second opinion on headache? can they miss an aneurysm on ct? i have had migraines and tension headaches my entire life. yesterday i was awoken and the second i sat up my head hurt worse than anything i have ever experienced. none of my norm
if your headache pattern changes and/or you feel a sudden severe headache you should see a doctor right away. if you feel the worst headache of your life that could be an emergency for which you should go to an emergency room right away.
should i get a second opinion on headache? can they miss an aneurysm on ct? i have had migraines and tension headaches my entire life. yesterday i was awoken and the second i sat up my head hurt worse than anything i have ever experienced. none of my norm
i can not tell you the reason for the change in your chronic headaches. but i will explain that in the emergency room a lot of times a big part of the focus on seeing someone with the worst headache ever is to rule out the most serious causes. it sounds like they took your concerns seriously because they obtained a ct scan. what i recommend now is that you contact your doctor. your doctor will know your medical history better than a doctor who sees you in a one time er visit. your doctor is in a position to also be able to see you for follow up visits if you require an extended evaluation and to ensure your conditions are responding to treatment. i wish you well.
should i get a second opinion on headache? can they miss an aneurysm on ct? i have had migraines and tension headaches my entire life. yesterday i was awoken and the second i sat up my head hurt worse than anything i have ever experienced. none of my norm
in answer to your question about aneurysms and ct: when a patient presents with a really severe headache we do a ct to look for evidence of bleeding. ct is very sensitive to this independent of finding an aneurysm. if there was no blood on that ct then a ruptured aneurysm is not a very likely explanation for your pain. as far as ct's ability to find an aneurysm--it's very good if you get iv contrast and very poor if you don't. when looking recent bleeding we don't use contrast so you might not have been adequately screened for aneurysm. if on the other hand you did get contrast then any aneurysm that might be present would either have been seen or be so small that it would be unlikely to be a problem.
should i get a second opinion on headache? can they miss an aneurysm on ct? i have had migraines and tension headaches my entire life. yesterday i was awoken and the second i sat up my head hurt worse than anything i have ever experienced. none of my norm
i think you need to see a neurologist just to make sure the jerking is not coming from other issues. the headaches associated with migraine can be fierce speak to your doctor about topomax. god bless! dr ungar 219 588 8000 www. drungar. com.
since everybody has headaches what are some unique brain aneurysm risk factors?
headache that is sudden and severe can indicate a leak from a brain aneurysm. if previously undiagnosed such headaches need immediate evaluation. smoking high blood pressure excess alcohol use and cocaine are avoidable risk factors. screening may be recommended if two family members have brain aneurysm.
since everybody has headaches what are some unique brain aneurysm risk factors?
like most vascular diagnoses brain aneurysms are not easy to diagnose. family history progressive severe and recurrant headaches should prompt a visit to your doc. a brain scan with iv contrast is usually the test that makes the brian aneurysm diagnosis.
starting last week i had a headache for 4 days on the forth day i checked my bp and it was 149\99 the following day i had my first nose bleed and now i noticed blood in my urine. i am a 32 yr old female with liver function problems should i be worried
all of the above symptoms warrant a medical evaluation. your headaches could be an effect of your high blood pressure. the blood in your urine may represent a urinary tract infection (uti) or could be secondary to low platelets which could be an effect of your liver issues. regardless a visit with a medical professional is in order right away. best of luck.
should i take my son to the e. r. tonight has a past history of high blood pressure associated with glumeronorphoitis he is now having nausea and headaches with dizziness his bp is 107 over 65 any ideas what i should do?
i am sorry to hear about your son. if he is dizzy with a low bp he needs to be seen as soon as possible in an er so he can be evaluated quickly. causes for his symptoms are anemia and volume loss or an irregular heart beat among others. an er physician will find out the cause of his symptoms and start him on a plan to relieve them. good luck.
should i take my son to the e. r. tonight has a past history of high blood pressure associated with glumeronorphoitis he is now having nausea and headaches with dizziness his bp is 107 over 65 any ideas what i should do?
those non specific symptoms can be due to low blood pressure as 107/65 is relatively low! is he dehydrated? does he have diarrhea? either way if his nausea is keeping him from holding food/drinks down you will be safer to take him to er for some iv hydration to bring his bp to a higher normal range!
should i take my son to the e. r. tonight has a past history of high blood pressure associated with glumeronorphoitis he is now having nausea and headaches with dizziness his bp is 107 over 65 any ideas what i should do?
i'm sorry that i'm seeing your question for the first time now! if you are concerned that your child may be ill the safest thing to do is to either call his doctor or go to the emergency room for care if you cannot get a hold of his doctor. i hope he got the care that he needed and is feeling better now!
side effects of altace?
common: cough; dizziness; headache; tiredness. uncommon side effects include allergic reactions chest pain low blood pressure jaundice loss of appetite seizures and others. if you have concerns ask your doctor.
side effects of bisoprolol?
headache and nausea are some of the side effects i have seen in my patient. of course if the dose is too much for you it can cause low bp and very low heart rate.
side effects of long term use of coversyl?
its in the category of ace inhibitors headache cough diziness weakness and allergic reaction like angioedema are possible.
should i go to l&d if headache blurred vision other symptoms of preeclampsia?
yes!
should i go to l&d if headache blurred vision other symptoms of preeclampsia?
get your husband to drive you to your maternity hospital asap or call 911 for an ambulance. do not drive yourself!
shortness of breath that comes with a constant headache & feeling faint! (29weeks) pregnant! ?
step 1 for pregnant women with headache and feeling of being faint breathless is to immediately call ob provider or go to l&d. then additional evaluations/care can be arranged. people in ohio are fortunate to have at least 3 perinatal centers at major teaching hospitals. there are ways for doctors to easily refer patients or to connect with nationally known maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists.
side effects of labetalol during pregnancy?
labetalol is given a classification of c in pregnancy meaning that there no studies in humans or animals to evaluate fetal risk vs. maternal benefit. it however is used to tret difficult to control hypertension. common side efects include dizziness nausea/vomiting fatigue shortness of breath headache. more serious reactions include slow heart rates heart failure liver toxicity
so what are signs of exercise intolerance?
the signs of exercise intolerance can include unusual breathlessness muscle pain and increasing muscle weakness with exercise. after exercise one can experience headaches dizziness and fatigue. exercise intolerance can have a profound negative impact forcing an individual to make significant lifestyle changes.
side effects of topamax (topiramate) for my migraines?
all medicines may cause side effects but many people have no or minor side effects. constipation; decreased sweating; diarrhea; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth; flu-like symptoms; headache; loss of appetite; nausea; nervousness; numbness or tingling of the skin; runny nose; sore throat; stomach pain or upset; taste changes; tiredness; trouble sleeping; weight loss.
should lymes disease symptoms go away? i had it for 2 years and was treated but now my lymph nodes are swollen and my headaches came back
history of having lyme disease before should be followed up due to late stages of neurologic cardiac or joint problems. please be checked by your md. good luck!
what are the side effects of triamterene/hctz?
usually well tolerated triamterene/hctz can cause abnormal electrolytes including low blood sodium high blood potassium (esp. ly in patients with chronic kidney disease) and alkalosis. other non-specific side effects such as nausea headache vomiting diarrhea fatigue and dizziness are also listed as possible side effects.
can robaxacet cause heart palpitations?
lightheadedness dizziness drowsiness nausea urticaria pruritus rash conjunctivitis nasal congestion blurred vision headache fever seizures syncope flushing are known side effects.
systolic pressure 190. any circumstances under which emergency room would send patient home?
systolic pressure of 190 in the absence of symptoms such as headache nausea shortness of breath does not require hospital admission and can be treated as outpatient.
sharp pain in my left temple this has never happened before it only lasted for a couple minutes i am 55 years old is this a aneurysm?
intracranial aneurysms will rupture and cause severe headache that will last for hours or days if you stay awake and if massive will cause loss of function or loss of consciousness but of course new onset of new headache need to be checked by a physician and may need a ct scan of the head.
sharp/stabing pains in heart chest tighten dizziness shortness of breath headaches. its being on for six months. also passed out three times.?
could be a problem with skin nerves muscle shoulder lung heart or stomach. see your doctor for a more thorough history physical exam and further evaluation.
sharp/stabing pains in heart chest tighten dizziness shortness of breath headaches. its being on for six months. also passed out three times.?
if you are having chest pain/pressure it is best to see your doctor to discuss these symptoms.
what are they symptoms of a blood clot in the heart? what test diagnosis this?
often there's none until it's too late. there are clinical situations in which it's expected -- famously damaged valves atrial fibrillation or a previous myocardial infarction. an ultrasound / echocardiogram is often the key. your pvc's headache and tachycardia are almost certainly not due to an intracardiac thrombus.
can palpitations be associated with severe headaches?
although i do not believe there is a cause and effect relation between the two certain types of patients have both. for instance patients with mitral valve prolapse have an increased incidence of migraine headaches.
can palpitations be associated with severe headaches?
palpitations and headaches are both common so finding them together would not be a surprise. some causes of palpitations or headaches could cause each other.
sudden numbness come on me now for three weeks. ii have it in my face neck arm. it moves from 1 side to the other. i can't hardly use my arm when this happens. sometimes i get sick at stomach. for 2 days it stopped i thought it was gone then
there are several possible explanations from migraine or vascular headaches to central nervous system disorders like multiple sclerosis. you should be seen by a primary care physician and if necessary referred to a neurologist.
slight headache for 2 days. today sudden chest congestion needing to blow my nose throat feels thick when i swallow cough tight chest hurts to cough?
sounds like you are catching some viral infection. you need some otc decongestant however if the symptoms do not subside in one week see your doctor.
sometimes i wake in the morning and i feel like i'm going to faint i go really hot an shake and get a headache what's wrong with me?
you could have a cardiac rhythm disturbance. you may have hypoglycemia. you may have a migraine prodrome and headache. there are other possibilities. you need a full evaluation.
what could be matter with me issues headaches arms numb if i'm prompted on get angry upset after clean house. could thus be nerves & blood pressure?
anxiety and frustrations could be the reason but more of a history and exam would be helpful.
swollen lymph node on my left temple fever chills headache body aches a hard time breathing and fatigue. whats going on?
go to your doctor as soon as possible to diagnose the source of your symptoms and get started on antibiotic medication.
sudden left-side facial numbness lh fingers tingling headache bp wide fluctuation. could it be tia? what's safe dose aspirin before diagnosis made?
do not treat yourself and do not worry about aspirin as it does not work if blood flow is a problem in the brain. granted you may just have a complex classical migraine attack but get this diagnosed and get the bp controlled. see your doctor or the er immediately and get this fixed.
sudden left-side facial numbness lh fingers tingling headache bp wide fluctuation. could it be tia? what's safe dose aspirin before diagnosis made?
those symptoms could be a transient ischemic attack but should be treated as a possible stroke and evaluated in the emergency room. time is critical in getting the best medical care and you lose the ability to utilize certain interventions if you present to emergency room outside of that critical window of time.
severe headache. followed by diahrrea nauseous. temp only 96. 4f grandfather died of brain aneurysm worries me. flu? worse?
seriously doubt aneurysm. can't tell you what you have - go to nearest er. once this is sorted out i would get a brain mra to evaluate for possible aneurysm.
should i seek medical attention? i have severe itching everywhere on my body vomiting chest pain very serious cough fever headache. ect?
you must check with your primary care physician first and as soon as possible.
should i seek medical attention? i have severe itching everywhere on my body vomiting chest pain very serious cough fever headache. ect?
some of these symptoms can lead to more serious issues if they continue. i would recommend seeing your doctor as soon as you can.
what are the symptoms of chf and copd?
chf: shortness of breath (sob) positional sob espeially when lying flat (eg at night when asleep) exertional sob dry or wet cough confusion/headache stomach discomfort chest pain or palpitations decreased urine output or increased nighttime-only urine output. copd: sob (usually only with exertion at first) wet (colored or white sputum) or dry cough worse in am wheezing headach/confusion
spikes in blood pressure due to lifestyle like smoking drinking stress etc is the major cause of cluster headaches.?
the cause of cluster headache is not known but it is a relative of migraine. it runs in families more common in men and is not really related generally to smoking drinking or stress although in some people there is a specific trigger and it could be any of those 3 things and others. in most people however it comes and goes in cycles which are specific to that individual and are variable.
sometimes a pain behind the ear at the head ares. could this be due to wrong positioning sometimes? im being paranoid. aneurysm?
aneurysm gives a throbbing headache that is hard to differentiate from migraine. more likely tension headache or torticollis- strained muscles in the neck that respond to heat or cold applications + aspirin or tylenol (acetaminophen). excedrin migraine is otc- obtainable without prescription & contains aspirin+tylenol (acetaminophen)+ caffeine. by the time you try these suggestions the pain will probably go away by itself.
swelling in upper abdomen headaches and swollen feet?
the upper abdominal swelling swollen feet and headache could all be related. it merits a careful medical examination. hypertension if it exists can cause headaches and heart failure; the heart failure can cause a congested (swollen) liver and edema (swelling) of ones feet. usually one tries to explain multiple symptoms with as few causes as possible.
symptoms of anyurysm?
some people experience headaches visual motor or sensory disturbance but these are not unique to this risk. it is a sneaky killer because there may be little warning and it can be fatal. in general if there are neurological signs and symptoms seeking neurological diagnostic assessment for these is wise. if there is suspicion and mra or other neurodiagnostic tesitn woule be appropriate.
sore throat dry mouth flem trouble swallowing chest pains headaches blocked nose. what do i have?
if you didn't get the flu vaccine your symptoms sound very much like the flu especially if you are running a temperature.
sore throat dry mouth flem trouble swallowing chest pains headaches blocked nose. what do i have?
it could be the flu it could be allergies it could be almost anything. get to a doctor to have yourself examined and treated please.
side effects of angiotensin receptor blockers?
well tolerated. common side effects potentially include: dizziness low blood pressure headache diarrhea fatigue and elevated potassium to name a few. a serious side effect angioedema (swelling of throat/tongue etc) is relatively uncommon.
severe headaches migraines earache and aching eyes and i feel extremely sick could this be brain aneurysm?
with symptoms this complex you owe it to yourself to call your doctor to help you make sense out of them.
severe headaches migraines earache and aching eyes and i feel extremely sick could this be brain aneurysm?
if you have a history of migraines or headaches this is the most likely diagnosis. however if it is the worse headache of your life then you should get immediate evaluation.
sever swelling of abdomen legs ankles severe headache alcoholic and high blood pressure what's wrong?
it is well known that alcoholism will result in vitamin b1 deficiency. however don't get the idea it is that simple. you need self discipline to clean up your diet.
why do i have a severe headache after taking plavix (clopidogrel)?
the most common side effects are: chest pain and a sudden severe headache increased bleeding nose bleeds headaches and bruising. see your doctor for medication adjustment.
where is headache usually located with a pheochromocytoma?
headache from pheochromocytoma is similar to a combination of super bad migraine headache bad vascular headache and the worst tension headache that you have ever had. it is throbbing feel like your head is going to blow up and associated with a serious flushing. in the face and it could spread to the rest of the body. you do not get suspicious of pheochromocytoma from headache. you follow other sign
